-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/50centbloodonthesand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brash, cocky attitude.
 Fast-paced action.
 Engaging scoring system.
 Great soundtrack of 50 Cent and G-Unit songs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Action becomes repetitive.
 Levels blur together.
 Cover mechanic is too sticky.
 Very cluttered HUD.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 147 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Swordfish Studios
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Over-the-top thug swagger and solid gameplay help 50 Cent's new game crack the Top 40. 

  It should come as no surprise to anyone that they made another 50 Cent game. Despite its chilly 
 critical reception, 2005's 50 Cent: Bulletproof sold remarkably well. What is likely to surprise 
 many people is that the new game, 50 Cent: Blood on the Sand, is actually quite good. The fast-paced 
 gameplay, tight controls, and arcade-style scoring system form a solid base for the simplistic 
 yet fun action. Layered on top of this foundation is a heaping helping of 50 Cent and G-Unit flavor; 
 vulgar dialogue, ridiculous one-liners, and a whole lot of licensed music give Blood on the Sand 
 the bravado it needs to stay entertaining when the action begins to wear thin. Neither the action 
 nor the attitude are particularly inspired, but together they are enough to make this an enjoyable 
 ride.  

           Gangsta Fire mode makes killing twice as easy.      

  The premise and story serve as little more than a backdrop here, but that's just fine. 50 Cent 
 and G-Unit play a concert and get stiffed by the promoter. Hoping to avoid Fiddy's wrath, the promoter 
 offers them a BeDazzled skull. Everyone's happy until the crew is ambushed and the skull is stolen. 
 It is then that you commence shooting anything that moves. 50 and his chosen G-Unit companion (Tony 
 Yayo, Lloyd Banks, or DJ Whoo Kid) traverse a war-torn urban Middle Eastern landscape, slaying 
 countless goons while pursuing one criminal figure after another. Though there are a few vehicle 
 segments to vary things up, most of the locales kind of blur together in a blend of gunfire and 
 earth tones. Regardless, they are impressively detailed and do a solid job of setting the stage 
 for the explosive action.  

  50 Cent: Blood on the Sand is a third-person shooter, so you'll be running and gunning with your 
 overly muscled character in full view. The only differences between characters are aesthetic; both 
 50 Cent and his G-Unit sidekick run at a good clip and can dive in any direction. They can also 
 snap into cover with the press of a button, but this mechanic is a bit too sticky to be convenient. 
 Fortunately, you'll rarely have to use it. Your character is very durable, and when things do get 
 hairy, you can take advantage of the gangsta fire mode (read: bullet time) that makes it easy to 
 lay out a squad of enemies in seconds.  

  The action is smooth and the controls are responsive, but it begins to feel repetitive after a 
 while. There are a few bells and whistles to spice things up, such as counterkills, which are brutal 
 quick-time melee attacks in which your character pummels, perforates, or otherwise brutalizes an 
 enemy. However, the big incentive to keep playing is the scoring system. Every enemy that you kill 
 earns you points, and killing them in quick succession will get a multiplier going. Additionally, 
 you earn bonuses for the manner in which you dispatch your foes; scoring a headshot or taunting 
 your enemies after you kill them will further boost your score. Even if you're not the kind of 
 gamer who normally strives for high scores, Blood on the Sand's scoring system has a way of sucking 
 you in. Your multiplier and kill bonuses are displayed prominently onscreen, and this visual reinforcement 
 spurs you onward, motivating you to kill your enemies harder, better, faster, stronger.  

           Though it may seem like 50 could punch through a man's stomach, what you see here is actually 
 a stabbing.      

  To further quicken the pace, timed scenarios appear on the screen occasionally and challenge you 
 to accomplish certain objectives within a certain time period. Target enemies are outlined in red, 
 so you'll always know who they are, and completing scenarios will earn you souped-up rounds for 
 your pistol and extra grenades. Red danger arrows also appear to steer you toward the action by 
 indicating where your enemies are about to come from. When there is a lull in the action, you can 
 busy yourself with hunting down collectibles that will boost your score significantly (five posters 
 and five targets in each mission) . There are also loot crates that earn you cash to spend on new 
 guns, counterkills, and taunts. Between your score, timed scenario announcements, your health meter, 
 the gangsta fire bar, danger arrows, your cash total, and your kill multiplier, the heads-up display 
 can get very crowded. It manages not to intrude on the action overmuch, but it can be distracting, 
 especially in this day and age when the minimalist HUD reigns supreme.  

  Nevertheless, this bustling HUD somehow fits well into the blustering swagger of 50 Cent: Blood 
 on the Sand. The game is saturated with overblown gangster bravado, and it matches the over-the-top 
 action perfectly. From the cutscenes in which 50 Cent vows to kill almost everyone he meets to 
 the vulgar (and often amusing) banter between characters, it just doesn't quit. The only place 
 vulgarity is omitted is in the unlockable music videos, which are incongruously censored. Fortunately, 
 the music tracks are not. As you progress and unlock new songs, you can tweak your playlist in 
 the pause menu. 50 Cent and G-Unit songs make a great backdrop for the action and really tie the 
 whole package together.  

  Blood on the Sand is better enjoyed with a friend, and the well-implemented drop-in/drop-out Cooperative 
 mode is a solid addition. It's easy to let people join your game, and just as easy to keep them 
 out or boot them should they become a nuisance. Whether you play solo or cooperative, you'll get 
 a solid 10+ hours out of the campaign, in addition to any high-score runs that you attempt for 
 the sake of making the online leaderboards. The run-and-gun gameplay isn't particularly inspired, 
 but the scoring system adds enough to keep you engaged. The pervasive attitude is so excessive 
 that it borders on parody, but when underlaid with a robust offering of authentic songs, it works 
 surprisingly well. This isn't the best action game you'll play this year, but that doesn't mean 
 you won't have a damn fun time playing it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  50Cent: Blood on the sand puts fifty in Africa for his last show of the tour, after discovering 
 he's lost his ten million in cash, the manager offers him a diamond filled skull, the skull gets 
 stolen from the G-Unit crew and now your goal is to get it back and go back to America. 
  
  The story line features a bad guy, a gun salesmen and the beautiful lady. Generic characters will 
 very little to say that's actually interesting makes the even more generic story all to forgettable, 
 Find the skull, kill the thief and leave the country. The dialogue holds up it's end for the most 
 part but unfortunately doesn't take the story in any general direction, the cutscenes usually end 
 up with an open ended conversation about how bullet proof fifty cent really is. Aside from the 
 cutscene dialogue, in game your constantly being F-bombed by either fifty cent of the enemies you 
 find yourself fighting, If they held back the language just a little, it would have been easier 
 to play the game un-muted. 
  
  The level design and setting is generic and linear, you make your way to crumbled building, rooftops 
 and sandy alleyways, fighting enemies, braking barriers and lifting shutters. Lifting shutters 
 often takes fifty cent and one of the other G-unit crew members to work together and lift it, other 
 times it will be just fifty cent in which you lift the door to get to some hidden loots to by weapons, 
 taunts and counter kills. There are crates that if broken drop diamonds for money and red explosive 
 barrels scattered throughout each level, along with that you also have the side task to collect 
 the shining posters and shoot the targets hidden in the level to gain extra points.
  
  The gameplay pit's the player into a gangster against terrorist war, along side fifty the player 
 chooses a team-mate from either Tony Yayo, Lloyd Banks or DJ Whoo kid. Which ever player you pick 
 will be controlled by the computer A. I or another player that drops in online if you so choose. 
 Playing offline proves to be the better choice as each level requires cooperative gameplay, if 
 your playing with someone online you may find your self waiting while your un-cooperative team-mate 
 is spending your valuable time collecting hidden treasure. All of the treasure you find goes towards 
 your money stash to buy upgrades and weapons, after meeting your gun salesmen, every time you wish 
 to purchase anything you must find the phone booth at the beginning of each to level to open up 
 a menu where you can manage your collection of firearms, purchase new ones, purchase melee counter 
 kills or taunts. Counter kills play out by running up close to an enemy, pressing the action button 
 and initiating the timing sequenced killing cutscene, press the action button at the right time 
 to launch a bone crushing, blood gushing beat down. While these kills are hugely satisfying, after 
 about the twentieth time you've done it, you just don't want to see it again. The taunts purchased 
 are completely useless, press in the left analog stick to allow fifty to say a cheesy foul mouthed 
 one liner. The weapons you buy range from sidearm's, explosives, and assault rifles. None of these 
 guns feel at all different form the ones you start with, and they are way to expensive to waste 
 your money on to find out if it's worth it.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good, and are the only real reason to pick up and play the game. 
 The character models finely polished and pick up the light in the level very nicely, the textures 
 of each level, though not as good looking as the character models they do cast the perfect shadows 
 and the detail in every little part of the level don't fail to surprise. It seems as though the 
 only bad looking part of the game is the enemies, the developers obviously didn't spend as much 
 time on the enemies as they did the rest of the game. 
  With all of the finely tuned graphics it's to be expected that there would be some frame rate problems, 
 and well there is. The frame rate issues are constant when there is a heated battle, and at the 
 beginning of each level, textures are non existent but only for a few second, wait it out and you 
 should be fine. 
  
  Overall the game is decent, it has some fast paced run and gun gameplay along with some treasure 
 hunting and good cooperative support, however if you're looking to just play it start to finish 
 and not worrying about any of the hidden treasures, the game will only last you a few hours and 
 that alone labels the game not worthy of a purchase, rent it or forget it, ultimately Blood on 
 the sand is not worth your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The last 50 Cent game "Bulletproof" was terrible. Now we all thought the same tag was going to 
 be put on Blood On The Sand, How wrong could we be? This game is a massive improvement to the last 
 one, It has a very addictive scoring system and smashing open boxes has never been so fun. Why? 
 because in those boxes is money, Money can also be picked up off enemies you have killed. With 
 the money you can buy new weapons, Taunts and Special Movies for Close-Up-Combat. 
  
  The story, Is frankly terrible, But who needs a great story when you have a game that is fun? From 
 driving armoured vehicles to blowing up people with rockets, The depth of entertainment in this 
 game is deep. The gameplay is solid with the exception of a "Sticky" Cover system. The screen at 
 first does seem over-crowded with the Money on the top left, Points flying around when you get 
 kills and other things but you will get used to that within minutes. 
  
  So when you start playing, You can choose from 3 members of G-Unit to be your sidekick, from Tony 
 Yayo, Lloyd Banks and DJ Whoo Kid. There is also an Online CO OP, But in my experience, There is 
 almost nobody playing online, I searched for games and found the same 2 people with open games 
 over and over, Which is a let down. The games cutscenes could be better, As they give poor animations. 
 In-Game the framerate can stumble from time to time, Nothing game breaking but you will notice 
 it a little. 
  
  Another thing that is a real let down for PS3 owners who like to get the most out of games, Is 
 the fact that this game does not support trophies, Even though it is mandatory for games released 
 on the PS3 to have trophies, But because this game was certified before January 9th, The developers 
 of the game were able to leave out trophies, Which is a bit lazy and it really the game isn't that 
 great to play through again with no trophies, Unless you find you want to, Which some will, Some 
 wont. 
  
  Overall the gameplay is solid, The story is terrible, But the fun factor is high. It is certainly 
 a big improvement from the past, but could still of quite easily been a lot better with trophies 
 and a deeper and less cheesy story. This game is around 10 hours long and does get a little repetetive 
 but really what shooter doesn't? Its a 10 hour thrill, Wether you want to play it through with 
 another G-Unit sidekick once you complete it once, Is up to you.
  
  Rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, so 50cents Blood on the Sand is not the most or is trying to become the "Game of the Year", 
 but probably the "Most Fun game of the year" or "Best Surprising Rental of the Year" might be associated 
 with this game.
  
  So let's begin...
  
  Story... Well, you are not flying off to fight some darth vader look-a-like troopers on their homeplanet, 
 you can count on that. Instead, fiddy is giving a 10 million dollar concert on somepart-somewhere 
 on the middle east, and things go sour when the tour promoter doesn't have the 10 million to pay 
 50. The promoter then brings up this diamond encrusted skull to make up for it, but when bouncing 
 off to the airport, fiddy gets jacked by the bad guys of the game, which brings the best line to 
 summirze the plot **** got my skull". If 50 came up with this storyline, may God have mercy on 
 his soul. But then again, this game ain't taking itself so seriously (who gives a concert wearing 
 live grenades as bling-bling??) . It's your typical 80's action movie flick story, translated to 
 videogame land. You might say it's stupid, but then again, some company decides to pay 50cents 
 millions of dollars to use his image to sell colored vitamin water??? what the hell is colored 
 vitamin water in the first place?? ain't that Kool-Aid? and who the heck buys colored vitamin water? 
 therefore, stupidity is roaming wild on our society, and you shouldn't pay that much atttention 
 to the story.
  
  Graphics... they are ok. Not bad at all. Everything seems in place. Sometimes when you are taking 
 A LOT of fire and you decide to fist fight with someone, and the opponent blocks the finishing, 
 then you might see or experience some clipping... but that's a really big MIGHT. I have only seen 
 it once, in a whole bunch of play thrus. Fiddy and the G-unit gang look well rendered... of course 
 50 looks like a power wrestler, but well done. Zero complaints.
  
  Sound... totally cool. Machine guns, magnums, aka47, uzi, grenades, rpgs, explosions, and soundtrack 
 all sound GREAT. The soundtrack is great but only slight complaint... you really gotta pumped it 
 up to listen to it. And not enough tracks... but pretty good either way. If you are a fan of 50 
 you really are gonna enjoy this. I enjoy fiddy but not g-unit. The g-unit crap is killing 50... that's 
 my take on it.
  
  Gameplay... yes, great gameplay. I works really nice... i dunno what they mean by sticky cover system, 
 cuz it works wonders for me. You also pack something called "gangsta time" to slow down your enemies, 
 and you can spray em with lead. If you get up close and personal with an enemy, you can perform 
 a finishing move, which involves fists, suplexes, spine busters, knifes and a whole bunch of other 
 stuff. It's a button-timed sequence, that can be blocked. So you gotta time it, just right. I really 
 enjoyed playing this game. It's FUN and easy to use and shoot. Totally user friendly and believe 
 me, YOU WILL HAVE FUN. Just press R3 and when you hear "blast in the mutha@#%ing hole" or "take 
 that you ****es", yes you will have a guilty smile all over your face.
  
  Online... here's where this game simply stunk badder than the funk. The online mode of Co-op is 
 a total bust. First of, I thought you could play the game CO-OP from the get-go. Like Contra or 
 something. Found out i had to go online. Ok, so i went online, and when i got there... it's just 
 confusing. I pick someone to play with, but that person is somehow always dead or about to die, 
 and i cannot play with that user... and uuurgghhh. BAD, bad, crap. And on top of that, no deathmatch 
 or multiplayer functions, that on this game, they would have been amazing. Thus, this is the games 
 weakest dept. I don't like Online gaming in the first place, but i believe this could be better.
 
  
  In the end, this game is a total HIT. Yes, it's a 50cents game, but the action and shooting is 
 totally FUN. Reminds me of the 8-bit era of gaming. If you simply look past the 50cents image, 
 you WILL ENJOY THIS GAME. Please, don't think this game is a third-person shooter-revolutionary 
 type of game, becuz it's not, but it's a simple enjoyable run and shoot game, which you will enjoy 
 busting a couple of hours of your time. But don't count so much on the online part, becuz it's 
 really awful.
  
  If your a fan is a Win-Win and a must buy. If you are not, you can either Buy it or rent it, you 
 will have fun either way. 50cents BOTS is 100 times better than bulletproof... that's for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  You've looked at the score, haven't you? You've see it, and now you're reading to find out how 
 on EARTH a 50 Cent game can get an 7/10 (sorry, typo) after the farce that was 50 Cent: Bulletproof.
 
  
  Basically, this isn't just some dirty cash-in. Far from it. We told you when we first saw the game 
 running that it looked surprisingly good, and now we've played it we stand by it. As soon as you 
 start playing you can tell see and feel that there's Gears of War DNA at its core - it has the 
 same camera view, the same cover system, similar controls and it looks very much like it too. But 
 it doesn't try to be Gears. Not even slightly. It takes the Gears formula, scrapes off a few layers 
 of seriousness and slaps on a hefty coat of insanity. It's like taking a classy Aston Martin, spraying 
 it bright orange and sticking huge chrome wheels and an enormous sound system on it; it won't handle 
 as well but it'll be louder and just a bit mental. 
  
  Blood in the Sand doesn't say "frag out", it says "fire in the motherf***ing hole, b***hes". When 
 a bunch of enemies blast into the room, you don't take cover and choose a strategic route of approach. 
 You lob a couple of motherf***ing grenades and sprint in rattling off bullets from your giant machine 
 gun at your soon-to-be-utterly-ruined enemies. Gas-filled barrels explode, bullets fly everywhere, 
 people get blown through the air and 50 Cent swears his face off. And the whole time 50's tunes 
 beat away in the background. Mum would have a fit, but it'll make you smile. 50 throws a mean punch, 
 too. Approach an enemy and you can unleash a series of blows, tapping the B button in time with 
 an on-screen prompt as 50 beats and stabs his foe in a cinematic slaughter scene. Mmm, nice. Grab 
 cash and 'Bling' as you work through the game and you can spend it on new melee moves, bigger guns 
 and new taunts (clicking in the left stick launches 50 into an ego-charged swear off. Quite funny) . 
 
  
  As you kill fools, a gauge charges up and tapping the Y button activates the brilliantly-named 
 'Gangster Fire Mode' - a temporary spout of slow motion that makes it possible to waste even more 
 dudes without being killed. 
  
  What's the plot behind all the carnage? 50 wants his skull back. It's a diamond encrusted skull 
 - worth a few bob - and some dude steals it. So 50 goes to a middle-eastern-like setting in pursuit 
 of the thief and wastes a load of not-so-middle eastern-looking blokes (dodging any potential 'racism' 
 allegations, possibly) . 
  
  Whatever else happens is irrelevant - and even if you usually like to know the plot behind a game 
 it doesn't help that the cutscenes are done in poorly-encoded video that looks worse and sounds 
 quieter than the in-game action. Wasn't there enough space on the disc for high-quality video? 
 Anyway, the mostly nonsensical violence is beefed up with a brilliant bonus mechanic that throws 
 mini objectives at you on the fly. A text alert appears on screen every minute or two telling you 
 to kill a certain enemy, blow up a particular target or collect a certain amount of cash within 
 a time limit, and those targets are outlined in red to make them easier to spot. Cause the carnage 
 asked of you and you'll get bonus points, along with a few explosive rounds for your pistol. They're 
 brilliant too - one shot and the round sticks to your enemy, followed a few seconds later by an 
 explosion than sends them soaring. There's a kill combo system in there too - similar to Sega's 
 The Club, you chain up kills by fragging enemies before a timer gauge runs down, which tallies 
 up more points for your efforts. 
  
  The whole game is co-op too, which is nice. When you play alone the CPU controls your partner, 
 who you can choose from a selection of three members of 50's rap crew, G-Unit, including Tony Yayo, 
 Lloyd Banks and DJ Woo Kid. It's better when another player takes control, but only because you 
 get to kill stuff together. It doesn't really enhance the strategy, mostly because there isn't 
 any to begin with. 
  
  And the few co-op mechanics that are there are dull - lifting up metal shutters together, or giving 
 each other boosts up to high platforms. Repetition is one of the game's major issues - the scenery 
 is samey (it looks great, but all very similar) , the 'shoot down a helicopter' boss fights get 
 tiresome, and we never want to open another metal shutter in a game again. 
  
  Although vehicle sections do break it up a little - driving sections see one player drive while 
 the other shoots, and helicopter sections let both players shoot from infinite-firing machine guns 
 - there aren't any jaw-dropping moments. And no deathmatch either. t's just balls-out shooting 
 from start to finish, with 50 Cent tunes to bop along to as you go. It's not too tough and not 
 overly complicated. You just have fun with guns, and that's all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivan-beloni
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  If you like rap, don't care much for a great storyline or just want something new to play while 
 you wait for Killzone 2, this is a nice alternative to SF4.
  
  Storyline:
  Awful 50cent has got to have more imagination than this!
  Also the levels occur in completely 
 fictitious scenarios, so don't expect a realistic game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Great, quite a few different weapons to choose from, the scoring system is great and very rewarding 
 it will keep making you want to kill faster, with more style.
  The counter kill system, even though it could have a variation on the buttons you press while executing 
 them, is verry cool, lots of different moves to execute and purchase.
  But, as everything else in this game it does have it's faults: Tends to get a bit repetitive after 
 a while, also, id doesn't have any innovations in it.
  
  Graphics:
  Good, but it could have been mutch better 50 looks pretty cool from a fair distance but at close 
 range, him and even more everyone else Looks a bit... PS2ish.
  It also have a few moments where the surfaces will seem to be drawn form the ps1 and uot of nowhere, 
 the remaining details will pop in again... weird.
  
  Sound:
  Not mutch to say here, if you like 50cent you'll love it, if not, you won't.
  The weapons and 
 explosions sound pretty standard too
  
  Overall:
  Storyline: 3.0
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Graphics: 5.0
  Sound: up to the "playa" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
