-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Afro Samurai
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/afrosamurai/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brutal, satisfying combat.
 Great art design.
 Awesome music.
 Some really fun setpiece battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad platforming sections.
 Inconsistent pace leads to occasional monotony.
 Inferior camera can't be customized.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 27, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.7, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 215 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Jan 27, 2009

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This gory, gorgeous action game has plenty of flaws, but it will still satisfy your thirst for blood. 
 

  Nariko in Heavenly Sword. Cloud Strife in Final Fantasy VII. And now Afro Samurai. These are the 
 characters that you remember for their remarkable hairstyles, though Namco Bandai's newest hack-and-slash 
 action game offers more than just a curly coif that reaches for the heavens. It is an entertaining 
 and thoroughly gory offering that contrasts sumptuous environments and crisp cel-shaded characters 
 with shocking sights of slow-motion dismemberment. In Afro Samurai, you'll chop ninjas in half 
 and watch their disembodied torsos drag themselves along by the arms until they collapse in a pool 
 of blood. Sights like these make for some wickedly satisfying combat, though in other areas, the 
 game falls noticeably short of the standards set by genre predecessors such as Ninja Gaiden and 
 Devil May Cry. Clumsy platforming and pacing inconsistencies keep Afro Samurai from reaching its 
 potential, but the entertaining combat and dedication to its subject matter keep it from being 
 just another forgettable button masher.  

           Afro's enemies don't just shed blood -- they positively gush it.      

  If you're familiar 
 with the Afro Samurai anime, you'll undoubtedly enjoy experiencing the events depicted in the series, 
 as well as several that aren't. If you're new to the franchise, the most important thing to know 
 is this: You are a big-haired, cigarette-chomping dude who knows a thing or two about blades. This 
 is a revenge tale, and as Afro, the wearer of the Number Two headband, you're out to defeat your 
 father's killer -- the current Number One. Even if you're not familiar with every character (the 
 neurotic, potty-mouthed Ninja Ninja; the demure Okiku) , the game's vibe has a way of pulling you 
 in. Split-screen sequences in and out of combat embrace the game's anime theme; a fantastic hip-hop 
 soundtrack tinged with Far Eastern harmonies enhances every slice and dice; and energetic voice 
 acting from Samuel L. Jackson and other recognizable talents lends humor and gravitas in turn. 
 Afro neophytes may not be drawn in by the plot, but they'll find it hard to escape the lush but 
 violent atmosphere.  

  At the forefront of this vibe is Afro Samurai's combat, which cribs from most games of its type. 
 You can issue weak and strong attacks, kick your enemies around, and string these three basic moves 
 into a variety of combos. You'll spill a lot of blood using these simple actions, but if you really 
 want to punish your acrobatic foes, it's better to enter focus mode and watch the guts fly. With 
 a pull of the trigger, you can slow down time, adjust your blade's trajectory a bit, and lop heads, 
 digits, or entire limbs off of your smack-talking enemies. You have to charge up focus mode by 
 landing combos, but you will never go without the ability for long, and the resulting mix of old-fashioned 
 button mashing and focus-powered slaughter is satisfying and fun. A few other moves help mix things 
 up, such as sprint attacks, parrying, and bullet deflection (tricky to time properly but well worth 
 the trouble) . As long as you're facing a typical crowd of ninjas and a miniboss or two, it's all 
 a drippy delight.  

  Once you're outside of combat (an all too frequent occurrence) , Afro Samurai trips over its own 
 feet, thanks largely to unpleasant platforming mechanics. The inelegant jumping sections are easy 
 to stomach in small doses, but they're strung into long and frustrating sequences late in the game -- one 
 of which you have to repeat if you die at the hands of the boss that appears afterward. You can 
 wall-run here and there, and leap up and grab certain ledges, but as a rule, you can perform these 
 moves only when the game wants you to, and they're purely for getting from one spot to the next. 
 You can't string them into combat moves a la Ninja Gaiden, and rough animations make these acrobatics 
 look as awkward as they feel.  

           The cel-shaded characters have plenty of attitude.      

  This leaves the burden of 
 entertainment purely on the combat, and it's usually up to the task. At its best, Afro Samurai 
 keeps pushing you forward, throwing a few different types of foes at you and tossing in various 
 objectives, such as throwing foes into an electrical apparatus or flipping a switch here and there. 
 A few set-piece battles are also a total blast, particularly an exhilarating freefall sequence 
 that might leave you breathless. A couple of boss battles are good fun as well, such as one versus 
 an endlessly self-cloning rival, and the easy but moody final boss battle. Some levels, such as 
 a protracted fight versus Kuma, are lighter on combat but succeed thanks to pensive ambience, entertaining 
 scriptwriting, and pure artistic splendor.  

  But as brutally beautiful as the combat is, it can't support the weight of some inconsistent pacing 
 and the less appealing boss fights. In some levels, you'll wander around without encountering enemies 
 for far too long; in a few others, nonstop waves of enemies will make you scream for variety that 
 never comes. These issues come to a head in the penultimate level: The combat, normally a head 
 rush, gets a bit tedious, the platforming takes center stage, and a few broken checkpoints might 
 force you to replay sequences that you've already plowed through. The boss fights afterward aren't 
 much of an improvement, spamming some cheap moves rather than providing a true challenge. The camera 
 certainly doesn't help matters; it isn't completely broken, but it has a tendency to get hung up 
 behind objects in the smaller combat areas or jitter around if you move it into certain positions. 
 A related oddity is the lack of camera customization. You can adjust the Y-axis settings but not 
 the X axis, which means that you are forced to deal with inverted camera settings when moving it 
 from side to side. If you prefer standard settings, this frustration will simply exacerbate the 
 other camera issues.  

  Nevertheless, Afro Samurai is an appealing game, and its visual style and pulsing soundtrack drives 
 this success. The art style doesn't rely on simple cel-shading, but rather infuses this familiar 
 technique with soft colors, muted lighting, and crosshatched textures. It's a unique look, and 
 the gushers of rust-hued blood contrast nicely with the gently lit environments. When you enter 
 focus mode, most of the environmental color washes away, making the gruesome cleaving of a bare-breasted 
 ninja a bloody sight to behold. Jittery animations and other technical flaws can get in the way -- particularly 
 in the PlayStation 3 version, which suffers from minor but noticeable frame-rate drops, especially 
 during split-screen incidents -- but these rarely detract from the appealing visual design. Likewise, 
 the occasionally lackluster sound effects can't detract from a superb hip-hop soundtrack (inspired 
 by, as opposed to composed by, rapper RZA) and fantastic, lively voice-overs.  

           There's a leveling mechanism, but it doesn't mean much.      

  Its flaws are noticeable, 
 but Afro Samurai is ultimately a lot of fun. It isn't the next action classic, but it embraces 
 its subject matter with vigor and delivers equally dynamic combat in spades. You can squeeze a 
 good seven hours of enjoyment out of the experience the first time around, and hidden items and 
 ensuing unlockables may drive you to return, if the fun and ferocious combat isn't reason enough. 
 In other words, it's a problematic but ultimately worthwhile reason to don the Number Two headband 
 and see that justice is done -- and that Justice is done in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai drips a been there done that feel. 
  It's classic button mashing gameplay doesn't go very deep. You use a combination of buttons to 
 string together combos. After a long line of combos is completed successfully your "focus" is completely 
 charged, allowing the player to tap a button and enter a slow motions sequence, within the slow 
 motion time-lapse you can down enemies in much fewer blows then before. While this is fun, because 
 you can slice and dice the limbs of your enemies, it makes the battles a lot easier on the players 
 part. While you activate the slow motion it's as if the AI is completely unaware of your existence, 
 letting you run across a field just so you can end them. That being said, the slow motion is fun 
 but definitely over used in parts of the game. While there are a few boss fights within the game, 
 you find yourself and your loud mouth companion fighting your way through hordes of seamlessly 
 endless amounts of run of the mill baddies. They are so common it's as if the developers chose 
 only one or two different character designs to use throughout the game. Dressed mostly with black 
 or grey robes and sun hates. 
  
  However the voice acting and story line are very true to the Afro Samurai anime, with a handful 
 of the original cast, starring Samuel. L Jackson. The facial animations when a character speaks 
 is not spot on, but close to it. Matching almost sound for sound. Which is good as it is hard to 
 watch with its generic graphics. Light textures often scarce and noticeably dull. With all of the 
 games obvious flaws, Graphics, baddies and been there done that feel, and the all to short single 
 player game leaving it with very little replay value at all this game is better left untouched. 
 Hopefully they get it right the next time around. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enuff27
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  When I downloaded the demo onto my PS3 I really wasn't expecting much 'cause I'm not much of a 
 hash'n'slash guy. But the concept of an "Afro samurai" was intriguing enough and the demo play 
 was no disappointment. 
  Narration by Samuel L. Jackson are definitely a plus. The game's learning curve is quite quick. 
 Not too much to do to stay alive, that's why I picked "easy" for difficulty. But in such intense 
 close combat games as the difficulty goes higher playability goes down. But still it is a little 
 bit below "just right" in terms of difficulty.
  The graphics and flowability of the game was really addictive, I finished the limited demo play 
 three times before I finally deleted it.
  I would really love to purschase the full game, so if anyone is planning to buy me present for 
 my birthday, Afro Samurai would be greatly appreciated. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z-Blood
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well you guys are gonna be dissapointed on what i got for Afro Samurai. Boy was this the worst 
 decision i have made in awhile. To start off #1: No trophies. This really pissed me off since every 
 game for the PS3 after January was suppose to have trophies except this exclusion. This is the 
 only game not to have them. This pissed me off from the get go. #2: Worst camera ever. One of the 
 worst cameras i have played in recent months. ITS REALLY POOR. Especially when multiple guys are 
 coming after you and your only looking at what the camera wants to look at. Its really really bad. 
 #3: Repitive, generic hack and slash garbage. This pretty much says it all. Very reptitive, bland, 
 button mashing crap. Lastly #4: Bad framerate. Sometimes the framerate can get kinda quirky (not 
 so so bad) but enough to annoy the heck outta you. They really need to fix the bugs in this game. 
 So this is petty much it you guys. I'm a huge fan of Afro Samurai and this made me extremely dissapointed. 
 Don't bother buying this game or renting it for a matter of fact. Even all the patches in the world 
 can't fix this game. Its not the worst, but certainly not the best. All it is a mediocore hack 
 and slash game. The pros in this game are only the graphics and the music. The music was very good 
 and graphics were nice espeially the outside enviroment. But all in all i'm very dissapointed.
 
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feer12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is great for what it is.. and gory hack and slash.. but i love it cuz im a huge fan of 
 the series.. so in my eyes its great.. every sequence makes sense.. and if u have patience any boss 
 fight is easy.... any 1 sayin bosses are too hard... u might just suck or keep duin the same thing 
 over and over.. to ppl who have seen the series.. and love it.... this is a must.. to ppl who have 
 no intrest stay away.. levels jump around but if you have seen the series it all makes sense.. 
 samuel l jackson is great as voice over and his jokes r very nice.. made me laugh a few times... the 
 action sequences r great as well... each fight would b the same if it wasnt for the massive amount 
 of diffferent combos afro can do... if u liked ninja gaiden the game and afro the show.. this is 
 the game u wana look at... enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jip_the_third
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The controls are clunky and kind of broken, but managable. 
  
  The foes you'll be fighting are repetitious and predictable - one kind you can easily kill by just 
 kicking then finishing off with a heavy attack, another kind by just hitting the light attack button, 
 another kind by kicking, then light attack then heavy, repeat. Oh, and you can be killed without 
 ever getting hit sometimes.
  
  The voice acting is pretty good, though alot of the time it doesn't feel like the character on 
 screen is actually saying what they're saying (the audio's usually directional, except for a lot 
 of the dialogue isn't and really feels disconnected) .
  
  The camera takes turns controlling itself and letting you control it. If you point your right pad 
 to the left, the camera moves right, up, it moves down, and there's no option to change that schematic, 
 or to change anything in the game - like brightness, sound effects, subtitles, nothing. That, and 
 you usually can't tell who's fighting you from where, but just randomly pushing buttons solves 
 that.
  
  Visually, the art design's pretty good, but the animation is often clunky, weird, and usually unconvincing 
 (watch for foes running with swords - who carries swords like that?!) . And a lot of the cutscenes 
 can't be skipped, so if you die a lot in one area you have to watch the same lame cutscenes over 
 and over.
  
  The platforming is a chore, as is fighting as it's tedious. The story is taken from the movies, 
 which I thought was bad to begin with. And the much advertised slicing foes feature isn't as special 
 as it sounds.
  
  Overall, the game isn't atrocious, but it isn't really worth playing either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  When it comes to games like Afro Samurai, you have lower your expectations. This isn't the kind 
 of game you approach with a sense of "Oh my God, this is going to be the game of the year;" you 
 approach it expecting an entertaining, button-mashing, hack-and-slash with enough twists to keep 
 it interesting.
  
  Well, that approach would be partially correct. You do get some entertainment in the form of big-name 
 voice talents, and the art style of the game certainly fits a game that was based off an Anime' 
 television show. But outside of those aspects, the game is mostly screwed thanks to a camera that 
 is completely off-the-wall, repetitive gameplay, and a lack of polish that just makes you want 
 to cry.
  
  If you're unfamiliar with legend of Afro Samurai, here's what you need to know: You're a samurai 
 in a twisted, futuristic version of feudal Japan whose father is killed right in front of you by 
 a man named Justice. You then spend the rest of your life in a bloody and gory pursuit of trying 
 to exact revenge for your father's death. 
  
  It does make for an overall interesting story that fits very well into a game based on an Anime' 
 series, and the voice acting is very well done. Samuel L. Jackson and Ron Perlman both did an excellent 
 job voicing Ninja Ninja and Justice, respectively. Unfortunately, the cutscenes are incredibly 
 disjointed, and the fact that the loading screens contain flashbacks that are constantly getting 
 cut off in the middle doesn't help anything, ether. The sad part is you lose the connection to 
 some of Afro's internal pain as a result. 
  
  This problem also carries over to the music. While it fits the game incredibly well, it doesn't 
 do a very good job with the transitions between the standard background music and the soundtrack 
 for when you're in battle. The corresponding music, given whatever situation you're in, just fades 
 in and out and cuts off before the next piece of the soundtrack begins. During particularly long 
 battles, the songs just repeat as if you're listening to the same track on a CD over, and over, 
 and over again until you're ready to tear your hair out. It's like being stuck in your grandparent's 
 car listening to "The Best of Yanni" on a cross-country road trip.
  
  But it's the main gameplay itself that makes this title such an absolute disaster. Sure, the game 
 has some great mechanics (such as "Focus" which allows you to slow down time, perform special moves, 
 and even reflect bullets) , but they only work part of the time. Just imagine trying to jump left 
 to avoid an enemy, but instead jumping forward into said enemy... frequently, and you'll get an 
 idea of what I'm talking about.
  
  Your adversaries, especially the game's bosses, are not only cheap, they're boring. In the case 
 of lesser enemies, you'll continuously dive into the middle of them and pound away until they're 
 all dead, or you'll get knocked down into one of the many inconvenient corners in the game and 
 just beaten to pulp without any hope of escape. It basically pins you in and loops the same attack 
 over and over on you until you're dead. This is fine for short battles, but incredibly frustrating 
 for the longer, more intense ones. Nothing sucks more than being sent back to the beginning of 
 twenty-minute battle, and please understand that I'm not over exaggerating about that twenty minutes, 
 either.
  
  In the case of bosses and larger enemies, you'll simply run away from them until they make one 
 particular move where they're left open, and then you can maybe jump in and get three four swipes 
 before they shove you away. In a couple of cases, the bosses just barade you with attacks to the 
 point where it becomes luck, not skill, that wins the battle, or you spend so much time going through 
 the cycle of running around, taking a swipe, and then running away again that you go through prolonged 
 periods of monotony fighting off one boss. It doesn't exactly make for engaging gameplay.
  
  None of these problems, however, compare to what is the pinnacle of this terrible gameplay: 
 the camera. It is an absolute joke, and it only serves to make what is already a bad game even 
 worse. It's either in the way, not showing you enough to allow you a fair defense against your 
 adversaries, or it whips around and positions itself either underneath, or behind, something that 
 causes the entire screen to go black. 
  
  That's right, kids. You can't see anything. And the best part is that it's repetitive; it can happen 
 several times during one fight. During the final boss battle I was running around, dodging attacks, 
 and the camera would slowly work its way underground. I'd have to stop attacking or dodging just 
 to straighten out the camera, which is very bad when the game is intentionally a button-masher.
 
  
  What it all boils down to is that it simply sucks when you can't see what you're supposed to be 
 doing. You get lost, you get frustrated, and you waste a lot of time on things that you just shouldn't 
 have to. And when you take all of the other problems with the game and lump them together, you 
 end up with a nothing more than a sixty-dollar piece of garbage that your PS3 is simply going to 
 choke on. This choking is probably what causes the dips and skips in the frame-rate. 
  
  I really can't suggest this title for anyone except for maybe fans of the Anime' show, and that's 
 a very big maybe. Everyone else should stay as far away from this one as possible, unless you're 
 a masochist in need of a fix. Don't waste your money, or time, on this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai is a manga, turned anime, turned game. This game, while better than most licensed 
 games, still suffers some of the same faults known to all. First off it's short. About six hours 
 long. The game covers the whole first series of episodes (only 5) but tells it in a little different 
 way. Some little details are different here and there, but you fight all the right guys at the 
 right places. (Something I usually don't expect to get.) You fight your sword master, the empty 
 seven, afro-droid, Kuma, and of course justice. All in the spot that Afro fought them in the show.
 
  
  For those who don't know Afro Samurai follows the life of a man named Afro who wants vengeance 
 for his fathers murder. His father, who once wore the number one headband has been killed and the 
 headband was taken from him. Now he is on a mission to fight the man who killed his father, and 
 kill him.
  
  The story goes deeper than that, as Afro himself is a very interesting character. But you don't 
 get into too much of that in the game. And a lot of the story is missing from the game, but that's 
 to be expected. The best part of this is to be able to fight all the great fights from the series.
 
  
  Speaking of fighting, here's how it works. Three buttons are used for hitting. The standard light 
 heavy kick attacks. Here's where the game gets a little different and fun. You can chain together 
 all types of combos, some on the flashy side, and really make a fight come alive. Then besides 
 that you can hold the L trigger and go into focus mode where you can shop vertically, horizontally, 
 trip, grab the enemy, do flips, rolls, and some other things as well. All of that is used to finish 
 off most of you enemies. When you go into that mode you can hold down one of the sword attack buttons 
 and when it flashes Afro will slice and usually cut whatever limb that you were pointing at off. 
 (Or you can go diagonally right across the guy if you are feeling like a jerk, today.) The fighting 
 is actually surprisingly well done and really keeps the game from getting boring during its short 
 play time.
  
  There are also some running, jumping, Prince of Persia type things to do in the game. They aren't 
 used so frequently, except for a few levels. They work out ok, and the penalty of falling usually 
 isn't too bad, so it's ok.
  
  Now here are the problems. Some of the boss battles are very, bleh. Nothing too special happens 
 in them. I was a little disappointed with Kuma boss fight, and the final one with Justice. But 
 the insane one against Afro-Droid and somebody else (won't spoil it, since it's sort of a surprise.) 
 really shine.
  
  A few more annoyances were present. The big one that I'm sure will get the most complaint is the 
 camera. For whatever reason they decided to make the X axis on the camera backwards. For me, I 
 just adjusted, and it was no problem. For others, they seem to have a hard time doing it. But there 
 is no way to change it, and I do wonder how they came to that decision. It's just kind of odd.
 
  
  Lastly the sound effects are odd. Or, sometimes not present at all. There will be times of dead 
 silence where you could tell there should be some sort of sound there. Or the sounds didn't hit 
 with the force you think they should have. Kind of what the last 3 prince of persia's were like. 
 That was an annoyance, but it wasn't a horrible thing. Just made the game makers seem lazy.
  
  The music was great. There were quite a few full rap songs all put in the right places, and 
 the music composed for the game was just as good. The game features some of the most memorable 
 music I have heard in a while, and SHOULD be featured for best original soundtrack in next years 
 game awards. (kinda early to be talking about that, huh?)
  
  But in the end it was a pretty fun ride. The fighting was furious and fun, but still topped by 
 the big boys of Ninja Gaiden and Devil May Cry. The story was alright, and gave a different perspective 
 on things. Of course Ninja Ninja provided plenty of laughs. To fans of the show, depending on your 
 love for Afro, you could either rent this or buy it. I'd prefer renting it, but I already bought 
 it so, whatever. To people who have never seen the show, watch it before playing this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: exray
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai is a stylish game that should be enjoyed by any beat-em-up fan and especially any 
 fans of the Anime. With that said this one is definitely a rental - I have lingering doubts that 
 this title will last in any but the most hardcore Afro fans library.
  
  The combat is the star of the show and it doesn't disappoint. There are lots of slick looking combos 
 to unleash on the various enemies in the game and slicing them into tiny efficient cubes never 
 gets old. Pulling off some of the longer (and more spectacular) combos can be quite difficult because 
 you'll often be swarmed by enemies and one hit is all it takes to break your combo chain. Afro 
 starts the game with some impressive moves and the combo list only gets deeper as you go on. There 
 is nothing more satisfying than pulling off a tough combo for an extremely bloody finish and then 
 taking it even further over the top by focus slicing an enemy completely in half. 
  
  The music and visuals in Afro Samurai are also quite good. The A-list voice acting is superb which 
 helps keep you engaged throughout. This is a mature title with plenty of swearing and sexual content 
 and there is no question that it is not for minors. It's a good thing that the music is also excellent 
 because there aren't many tracks and you'll hear the same music over and over throughout the game. 
 Graphically, Afro Samurai is a looker and the characters and landscape all look great.
  
  Unfortunately, the camera almost manages to kill this game completely. It is one of the 'dumbest' 
 camera's experienced in a 3rd person game quite a while - it requires constant babysitting and 
 is a major detractor from the overall experience. You could virtually be surrounded by enemies 
 and would never know it until someone blunders onto your screen or worse, smacks you upside the 
 head. Most painful is the fact that the camera is at its worst during the boss fights which makes 
 them harder but for all the wrong reasons. Still, you CAN compensate for the camera with liberal 
 use of the block button while you pan around to find your next target.
  
  The performance of Afro Samurai on the PS3 hardware is very disappointing. There are plenty of 
 split screen sequences which slow the action down to a chug which can mess with your combo timing 
 and can detract from the great combat. Even the animations in the combo list are laggy as well 
 as the rest of the menus. This is a game that almost demands silky smooth gameplay to go along 
 with the devastating combat and Afro Samurai fails to deliver here.
  
  I really wanted to love this game - the Afro Samurai property is extremely cool, the combat is 
 way over the top and bloody - but the camera and frame rate issues seriously hinder the experience.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Afro Samurai is a manga, turned anime, turned game. This game, while better than most licensed 
 games, still suffers some of the same faults known to all. First off it's short. About six hours 
 long. The game covers the whole first series of episodes (only 5) but tells it in a little different 
 way. Some little details are different here and there, but you fight all the right guys at the 
 right places. (Something I usually don't expect to get.) You fight your sword master, the empty 
 seven, afro-droid, Kuma, and of course justice. All in the spot that Afro fought them in the show.
 
  
  For those who don't know Afro Samurai follows the life of a man named Afro who wants vengeance 
 for his fathers murder. His father, who once wore the number one headband has been killed and the 
 headband was taken from him. Now he is on a mission to fight the man who killed his father, and 
 kill him.
  
  The story goes deeper than that, as Afro himself is a very interesting character. But you don't 
 get into too much of that in the game. And a lot of the story is missing from the game, but that's 
 to be expected. The best part of this is to be able to fight all the great fights from the series.
 
  
  Speaking of fighting, here's how it works. Three buttons are used for hitting. The standard light 
 heavy kick attacks. Here's where the game gets a little different and fun. You can chain together 
 all types of combos, some on the flashy side, and really make a fight come alive. Then besides 
 that you can hold the L trigger and go into focus mode where you can shop vertically, horizontally, 
 trip, grab the enemy, do flips, rolls, and some other things as well. All of that is used to finish 
 off most of you enemies. When you go into that mode you can hold down one of the sword attack buttons 
 and when it flashes Afro will slice and usually cut whatever limb that you were pointing at off. 
 (Or you can go diagonally right across the guy if you are feeling like a jerk, today.) The fighting 
 is actually surprisingly well done and really keeps the game from getting boring during its short 
 play time.
  
  There are also some running, jumping, Prince of Persia type things to do in the game. They aren't 
 used so frequently, except for a few levels. They work out ok, and the penalty of falling usually 
 isn't too bad, so it's ok.
  
  Now here are the problems. Some of the boss battles are very, bleh. Nothing too special happens 
 in them. I was a little disappointed with Kuma boss fight, and the final one with Justice. But 
 the insane one against Afro-Droid and somebody else (won't spoil it, since it's sort of a surprise.) 
 really shine.
  
  A few more annoyances were present. The big one that I'm sure will get the most complaint is the 
 camera. For whatever reason they decided to make the X axis on the camera backwards. For me, I 
 just adjusted, and it was no problem. For others, they seem to have a hard time doing it. But there 
 is no way to change it, and I do wonder how they came to that decision. It's just kind of odd.
 
  
  Lastly the sound effects are odd. Or, sometimes not present at all. There will be times of dead 
 silence where you could tell there should be some sort of sound there. Or the sounds didn't hit 
 with the force you think they should have. Kind of what the last 3 prince of persia's were like. 
 That was an annoyance, but it wasn't a horrible thing. Just made the game makers seem lazy.
  
  The music was great. There were quite a few full rap songs all put in the right places, and 
 the music composed for the game was just as good. The game features some of the most memorable 
 music I have heard in a while, and SHOULD be featured for best original soundtrack in next years 
 game awards. (kinda early to be talking about that, huh?)
  
  But in the end it was a pretty fun ride. The fighting was furious and fun, but still topped by 
 the big boys of Ninja Gaiden and Devil May Cry. The story was alright, and gave a different perspective 
 on things. Of course Ninja Ninja provided plenty of laughs. To fans of the show, depending on your 
 love for Afro, you could either rent this or buy it. I'd prefer renting it, but I already bought 
 it so, whatever. To people who have never seen the show, watch it before playing this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
