-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: All-Pro Football 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/allprofootball2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An exciting, highly realistic gameplay engine.
 Over 200 classic players to choose from.
 Building up teams and taking them online is a lot of fun.
 Largely excellent animation.
 Great on-field sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Much of what makes All-Pro's gameplay so great was done just as well in NFL 2K5 three years ago.
 A distinct lack of offline modes.
 Player models look ancient (and not just because they're old players).
 Commentary is mostly recycled from 2K5.
 Could have used more in the way of customization options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 466 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2K football returns with solid gameplay and a new focus on classic players, though the roster isn't 
 the only aspect of the game that feels old. 

  ESPN NFL 2K5 is one of those games that have developed a seriously hardcore following in recent 
 years. That's because it happens to be one of the most tightly crafted football games ever made, 
 and also because it happens to be the last NFL-licensed game made by 2K Sports, following EA's 
 snatching of the NFL license into the land of exclusivity. For just about three years now, fans 
 of the 2K brand of football have been wringing their hands in anticipation of what 2K might do 
 to bring back an alternative to Madden. The answer is finally here in the form of All-Pro Football 
 2K8. All-Pro is precisely the kind of football you remember from NFL 2K5 -- maybe a little  too much 
  like it -- but with a roster of classic players from NFL yore. The premise? Build your own team 
 out of your favorite old-timers, and compete against other teams full of heroes of the gridiron, 
 both offline and online. It's a very cool idea for a game, especially in the way you build your 
 team, but some niggling issues with the gameplay and presentation, as well as a stripped-down package 
 of modes, prevents 2K8 from being a truly great return for 2K football.  

           2K Sports returns to the gridiron in All-Pro Football 2K8, and they've brought some old 
 friends with them.      

  First, let's look at who you're working with in All-Pro. The roster of classic players goes well 
 over 200, and you'll see plenty of big-time names like Jerry Rice, Joe Montana, John Elway, Dan 
 Marino, Barry Sanders, Walter Payton, Mike Ditka, and more. There's also a nice variety of players 
 that aren't quite as immediately recognizable, but certainly deserve their all-pro status, like 
 Lem Barney, Len Dawson, Chuck Muncie, Jessie Tuggle, and the like. However, there's also a decent 
 chunk of players in the game that kind of leave you scratching your head about why they're in there. 
 Mike Golic, for instance, is far more notable for his ESPN broadcasting career than his playing 
 career; Korey Stringer is better known for his death at training camp than his role on the field; 
 and what, exactly, did Brian Bosworth ever do besides play well for about two seasons before getting 
 injured, retire, and go on to star in bad movies? Still, several weird choices aside, the number 
 of honest-to-god legends vastly outweighs the goofy picks, and while one could argue endlessly 
 about various omissions in the roster, this collection of players is plenty good for a starting 
 entry.  

  But what do you do with all these classic players? Essentially, from the moment you first boot 
 up the game, your task is to build the team of your dreams. To build this team, you're provided 
 11 empty slots with which to fill superstars, and the remaining slots are taken up by generic players. 
 The classic players are ranked in gold, silver, and bronze tiers. You get two gold, three silver, 
 and six bronze players for any team you create, and they can fill whatever positions you like. 
 Want a potent offense? Grab Jerry Rice and Walter Payton, toss in a silver-tier quarterback like 
 Joe Theismann or Randall Cunningham, and you're in good shape. Prefer the defensive game to be 
 the focus of a team? Pick Ronnie Lott, Dick Butkus, Lem Barney, and Ed "Too Tall" Jones, and you're 
 looking pretty scary. Of course, it's all about balance. Go too far on one side of the ball or 
 the other, and you may suffer in the end. Likewise, if you don't fill out your less sexy positions, 
 like offensive line and kicker, you could find yourself in a difficult spot in certain situations. 
 Difficult a balance as it can be to strike, it's a fun one to experiment with. You can create as 
 many teams as you like, and edit any one you create over and over again until you feel like you've 
 gotten it right.  

  Once you get your team on the field, any fan of NFL 2K5 is going to be able to settle into a groove 
 pretty quickly. That's because this game might as well be 2K5 with a handful of gameplay tweaks. 
 Some of those tweaks include a new gang tackling system that actually looks and feels superior 
 to anything found in recent Madden games, and a new right-analog-stick tackling mechanic that essentially 
 lets you do big hits, high and low tackles, or reach tackles (the last of which rarely ever seems 
 to work very well) . There's also a new kick meter that tries to turn the right analog stick into 
 a kicker's leg, having you pull back on it to start the play, and then push forward to kick (provided 
 you time it and aim correctly) . Nifty idea, but it doesn't work well at all. Kickoffs seem to work 
 fine, but kicking field goals is a lot more scattershot than it should be. You know something's 
 off when you're timing your kicks nearly perfectly and putting little angle on the ball beyond 
 where you set the arrow pointer, and you're still missing kicks from 35 yards out.  

           Finding the right combination of star players is half the fun.      

  Interestingly 
 enough, it's not the changes made to 2K8's design that really sell it -- it's the stuff you remember. 
 It probably speaks best to how fantastic a game 2K5 was that 2K8's gameplay can still be considered 
 great fun, and still feel realistic, considering how much of it is identical to that game. The 
 running game is still the best in the business, with moves and blocking that look and feel just 
 about as spot-on as you could ever hope for. The passing game is no slouch either, though there's 
 a weird bit of delay between when you press the button to throw to a receiver, and when the pass 
 actually launches -- one that might be somewhat realistic, but feels overwrought when you're just 
 trying to get the ball out quickly. Defense is stingy and mechanically sound. Defensive backs tend 
 to drop a few too many "gimme" interceptions, and defensive players still like to stand dead still 
 in one spot when assigned to zone coverage (wide receivers tend to do the same thing on certain 
 types of routes) , but those quibbles aside, it's hard to complain much about the defensive game. 

  So, if the game still plays so well, what prevents it from being truly great? It's a lot of things, 
 many of which are elements that are missing. As an offline, single-player game, All-Pro is a weak 
 effort. You get a quick game mode, and one season to play through against a series of pre-made 
 teams, and once you win the championship (or don't) , that's pretty much the end of it. There's 
 no franchise mode, no crib, none of the amenities 2K Sports fans have become accustomed to over 
 the years.     

  Customization options also feel a bit lackluster. There are plenty of ways to design your team, 
 including names, cities, uniform styles, and the like. The number of logos is a little on the paltry 
 side, but there's enough of a variety to ensure you won't end up creating very many similar-looking 
 squads. Player customization options are more disappointing. There aren't quite enough base options 
 for faces, nor any way to really edit hairstyles or other distinctive features. What's also disappointing 
 is that any player you create has to be put into the gold, silver, or bronze category. There's 
 no way to edit the scrub guys on your team. It makes sense that you wouldn't be able to edit their 
 attributes and performance ratings, but not even being able to edit their names or appearances 
 is pretty weak.  

           The gameplay is a lot of fun, but people who have been clinging to NFL 2K5 lo these last 
 few years will find it extremely familiar -- almost too familiar.      

  At the very least, the multiplayer game isn't lacking. In fact, it's safe to say that 2K8 feels 
 like a game specifically built for multiplayer competition. Half the fun of the game is pitting 
 your created teams against other people's concoctions to see how they match up. You can do so in 
 the standard ranked and player matches, as well as in tournaments and online seasons for up to 
 32 teams. There's still no fantasy-draft option, but given the limited number of noteworthy players 
 in the game, that's somewhat understandable. Online performance seemed aces all around in the matches 
 we played. Small bouts of lag popped up, but nothing that affected gameplay.  

  Presentation is another area where All-Pro falls a bit short. Graphics are a point of contention 
 simply because of how much the game resembles its Xbox forebears. Certainly the graphics engine 
 has been scaled up quite a bit. You'll see plenty more detail in players' jerseys, helmets, and 
 especially the arenas, which are massive and feature excellent-looking crowds, and animatronic 
 mascots in some cases. But at the same time, it still looks like a scaled-up version of 2K5. The 
 overly lankly player models, weird player faces, and sometimes stiff running movements give the 
 game an aged feel.  

  That's not to say all the animation looks bad, mind you. Not even close. The new gang tackles look 
 excellent, collision animations in general look just about perfect in most cases (even when players 
 run off the field into the bench and players on the sidelines) and there's nothing quite like having 
 a QB launch a long bomb to someone like Jerry Rice or Andre Reed, and watching them make a spectacular 
 leaping catch for the score. There are definitely some areas where the animation could have used 
 an upgrade, but much of what's there works nicely. By the same token, the celebration animations 
 feel pretty out of date, as a lot of them came straight from 2K5. Not to mention that some of them 
 seem woefully out of place, or downright inappropriate. Barry Sanders doing a boastful dance after 
 a TD? We don't think so. And there's something truly disquieting and, frankly, a bit tasteless 
 about OJ Simpson doing a throat-cut animation after a big play.  

           Compare this and 2K5 side-by-side, and you won't see a huge graphical upgrade.      

 
  Broadcast presentation is another issue of note. On-field stat displays are solid and give you 
 good info about what's going on in the game, but the camera presents an occasional issue, especially 
 if you aren't playing with a widescreen TV. Zooming back prior to a play doesn't let you see your 
 receivers on the far ends of the field, which sometimes makes it difficult to check up on what 
 route they're running. On the audio front, the delightful twosome of Dan Stevens and Peter O'Keefe 
 make their return to the commentary booth, but loads of the commentary seems to have been directly 
 lifted from 2K5 with little editing or adjustment. Sure, they've got all the player names updated, 
 but O'Keefe's food jokes and "You can't coach that!" moments are largely recycled. On top of that, 
 the ancient editing techniques give the commentary a stilted feel that breaks up the flow. On-field 
 dialogue is also extremely cheesy and poorly delivered, and the in-game soundtrack is rather short, 
 so you tend to hear a lot of the same tracks again and again. At least the sounds of the game are 
 as high quality as ever.  

  Ultimately, All-Pro Football 2K8 delivers an enjoyable gameplay experience that fans of 2K football 
 will find immediately engaging. At the same time, that great gameplay is so great because much 
 of it comes directly from a three-year-old game, and many of the supplementary features that made 
 that old game so fantastic are missing here. The issue isn't with the lack of an NFL license, but 
 the inability to truly enjoy the game in a single-player environment for very long, not to mention 
 the decidedly antiquated presentation. But with all that said, what matters most is that All-Pro 
 is still an enjoyable football game, in spite of its more lackluster elements. This is a good, 
 solid foundation that 2K can hopefully build upon for future sequels. If you temper your expectations 
 from the extremely high ceiling set by NFL 2K5, and simply go in expecting a fun multiplayer-focused 
 experience, you'll get just that out of All-Pro Football 2K8.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  So 2K Sports keeps proving why theyre the best sport sim developer and why EA was so scared of 
 them they simply stripped them of the NFL license. In the end, even without the license, 2k Sports 
 manages to bring this really cool football game to life. As a matter of fact, it remainds me alot 
 of the movie "Any given Sunday".
  
  Graphics... theyre ok. You will see some clipping, some tackles thru players, some arms twisting 
 the wrong direction and weird movement here and there. Honestly, is totally O. K. I saw the same 
 stuff on MADDEN 09. The player faces and emotions are not that satisfying, but they dont bother 
 me. I liked the stadiums, as they looked pretty original for each team... the freebirds for example 
 have a phoenix on top of the stadium... COOL.
  
  Gameplay... like evey 2K Sports game, even on easy is hard. And the variaty of GOLD, SILVER & BRONZE 
 players makes each team difficult. For example i played and lost to the Americans... they had Warren 
 Moon and Thurman Thomas. Damm, Thurman is really hard to tackle. Oh, and yes, no real teams, just 
 make believe teams. Like the americans, the scorpions, the Dallas Gunslingers!! ajajjaajaajja Man, 
 its fun... remainds a lot of the NES era of games... remember that game called BASEBALL STARS?! 
 cool game, with a whole bunch of baseball teams that even included an all girls team. In the end 
 if you love FOOTBALL, you will dig this game never the less.
  
  Replay Value.... just good. Your stats dont stack up for the next seasons even if you make your 
 own team, with your own Created Players and all. Once you win it all, its done. But i just like 
 to play this game way, Way and WAY much than Madden. I dont have anything against madden, but 
 MADDEN 09 is a total bust!!!
  
  Finishing thoughts... the fact that the game doesnt have the actual NFL Lineup, has his drawbacks 
 and graphical glitches here an there, might bother you a little bit. But the FUN Factor in this 
 game is amazing. You will enjoy this make believe stint of the NFL with the NFL Legends, NFL Pro-Bowlers 
 and NFL Players. The create a player is not that deep, but it does his job and the features you 
 pick for your created player do work, so pick his attributes wisely.
  
  Great FOOTBALL GAME, but it would be a touchdown if it had the NFL License. If you like FOOTBALL 
 this game is for you, if you like or need to have the NFL License in order to play, then rent first.
 
  
  Now what would happen if 2K Sports wanted to make a SOCCER game??? i wonder..... EA you better do 
 all your games RIGHT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polizia_Unit_62
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  All pro football lacks what people enjoy in football. Very slow paced and hard to controll and 
 online is horrible barely would you find someone online. If u want to play a real football game 
 try madden any madden is better than this. Blitz the league also is a real football game. Nfl street 
 is cool too. But im begging you do not I repeat do not buy this game. But if this a must have for 
 you I strongly suggest you rent it or if you have playstation network download the demo from the 
 playstation store. If you rent it and like it go ahead and buy it it's your opinion. Go find another 
 game and you will not regret it. I would think this will be your first game if you enjoy it. Dont 
 ever make the mistake i did and buy this. I feel pity for those like me. Hopefully you"ll listen 
 to me. Ok dont want to waste your time thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Ok!, Whats up world! Thanks for 'checkin' out this OPINION REVIEW!
  
  Lets start off with, NFL 2K5... that was a classic game! The same ppl bring us now APF 2K8.
  
 
  The feel of the game is JUST AS IN 'ESPN NFL 2K5'... the buttons are similar, commentary, etc... but 
 with a FEW new things.
  
  Since those LAMES at EA purchased the rights to the NFL Licence, none of 'todays' teams could be 
 in, but dont worry... APF has over 200 NFL Legends, Joe Montana, J. Rice, W. Payton, D. Butkus, D. Marino, 
 B. Sanders, J. Elway, etc...
  
  Lets start off with GRAPHICS:
  The overall graphics are SWEET, but the player faces could have been done BETTER...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  just like in 2K5, its bad ass!! there are alot of FIXED bugs that were in 2k5 but there are some 
 new onfield bugs in 2k8. the NEW Sixaxis controls are SWEET! The new 'right stick tackles' are 
 HARD BIG TIME HITS!!
  If you ever wanted to play a game and put that HURT in your tackles this is the GAME FOR YOU!!
 
  
  2k8 features TONS of 'Big Hits' and 'Big Stops' like you've never seen!! I love poppin' a player 
 3-5yds back after a Spear or Big Pop!!
  
  The NEW Kick System is FUN!! instead of smashing buttons to kick, you know HOLD the r. stick back 
 (according to a FG, K, P, PA) then when the Kicker is just right, you press the r. stick up! PUTS 
 YOU RIGHT IN THE GAME and RIGHT IN THOSE CRITICAL KICKS!!!
  
  No More RUNNING THROUGH everyone with any player, now only some players have special abilities 
 (sack masters, juke specialist, workhorse, shoulder charge, etc...) some have Higher more even 
 abilities instead of those classic RUN THROUGH EVERYONE 2K5 style LOL, now player abilities are 
 more REALISTIC according to every player!!!
  
  SOUND EFFECTS:
  are always sweet!! hard hits, sacks, trash talk, everything sounds just right!!!
  
  I would 
 have liked the 'CREATE A TEAM/player' options to be MORE DEEP and a bit EASIER to handle. But its 
 not bad, there is not 'CRIB' but you can still EARN those TROPHIES we all loved collecting in 2k5!
 
  
  there are alot of more things to say about the Pros/Cons about 2k8, but OVERALL, you WILL have 
 fun playing this game, you MIGHT not rate it higher b'cuz 2k5 was such a big hit! but its WORTH 
 having/buying/playing!!
  
  Its FUN period. If thats what you want from a Football game, then this is the GAME FOR YOU!! Big 
 Hits, Big Plays, Big Fun!! Go & Get It!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I bought for my PS3. That was a year ago. I have only played one 
 season. Truth be told, I was incredibly excited to get my hands on this game. 
  I have played NFL 2K5 since it's initial release. I completely ignored all the Madden games because 
 I had found what I thought was the perfect Football game. 
  So when I heard that finally there would be another 2K game, I was elated. So I got to the store, 
 and I experienced my first bit of disapointment. No add your soundtrack. I have played many an 
 old football game just so I could set up the jukebox, and go to town. 
  Next bit of disappointment came when I put the game on and found out, there is nothing else to 
 do other than the football game itself. I could not believe what I was seeing. Or not seeing as 
 the case may be. 
  Where was my apartment I get to pimp out. How about the 25 years of comebacks. Or even a decent 
 tutorial, in case I just wanted practice sessions. Nothing. 
  This is bare bones in all it's lack of glory. So since there is just the game, how is it? Well, 
 it's all right. Nothing spectacular. Passing is damn near impossible, unless you are the computer. 
 However I found it quite easy to break off a 90 yard run any time I wanted to.
  It's a very lopsided and half assed game. I would wait for it to be below the 15 dollar mark. By 
 that time though. We will have another Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingX
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  Oh my where do I begin. I could just advise a purchase of Madden 08, but this is devoted to APF 
 2K8. Ha ha. Well I got this for 13.49 used at my local GameStop, I knew it wasn't gonna compare 
 to Madden given that EA owns the NFL license, but wow the start menu's music sucks, it's weird, 
 not at all suited for a football game. But anyways the main thing you need to know is how the game 
 works. The graphics are OKAY as far as animation goes, like no glitches that involve someones arm 
 going through someones head, but my favorite part of playing a football video game with someone 
 is choosing my favorite team... ... well... The Americans?? Yep the teams have generic names like 
 The Americans, The Iron Men, The Las Vegas Rollers, alot of the's. Ha ha. This game just feels 
 really stale, dead, empty, cold. I mean, I guess it's average used price of like 15 dollars is 
 a mega bargain for a PS3 game, but if that's your price range how did you ever afford a PS3? Ha 
 ha. Well personally, I think it's crap. Rent it first. Or go play it with a friend that has it 
 (ha ha doubt your friends would have that game) . But if you play it, and happen to enjoy it, that's 
 great and I hope it brings you many hours of entertainment for your gaming soul. I gave it a 4.0 
 cause there were 2 seconds that involved me being sacked which I thought was mildly funny, and 
 seriously 2K made a great effort making the most of EA buying everything, I do not one bit blame 
 2K for this game being bad, it's just not possible to compete with Madden when it's the only video 
 game allowed to feature anything presently involved with the NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  i do not hate EA. im not gonna get on the forums and diss EA for making money. madden and NCAA 
 are great games and i like them both, but the 2K series is the best. their sports games in general 
 are better.
  all-pro really had no shot at madden because of the license and thats to bad. that is what makes 
 it so great. everything is there for you to custom to your likeing. from playerss, uniforms, and 
 playbook. the playbook is really impressive with 10000's of plays to choose from. it kills all 
 football games in this reguard.
  the graphics are some of the best this gen and the animations and stadiums are the best in any 
 sports game. the player models have a certain look that may not appeal to some and the PS3 version 
 has framerate issues (it runs at 30 fps and not 60 like the 360) . no complaints on the graphics.
 
  the sound is great although that damn rush song plays way to much. however peter okeef and dan 
 stevens (no relation) are back for the best commentary in videogames.
  finally playability. the animations dont get locked in as bad as madden, the defense plays smart 
 d, you actually feel like you make a difference playing d, the running game is balanced , and the 
 stats and scores are realistic. the blocking is great and the passing feels tight however the timing 
 patterns take a while to get used to.
  the only other complaint is that there isnt enough teams (only 28) per season and there isnt enough 
 season stats or info about the teams and league. id like to know more about it. and the lack of 
 rumble for the PS3 version really sux, hence the lower score. i gave the 360 a 10.
  great must own game that is $20 new. a damn shame !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DG4444
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  So I live in South Africa and we get a little ESPN here on tv but the great game of football in 
 not played at all. So for a guy like me that loves grid iron anything will do.
  I had to import this game and I got it at a good price (by SA standards) for $30. If I had to buy 
 Madden it would have cost me close to $100. So this will do for me cause it's a flawless game when 
 comes to gameplay. 
  You can't believe realistic it feels and I love the replays, nice touch.
  
  !!!!!!!!!! BUT!!!!!!!!!!! 
 with no franchise mode and no official teams and licenses theres alot to be desired. I noticed that 
 I'm getting bored with it very quickly. I also realized that there are a few plays that will work 
 95% of the time no matter who you play with or against.
  
  Look I'm not gona complain cause this is all I've got but I'm sure Madden has more bells and whistles 
 going where All-Pro is football at its modest and pure form.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Well the 2K football series is back but it couldn't live up to the hype that it was getting. All 
 Pro Football is a good game but it's limit of features is dissapointing even though the game is 
 simple and exactly like the 2K5 game. You start the game by chosing 2 gold players such as Barry 
 Sanders, Dan Marino and many others, next you can chose 4 silver players and 6 broze players and 
 the rest of the spots are filled by other random players. After you go through that process you 
 can choose your team name , stadium name, and jersey color. After you finish that process you can 
 start a season but unfortunatly that's about all you can do. All though this is a good game you 
 should only buy this game if you are a die hard football fan . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  It is nice to finally see someone come up and try to compete with EA's Madden. Unable to get an 
 NFL license, 2Ksports has come up with the bold idea of creating a fictional league and populating 
 it with players from pro football history, allowing players to assemble a dream-team of ex-NFL 
 superstars and - er, other guys.
  
  But the game turns out to be mostly novelty. The football plays great, and is unbelievably well-balanced. 
 Almost all of my games turned out to be really close with scores in only the teens or twenties. 
 The only real problem I had was that field goal kicing was really hard since there is no meter 
 to tell you how hard you were kicking the ball. But the extent of the game's palyability is creating 
 a team out of historic players, creating their uniforms, tweaking one of the preset stadiums, then 
 playing ONE and ONLY ONE season before having to start over from scratch. Of course, the highlight 
 of the game is taking your superstars online and showing off your custom team, but the options 
 are rather limited. You can only pick two of the top-teir players, three second-tier, five third-tier 
 and I think seven fourth-tier. So if you want Joe Montana, Dick Butkus, AND Barry Sanders, you 
 are out of luck since they are all 1st-tier and you can only pick two of em. Some of the players 
 have special abilities that help make them stand out like super stiff-arms for some running backs, 
 great catches for receivers, big hits for defenders, and longe-range kickers. But other than these 
 abilities on certain players, everybody in the game feels like the same player. There are no ratings 
 of any kind, and whatever is left of your roster that you did not populate with historical players 
 gets filled in with generic players. You have the option of tweaking them a little bit. For example, 
 you can give yourself an offensive line that is good at pass blocking (but not so good at run blocking) , 
 or vice vers, or balanced between the two. Auxiliary receivers can be either speed, possession, 
 or balanced. Defenders can be coverage defenders, big hitters, or balanced. Etc. . . 
  
  In the end, the shear lack of depth in the game completely cripples it in terms of being a long-term 
 investment as the novelty of selecting from the historical roster wears off after you've created 
 a couple of teams.
  
  Graphics are pretty good and in full 1080 resolution, but the player models look too much like 
 the ones from the PS2/Xbox NFL 2K5, and gameplay, in fact, is almost identical to that game as 
 well. Which isn't a bad thing, as that was a great football game. Frankly, the game doesn't do 
 anything new or innovative. Also, aside from a cool Tom Saywer cover, the soundtrack is downright 
 terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for the same lag-free on-line multi-player experience as the XBOX LIVE version.... and 
 what I got is something less of what I was expecting. This is a great football game... and the online 
 options are the exact same as the XBOX 360 version. There is alot of difference in performance 
 online.... other than that the game is really solid for a single player go-around. Mabey I am just 
 used to the game on Xbox... but this feels a little different and the hits are as smooth as what 
 I was used to. Due to having FREE ONLINE MULTIPLAYER this is worth the price. Options and stats 
 are right there and the lobbies are exactly the same... which is a good thing. Sound and visuals 
 are not as crisp on PS3... but like I said the price came down and justifies the buy even more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I think that this APF 2K8 is not what i expected. i thought it was gonna be a Madden like game, 
 wrong it was a crappy poorly done game. the grahics didnt compare to Madden or any of the others 
 2k games that they've made.
  I just bought it and trust me it was a waste of money, and here how it is,
  
  1. the controls 
 are like WTF!? x=sprint and ^=truck, you serious!?
  2. I think the gameplay just sucks it takes forever for the QB to pass the ball ya press and in 
 maybe 2 or 3 seconds he'll pass it.
  3. wow the amount of players is good but no Jim taylor, oh yeah just leave out the guy who scored 
 the first touchdown inSuperBowl HISTORY!
  4. oh yeah and think they also left out Joe Namath who was the mvp in SuperBowl lll, and who also 
 won it too.
  5. lots of missing players from the history of NFL.
  
  So hint dont buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I will tell you why. Madden is what Everyone plays, little sheepeople follow the butcher to the 
 Slater house, and thus they come out smelling like the same old crappie meat. Madden is the same 
 game is it was back in 2000,2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and now 2008. Madden was 
 great when it came out in 2000-2002. After that there was no point in buying the same game, over 
 and over again. My brother and I always have a score fest in Madden because Defense is lacking 
 in Madden. My players never react to whats going on. The Madden Radio feature SUCKS, and annoys 
 the hell out of me. The only reason why everyone likes Madden is because 99% of the people have 
 only played Madden and has tried nothing new, and they never will. I feel sorry for them, because 
 now the Madden Killer has come, and they will never play it, and continue to sing the praises of 
 a game that is the same as it was in 2003. As for the people that has played Madden than played 
 this game, they only hate it because their friends will never play it. Thus they still have to 
 play Madden, so they don't give APF a fair run. They Rent it, and ditch it. Now to the game.
  
  The graphics could be better, I will agree with that. However, on Madden the players look stiff, 
 and don't move well at all. APF has great motion animations, and they don't look like they have 
 a Stick up there Ass while running. Madden loses to APF on Player Animation. The Graphics for both 
 games are the same, with Madden slightly winning.
  
  APF plays well all together with some problems. I do find that not being able to set a person to 
 watch the QB rather annoying. Because if you do the right play the QB can run all over you regardless 
 of being slow as hell. Madden does have a QB spy, however, I still find the same problem. This 
 can be fixed however, by controlling your own person, and watching the QB if you know the person 
 your playing against tries to run allot with the QB. This works well for Both games. The Defense 
 suffers greatly in Madden, ALWAYS allowing the BIG throw to be thrown against you. I have done 
 so many D-fence's to try and stop it this in Madden, but never works. APF allows me to put a free 
 Defender on a receiver that I feel my opponent is going too. Thus cuts the scoring in half, and 
 allows for a more realistic Football game. So with game play APF RULES!!!
  
  Everything about APF beats Madden, Game Play, and The commentary even thou some old things are 
 rehashed. It still does not bother me as much as the Radio in Madden. If youre a Madden fan, give 
 APF a REAL try, and watch your ways change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JhaiCimar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I will say this first... I have been a Maddenite for a loooooooooong time. There, that's out 
 of the way. Now I can say that, I've played and owned some VC football games too. I decided to 
 buy NFL 2K3 for the PS2 along with Madden so that I could see what the hype was about. Two totally 
 different games. But Madden swayed me that year. Two years later, it was ESPN NFL 2K5, and that 
 year I eschewed Madden to go with the $20 experience. I returned it though, and bought Madden again. 
 But this year, well... let's say that Madden has gotten old and stale, whereas APF 2K8 has interested 
 me in the many combinations of players you can make. Ever dreamed of having Joe Montana throw the 
 ball to Andre Reed? Or how about Bill Curry blocking for Barry Sanders? Or Lem Barney and Solomon 
 Wilcots in the defensive backfield? You can!! But don't expect to do more than one season. There 
 is no dynasty/franchise mode... no in season trades... no stadium creation mode... and you are only 
 allowed so many gold, silver and bronze legends on your team. Now the graphics, well, they're not 
 the best, admittedly. I hoped for more that a re-tread of the old NFL 2K5. Maybe an upgrade was 
 too much to hope for since it was a return the the field for VC. I do have an HDTV with HDMI cable 
 hooked up, so it does look better than on a standard TV, but it definitely is missing that pop.
 
  
  The audio too could have used more. Many lines were re-used from the other games, but they also 
 added some in that were pleasantly surprising to hear.
  
  Control is solid, but not tight. I have had many moments when rushing the passer where my guy, 
 even though I took the right line to the QB only to watch my DE run off in the other direction. 
 On offense, rushing is good until your RB launches himself in the air when no one is around. I've 
 never seen that happen in real life, and don't expect it in a game either. Passing the ball works 
 well, but don't expect to complete passes over the middle unless your WR is completely by himself.
 
  
  But for all the bad, the good is that it's a change of pace. It's fun, as long as you can overlook 
 these few hiccups, of which I believe the developers will overcome next year. But for this year, 
 it's still a good game that will keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I thought it was interesting but after playing this game over and 
 over I simply can't stand this game. Quite frankly the game play is not as crisp as Madden, there 
 are times when I am trying to pass with a heavy rush coming towards my quarterback and sometimes 
 my quarterback will not throw the ball no matter how frantically I am hitting the button to pass, 
 sometimes the quarterback is ducking when I am trying to scramble which usually equates to a sack. 
 They also need to go ahead and have a full draft 11 players are not gonna cut it.
  
  This game has a lot of potential but not this year, hopefully they get the bugs out and perfect 
 it next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  After EA inked a five year deal locking up the NFL license back in 2004, Visual Concepts was shunned 
 from anything that had to do with the NFL. Take-Two then reacted by saying it was a tremendous 
 disservice to the consumers. And rightly so, as now EA would be the only company allowed to make 
 a realistic football sim, thus taking away the gamer's freedom of choice. But while Visual Concepts 
 was on their three year hiatus, they came up with a wonderful idea that proves you dont need an 
 NFL license to make a great football game. All Pro Football 2K8 brings back the classic style of 
 play that gamers have come to love from 2K football games. All of the gang tackles, touchdown celebrations, 
 player animations, and crowd reactions are back and better than ever. But what about the players 
 and teams you ask? Well theyve got that covered too I assure you. With over 240 classic hall of 
 fame players of the past, this title proves to be a force to be reckoned with. Players from the 
 likes of Dan Marino, John Elway, Jerry Rice, and Barry Sanders just to name a few. If you can think 
 of a classic NFL hall of famer, chances are hes in this game. Which is great, because who wouldnt 
 want to sling a bomb off the arm of Dan Marino down the field only for it to find its way into 
 the soft hands of Jerry Rice? Is there really anyone out there who wouldnt jump at the chance 
 of reenacting some of John Elways classic fourth quarter come backs? Trust me on this one, the 
 lack of current teams or players is in the back of your mind when youre breaking tackles and racking 
 up some serious yards with Barry Sanders. Everyone has their own favorite, their own legend, or 
 their own hero. And with All Pro Football 2K8 Im sure youll have plenty of fun with whoever that 
 player may be.
  
  When you pop the disc into your console, the first thing it brings you to is the player select 
 screen. This is where you will completely create and customize every aspect of your team. You start 
 out by picking your two gold tier players, than your three silver ones, and lastly your six bronze 
 players. Each position has at least one player in each tier, covering all of the greats from years 
 past. Once you pick those eleven players, it takes you to the fill roster screen. The objective 
 here is to let the game know what type of players you want filling out the rest of your team. Do 
 you want pass or run blocking offensive lineman? How about some pass rushing defensive lineman? 
 Or maybe some safeties that hang back to help out on the deep ball? The choice is yours. Once done 
 here, you are then able to pick your teams logo, name, stadium, city, and uniforms. The customization 
 is endless as you have thousands of combinations to choose from. It could take you at least a half 
 an hour deciding on what fits best for you, but thats what Visual Concepts wants. Delve, dig deeper, 
 and use strategy to create a team that can easily dominate your opponents.
  
  Once all of that is done, you are taken to a team select screen for a game, and this actually doubles 
 as All Pro Football 2K8s main menu. It definitely takes some time getting used to, but once you 
 grasp the concept it turns out to be one of the more innovative menus in sports games today. You 
 push the right thumb stick to the right and the menu slides out, while pushing it back left will 
 obviously send it back. From here you can choose quick game, teams, season, practice, options, 
 features, or online. Most of these are pretty self explanatory, while features has some things 
 of note. You have a feature called 2K Reelmaker, which allows you to edit saved replays and upload 
 them onto the 2K Network to share with everyone. This sounds like an amazing idea, but you have 
 to purchase the editing software off of the Xbox Live Marketplace or PlayStation Store. So thats 
 a bummer. From the features menu you can also select V. I. P which shows you all of your cumulative 
 stats across all games played, as well as show you your tendencies depending on how you play. This 
 can come in handy if youre looking for a way to change your game plan. The one last thing in the 
 features menu is celebration maker. This lets you assign celebrations to four buttons so that when 
 you do something miraculous on the field, you make sure everyone else knows it. So once you get 
 through all of that, its time to play ball.
  
  If theres one thing that Visual Concepts knows how to do, its give the player a great experience 
 while playing their products. The gameplay, as you would expect, is magnificent. The players move 
 so fluidly and just seem so real. Each player plays different depending on what they were like 
 in real life. They really got it down to the tee as Ive seen some things that players do that 
 I never thought they could capture. For example; in real life when Dan Marino would get to the 
 end of his drop back, he would dip the ball a little bit while looking for receivers and that is 
 totally in the game. The new dynamic sideline is interesting as well. Now when balls fly into the 
 sidelines bench players will catch them instead of just stand there, and if someone runs out of 
 bounds the players will try and slow him down or just get out of his way depending on which side 
 you fly into. Overall I was shocked at the realism that brought into this game, and it was really 
 a joy to play.
  
  This visuals in All Pro Football 2K8 arent stunning, but they arent bad either. The graphics 
 seem dated at times, and some of the player models dont exactly resemble the person they are portraying 
 very well, but they arent disgusting. All of the different player animations were a sight for 
 sore eyes however. You can really tell that youre playing a 2K football game, and thats a great 
 feeling. The way the players move and fight for the ball is fantastic. Not only are the player 
 animations good, but the crowed looks outstanding as well. A lot of the stadiums feature something 
 that has to do with the team you chose. Say you chose the Sharks, the default stadium is Amity 
 Stadium. This place has a huge, and I mean huge, shark at one end of the field. After every home 
 touchdown the shark goes crazy and sprays water everywhere, and this really gives you a sense of 
 the over the top nature that Visual Concepts brought into this game, and it really is quite refreshing.
 
  
  Dan Stevens and Peter OKeefe are back again as the announcers for All Pro Football 2K8 and what 
 a treat it is. They really do a great job presenting the game to the player, as well as crack a 
 few witty jokes every once in a while. Some of the voice tracks have been brought back from past 
 games, but its been three long years so Im not complaining. They conduct a nice recap at the 
 end of each half, and all in all do a great job commenting on the game. The stadium noise is filled 
 with excitement, and the crowed seems to know whats going on. They cheer when they need to cheer, 
 they boo when they need to boo, and they even shout chants and phrases to pump up their teams 
 legends. While the voice acting for the players is a little more than a bit off, the on the field 
 sounds are phenomenal. Each hit sounds earth shattering, and the quarterbacks couldnt sound more 
 annoyed by the referees bad calls. There is even a Rush song on the soundtrack, albeit a remix 
 but its still Rush. The other songs on the soundtrack arent bad either, and just feel right for 
 football.
  
  Although this game has some incredible gameplay and a tremendously deep customization feature, 
 it lacks severely in any real depth. The season mode is obviously only one season long, and there 
 really isnt much else to do offline. Thankfully the online play is outstanding, and this could 
 set a new bar for online sports games in the future. The teams you create offline are the ones 
 you play as online, so this brings a whole new element of strategy into the fold. You have your 
 basic lobby system as well as quick play, leagues, and tournaments. The way the leagues work is 
 just like the offline season mode, except youre playing against real people of course. You get 
 all of the features of the season mode like trades, scouting reports, league leaders, and a playoff 
 ending with a champion. Players can scout you by using your 2K player card, which works much like 
 the V. I. P. system offline and tracks all of your stats and tendencies across every game played 
 online. Users can also trade created teams by using the team code provided for you in the game. 
 You can give these codes to friends and they can input them to unlock the team you created and 
 use it as they please. There is also a 2K ticker that is implemented in the entire game. Once you 
 activate it with the push of a button, it will always be there. Online or off, as long as your 
 console is connected to the internet, it will keep you up to date on everything in the world of 
 sports. All of this helps to add to a pretty shallow game as a whole, and provides some great online 
 experiences to boot.
  
  So without an NFL license, Visual Concepts has created something that any fan of the game of football 
 can enjoy. Even if youre too young to remember any of these classic players, just knowing that 
 youre playing as some of the greatest men to ever put on cleats can send shivers down your spine. 
 With all of the hall of famers aside, the return of that classic 2K style of play combined with 
 an exceptional online component is enough to warrant at least a rent, if not a buy. Even with its 
 shortcomings Visual Concepts definitely brings back the look, the feel, and the atmosphere that 
 all football games should have. The tagline doesnt lie, All Pro Football 2K8 is without a doubt 
 football resurrected.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moondoggey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  if it didnt have online play i whould have felt dispointed with the whoule single player mode i 
 was really hopeing for some more betterr game play in the single pay game i guss 2k8 was not that 
 big of a deal to the people at sk sports if 2k8 was gonna be the big hit i new it can be they should 
 have spent more time inproveing the game and not just make a remixe of 2k5 it felted very much 
 the same way maybe in there game they will work harder on it and make a new better game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I like this game because of the originality it brings to the market. It doesn't have the best graphics 
 but the stadiums are very nice and most of the players faces as well. I like the addition of player 
 skills instead of the typical point system. This makes it easier to decide if you want to have 
 a power running game or a finesse running game. Also decides if you want to be pass happy or balanced. 
 The passing mechanic was difficult to get used to. The problem I have with this game is that quarterbacks 
 who are good on the run like Montana and Cunningham, still can't throw well unless their feet are 
 planted. It would seem they wouldn't be as affected by this. I can't wait until next years version 
 or whenever it comes out. Hopefully all these kinks will be worked out and not to mention new additions. 
 2k sports has always been great about this type of stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimpotter03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Other than the missing NFL license the game is a great value. It is evident why Madden tried to 
 squash the 2k series. If you're looking for a Football game that puts you on the edge of your seat 
 this is your game. I have owned every Madden release since it inception and think they are going 
 way out of there way to make it glitzy instead of realistic, plus the fact they aim there main 
 game at the PS2 while 2k wants the PS3 customer. Under the present times it is important for a 
 gamer to get a bang for his buck and All Pro has delivered a game which makes you feel good about 
 the $60 you just dropped on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akuma2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is what every football gamer has been waitng for, superb gameplay and presentation, gameplay 
 physics that's done correctly (no sliding or freezing of players) , the commentary is cool and the 
 sound is even better with the 2K beats feature that lets you pick your favorite soundtrack songs 
 to listen to while your playing the game. Playing with your favorite legend players is totally 
 addicting, but building your own team with all the players you grew up watching is even more addicting 
 not to mention taking your created player online with your created team and the total customization 
 of your team, stadium etc... The A. I. is so smart its scary, there are no high scoring games in 
 APF2K8' like there is in Madden because the matches are chess matches so to speak because the wrong 
 formation or timing of a move can result in a touchdown for you or your opponent so you have to 
 be careful in the plays you pick and not become predictable. You can't drop back 20 yards and throw 
 a bomb for a td like you can in madden (have to make sure your qb's feet is planted before throwing 
 the ball) , try it if you want to and your qb will be eating dirt and his pass will be picked off 
 and taken back for a td. The graphics are pretty good, but i'm sure they'll be even better next 
 year seeing that this is 2K's first year on with the ps3 hardware. The kicking game takes some 
 practice but after you master it, you can really turn the tide of game with a gold or silver FG 
 kicker when the game's on the line.
  
  Even without a franchise mode the game's replay value is thru the roof because of all the combinations 
 of teams you can create to make the ultimate team of your dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billabongdong1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  If it werent for losing the NFL license to EA a number of years ago, the 2K football franchise 
 would have been head and shoulders above the competition by now... wait, it already is. If you've 
 played Madden 07 for the PS3 or Xbox360, then you are no doubt aware of how horrible the gameplay 
 mechanics are, how shallow the options are, and how badly the licenses for NFL and ESPN are going 
 to waste.
  
  This game, while lacking current NFL teams and players, manages to still make the teams and players 
 worth playing as. Unlike the Arena Football game, where you have no clue who is who and star power 
 is non-existent, the presence of NFL hall of famers and not quite hall of fame stars is almost 
 more enjoyable than playing with the real players of today. Imagine Gale Sayers in the backfield 
 behind Steve Young, with Andre Reed going out for passes, or The Fridge , Dick Butkus, and Too 
 Tall Jones all coming at you on D. The possibilities are endless.
  
  Not to mention the gameplay is much more realistic than the recent incarnation of the Madden game. 
 While the running game could use a little tweaking, the game as a whole never feels as clumsy as 
 next-gen Madden. People may say, Well last years Madden was the first on the new consoles, its 
 going to get better. Remember, this is not only the first football game for the 2K guys on the 
 next-gen consoles, its also their first in 3 years, and its still better than Madden.
  
  Play selection is one thing thats always been great about the 2K franchise. When on defense, you 
 select a formation, whether 4-3, 4-4, Bear, etc. Then you select what the linemen do, followed 
 by what the secondary does. This gives you much more freedom than the preset plays of Madden. Selecting 
 audibles coudn't be easier, you press a button, it brings up your plays. You pick one of them, 
 you run your play. Done and done.
  
  The replays are amazing as well. But, come on, every game has replay features now-a-days, what 
 makes these so special? The Halftime report and end of game report are what make the replays great. 
 During the halftime report, the commentator perfectly summarizes the half while the highlights 
 from the previous half are shown. This is really fun to add some more trash talk to that insanely 
 long run from earlier or those two gut wrenching interceptions.
  
  EA has gotten comfortable in the top spot because they don't have any NFL competition, but you 
 know what, here comes the number one contender, and it's not even an NFL game. Now we just have 
 to wait for EA's ridiculously long contract with the NFL to expire...
  
  and oh yeah, Rush on the soundtrack? Niiiice. I couldn't take much more of the crap Madden's been 
 shipping with (except for the NFL Films music, which is always classic) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobportera
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Any game where you could have Jerry Rice , and Dick Butkus on the same team is great. My Qb was 
 Ken Stabler. This was a very fun game to play. I didn't play 2k5, so I'm not sure what everyone 
 was talking about. This game give players of Madden another game to play. Why can't we like both 
 games. Madden was always the the king of football, and maybe still is. i will be getting Madden 
 08, and looking forword to it. This year I'll have to good football games to play and enjoy. This 
 game you pick 2 gold 3 silver and 6 bronze players. Their so many good gold players it hard to 
 chose from. I wanted to have more gold player on my team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  The game has all the cool aspects you would want but just doesn't seem to be very good. Being able 
 to play gridiron greats seems great, but who wants to see Hall of Fame players that look 70 playing 
 football? The graphics are not next-gen. They seem pretty dated. The game play is terrible and 
 the play calling interface needs improvement. The announcers sound so robotic. The remix of Rush 
 songs doesn't not make this game feel nostalgic either. I dont know how I could give this game 
 more than a 2 rating. Although I think Madden is getting a little stale, it still is way better 
 than this game. I believe Tecmo Bowl needs to be revived. That game had excellent replay value 
 and didnt seem to get old, even though the graphics were blobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasseur7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game reminds me of what has been missing in the football genre for the past two years. 
 FUN! When I first heard of this game being released with over 240 all pro/hall of fame legends 
 I was like, SWEET!!, but with no NFL license I wasnt sure how I would respond to playing the game. 
 Now that I have taken the plunge I can safely say that you forget all about which team your playing, 
 because it has become YOUR TEAM. One thing that I really like is how much more personal you feel 
 about making your own team using the familiar legendary names but customizing the uniforms/helmets 
 style and colors. There are tons of customization options. Making my first team by hand picking 
 legends and customizing my uniforms made me immediately want to go and play against someone online 
 and put a whoopin on them to test out how I did assembling my team. That is really a cool feeling 
 similar to some racers you play online where you can buy any car, upgrade your parts, paint and 
 decal it with vinyls. It just feels like yours so you get all the braggin rights when you OWN the 
 other player.
  
  As far as the game play, it is really spot on. The reaction to the controls is excellent. This 
 is the only football game I have played that is fun to play on both sides of the ball. The defense 
 is totally in your control with the play picking options as well as assigning defenders and audibles. 
 Great!!
  
  There is no franchise mode, but I am not really sure what the rationale for having one would be 
 seeing how these are all custom teams. I can never invest the time to play too deep into franchise 
 mode anyway so its not a big deal. Maybe a season or two in Madden is all I can really muster. 
 Most of my football is played on line and that is where this game shines.
  
  If you are someone who likes playing online then you will love this game. It is a simulation of 
 football so don't expect Blitz style arcade play here. You have to know your stuff to be good, 
 but there are so may settings you can use to tune the playing speed and difficulty that anyone 
 should be able to enjoy this game no matter how good they are technically.
  
  Finally there are awards, trophies and acheivements to unlock although I dont have many completed 
 yet.
  
  Overall, I would highly recommend this game. Great game play, graphics and personalization options. 
 The presentation is heads above the competition and this game is plain fun. It doesn't get boring. 
 If your person that only plays by himself then this game may not be the best because of the lack 
 of franchise. This game is really intended for those who want to play others either in an online 
 league or in the same room.
  
  Great job 2K Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  2k is back? YES!!! That should of been my reaction after playing this game. In reality though my 
 reaction is quite different. From the begging of this game till you decide to throw this game out, 
 your hopes and dreams of a Madden contender will be dashed.
  
  You start by making your team and the reason I played this game. The Legends..... but there's a 
 catch. Only 11 legends per team. I'm guessing they did because there weren't enough legends for 
 8 - 10 teams to create a full, starting roster. I find it hard to believe that there weren't enough 
 legends to do this, but I'm guessing that's the case, or there were licensing problems. Either 
 case, it's a dissapointment.
  
  Then you start creating your team right out of the gate. Creating your team is actually not bad. 
 There are a lot of good options for helmets, shoes, jerseys, etc. My only problem with the process 
 is editing your team colors. The first few colors are obvious for what they're changing. Some of 
 the other colors however seem to not make any difference when you change them.
  
  Then you are thrown right into setting up a game. I start playing a game that looks graphically 
 worse than Madden 2002. I'm not asking for state of the art, but I want at least something better 
 than any 2004 sports game. Especially with the capabilities that the 360 and the PS3 have. The 
 voice overs is a fresh change that is enjoyable. It can get a little annoying at times, but it's 
 still a good idea. The AI, blocking, and controls are all done quite well. Those are the only good 
 things I have to say about this game. Now for the negative.
  
  Other than the grapics, the kicking system stinks, the camera angles for kick returns and punt 
 returns are slow, throwing the ball seems to have a delay from when you push the button, and all 
 of the menu screens look like they've been just thrown together with no care to it. Also, why no 
 main menu? Maybe I want to play a season. Maybe I want to create a character. But once you finally 
 play these other modes, you realize that they are either put together poorly, or just like a normal 
 game. Also, why do some of the teams in this game have more legends or less legens than other teams?
 
  
  Does APF 2K8 bring some good ideas to the table? Yes. But they do a lot more wrong things in this 
 game than good. With such a good idea brought into a football series, APF 2K8 falls flat in most 
 areas. This series has a looong way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GKinnel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Pros\-/
  
  * Well, the graphics aren't great, they aren't bad either. You can recognize the player's faces 
 pretty easily. The stadiums looks amazing and very original. Their attention to detail to the small 
 things makes this game stand out. Go to an instant replay, and you can zoom in on the back of the 
 helmet and you can see the Warning label on it. Rain drops bouncing off the helmet. Great visuals.
 
  
  *The gameplay is what makes this game great. All the moves are life-like, VERY realistic. 2k went 
 with what worked, they didn't sacrifice gameplay for graphics. And seeing players actually move 
 their legs like they're RUNNIN', not joggin'! Great stuff. QBs actually takin' that extra step 
 to throw the deep ball. No passing across your chest, or off your backfoot... It won't make it. 
 Just like real life. *The gang-tackles are very accurate, I'd say 95% accurate of real life. It's 
 great how they let you pile on the opposing player.
  
  *The side line catches are amazing. I cant tell you how many times you'll love to throw to Rice 
 on the sideline to see what kind of catch he'll make for you to save on your replays, lol.
  
  *The deep ball is just down right pretty.
  
  *You'll love to see the running backs actually 
 make cuts in and out the trenches, not jus runnin' straight up. These guys will break down, look 
 at their defender, and cut left of right, without you even hittin' the juke button.
  
  *Big hits! Hits are very realistic, you don't get tackled or tackle someone and have his momentum 
 fall akwardly most of the time. *Their create-a-team mode is pretty good.
  
  *They have more legends then you could believe. *Their generic players aren't crappy players. They 
 come through for you as well, so you don't always have to depend on your legends.
  
  *Online is VERY competitive. And being able to scout out your opponent is always good. Its something 
 about putting YOUR team against HIS that brings out the best in competition.
  
  *You can edit your play book and give your playbook a HUGE arsenal of plays. HUGE. Cons\-/
  
 
  *If you worry about things like how the menu looks, then you won't like this one. *Its missing 
 those extra modes, like franchise, and running back mini-games n such. Maybe it'll become downloadable 
 content?
  
  *To many dropped balls. I can't remember if the previous 2k Football games had this problem, but 
 I know this one does. I mean, it's hard to believe Jerry Rice missed a wide open post rout in the 
 endzone...
  
  *The kicking system is horrible. They tried way to hard to be original. WAY to hard. You'll never 
 get the kicking down pact.
  
  *Sometimes your QB will take more steps than he needs to, and he will either get sacked, or throw 
 the ball to late. The best way to get the quickest response for your QB is to be comfortable and 
 stand.
  
  *Trying to defend against the pass is just a tad big akward. For some reason, sometimes your player 
 will continue to strafe / backpedal when it's time for him to break out and run. But you can turn 
 auto-strafe off, but you'll still run into this problem every now n again if you strafe on your 
 own.
  
  *They have alot of legends, but they're still missing alot. (Lawrence Taylor, Deion Sanders, Tim 
 Brown, ect.) But remember, they have to license these guys and pay them, so it's not easy at it 
 seems. They can't just stick their name on there. So wait till the next game, there will be more 
 players.
  
  *And of course... No NFL teams.......... Yea, 'nuff said there.
  
  VS Next-Gen EA Football : Graphics Winner = EA Gameplay Winner = 2k Sports
  Extra Modes Winner 
 = EA
  Online Experience Winner = 2k Sports
  
  But what's the most important thing about a football sim? Wouldn't it be gameplay? And I've never 
 been the 2k guy, I was always the Madden guy. But, during this gen, so far, gameplay belongs to 
 2k, and that's a FACT. You don't get flustrated by gameplay flaws that are by the designers. If 
 2k still had their NFL license, EA would be in serious TROUBLE with their current gameplay flaws.
 
  
  All-in-All, if you just want the best football experience, you would be better of playing this 
 game. It has the least gameplay flaws. And you won't find yourself flustrated at really anything 
 but the kicking system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellythapimp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  pretty good graphics, okay gameplay, okay sound.. when u play 4 a while u'll start hearin cracklin 
 sounds and stuff, theres only like 3 or 4  online. but im still 
 gonna like this game more than madden just because you get 2 make a custom team and show everybody 
 online that ur teams tha best. ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 
 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3
 
  ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was a very good idea. You can have Joe Montana and Marcus Allen in the backfield. That's 
 awesome! The problem is that they play like every other video game football player. Why have these 
 legends if you can't do legendary things with them? Plus there is no player profile, career stats 
 or highlights.
  It also limits the amount of gold level players you can have so you end up having to chose between 
 great players and players you've never heard of or have no business being in this game. Andre Reed? 
 This is really a horrible game and offers nothing different from Madden or even Tecmo Bowl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfuchaos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first put this game in my PS3 I mmediately felt that coming back home feeling. I like so 
 many others always preferred the 2K brand of football and unfortunately with EA so greedily hording 
 the NFL licenses for the last few and next few years, this is where we are! The thing is even without 
 the real team, players or stadiums, APF2K8 really shines! With over 200 true NFL Legends like Emmitt 
 Smith, Joe Montana, Jerry Rice, too tall Jones and Ronnie Lott you are able to build a team around 
 10 of these legendary players. You start out by choosing two Gold tier players, followed by 3 Silver 
 tier players and finally five bronze tier players. The rest of your roster is filled out by computer 
 generated whoevers. You can then chooseyour team city, logo and stadium. Following that you can 
 totally customize your uniform colors and emblems. This really keeps the game fresh and interesting.
 
  
  The only downside to APF 2K8 eyond the obvious lack of any NFL license is the fact that there is 
 no Franchise mode and the graphics while nice are not exactly pushing the 360 or PS3. Other than 
 that, this game is a blast to play and by next season with some tweaks here and there should be 
 giving Madden a real run for its money even without the NFL backing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJKrayz_basic
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  i give this game a 7 on the PS3.. it's actually a little higher than i wanted to rate it.. having 
 given this game some play time as a rental, i'm not so impressed.. lack of franchise definitely 
 hurts.. thats always one of the key points in my choosing any sports titles.. the controls are 
 all right.. they're pretty much how i expect.. the gameplay feels fairly smooth and easy to get 
 into.. it wasn't hard to figure out how to play this game.. have played past 2K sports titles, 
 as well as Madden.. i am not impressed with the rosters tho.. i didn't see a lot of the former 
 greats.. maybe guys like Mike Singletary are unlockables, i dunno.. but they werent among the selectables 
 from what i could see in the initial team set-ups.. maybe i missed them.. i dunno.. the graphics 
 are all right.. just not what id expect out of the 'next-gen' machines.. (i have the PS3) .. like 
 the baseball games, i've seen some issues with players going thru other players or one such player 
 moved another player completely upon contact.. didn't look natural at all.. and the facial animations 
 are drab.. Barry Sanders never celebrated on touchdown runs yet during one such run, he did just 
 that.. this could be a solid game.. just needs more work.. and a franchise mode of some sort.. 
 tho its great playing with guys like Sanders and Rice and past greats.. just need a more varied 
 selection of players.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the obvious out of the way, for all of the hardcore Maddeneer extremisis: THERE ARE NO 
 CURRENT NFL PLAYERS IN THIS GAME, BECAUSE THIS IS NOT THE NFL!! Now that statement's out of the 
 way, let's begin . . .
  
  APF 2K8 immediately reminds you of its famous older brother, in terms of its on-field beauty (well, 
 when you can FINALLY take to the field) . The gameplay feels very familiar to NFL 2K5, &amp; looks 
 familiar to 2K5. For those are familiar, &amp; fell in love with the phenomenal gameplay, graphics, 
 presentation, &amp; stylings of NFL 2K5, the mere thought &amp; initial feel of tis game will make 
 you salivate. The on-field character models are STILL better than the upcoming Madden 08. The gameplay 
 still feels the most realistic of all of the existing football games. For those that are fanatics 
 of the sport, its gameplay is fantastic. The halftime show is pretty much the same, minus ESPN's 
 Boomer. I can easily live with that. Not that Boomer wasn't a lovely addition to the 2K5 game; 
 but, the circumstances are quite understandable. The audio commentary is great, &amp; nowhere near 
 as repetitive as Madden. However, there are plenty of vocal hiccups where it's concerned (ex. - 
 when comin' to the line, the announcer hits the 2nd and . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 yards to go 
 . . .) . That becomes extremely annoying after a while.
  
  The game engine IS the 2K5 engine. Hands down, no debate. That's a blessing AND a curse. For, as 
 gorgeuos as the game is while playing it, the differences from that same engine, albeit somewhat 
 minor, when there are so many small things, become too loud to ignore. For those of us that could 
 NOT WAIT 'til this game dropped, we wanted the plug &amp; play factor to exist, just to get a feel 
 for this game; allowing time to GO BACK &amp; customize at our leisure. Well, plug &amp; play does 
 NOT exist here. You're literally FORCED to create a team. THAT FORCED team will determine your 
 feelings on your experience with APF 2K8. At times, this game feels like it was months in the making, 
 instead of years. A major example of that, is the kicking schematics. Plain &amp; simple: THEY 
 SUCK!! Although a noble gesture to try to create the experience of becoming a kicker, I just don't 
 have that desire. The motion movement is ONLY successful on 2K basketball games, at the free throw 
 line. On this game, you barely make the extra point. So, field goal kicking is next to nothing. 
 They truly need to change that for the next edition of this game. There is no more camera-panning 
 when at the line of scrimmage. That would bother me, if the entire field was in sight, when you 
 pan the camera back. This is something they removed from the 2K5 engine. PUT IT BACK!!.
  
  On the defensive side of the ball, you can no longer shift/move the defensive line. That was also 
 removed from the 2K5 engine. PUT IT BACK!! For as good as the graphics are, they did not include 
 a first-person version of the gameplay. This was also removed from the 2K5 engine. That was an 
 extremely stupid move, considering the fact that you no longer have the league access to your game, 
 &amp; the only things that you have goin' on for your game IS gameplay &amp; graphics. PUT IT BACK, 
 &amp; I DEDUCTED AN ENTIRE POINT FOR SUCH STUPIDITY!!! Since you're forced to create a team long 
 before you can take the field, you're also forced to notice that most of the players look more 
 like boxers AFTER the fight that they lost!! It seems like all of the players are high! LOL I'm 
 glad they don't look that way on the field. I'm not bent out of shape about the lack of a 'franchise' 
 mode, because of the nature of the game. However, I do feel that Sega/VC/2K Sports have stripped 
 this game FROM its essence. It feels like they came up with this concept for the game a few months 
 ago, as opposed to a few years in the making. With me being a PS3 owner, I feel as though 2K didn't 
 take full advantage of the system's alleged capabilities. To be honest, very few games have, thus 
 far. 1 thing that I'll NEVER be able to get beyond, is the fact that multiple people can have THE 
 SAME NUMBER ON THE FIELD!!! As an example, I have William Perry on my D-Line. On the generic side 
 of the line, there's also a #72. When tryin' to figure out who was actually tired, that became 
 a huge problem. There should be something in the program to maintain the integrity of ANY sport 
 &amp; not allowing this mishap to take place. So, if you get Billy Sims (great runner) AND Barry 
 Sanders (both ex-Lions) , THEY'RE BOTH GOING TO HAVE THE SAME NUMBER!!! Something has to give, &amp; 
 this MUST be fixed by the next game!! Otherwise, that will severly compromise the integrity of 
 the game. For those that consider the generic players to be straight fodder, think again. Due to 
 the calibur of players they're takin' the field with, they have indeed been trumped. I scored my 
 1st touchdown with a reggie (translation: generic) player, before my superstars have actually scored. 
 They're somewhat trumped up, which is kinda hard to accept for a no-name player. Overall, APF 2K8 
 is just an average experience/alternative to Madden; which, in itself, is a huge disappointment, 
 due to the legacy its younger brother (ESPN NFL 2K5) . I would NOT be in a rush to stock away the 
 NFL 2K5 as of yet. Maybe in another year or 2; depending on how soon/quickly Sega/VC/2K Sports 
 correct their problems. I REALLY HOPE THEY START READING THESE THINGS, IN ORDER TO KNOW WHAT WE 
 THINK &amp; WHAT WE WANT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acepope22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Are you ready for some football? This game is all about fun. You make your team and customize your 
 uniforms ( my teams looks identical to the Patriots) the old school guys are great and fun to play 
 as. I like the gameplay it has always been solid in this series and this one is no different. I 
 enjoy the audio especially this time around. The Playstation 3 version has DTS surround and this 
 is not mentioned on the packaging. That's one advantage to Blue-Ray. I think the graphics are ok 
 but not great but the solid A. I. makes this game a nice fun gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicilian4391
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Well i rented this game thinking okay 2k sports is going to blow madeen out of the water with there 
 new fottball game. NOPE.... madden 2006 is better then this game. The graphics are bad... really 
 really bad. The gameplay is alright. The created team look like they built them in madden. I was 
 really disappointed in this game. I would not ever buy this game. I wait for Madden 2008. I really 
 had though that they were going to realease a good football game but this is everything but that
 
  
  Dont waste your money on this game..... MADDEN IS STILL THE FOOTBALL GOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natedawg219
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is the newest football game from 2k. Which means that its going to have very realistic 
 gameplay nad awesome presentations. There are millions of tackling animations and catching ones 
 too. Plus, I Madden u have to time it just right to pull of a gang tackle but in this game, u can 
 enter the tackle anytime. Some people think the running is too slow but, come on, do u ever see 
 jamal lewis run for 50 yards everytime like in madden? No. In this, the gains are realistic like 
 10 or 11 yards if u break a tackle or two on the inside. With Halftime and Postgame shows actual 
 footage is shown from what u did. The customization is the deepest ive ever seen in a game, from 
 logo colors, stripes on the jersey, wristbands.... it has it all. The stadiums are liveley and the 
 sidline A. I. is the best in any football game. There is also some cool Blitz Evade things which 
 u activate by moving the right stick in any direction to avoid the tackle.
  
  Now lets get to some bad things...
  
  The Power running is pretty easy to do compared to the 
 eluseve running beacause the controls are hard to master. With no highlight stick like in madden, the 
 juke buttons go to L and R (L2 and R2) . Ultimately, the controls are a little questionable. Also 
 its hard to complete passes while on the run or when your not set in the pocket (unless your john 
 elway or randall cunningham) . And there is no Franchise mode which is upsetting.
  
  But in the end, The ultimate reason to buy this game is beacause u can play as legends and there 
 is just no other game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjlowe1111
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game was a big disappointment.. You can dive 6 yards and tackle someone.. Players run like robots 
 and the passing is unrealistic. I once made a pass to Rice from about 30 yards and when Young through 
 the ball which looks just like Unitas, Elway, Montana Dan Marino all look similiar but anyway: 
 Rice and the defender just stood there and waited for the rainbow of a pass and the cornerback 
 didnt try to delfect the ball or nothing.. Let Rice just jump up and catch it in the endzone. Very 
 unrealistic and the A. I was a real joke on that play. That summed up a bunch for me on this game 
 is pretty much garbage. Alot of players look a like also. I didnt care for that. Same face just 
 a different color tone.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memnock
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I was a HUGE, I mean HUGE fan of ESPN NFL 2k5, so my expectations were high with this one.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Playing APF was almost exactly like playing ESPN NFL 2k5. Smooth, elegant, 
 and overall enjoyable. There were a few subtle, but noticeable differences in the game. Passing 
 the ball took a little getting used to. No more 15 yard drop backs that result in a completion. 
 The game forces you to play realistically and either stay in the pocket or move around the defenders 
 to get a throw off. This is good in that the cheese plays of old are gone, but like I said, it 
 takes some getting used to. When you drop back to far, it's simply not possible to throw the ball, 
 you must move closer to your pocket. The running game seemed tighter. Both blockers and defensive 
 linemen react better to your moves.
  
  The most noticeable difference was with the superstars. The game, as we all know by now, features 
 a slew of NFL Legends. You start off by picking two gold caliber legends such as Jerry Rice, Joe 
 Montana, Barry Sanders, Deacon Jones, etc. You go on to pick four silver caliber legends such as 
 Randle Cunningham, Andre Reed, etc. Finally you pick 6 bronze caliber legends such as Bernie Kozar, 
 Too Tall Jones, etc. The rest of your team consists of pure scrubs.... and boy are they scrubby.
 
  
  The scrubs are cannon fodder at best, so make certain you choose your legends wisely. The legends 
 perform much better than the scrubs, and the higher caliber the legend, the more like a true superstar 
 he performs. Unfortunately, what this does is make you rely on throwing to the same guy over and 
 over again, if you only chose 1 superstar receiver as I did, because nobody else on your team can 
 apparently catch a football if there's anyone remotely near them.
  
  The kicking game is also different in that like Madden, you pull the right analog stick back to 
 begin your kick and swing it forward to complete it. Unlike Madden however, there is no meter, 
 you have to rely on timing.
  
  I can't say much more about the rest of the game play other than it's identical to NFL 2k5.
  
 
  Graphics:
  
  ESPN NFL 2k5 was quite simply the most gorgeous football game ever made when it came out. In my 
 opinion, with some FSAA, it would look better even today than the Madden series. Unfortunately, 
 Visual Concepts added FSAA to the 2k5 engine, but did little else to improve the graphics. In some 
 cases, the graphics look even worst. The faces on the players look absolutely horrible. They look 
 like mannequins that got run over by a truck in the parking lot. They dont look like the superstars, 
 and overall, they are just creepy.
  The stadiums have very creative designs of the kind we will probably never see in real life. The 
 sidelines are full 3D and always animated. One of the nice things is running out of bounds and 
 trampling a player on the opposing teams sideline.
  All in all, for what we know the Xbox 360 can do, the graphics in APF were a huge disappointment.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is mostly rehashed from ESPN NFL 2k5. The commentary is identical. The only improvement 
 is the crowds that really get into it and the overall crispness of the sounds. That the sound is 
 identical to 2k5 is not necessarily a knock, since IMO, 2k5 had the best commentary of any football 
 game every (including the offerings of EA today) , and the atmosphere is just fantastic. However, 
 I will have to deduct points for lack of effort.
  
  Presentation:
  
  I didnt want to include this with the graphics because as one would expect in a 2k game, the presentation 
 is simply phenomenal. The half-time and post-game highlights are back. The superb replay angles 
 are as well, and the overall package looks like a professional TV broadcast. The only thing missing 
 was good old Boomer.
  
  Depth and Miscellaneous features:
  
  This is sadly where ESPN NFL 2k5 suffers the most. There simply isnt much to the game. You can 
 create a team, play a season, play individual games, or play online. Thats it. No you didnt misread, 
 thats really it. There is no franchise, no team owner mode, nothing. Online offers more than Madden 
 does, so I'll give them credit for that, but I can't forgive them for not including a franchise 
 mode in a football game in this day and age. Overall:
  
  Overall, I have to wonder what exactly Visual Concepts has been working on since 2004. It certainly 
 wasnt this game. Though the familiarity of the gameplay, presentation, and sounds from 2k5 was 
 nice, and the game is still fun, it just seems like they didnt put much effort into it. At least 
 for this year, Madden has no competition.
  
  OVERALL SCORE (not an average) 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eminemboy162000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Madden killed off its competition with 2K Sports after seeing how successful NFL 2k5 was. Three 
 years later, 2K Sports is back at it again. Not being able to use current NFL players, 2K Sports 
 took an alternate route and decided to sign retired NFL legends. Would this game be legendary just 
 like the 240 people in this game? Not quiet. Not a legend, yet, but a deadly superstar with a lot 
 of potential in the future.
  
  Let me start off with the bad first... Season mode is only one year. This, honestly, does not bother 
 me because I rather play against friends and people online. (Friends and people online tend to 
 be harder to beat than the damn computer.) Don't tell me you can't get online with this game. It's 
 2007 for crying out loud. All Pro Football 2k8 doesn't have a franchise mode either. I just don't 
 understand how a franchise mode would be able to work with legends that are in their prime. They 
 can't progress anymore. Declining is the only way they can go. The crib is not in this game either. 
 Big deal. The good now...
  
  The gameplay should be the most important thing in a game. You can have a billion modes, but they 
 are useless without good gameplay. This is just something that made people love 2K Sports. They 
 have always been years ahead of their competition when it came to gameplay, and it still holds 
 true with this game. The gameplay in this game is EXCELLENT.
  
  Honestly, the graphics are good. They're not superb, but they aren't horrible either. Like i said 
 before, GAMEPLAY SHOULD BE THE MOST IMPORATANT THING IN ANY GAME. The graphics will definitely 
 improve in the near future. 2K Sports is known for excellent graphics as well, take a look at NBA 
 2k7 and MLB 2k7, but they wanted to put more emphasis on the gameplay this time around. The graphics 
 in the near future will blow you out of your shoes. All Pro Football shows that a good presentation 
 can be done without the likes of ESPN. There is a half-time show and a post-game show. It's done 
 by Peter, I believe. It's pretty good. I watch it all the time. Conclusion: Lack of modes is the 
 only thing that is hurting this game. I, personally, don't need these modes because thanks to online 
 play. People are better than the computer. People cant say anything about the gameplay because 
 it's superb. The graphics are decent. The presentation is good. You know youre doing something 
 right when the only thing SOME people are complaining about is the lack of modes. Rent it, and 
 youll end up buying it.
  
  Real conclusion: Shut up and play. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldomatt88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  So yeah I will admit it... I love the 2k series. I have since 2k4, but the love of the series doesn't 
 sell me on this game. The gameplay does. Gone are the days of a RB going up the middle and simply 
 sliding off of everyone to get through. You have to work to get a first down. I hardly ever go 
 for a tackle and the character slides down the opposing player. The animations are great. Tackles 
 look real and are fun to watch. There is no Franchise mode.... however there is a Season mode. 
 Sure Madden has current players, but to me that doesn't matter. Hopefully Madden 08 will incorperate 
 many of the great features this has. Oh and one more thing... If ya don't buy it, rent it to at 
 least see what it is like. You might find yourself picking it up at your local EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NandoSupes
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Visual Concepts is back with APF 2K8 and I could not be any happier, this game excels in any way. 
 the graphics are excellent, players look like their real counterparts, the team creation is pretty 
 cool you can add lots of colors and jersey variations to your team, helmet. socks, shoulder pads, shoes, I 
 mean you name it, it has it. yes it is similar to 2k5 in many ways, but 2K5 is probably the best football 
 game ever, so why complain?. well here goes:
  
  presentation: I like the the way is design, simple to use ,the music rocks!!, very clean interface 
 thats all you need ,not flashy crap everywhere that makes the menu hard to read and navigate
  
  sound: the sound is excellent you hear the players trash talk, the fans screaming, when you 
 get hit, the sound of the football, it all sounds good, did I mention the soundtrack rules?, yes 
 it is excellent indeed.
  
  controls: the controls might get some getting used to but any football game requires that, once 
 you do, is all good, the players react very well to what you do, the controls are well done 2K is 
 well know for this so is great.
  
  gameplay: ah this is where this game truly shines over Madden, the players look awesome ,the animations 
 are just fantastic, the star players even have their signature moves, this game requires skill ,you 
 need to know when to pass the football ,you need to watch for double coverage, the blitz coming 
 to you, you need to follow your blocks while running, and it does it in a way that is fun and a joy 
 to play, this as real as football as you ll ever get. period. if you want to play a real simulation 
 of football the way is meant to be played, go and buy this excellent game right now, it is just 
 the best football experience around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baztripot
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  the only good thing about this game is that it's not arcade football. the gameplay is as solid 
 as it was in NFL 2K5 but too many flaws :
  
  - the graphics : the game only look next-gen when you get a close-up, but during actual gameplay, 
 very little improvement from 2K5
  
  - the menus : navigation is far from being smooth. - content : not worth 60$. you get only 1 season 
 mode, quickplay and online. and seasons can't carry over. no dynasty mode, no owner mode, nothing 
 ! you can't leave that much out and still charge 60$ for it. more like 30$ would be fair.
  
  - rosters : the idea isn't bad since they couldn't current NFL players but it's not well implemented. 
 you are limited to having 2 players with gold stars but in season mode you face opponents with 
 4 gold star players, WTF ?
  
  - gameplay : it feels more like a real football game than madden but the stars system kills it 
 in some situations. the passing game is quite difficult to get going. if the opposing team has 
 a lot of stars players playing safety or CB, you can forget about TD passes if u're playing on 
 All-Pro. the running game is more fun and tackling is very well done. the kicking system takes 
 a while to get used to. the play calling and audibles are a total mess. - online : not very good. 
 a lot of time online matches won't start because of framerate issues (not even sure what that means) . 
 but once you get a game going, it works pretty smoothly. however, since you go online with the 
 guys on your roster, you will be playing other teams with the same people on their roster, don't 
 really like that.
  
  I don't think this will be any competition for Madden this year, as cheesy as the gameplay may 
 be ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelRush
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like All-Pro Football 2k8, and I really tried to give it a chance, but the AI in this 
 game is HORRIBLE. I'll give just a sample of examples of things the AI does that are just so stupid:
 
  
  Pass Rushing
  
  No matter even if a player has a clean shot at the QB, he will run right by a wide open QB if his 
 assignment is not blitzing. I've seen even blitzing players run right by the open QB to a blocker.
 
  
  Special Teams
  
  The last straw for this game was a punt that I laid that was perfectly placed inside the 1. Instead 
 of grabbing the ball, my special teams stopped and watched it roll into the endzone... at this point, 
 I was officially done with this flashy piece of crap that has piss poor AI.
  
  These are only a couple of examples, but there are plenty more flaws in the AI. This was clearly 
 a rushed product, and I am sad to say we really don't have any good choices for football games 
 at this time. It's ever more sad to say that I am looking to see if Madden fixes it's many flaws, 
 because if it does, I will be trading this game in for it.
  
  As for the other elements
  
  Graphics
  
  Some nice closeups, but in actual gameplay, it doesn't look that much better 
 than the last gen football games.
  
  Sound
  
  The commentary is just copied directly from 2k5. There's hardly anything new here.
  
  Someone 
 please save us from these terrible football games and do one right. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vakrium
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Welcome back to the game. 2K is back and this time it's bringing the heat with major legends of 
 Football past, but this time it's fumbling more than completing touchdowns. While there are a plethora 
 of players to choose from, there is a lack of distinction between teams, since every team you play 
 against in Quick Mode or Online can have the same match-ups. While some may find this to be a good 
 thing, there's little diversity even with all those legends to choose from. From the beginning 
 of the game, you can choose your legends and begin your foray into three types of matches. You 
 have Quick Play, Season and Online. That's it. Now while not having a franchise mode or other bells 
 and whistles might not be a deal breaker for me, I do expect more for my money. If you're an owner 
 of a PS3, or even if you're like me and own them all but chose to buy this for your PS3, you'll 
 quickly find there are issues with this game that I'm not sure exist on the 360. For starters, 
 the sounds crackles and pops randomly making that an issue if you have a 5.1 or greater setup. 
 For a next gen title, I expect crystal clear fidelity. Next, for Standard Definition TV users, 
 you'll find that the graphics look a bit dated until you get some of those nice close-ups of the 
 players faces, particularly Jerry Rice. He looks phenomenal , no question. The screen also cuts 
 off your left side if you don't own a wide screen or HDTV. This can be extremely annoying when 
 picking plays or searching for who your receivers are on the left side of the screen before a hike. 
 Granted, you can pan the camera out to see most of the playing field to solve that issue, but you 
 cannot fix the screen cutting off the left side, so far as I've found. You also don't have camera 
 control while waiting to snap the ball either, like you can in Madden. The PS3 also only does 30 
 FPS, while the 360 does 60. This is also annoying because both systems possess enough power to 
 do them both equally. Aside from those issues, other things you may encounter are bad defensive 
 line-ups, which you can't change without changing the play all-together. You can't shift a single 
 lineman up without moving them all. Audibles are so so, but you're forced to use pre-made ones 
 unless you're fine using one of the plays in the category you chose from the original play. Pressing 
 Triangle before a snap brings up a nice box that shows exactly what's going to be picked, but there 
 isn't much to choose from unless you've set up your audibles beforehand. If during a season you 
 decide your team isn't cutting it, you can't change who's on your team mid-season either. You're 
 stuck with what you have, and if your team isn't that good, you may have to just begin a new season 
 all over just to get where you want to be. There are plenty of issues with this game, and frankly 
 I'm disappointed with 2K's performance on this new game. We've waited a long time for a new Non-Madden 
 game to arrive, but this one doesn't completely hold up to the hype. Maybe in a year or two they 
 will finally have that 2K5 Next-Gen experience ready for everyone to rejoice over, but for now 
 I'm just going to wait for Madden '08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lils17
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Overall enjoyed the game. Graphics were good, but not great. Gameplay was pretty good, but found 
 that I had a hard time completing a pass to my receivers. I liked the create a team feature, but 
 not the fact that you could only choose from the default cities which had a good selection but 
 not great. Team nickname selection was similar, lots of cool names that were all spoken in the 
 game but still not great. I didn't like the fact that you couldn't edit any of the other players 
 on your roster.... I had 3 guys wearing #25 and another couple wearing #81. Play calling on the 
 defensive side of the ball was so-so, you had to wait so long for the CPU to tell you what package 
 they were playing, that I only had 6 seconds to choose the play I wanted... not fun running a 4-3 
 cover 2 against 4 WR... I got lit up. Controls were pretty good, never been a fan of tapping speed 
 burst buttons... not co-ordinated enough I guess. Would like it better if, once you created your 
 team and started playing a season, that you wouldn't play against your players.... after all there 
 is only on Warren Moon, Joe Montana, etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Look, this game is one of the best football games up to date, its true it has little 2k5 in it 
 but, we all miss that game and they brought us new nex-gen game with 2k just imagine in year or 
 two how it will look, graphics are awesom and gameplay is on top of the line, i dont know why these 
 guys gave this game 7.0 and 7.3 because it has no franchise (who cares) but its more then 9.0 for 
 sure, and if you like football go get this game you wont be disappointed trust me, 2k is back, 
 this is their first year in putting football game together for nex-gen and it will get way better, 
 its the best. PEACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juniorgriffey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I am glad to see 2ksports return with a football title, however I am very disappointed 
 that it still looks like the current gen in the graphics department. The game play is solid and 
 I must say it was great to see all the legendary NFL players in a game. Eventhough I am a Cowboy 
 fan I would have love to see some more of the Steelers from the 70s in the game too. Anyway back 
 to the game... the online was for me pretty good only played 3 games and no problems however the 
 overall presentation was not that great. The sound was okay and the two announcers sound like they 
 were imported for the 2k5 game. With no franchise mode the make it or break it for this game is 
 the online feature so if you are up to taking your game online this game is for you ! I just wish 
 this game would have been alittle better then just a Good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  It's been 3 years since we seen a football from Visual Concepts. They were know for the great NFL 
 2k series back from the Dreamcast days. They are now back making a Legends based football game 
 on 240 best fall of famers in NFL history. You get to create your team as soon as you put in the 
 game from the beginning. You're allow to pick 2 Gold stars players, 3 silver players, and 6 bronze 
 players. Once you pick they best players in certain position you balance out how you want to have 
 your linemen between passing game, well balanced game, or running game. The game doesn't look as 
 great as I thought it would look compare to previous madden games on next gen consoles. But the 
 animations in the game do look impressive. The controls will take a little getting use to if you're 
 use to playing madden games. I don't remember the controls to NFL 2k series very much. You get 
 a variety of plays but not as deep as the madden series. You also have season mode, practice mode, 
 and a quick play mode in the game. You also have online play which allows you to take your create 
 team online and also share your customized jersey with friends online. You're also allow to pick 
 your own logos but depending what logos you use you're not allow to customize anything in the stadium. 
 The game is pretty good and you're tried of the madden series and looking for something different 
 with Legend football players favorites like Joe Montana, Ricky Watters, and Jerry Rice which longer 
 play, you should definitely check this game out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
