-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alone in the Dark: Inferno
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/aloneinthedark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls significantly improved over Xbox 360 version.
 Abundant opportunities for clever item use.
 Dramatic moments pack a punch.
 Bucks many action adventure conventions.
 May encourage pyromania.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some lingering control issues whether you're on foot or behind the wheel.
 Riddled with visual inconsistencies.
 May encourage pyromania.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 254 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eden Studios
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to some key improvements, Alone in the Dark: Inferno is a more playable, more satisfying 
 version of this unique adventure. 

  When Alone in the Dark came out for the Xbox 360 about five months ago, its dramatic story and 
 unique gameplay mechanics were hobbled by its pervasive technical shortcomings. For the PlayStation 
 3 release, the developer has made a number of improvements that make the game much less frustrating, 
 and chief among them are the vastly improved character movement and camera controls. Though many 
 of the graphical oddities and some control clumsiness remain, Alone in the Dark: Inferno is a much 
 better way to experience this unique and rewarding action adventure game.  

           The dramatic action sequences do a great job of conveying large-scale chaos.      

 
  As the gruff, amnesiac protagonist, you make your way through a disaster-struck New York City 
 into Central Park, where you begin to unravel the many mysteries before you. Maneuvering through 
 the various environments is much easier now that the main character moves with a light jog instead 
 of a lumbering plod. Though he is significantly nimbler, he is still a bit clumsy; you'll still 
 have to do some funky maneuvering to interact with oddly positioned objects, and you'll have to 
 tread carefully during the precision platforming sequences. Fortunately, even this is much easier 
 thanks to the easily controlled 360-degree camera that replaces the restrained over-the-shoulder 
 camera of the Xbox 360 version. Driving controls are the same, and you can still do some neat stuff 
 such as check behind the visor for car keys or slide into the passenger seat to ransack the glove 
 compartment. The big improvement here is the car handling. Gone are the goofy motorboat physics 
 of the Xbox 360 version, replaced with weightier, more down-to-earth mechanics. This makes driving 
 much easier, though the still-finicky collision detection occasionally treats small cracks like 
 major impediments. Despite the lingering limitations, the controls in Alone in the Dark: Inferno 
 make locomotion much easier and let you more fully enjoy your adventure.  

  One of the most intriguing and well-executed elements of Alone in the Dark: Inferno is the inventory 
 and item system. The game allows you only as many items as you can fit in your belt and jacket 
 pockets, and, in a move that visually subverts the convention of the vast yet unseen inventory, 
 you literally open up your jacket and look down to see what you've got. Although it's never quite 
 groundbreaking, this subversion does appear in myriad ways throughout the game, and it creates 
 the feeling that there is something novel about Alone in the Dark. You experience this feeling 
 of novelty the first time you look down at your limbs to heal your bloody wounds with medical spray, 
 an action that's a good deal more satisfying than just using a medkit and seeing your life bar 
 grow.  

  The limited array of items that you can pick up as you move through the world belies the complexity 
 with which they can be combined to serve your purposes. The explosive power of a plastic bottle 
 filled with flammable liquid is obvious, but what if you wrap it in double-sided tape, stuff a 
 bandage in it, light it, and stick it to an enemy? Then you've got a slow-burning Molotov cocktail 
 perfect for blowing up the hive that your spidery foe is returning to. Tape a box of bullets to 
 the bottle, chuck it at a cluster of enemies, and shoot it in midair to unleash a decidedly nasty 
 explosion. Poured out all of your liquid while immolating downed demons? Grab your knife and puncture 
 the gas tank on a car for a quick refill. There are multifarious possible item combinations, and 
 though you'll generally stick to a select few for killing enemies (flaming bullets, midair explodables, 
 spray-can flamethrower) , the game makes you flesh out your repertoire by demanding specific actions 
 to solve certain puzzles.  

           Smacking enemies with a burning chair is a fun and effective way to vanquish them.    
    

  Most of the puzzles in the game involve vanquishing the evil beings that are now the main inhabitants 
 of Central Park. Since your enemies can only be permanently offed with fire (unless there is a 
 crevasse nearby) , you'll have to find a way to make them burn, baby, burn. The most straightforward 
 method is to grab a flammable object, such as a chair or a broom, and then walk over to any open 
 flame and set fire to the object by inclining the analog stick toward the flame. Wielding the blazing 
 object, you target your foe, set up your attack by tilting the stick in one direction, and then 
 strike by flicking the stick in the opposite direction. It's a lot of fun to smack monsters with 
 chairs, shovels, baseball bats, tree limbs, and so forth, and the analog-stick actions you must 
 perform to do so are a fun approximation of your in-game actions. Alas, this fun is hindered by 
 finicky controls and inconsistent hit detection, so you'll often find yourself merely repositioning 
 your weapon instead of striking, or clanging it off of a wall that you could have sworn wasn't 
 so close.  

  For practical reasons, you'll end up taking on most of the evil legion with your trusty handgun. 
 Throwing an explosive bottle and shooting it midair is a cinch, thanks to the aim assistance in 
 the form of a glowing trajectory arc and the slow motion that kicks in whenever you throw something. 
 Alternately, you can pour flammable liquid on your bullets and fire flaming rounds at your foes. 
 Sure, this combo is a bit improbable, and the gun should probably explode in your face, but flaming 
 bullets will be the keystone in your monster-battling strategy so it's best to suspend your disbelief. 
 However, firing these babies into monsters won't kill them unless you hit their fissures. These 
 are the livid scars left on monsters by the evil that corrupted them, and hitting them can be a 
 real pain. The combat certainly isn't anything to write home about, but there's definitely some 
 satisfaction to be had in scourging your enemies with flame or smacking them off of a cliff with 
 a heavy pipe.  

  The few non-combat-related puzzles are clustered early and late in the game. Some of these creative 
 platforming sequences are part of larger, dramatic set pieces, such as your escape from a burning, 
 collapsing building. It's generally pretty clear which path you need to take, but figuring out 
 the necessary actions and carrying them out is still entertaining. Puzzles in which you set fire 
 to things are particularly fun; the fire looks gorgeous and spreads realistically while the textures 
 on the burning wood change accordingly. Indoor and outdoor environments are well-detailed, especially 
 the vast and varied Central Park. The scenery is at its best when integrated with the aforementioned 
 dramatic set pieces. During these events, the camera will often pull out to a wider angle, giving 
 you a greater sense of scope and harking back to the fixed-camera roots of previous Alone in the 
 Dark games. There are some missteps here as well, and the dynamic lighting can occasionally turn 
 an immersive environment into a something's-not-quite-right environment.  

           Improved car handling leaves you free to worry about the toothy monsters who are trying 
 to rip you apart.       

  These visual inconsistencies carry over to the numerous cutscenes, yet despite the occasional pop-in 
 and imperfect facial animations, the cutscenes do a great job of adding weight to the already dramatic 
 storyline. Playing as an amnesiac man who wakes up in the company of men who mean him harm, you 
 manage to escape and make your way to Central Park, where the dark, far-reaching story begins to 
 unfold in earnest. The story is well scripted and provides a few intensely dramatic moments, which 
 are enhanced by mostly on-point aftereffects that imbue them with a filmic quality. The whole game 
 is segmented into chapters and sections, so you can skip around to them as if it were a DVD, though 
 feature will probably appeal only to folks who get stuck on a tough patch or want to go back to 
 play a favorite sequence. Skippers need not fear too much missed content: Every play session and 
 every skip treats you to a "previously on Alone in the Dark" segment that rehashes the pertinent 
 story elements.  

  Alone in the Dark: Inferno is an ambitious game that features a lot of cool gameplay and bucks 
 a lot of gaming conventions. Many small improvements eliminate points of frustration (enhanced 
 AI assistance, an explosive new sequence, and a few other pacing tweaks) , but it's the character 
 movement and camera updates that really help the game hit its stride. Although it's definitely 
 not without its stumbles, Alone in the Dark: Inferno is no longer hamstrung by the issues that 
 plagued its predecessor, which means that PS3 owners can experience this adventure the way it was 
 meant to be played.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version of this game was a complete mess. Terrible controls and camera made the game 
 nearly impossible to play. How much of this was fixed in the PS3 version? Read the rest of the 
 review to find out how a game with such great potential has fallen short of perfection...
  
  
  Graphics = 8.75/10
  
  Nothing wrong with the graphics in this game. Very detailed enviornments 
 and character detail. Your character shows cuts and ripped clothing as you are getting hurt in 
 the game. A large portion of the game requires you to use your flashlight which becomes a pain 
 at times because you can not see much when in the 3rd person view. Switching to 1st person view 
 allows you to see more but then you are forced to use a view that just does not feel right in this 
 game.
  
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  Again, there is not much to complain about here. The music in this game is orchestrated quite well 
 and definately gives you that sense of suspense. The voice acting is pretty good and the enemies 
 moans and screams will put a chill down your spine at the right moments. Gun fire, explosions, 
 fire blazing, water dripping, buildings collapsing. All of these sounds are very well created and 
 with some surround sound you will not be disappointed.
  
  
  Gameplay = 6/10
  
  This is where the game falls apart. There are so many great ideas in this game like the ability 
 to combine items to create new weapons. Combine two sided sticky tape with a bottle of flammable 
 liquid and a flare and you made yourself a sticky bomb. Pour gasoline on your bullets and you made 
 fire bullets. Pierce a car's gas tank to fill your empty bottle with more gasoline. This game offers 
 a way of playing that no other game has.
  
  So what is the problem? The controls and camera are terrible! If these were some of the fixed problems 
 from the 360 version then I feel sorry for anyone who bought this game on that console. Your character 
 moves like he has a stick up his butt. Not fluid movements at all which can lead to death. The 
 camera is also broken in this game. Many times you can not get the proper angle on the camera to 
 see what you are supposed to be doing. Where to jump or what to find. Switching to 1st person view 
 seems a little better but now you are stuck with sluggish movement and a crappy aiming system.
 
  
  
  Overall = 7/10
  
  It's such a shame that a game with all the right idea's and a good story is ruined by poor controls 
 and camera. There are times where I think this game is outstanding until I reach the areas where 
 the controls and camera make it unbearable to play. If you want to see the great features this 
 game has to offer then I suggest you rent this game, even if the game is only $30.
  
  Trophy whore's give this game a go as its an easy "Platinum Trophy" as long as you can put yourself 
 through the torture of the controls.
  
  This game gets Lethal's "Trophy Whore Stamp of Approval" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Alone In the dark was supposed to do really well it was integrated with some promising features 
 but when those features weren't made properly the game didn't so well and got mixed reactions by 
 everyone. Then a year later it was released for ps3 known as alone in the dark: inferno and was 
 promised this time by Atari that it would do better and it has. In the game there is a chapter 
 selection where you can skip to a different sequence in any of the chapters, that is convenient 
 since say if you have already done the game and you want to play it again on a different difficulty 
 you can just jump to a certain sequence in a certain chapter instead of doing everything over again 
 it saves time and effort.
  
  The inventory is pretty cool as well you can combine different items together to create more effective 
 weapons like you can combine a spray can with a lighter turning it into a mini flam thrower, you 
 can combine a handkerchief, and tape with a plastic or glass bottle turning it into a molotov cocktail. 
 The combination ideas are limitless and that's just one of the many features in this game that 
 make it worth playing. Another feature but a small but also common feature is being able to switch 
 between items and weapons on the fly that makes equiping stuff easier so you don't have to worry 
 about going to your inventory to equip them which takes longer if your near enemies. 
  
  The PDA is unique as well because not only does it allow you to call someone that you met it shows 
 you also who you've met and stores information about what has happened and what you should be doing. 
 The healing system is also useful because you actually get to literally heal your wounds which 
 really does help you from not dying instantly like in so many other games and having this in this 
 game is refreshing. 
  
  While there are a lot of unique features in this game there also a lot of bad features that stayed. 
 like the fighting: its great that you get to use different things as weapons but how you use them 
 is the problem. It's so hard to control which way you swing that it starts to overtime get very 
 frustrating to the point where it continously bothers you. Oh and sure Atari improved the fighting 
 system but they didn't do it enough it's still as frustrating as ever. 
  
  Another annoying feature is the puzzles most who have played this game would say that this is the 
 core of the game and their right it is but it too took a bit of a nose dive. With the puzzles though 
 its a tough call they weren't bad necessarly but they were frustrating. For me personally i found 
 them frustrating because I would be in a sequence for so long trying my hardest to figure out the 
 puzzle and i couldn't so I ended up skipping some sequences because there were so many of them. 
 But Atari made them so damn conviluted that even if you tried your hardest and are a pro at video 
 games ( like me) you still would not be able to figure most of them out. Atari may have not improved 
 on some of the same features enough but they did so where it worked with the rest of the game perfectly 
 this time and In my opinion turned out pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavenly_King
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Hi there,
  
  First of all I must say that I normally dont write reviews for any game; but i feel that I need 
 to do it for this one because it is a game that deserves a lot more of attention and far better 
 scores (and better sales, BECAUSE I WANT A SEQUEL!!! lol XD) . 
  
  Everyone is considering this game a waste of money because the reviews of the previous versions 
 of the game (360, PC) were bad ones. I havent played them, but I must the PS3 version of the game 
 is really awesome.
  
  I played Alone in the dark on PS one. It was a very cool game along with amazing violence and story.
 
  
  Currently, on PS3 the game is more impressive and has more elaborated story and obviously better 
 graphics. The player can feel from the beginning of the game the amazing soundtrack along with 
 great art direction. The graphics are good, but they could have been a lot better. Two of the main 
 characters look awesome, but the other ones look...... ok. 
  
  In this game the sound is clear, you can feel the violence as if it was a real one. Also, they 
 make an advantage of using anything on the ground such as chairs, tables, etc. Player can use anything 
 he wants. Also they include different kinds of weapons so the player has the option whether to 
 use a gun or use anything he might find in his way (molotovs, "flamethrowers", etc) . This, actually, 
 makes it very interesting since you can not rely on one type of weapons.
  
  I think this game is not too difficult, (with the exception of one boss) and quite long. The game 
 contains 8 episodes and as you progress, the story gets more and more interesting.
  
  What makes this game amazing are its ambitious ideas, the soundtrack, the right difficulty and 
 the story. Some players may think that the ambitious and creative ideas of the game need some work 
 concerning how they manifest in the game; and in some way they are right, you can see that the 
 game needs more polish, but that will not harm your experience with the game.
  
  The experience is awesome but it could have been a perfect one if Eden Games would have used more 
 time. I think ATARI is to blame because we all know that they love to rush their game to the store. 
 This game could have been a remix between MGS4 (gameplay polish wise, not saying that it should 
 play like that duh!!) and Gran Turismo (driving gameplay) . This franchise has such potential that 
 I really think if they make a sequel, that game would be GAME OF THE YEAR for sure.
  
  
  I rate this game 9 out of 10.
  (but as you may see I put a 10 because Im a PS fanboy XD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah_73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Finally some ambitious game that would make you finish it to the end. The reason i'm continuing 
 playing this game is because i don't know what to expect next! Make you stand, look around and 
 think what to use to proceed to the next stage as opposed to other boring games. The graphics are 
 good except for few bugs, such as when the character sometimes penetrates objects or when driving 
 the car you can see it floats on the road, i have only played it for 3 hours but would like to 
 continue. The game froze twice on me and i had to power off the PS3. I like the way they implemented 
 the controls very swift and easy when you swing a stick, or use a propane tank/fire extinguisher 
 to smash doors. Because of the too many things you can collect/combine it forces you to think what 
 to use in certain situation. The intro to the game is very interesting, they put a lot of thought 
 into it, for instance when the kidnapper tells where to go, or blink the eyes to see clearly, it 
 is very simple but very intriguing. There are times when you have to move quickly and that will 
 throw you away. Although i haven't finished the game but the story behind this game is very exciting, 
 it always changes and there are always surprises. I have decided not to buy this game only due 
 to the fact that there is no replay value.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the series ever since I Played Alone in the Dark: The New Nightmare way back 
 on the Dreamcast, so I was also anxiously waiting for this game to finally hit the consoles. Sadly, 
 when the game finally arrived on the XBOX/PC late June it wasn't well received so I had my doubts 
 about getting it. Some of the biggest complaints came from poor camera controls, bad driving mechanics, 
 a complicated inventory system and some very noticeable bugs and glitches. Eden Games (the developers 
 of the game) took all this complaints to heart and use its remaining 5 months to fix the PS3 version 
 as much as they could. After checking it out myself I'm glad to say that the Alone in the Dark: 
 Inferno got some mayor improvements over the other versions. 
  
  To begin with; the camera was pulled farther back from the character and its can now be rotated 
 to a full 360-degrees, a friendlier inventory system, a more forgiving difficulty, and most of 
 the driving problems were fixed. These and a lot of other enchantments make Inferno the version 
 it was meant to be from the start.
  
  So now that most of the gameplay problems were fixed, you'll see that Inferno has some really unique 
 features and ideas that make it stand out; Like instead of having a life bar like most game do 
 these days, you'll measure your health by the visible wounds in the main characters body. The more 
 time you let your wounds go untreated the slower and weaker you'll become, and if you get a deep 
 cut you'll have to bandage yourself or else you'll bleed to death just like in real life. Another 
 unique feature is the inventory system, instead of having a full arsenal of weapons you'll just 
 be limited to a handgun and whatever you can find to make weapons, such as Molotov bombs or "fire 
 bullets". There's a lot of combination's you can do in the inventory but only a few of them are 
 really worth using.
  
  There's also the unique ability to "blink" while in first person view mode, in some parts of the 
 game you can only find key items when you close your eyes. You can also "steal" cars like the GTA 
 games, but unlike GTA you have to do everything manually; that means breaking the window, getting 
 in the car, having to hot wire it by connecting cables under the steering wheel and pressing the 
 accelerator to start the damn thing, all the while demons pull you out of the car to attack you. 
 Needles to say that there's a lot of control commands to learn, but its all satisfyingly explained 
 in the beginning with on-screen tips. I also specially liked that the game was divided into episodes 
 like a TV series, like when you load your previous saved it'll start with a recap cutscene of the 
 last episode, it even has the classic TV phrase "previously on Alone in the Dark..." like a real 
 TV series would.
  
  So in short; Alone in the Dark: Inferno successfully combines gun combat, Prince of Persia style 
 plataforming, great music, varied driving sequences, and some really brilliant puzzles that make 
 it easily recommendable to any PS3 gamer out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, I did it. After swearing to myself no, I rented Alone in the Dark on the PS3. If anyone read 
 my review of the PS2 version (which scored a 1.5) they know how much I hated this game. In fact 
 it was the worst game I had played in years, but on the PS3 it is more refined, though still broken, 
 I wouldn't mind owning this version to complete the rest of the game.
  
  The plot isn't any different in this version, it still focuses on Edward Carnaby and his trials 
 through NYC, but is more refined and makes more sense than it did on the PS2.
  
  Graphics
  Alone in the Dark looks great, the fire effects are amazing, but the enviroments and 
 character models look fake. Characters have this fake glossy sheen about them, and sometimes the 
 animations are jittery. The enviroments lack alot of detail found in next gen titles, they are 
 very basic in overall structure.
  
  Gameplay
  One of my biggest complaints was how unresponsive the gameplay was due to horrid sluggish controls, 
 and a horrible control set up. Now on the PS3, the game feels more natural due to tighter more 
 responsive controls. The setup feels more natural as well, and Edward moves more naturally due 
 to tighter analog control. Overall i was impressed with the controls. But there are still major 
 hitches in the gameplay. Combat is still clunky thanks the Eden's first person approach to gun 
 combat. AITD clearly isn't a FPS title, due to a slow axis response, but its a hell of alot quicker 
 than on the PS2. Another hitch the use of R2 and the Right Analog stick to swing melee weapons. 
 Not only is it clunkier than hell, but causes alot of deaths because of poor hit detection.
  
  Sound
  The voice acting is still awful, especially Edward's voice. The sound effects sound 
 better on the PS3 as does the music.
  
  Overall, on the PS3 Alone in the Dark is vastly improved over the other versions, but is still 
 a heavily flawed and broken game. Eden did say they were improving the overall game, but even though 
 this experience is better it still needed work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Hi dears,
  
  I will write a short review about this game. Mainly, I will state advantages and disadvateages 
 alogn with new features presented.
  
  
  I played Alone in the dark on PS one. It was a very powerful game along with amazing violence and 
 gore. 
  
  
  Currently, on PS3 the game is more impresive and has more violence and gore. Player can scence 
 that form the beginning of the game. Amazing sounds along with great graphics.
  
  
  In this game graphics are well designed. Sounds are clear too. You can feel the violence as if 
 it was a real one.
  
  
  Also, they make an advantage of using anything on the ground such as chairs, tables, etc. Player 
 can use anything he wants. Also they include different kinds of guns so the player has the optioin 
 whether to use weapons or use anything he might find in his way. This, actually, makes it very 
 interresting since you can not rely on one type of weapons. 
  
  
  I think this game is difficult and quite long. An example, is when you kill a monster you have 
 to burn him so he won't come again to fight you. Beside the game is long it contains 8 epsiodes. 
 I played silent hill 5 and finished it within 2 days only, but I think I will not be able to finish 
 this game within that period.
  
  
  
  What makes this game amazing are its graphics, sounds, difficulty and time to play, but some players 
 may get bored since they need lots of time to reach the end of the game. Also, the control is somehow 
 difficult you have to use all buttons available in the joystick and this sometimes confuses players.
 
  
  
  I rated this game to be 8.5 out of 10.
  
  
  
  cheers 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
