-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Armored Core: For Answer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sim/armoredcoreforanswer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Taking on an arms fort is awesome and exhilarating.
 Heightened speed and destructible environments make for thrilling battles.
 Improved interface makes customization easier.
 Online co-op play for the first time in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's functionally the same as previous games in the series.
 Environments are bland and unappealing.
 Practically no one plays online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: From Software
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest Armored Core makes up for the series' lack of progress by simply being fun to play.

  Big, hulking robots. Towering, defensive behemoths ready to blow those same robots to smithereens. 
 These are the key players in developer From Software's latest entry in the Armored Core series, 
 the confusingly subtitled For Answer. They're also the main draw for longtime fans who have been 
 tweaking mechs and taking them into battle since 1997. While this entry may not be the deepest 
 or most involving game in the series, an increased sense of speed, highly destructible environments, 
 and intense battles against gargantuan arms forts make this a game that should please both stalwart 
 enthusiasts and newcomers alike. Not that this is a leap forward for the franchise -- For Answer's 
 environmental visuals are still extremely bland, and the gameplay, while tweaked, is much the same 
 as it's been for years. But if you like to blow stuff up with giant metal automatons, this is your 
 game.  

           Arms fort battles are an intense addition.      

  But first, let's talk about the arms forts. These rolling instruments of destruction are new to 
 the series and easily the biggest draw in For Answer. Doing battle with them is intense and satisfying, 
 particularly in the more challenging encounters, such as that with the Spirit of Motherwill. In 
 this battle, you and your mech take down a series of cannons while avoiding the wrath of missiles 
 and other bots, and generally wreak havoc. It's rough, mind you: Depending on the arsenal you equip 
 your bot with, you could find yourself out of ammo if you don't conserve properly, and dodging 
 the constant barrage of cannon fire isn't easy. But destroying the fort is immensely rewarding, 
 and while not all of these battles are as exciting as this one, they're all fun and (usually) challenging 
 without being cheap. Even better, you can ramp up the thrills by adding a buddy to the mix. That 
 assumes, of course, that you can find an interested participant among the tiny population of online 
 players. A few weeks after release, fewer than a dozen individuals are playing via Xbox Live, and 
 we found only a single opponent while testing the PlayStation 3 version. This could have been mitigated 
 by offline co-op, but alas, the game doesn't feature such an option.  

  Standard missions play out with considerably less excitement, though they're amusing enough on 
 their own terms. Unfortunately, most of them are still relatively short, some clocking in at under 
 a minute if you're particularly agile with a controller. They may involve taking down a series 
 of mechs, escorting a train from one side of a map to the other, or destroying a couple of generators 
 and then escaping from the facility before it explodes. These missions are fine, but most are pretty 
 easy and end just as they're getting interesting. It makes the single-player campaign feel fragmented, 
 and it's hard to feel involved with a scenario when it's over in two minutes. However, the bite-size 
 chunks make this a game you can turn to for a quick, steel-infused rush -- a rush further enhanced 
 by terrifically destructible environments. Cover opportunities in abandoned cities and among crumbling 
 overpasses turn into explosions of smoke and particles, and the ensuing visual chaos adds a nice 
 sense of urgency to battles. The quick, arcade feel of the action is augmented by your bolstered 
 boosters, and the quick enemy mechs that whip about with alarming velocity.  

  This age-old franchise comes with age-old frustrations, though -- ones that fans have learned to 
 live with but newcomers will struggle with. The autotargeting is still occasionally touchy, and 
 the camera never seems to be able to catch up when things are moving quickly, so expect to fumble 
 a bit when you lose your lock-on or deal with camera lag during freefalls and other speedy moments. 
 The controls are relatively up to the task, however. The default scheme is easy to get used to, 
 though connoisseurs will be happy to know that a few other control schemes are available, and you 
 can customize it to your liking. This is just as well, since there are a lot of control issues 
 for newcomers to drink in, from purging and switching weapons to assault armor and thrusting.  
 

  As with previous games, how you outfit your mech before these battles means either sure victory 
 or crushing defeat, depending on your own play style and the strengths and weaknesses of your AI 
 opponents. This is where mech customization comes in, and it's as involving as fans would expect 
 without being so dense as to alienate newcomers. As always, you can switch out everything from 
 weaponry to thrusters to heads, which in turn lets you tailor your mech to be a bazooka-laden tank, 
 a nimble sniping machine, or a melee-focused berserker. As you complete single-player missions 
 and take part in arena battles against other bots, you unlock new parts you can purchase and then 
 slap on. The retooled interface makes it easier to buy and equip parts, so while the menus may 
 take some getting used to, they're easy to navigate, considering the great number of possibilities 
 at your disposal. The customization possibilities aren't as deep as some previous Armored Core 
 games (you don't need to worry about cooling, for example) , but there's still a lot of room to 
 tweak. And if you're really a mech-head, you can mess with balancing, fire control system parts, 
 and plenty more.  

  If you're looking for a visual tour de force, For Answer won't give you one. Environments are bland, 
 with very little to look at. Cluttered environments wouldn't make a lot of sense in missions and 
 mech-vs.-mech arenas, but in too many cases, there is an awful lot of sand and perhaps a scattering 
 of poorly textured gray buildings -- and absolutely nothing else but you, your opponent, and blocky, 
 canned explosion effects. On the other hand, arms forts are nicely detailed, and the destructible 
 pieces and constant barrage of missiles produce vibrant displays of light and color. Additionally, 
 while there aren't a lot of them, the in-game cutscenes look excellent. The Xbox 360 seems a little 
 more capable of rendering the game; while frame rate hitches were relatively uncommon on that platform, 
 the PlayStation 3 version seemed more prone to slowdown, though this problem wasn't blatant enough 
 to interfere with the gameplay.  

           Standard missions are good -- but extremely short.      

  Sound effects are terrific 
 across the board -- familiar, certainly, but there's a lot of mechanized noise, all the time, and 
 the effects are always appropriately bombastic without being overwhelming. On top of it all, the 
 voice acting is quite good, and the music, like its predecessor's, is easy on the ears. Not that 
 there is much context for the visuals and sound; the story plays out mostly in mission briefings, 
 which is usual for the series, but misses an opportunity to flesh out its characters and theme. 
 Multiple play-throughs uncover some of the story's mysteries, but the neat concept -- humanity has 
 fled to airborne habitats to escape oppressive pollution -- could have benefitted from some cinematic 
 flair.  

  On top of missions, you can work your way through a series of bots in the arena, though it would 
 have been nice to have more maps to choose from. You can also take the fight online, and while 
 there are more maps to play on in a multiplayer environment, there are very few people to compete 
 with. Regardless, Armored Core: For Answer is a worthwhile addition to the series, and while the 
 franchise could certainly use a face-lift, this strip-mall makeover covers up the main blemishes. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dark_Altron
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Just what the doctor ordered; plenty of customization, explosions, epic battles, deep story line 
 with player's choice, and online multiplayer to test your skill around the net. This installment 
 was definitely an improvement from Armored Core 4 with major tweaks, additions, and more interactive 
 missions that will definitely test your skill.
  The story you will engage in is that you are a Lynx, a mech pilot, that takes jobs to major companies 
 all trying to decide humanity's fate; at the sametime trying to best the other companies in the 
 process. The storyline is right after the story of Armored Core 4 but the player will be highly 
 informed of whats going on in the present without anyday difficulty. In this series, you can have 
 assistence from online players with a mission if you are stuck on or have difficulty completing 
 with good results. This is only an option and will not effect the storyline in anyway. In the end 
 you'll be deciding point whether people will live in the skies or on the ground through the factions.
 
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone that is a fan of mechs because this say this game is 
 the best and the fastest type of it class today. If you aren't sure still, at least rent this one 
 and have online ready on stand by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game, is GOOD. 
  and there is absolutely NO ONE that plays online. 
  That's the worst part of the game -__-. 
  
  We'll start with Cons as usual: 
  - No one plays 
 online, Co-op OR Competitive. 
  - Difficulty steep is pretty high. 
  - Most complex statistics system EVER. 
  - NO ONE PLAYS ONLINE. 
  - Some missions are way too 
 hard, and some way too easy. 
  - Some missions are way too LONG, and some are short. 
  - Can someone PLEASE play online co-op with me? 
  
  Pros: 
  - When you're up there in the 
 difficulty steep, you feel so awesome. 
  - Really, when you master all the complex controls, its awesome. 
  - Fast paced, powerful weapons 
 and explosions, and nice. 
  - Customization is simply awesome too. 
  - The statistics system gives a sense of content, although complex. 
  - It's another armored 
 core, it's welcome. 
  
  Overall, the cons practically evens the Pros. 'Cause every Pros are significant pros, but every 
 Cons are too. Can you guys please add me on the PS3 if you wanna play co-op? I hate playing these 
 missions alone. 
  
  PSN : Deathpact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kalashnikov-
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great improvement from the other previous AC titles. Although I like all of the 
 previous ones ... I can only say I have played AC2 and AC3 ... not 4. They made targeting simpler 
 ... which is good and bad ... it is good because it is less frustrating but for those who have 
 mastered AC2 + AC3's difficult controls ... it is not as gratifying anymore when you see other 
 people suck at the game ^^. Missions pose challenge which is awesome but there are ways to cheese 
 them of course ... and some are near impossible w/o cheese lol.
  
  Overall if you like the AC series or mechs .... this is the game for you.
  
  It boasts a fast 
 paced gameplay with a huge selection for customization and ways to differentiate your mech to make 
 you feel as if you are playing a new game.
  
  I love hard games to beat and times the missions in this game .... especially on hard mode give 
 you a run for your money so expect some fun times with this one :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DabsTight703
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a pretty fun game in general but I can see this will appeal to a very selective group 
 of players. If you are not into mech based combat or VERY fast paced combat then this game might 
 not be for you. This game has a wide variety of customization options which I believe is the game's 
 strongest point. The combat is pretty fun but it's more or less the same throughout the whole game. 
 You will be spending the majority of your time tweaking your mech (more so than playing actual 
 missions) because there is so much to do from purchasing/selling parts to fine tuning your capabilities 
 (faster lock-on, faster vertical/horizontal boost, faster turn speed, etc.) . This game seems easy 
 at first but it gets very hard; to the point where I believe it would actually turn some gamers 
 off. The online is pretty fun too. It comes down to twitch reflexes and being able to juke out 
 your opponent's shots. All in all this I am very happy with my purchase at 60 dollars. Once this 
 game drops in price it should be a pick-up for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcwise
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Well the most recent addition to the Armored Core series certainly has a more polished look than 
 previous titles but beyond the face lift little has changed. You're still a pilot with no back 
 story in a post apocalyptic world with no connection to anything beyond the holes you leave in 
 the countryside. Well this isn't entirely true as you can gain favor with certain corporations 
 by completing certain missions to unlock more equipment, but beyond that there seems to be no sort 
 of development in the game and the multi player mode offers some strategy to be used, but not to 
 the extent that was available in Chromehounds for the XBOX 360. While neither game was perfect 
 the strategy and teamwork that was available in Chromehounds and blended it with the style and 
 speed of Armored Core we'd have a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dice836
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I've bee playing this game for a almost a week now and it has not lost any of its fun. This game 
 is like Armored Core 4 with many more parts and I can play online co-op with my friends; Oh yeah 
 and giant boss fights!!! 
  
  This game is close to Shadow of the Colossus in the concept that you are taking down giant bosses. 
 It is close to the other mech games because... you are in a super fast, highly responsive, Kijoma 
 powered mech suit. The new Over boosts and Kijoma attacks are really cool, it is amazing in an 
 online match to see battles off in the distance with people deploying these massive explosive attacks. 
 I don't have that much more to say except that this is the greatest Mech game ever! I have never 
 written a review but this game was good enough to get one. 
  
  I have only good things to say about this game and suggest that every PS3 and Xbox 360 player at 
 least go rent it if you are doubtful of me. 
  Armored Core For Answer is... Perfection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChampionX
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  The game is definitely a lot better then it's predecessors. The quick pace, really separates this 
 game from the previous titles. However there is not enough missions to fully immerse the player 
 in the game, and that is one of three of it's short coming. The second flaw is the freeze up when 
 playing split-screen. However if you play online, you will rarely encounter the freeze up. The 
 third flaw is that there is a moderately hard learning curve for new coming players. These three 
 flaws however does not cause the game to be not enjoyable, since it has multiple story arcs in 
 the game and a Normal and a Hard difficulty to challenge even the most veteran players of the game. 
 Also a good 42 different AC's to defeat in the arena, to truly polish up the player's skill. If 
 you liked the previous Armored Core games, then you'll definitely like this one. If you're new 
 to the game, it'll take a bit of time to get use to, but once you figure out the how the game works 
 you'll definitely enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great Improvement to AC4
  
  Graphics- The game looks amazing, ac models are sharp, the particle effects are some of the best 
 I've ever seen, and some of the ships you fight are terrifying looking
  
  Sound- The sound is a great improvement to AC4, though not as strong as some previous titles
 
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is just as great as Ac4. The system has been refined, and now there are tons 
 of new parts to choose from, plus all of ac4's parts are back
  
  Multiplayer-The multiplayer has been GREATLY improved. You can now talk with mics, change things 
 like limited or limitless ammo, and the system feels much more refined. Its less glitchy, and a 
 lot easier to find a match.
  
  This is an extremely good game and I reccomend it to any one that has ever imported. Its very english 
 friendly and is just plain fun. I really hope it comes stateside 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
