-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Armored Core 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sim/armoredcore4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Heavier emphasis on fast-paced mech combat.
 Streamlined assembly interface makes game far more approachable.
 Great voice acting and soundtrack.
 Robots + Explosions = Win.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are too short.
 Some environments are pretty bland.
 Lackluster online multiplayer.
 Series vets may be disappointed by reduced complexity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 795 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: From Software
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It looks nicer, it plays faster, and with its lower barrier to entry, Armored Core 4 should appeal 
 to more than just the series' faithful gearheads. 

  Mech games come in two varieties. You've got the West's MechWarrior tradition, characterized by 
 hulking, barbaric monstrosities, and the East's Gundam or Macross tradition, characterized by lithe 
 and agile bots. With the release of Chromehounds last year, From Software seems to want to corner 
 the mech market, offering the best of the East and the West. And with Chromehounds accommodating 
 the grognard sect, it seems only natural that Armored Core's already booster-engine-friendly action 
 would transition out of that market in favor of the fast-paced arcade-style experience. In many 
 ways, Armored Core 4 trims the fat from the series, removing or toning down some of the interesting 
 but not particularly well-executed aspects of the game. But to compensate, the developers layered 
 on a heaping helping of butter by ramping up the intensity and action, as well as simplifying the 
 mech-building process. However you cook it, Armored Core 4 offers a delightfully unhealthy amount 
 of mech-busting fun.  

          The combat is fast and the explosions are impressive.     

  For six-and-a-half years 
 and seven games, the Armored Core faithful have been pining for a graphical update. That update 
 has now arrived. From an artistic standpoint, AC4 looks as you'd expect from a world exposed to 
 one ecologically obliterating war after another. The whole game has an overexposed, grainy aesthetic 
 that really immerses you in the foul state the world has deteriorated into. Depth of field is heavily 
 relied upon to blur out distant objects, which further adds a hazy and surreal quality to the game's 
 appearance. AC4 also shines from a technical standpoint. Lighting, in particular, is phenomenally 
 well done, from the way your boosters illuminate your mech in the night to the way billowing clouds 
 of dark, oily smoke blot out the sun and darken the environment. Particle effects look really good, 
 and in a first for the series, the game's environments are fairly destructible, as buildings will 
 partially collapse under heavy fire and certain environments break apart. Further, the frame rate 
 is for the most part rock steady, but it does drop to a crawl if you're given a rocket-barrage 
 sandwich. And this will occasionally happen, as there's definitely a lot more ordnance flying every 
 which way than before.  

  Armored Core 4's graphics do have a few notable faults, however. Namely, though collision detection 
 is spot-on when it comes to enemies, your mech's lower extremities and weapons will occasionally 
 clip through particularly hilly areas of the environments. Also, destroyed mechs and other debris 
 pretty much disappear as soon as they're destroyed, which means you can't take pride in your wake 
 of carnage after the fact. Lastly, this game is meant to be played in high definition, as it's 
 here that the lighting and detail on the mechs really pop. In standard def, the graphics are still 
 decent, but their impact is greatly diminished. The Xbox 360 version and PS3 version are functionally 
 the same in nearly every respect, but you will find that, surprisingly, the Xbox 360 version will 
 look a tad better, particularly in atmospheric particle effects. Otherwise, the only real difference 
 between the two is the 360's achievement points.  

  Overall, AC4 is a much faster, more visceral experience than previous games in the series. The 
 foremost reason behind this is the completely redesigned boost mechanic. In the past, you were 
 given a fairly limited amount of energy that quickly drained every time you engaged your boost, 
 and if you weren't careful, it would bottom out and you'd be left to plod along as you waited for 
 it to recharge. In AC4, that design has pretty much been tossed out the window, because now if 
 you aren't boosting, you're either dead or soon will be. Your energy now drops only when you go 
 vertical or when you activate the game's new boost option, the quick boost. Quick boost eats up 
 a chunk of energy in exchange for a burst of speed in whichever direction you indicate, and it 
 acts as an evasive maneuver or as a way to cover a lot of ground quickly. Even better, you no longer 
 need to worry about overheating or bottoming out your energy meter, as the coolant mechanic has 
 been removed.  

  With those shiny new boosters, you're going to want space to really cut loose, and Armored Core 
 4 accommodates. In the past, you were limited by a fairly rigid boundary limit, where you could 
 go only so high or so far before warning lights flashed and you were charged with dereliction. 
 While those limits still exist, they're not anywhere near as confining as they were. So you can 
 now fly to the top of towering structures and rain death down below, engage in prolonged aerial 
 combat with helicopters or other zippy mechs, or speed through a sprawling city, pausing only to 
 bust up a cadre of simpletons who have a mind to bring you down -- as if.  

  The logical progression of 'roiding up the graphics and opening up the environments to accommodate 
 for the faster and more furious gameplay is to design missions that speak directly to these assets. 
 The storyline plays out over the course of 37 missions, and these are kept fresh and varied by 
 giving you objectives other than just kill-'em-all, though you'll occasionally do that, too. Whether 
 it's blasting out of the sky waves and waves of self-guided missiles, working your way through 
 pitch-black night to destroy an experimental weapon, or just going one-on-one with a highly skilled 
 enemy merc, the action is intense and satisfying. Strategy is more heavily emphasized, as well, 
 and if you fail on your first attempt, you'll typically have a good idea on which weapons loadout 
 to try on your next attempt. And really, it's often just as fun to fail as it is to succeed. This 
 is because From Software has done a significantly better job of reducing the frustration level 
 of many missions by making failures feel less arbitrary. There's always a sense that when you fail, 
 it is your fault, not that of the game being cheap.  

          Prolonged airborne excursions are just one of the new ways to explode enemy robots.    

  An unfortunate holdover from previous AC games is that missions are still entirely too short, lasting 
 no longer than five minutes and occasionally less than 60 seconds. It can be absurdly unsatisfying 
 to find that you've accomplished your mission just as the action was heating up. What's worse is 
 that you're often still in quite a precarious situation when many missions end, so it seems as 
 though a good many of them could have been quite naturally extended by requiring you to escape 
 after you've infiltrated. As it is, they end with an abrupt invulnerability and an accompanying 
 "Please return to base" message once you complete your objective.  

  Aside from revamping the boost mechanic and opening up the environments, the other significant 
 alteration to the Armored Core formula is primal armor. Cores now come equipped with PA, which 
 is a force field of sorts and is fueled by that which fuels many an ardent Metal Gear Solid devotee, 
 Kojima. In AC4, Kojima is a recently developed technology that acts essentially like nuclear radiation, 
 as it decimates the environment and kills anyone not insulated from it. But, it is highly effective 
 as a military instrument, so in true-to-life fashion, it's been implemented on a wide scale. The 
 primal armor system works quite well, and it adds an interesting dynamic, especially to fights 
 against enemy Nexts, which are the advanced mech suits that you and the other skilled mercenaries 
 pilot. Weapons now have a PA piercing and PA reduction stat, and these significantly play into 
 your loadout choices when you square off against one of your fellow mechanized killers.     
 

   

  If one thing can be said about the AC series, it's that From Software has no qualms with tweaking 
 the assembly interface. Throwing together a mech and seeing how it runs has traditionally been 
 the meat of the Armored Core experience, and to the potential dismay of series vets and the unbridled 
 glee of everyone else, this aspect of the game has been slightly deemphasized. To begin with, you're 
 no longer given a stock mech and a fistful of cash and then left to your own devices. Schematics 
 are the name of the game this time around, and they're essentially prebuilt mechs that have their 
 attack, mobility, defense, and armor points rating numerically represented. This means you can 
 jump right into a fully functional mech that is already well on its way to matching your play style. 
 The tweaking process has subsequently been streamlined by combining the shopping and assembly interfaces. 
 Initially, this can be quite confusing because you don't automatically equip an item once you buy 
 it, and items that you sell aren't automatically unequipped. So if you leave the garage with an 
 item you no longer own equipped, you'll be prompted to purchase that item (or items) without being 
 told what it is, exactly, you're about to buy. This can be especially frustrating if you don't 
 have enough cash for the purchase, because you then have to go back through each item to see what 
 it is you forgot to equip. You quickly learn to keep better track of what you're doing, but initially 
 it can cause a serious headache.  

          Armored Core 4 doesn't skimp on the massive explosions.     

  But on the whole, customization 
 has been made more transparent to newcomers. Unlike the baffling 20-odd helmets and 50 or more 
 weapons that were immediately thrown at you in the last installment of this series, equipment is 
 now slowly unlocked as you progress through the game's chapters. Your choices, then, are fairly 
 limited in the beginning, which makes it significantly easier to compute how the various parts 
 fit together. It is a bit of a drag, though, that while there is a good number of new types of 
 weapons that eventually become available, what are unlocked are mostly just upgraded versions of 
 what you already have. Also, AC4 still relies too heavily on ambiguous abbreviations for certain 
 stats. Between your EN, KP, PA, FCS, and FRS, it can get pretty confusing. A lot of the finer tuning 
 can now be done automatically, which also helps. For instance, instead of being awarded points 
 to individually tune parts, you are now allocated fractional regulation system (FRS) points by 
 completing the game's chapters, as well as completing the game's data packs. Giving the CPU control 
 here won't be as efficient as fine-tuning everything yourself, but it certainly simplifies the 
 process and makes the whole system more approachable.  

  A coherent storyline has never factored into the Armored Core equation, and such is also the case 
 in AC4. The world is once again under the totalitarian control of a group of superpower companies, 
 and humanity is subjugated to the group's will. Some folks aren't keen on this type of existence, 
 so you're hired by a small colony and allied with an antiquated company to essentially wage guerrilla 
 warfare on the major companies and take them out. It's pretty much a mess, but whatever -- you're 
 a mercenary. It's your job to shut your mouth, do what you're told, and get paid if you survive. 
 As it pertains to the game, the story justifies your globetrotting because events transpire on 
 a global level and your missions aren't limited to a specific region. In fact, you'll regularly 
 bounce from America's verdant fields to Antarctica's frigid ice caps to the sea-swallowed former 
 Shanghai. The story is told with the same aloof and chilling tone that characterizes the series, 
 where neutralizing equates to slaughtering and casualties are rated on an acceptable versus unacceptable 
 scale. The actors voicing the story do a uniformly excellent job, with an erudite-sounding narrator 
 between chapter cutscenes and an emotive mission debriefer whose tone gradually shifts from professional 
 to emotionally invested.  

  The soundtrack has also gotten some much-needed attention this time around, as it sloughs off the 
 techno-heavy beats of many of the prior games and replaces them with some really standout tunes, 
 including a truly epic chanting-chorus ensemble with a wailing guitar and heavy drum beats. It's 
 also nice that it accompanies rather than trumps the action, and plays at a subdued din as the 
 sound effects from the environment and your weapons scream to the forefront. Given how well the 
 soundtrack is integrated into the game, and because it just rocks, it's a shame there isn't much 
 variety to it, as there only seem to be four or five different tracks.  

          Explosions? Here, have another.     

  Aside from the storyline, you've got data packs 
 and online multiplayer to flesh out the experience. Data packs are unlocked over the course of 
 the game, and they essentially replace the arena from past games. They pit you against top-ranked 
 Nexts, and when you defeat these pilots, you're rewarded with their schematic, emblem, and FRS, 
 as well as achievement points in the Xbox 360 version. These fights can be extremely challenging, 
 and you'll probably need to do extensive customization to hold your ground against these opponents. 
 Online battling has been a much-anticipated feature for longtime AC followers. After all, what's 
 the point of spending hours upon hours devising color schemes and weapon loadouts for your mech 
 if you can't blow the mind of some easily impressionable youth in Xenia, Ohio? Unfortunately, online 
 play doesn't offer much to get excited about. There are only a few different maps, and the ones 
 available are tantamount to open, featureless fields. Your gameplay options are also severely limited, 
 as you'll have access to only the bare-bones one-on-one to four-on-four matches, as well as a four- 
 or eight-player battle royal. The action itself holds up quite nicely, however, and it can be a 
 lot of fun to humiliate your friends by reducing their pride and joy to a flaming heap of scrap. 
 You're also able to trade schematics online, but there doesn't seem to be away to check out other 
 people's schematics without freeing up your FRS to accommodate the other person's settings, which 
 is a massive hassle. All in all, the online functionality is a fairly lackluster effort, but at 
 least it lays the groundwork for future installments.  

  Between the streamlined assembly process, the retooled control scheme, and the junking of the cooling 
 system and other mechanics that slowed down the action, Armored Core 4 is far more approachable 
 game than previous installments in the series. Its heavier emphasis on arcade-style mech-on-mech 
 action also means that its enhanced fast-paced action will appeal to a more mainstream audience. 
 And even though it isn't as complex as it once was, there's still plenty to obsess over for the 
 hardcore lot. Suffice it to say, yes, really, this is a very good mech combat game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fish0
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 20, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  When i picked this game up, itt looked as if it would be alright so i thought i would give it a 
 go. As soon as i entered the game, I was amazed by the spectacular cutscene at the begining. As 
 soon as i started playing i was let down. The contorls were confusing everything was moving to 
 fast and i had no clue about what was going on. When i finally got to add mods and etc to my mech, 
 it was way to confusing. There was nothing to tell me what i needed to do, what was recommended 
 and wat the differences between the stuff i could buy was. The money system was weird and everything 
 about the game felt as if it was rushed.
  
  The bottom line is that i wish i could get my 120 dollars back when i bought the game, and im never 
 planning on buying another mech based game ever again. If your a big fan of watching the same cutscene 
 over and over again be my guest and get the game, but seriously now, i would never suggest renting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novarelf
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  no wonder Sega failed on epic proportions.
  Confusing money and buy system. Lots of load screens. Bad translation from japanese to english 
 or just plain hard to follow.
  
  Rental at best, save your money.
  user hud hard to follow, health, ammo, energy, shield, lots to learn if you never played a game 
 like this before and definately not worth the effort to learn it.
  got stuck in menu's not knowing what parts to buy, wouldnt tell you what was needed or even let 
 me back a few screens to "undo" whatever it was I did to mod the mech, eventually never figured 
 it out had to reset the power on the system which lost out because the game didnt auto save the 
 first missions that I completed. Had to start all over. finally gave up, pushing eject disc was 
 the funnest part of this game.
  ... to each his own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffins47
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Well one of the greatest about armored core 4 is the custimization you could have a quick alige 
 ninja robot or a giant robot with grenade launchers, laser cannons and more. but along with custimization 
 comes alot of rules like weight or energy use. also the paint jobs can be quite cool since you 
 have a variet of colors to choose from. then there is emblems which i have fun designing a nice 
 fluer de li with spears. now for some of the bad things about armored core 4 it's missions are 
 way to short they are fun but it could use some more content. but don't get me wrong some are hard. 
 for example there is mission where you have to desytory some forces in the dark when out of no 
 where a flying fortess comes out a attacks you. the missions do have a hard mode which includes 
 some more emenies. one where you have to fight four nexts at the same time. also the story is not 
 good it is like a political war story which is very confusing. all and all this a great game for 
 those who like seeing things blow up to the moon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Hi dears.....
  
  Armored core 4 has variety of great features and some of bad thins besides.
  
  First of all 
 this game was designed to be like a machines war, that is you are playing like a machine and not 
 a human. Some of players may find it pooring since it play style is not usual to other games. Also, 
 some players may face difficultties with control at the beginning of the game.
  
  
  Talking about weapons, this game provides lots of weapons that can be used to take down your enemies. 
 There is a regular gun (machine gun) which can fire rapid bullets in a second. Moreover, there 
 are different kind of rockets available for more exciting killing. Beside these two weapons there 
 are different ones and you can switch and test them by using L1 or R1.
  
  
  What I really hate about this game is the graphics. They are not very clear. When I played this 
 game for the first time, I thought that I am playing PS2. Sound effects are great especially when 
 you are firing rockets you will notice the sound very clear. 
  
  
  Graphics machines were very great, but the environment where you are playing in not that much good. 
 Talking about machines, you will notice when you fire a rocket it is clear and great till it hit 
 the enemy.
  
  
  For new players, they will have to spend more time to learn the full control of the game. Also, 
 you need to be patient since there is switching from one weapon to another. 
  
  
  
  Overal this game is good. I rated it to 7 out of 10.
  
  
  
  cheers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ckh34rt
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment of the Armored Core series marries the lightning-fast action of the Zone 
 of the Enders games with the customization and sheer explosiveness of the Armored Core's. It's 
 always fun to blow things up at high speed in my opinion. The host of intense new weapons makes 
 that possible. The voice acting, unlike previous AC's, is on  point and believable. The soundtrack 
 fits the action pretty well too. Finally, the enemies are new and improved, giving the player a 
 fair challenge.
  
  As a veteran, however, I can say that the bare mechanics of the game take a little getting used 
 to. As I've said before, the action is fast  paced, a first for the series. The new setup is more 
 streamlined than in the past games, so while it may be easier to navigate, again it takes a while 
 to get used to it. While veterans of the series might not feel entirely comfortable with the new 
 engine, it quickly grows on you and you familiarize yourself with the gameplay pretty quickly. 
 For a newcomer into the AC mythology, it's only that much easier. 
  
  This game also has a replay value consistent with the series. After the first playthrough, you've 
 only completed about 60% of the game. There's still the "hard mode" that needs to be beaten and 
 a bunch of parts and weapons that you need to get. It will be a long time before your completion 
 rate is 100%.
  
  To reiterate, AC4 is definitely the best game in the series, and one of the best in the genre. 
 It's definitely worth having in your repertoire. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is the latest mech game to land on next-gen systems, and after the mixed fortunes 
 of stable mates Chrome Hounds and Gundam Target in Sight we're in need of a good one. Mechs, for 
 the uninitiated, are in essence huge robots. Usually taking a vaguely human form and operated by 
 a pilot in their head or at the centre of their body, they are mostly bipedal, and always covered 
 in huge armoured plates and enough firepower to make an Apache attack helicopter look like a crop 
 duster.
  
  In-game, Armored Core 4 is an action title, far closer to the likes of Zone of the Enders than 
 Front Mission 3. Consisting of a linear series of missions that mostly fall into the 'kill everything 
 that moves' category, an easily learnt control system means most levels start with you in the thick 
 of the action, unleashing weapons from your shoulders and hands as you lose yourself in a blizzard 
 of dust and explosions.
  
  As well as your lumbering, hydraulic-powered walk, you are equipped with a standard of fantastical 
 mech technology: the jetpack. This allows you to skate over land and water like the robot in the 
 infamous Citron adverts, hover and turn through the air - where you'll spend around half of your 
 time, raining down hell on the mechanical fiends below.
  
  The missions are rather short, but their brevity means you can jump from location to location quickly, 
 even if this only makes for an aesthetic change. The learning curve is a fairly steep one, but 
 Armored Core 4 is rarely punishing, and is nowhere near as difficult or fiddly as Steel Battalion.
 
  
  In general the action is enjoyable and lively, if a little repetitive, but is nicely broken up 
 by the strategic sections between missions, which see you spending your payment for completing 
 a level on customising your mechs for the next battle. A huge range of parts become available as 
 you progress, from an array of bulky weapons, legs, arms, heads, and circuitry, all of which affect 
 your armour strength, agility, speed and a host of other specs.
  
  It must be said that this is a fairly number-heavy tool, but it is still simple enough to use at 
 a level that will get you through the game with a sense that you have created and adapted your 
 selection of mechs off your own back.
  
  However, for the mech obsessive, the customisation options have a great deal of depth, which easily 
 rivals the intricacy of Gran Turismo 4's engine tinkering fanaticism. From minute adjustments to 
 the stability of each limb of your hulking robot to the intimate tuning of each weapon, everything 
 can be fiddled with almost infinitely. Thankfully, auto-tune options exist for the more casual 
 player.
  
  Even the most slap-dash mech pilot, though, will find it hard to resist the aesthetic meddling 
 that is available. From giving your robot a neon pink and green camouflaged coating with bright 
 blue mechanisms and yellow joints, to placing logos carefully over your Wii-white war walker, a 
 plethora of skin customisation is on offer. There are also dozens of limbs and body parts available, 
 from slender, futuristic arms, through to steam-punk, Victoriana torsos.
  
  Of course, different body parts affect the functionality of your mech, but you soon gather enough 
 pieces to allow plenty of scope for diehard mech fans to sit creating their own mechanical flights 
 of fantasy to toy with in the game's testing mode.
  
  Over and above all the options available, what is really important is that any in-game garage adds 
 something to the gameplay experience, and in Armored Core 4 this is certainly the case. Simply 
 choosing a weighty pair of legs for an air-bound mission, or an ill choice of bazooka over sniper 
 rifle, can dramatically alter the way your mech behaves, meaning you really must build the robot 
 you need for each mission.
  
  A cursory multiplayer mode is included, with a focus on death matches and online battles, meaning 
 you can test the worth of your hand-built mech against international pilots. There is little exciting 
 or new here, but there is the option to trade match data, emblems, and even entire motorised monstrosities, 
 which adds some longevity to the game.
  
  Though far from revolutionary or innovative, Armored Core 4 is without doubt a playable title, 
 but it isn't without its faults. Though the animation and detail on the mechs themselves is beautiful, 
 each level is as barren and soulless as it is jagged and rough. The story too, is a let down, and 
 despite some hilariously well-spoken English accents in the vein of Patrick Stewart performing 
 Shakespeare, the convoluted plot is both badly written and uninteresting, and filled with stereotypical 
 tales of capitalism, terrorism and politics.
  
  The game's biggest fault though, is the way it cancels any missions instantly if you veer too far 
 from the marked battlefield. On the ground this is easy to avoid, but high in the air, amidst a 
 colossal dogfight, it is too easy to slip from a level without noticing until the moment the screen 
 fades to black.
  
  Ultimately, Armored Core 4 offers nothing we haven't seen in Mech Warrior or Zone of the Enders, 
 aside from a little next-gen polish that is of mixed success. However, it is still a very enjoyable 
 action romp, which also contains plenty of accessible customisation and strategy, and has a feel 
 about it that screams hardcore, without demanding players trade in their social life for Achievement 
 points and a monitor-kissed, pale skin tone.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Overall: 7
  
  
  The good:
  
  - The genre's most accessible title in years.
 
  - Great customisation that affects gameplay.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Some rather bland graphics
  - Too easy to auto-quit a mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game, when it first started out. Was slow, and felt repetitive. But the from software people 
 finally came together and made a mech game that should be for everyone that likes fast paced heavy 
 metal warfare. The customization is endless, even if it does cost a little too much using credits.. 
 but hey, they let you pick between quite a few mechs to start out with.
  the new quick boost (IS AWESOME) And that's where this game really shines. You can overboost like 
 in previous games though. as I write this review on my portable alien pc, at wal-mart. ( I hope 
 they have mgs4) 
  I am ready to buy it. I just took the time to write a review about a game that I have been playing 
 since 10 years ago. Man it brings back memories... And this game is really great, I'm sorry I don't 
 have much time to write the review. I have 11 minutes till it's time to buy. But this game is great 
 overall:
  graphics: 9/10
  gameplay: 10/10
  tilt: 8/10
  value: 10/10
  
  Hope you all have a good one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown37
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Armore core 4 improves greatly over its predescessors, and in every way, though it does have a 
 few problems that keep it from being a must buy for people not into the mecha genre
  
  Graphics- This game is simply amazing looking. The ac's are very sharp, the backgrounds are detailed, 
 and the particle effects are stunning. The colors are very bright and vivid, and its just an overall 
 pretty game
  
  Sound- The games sound is not as solid as the graphics. While the sound effects are average, the 
 sound track is just terrible IMO, and is far worse than previous ac games, still this is just my 
 opinion
  
  Gameplay- this is where the game shines. The gameplay has been completely overhauled from previous 
 AC games and is much funner. It no longer takes energy to boost (some exceptions) and the heat 
 has been completely taken out, plus the quick boost is an excellent addition. The controls take 
 a while to get used to, but it is completely customizable.
  
  Multiplayer-this is another not so great part of ac 4. while fun, the multiplayer is not put together 
 very well. its hard to find matches unless you know the people your playing with, and the "texting" 
 feature is very limited to hello and Im changing acs.
  
  Overall this game is a very good first try for next gen platforms. The game is solid except for 
 some occasional lag issues and the bad soundtrack and multiplayer. But 1 or 2 more games from now 
 after everything is fixed and refined, this franchise should shine and possibly be a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Armoured Core 4, I remember seeing comparison shots of this game on the 360 and PS3 before 
 I got either consoles.
  
  This is not a bad game for several reasons. One, it combines the best of the West (clunky) and 
 the East (agile) mechs, just like the Gamespot review mentioned. The soundtrack is great, it is 
 catchy and by default, at the right volume. It's not drowning out the action but it's not too tiny 
 as to you can't hear it. The buildings in the game, after enough has bombarded them, they will 
 go down, nice destructible environment.
  
  The argument can be made that this isn't a true mech game. The last mech game that I played was 
 Mechwarrior 2: Mercenaries, yep, back in the day when 200 MHz was a big deal. So compared to that, 
 I can see why. In AC4, you can't customize your mech as much, for example, you can't add heatsinks 
 and the HUD isn't extremely detailed. Missions are also longer, so when you complete a mission 
 and survive, even if it's after countless tries, there's a feeling of great accomplishment. You 
 also have access to different mechs in the early stages of the game, that opens up new avenues 
 for you to fight, compared to you having to buy mechs yourself. Hardcore mech fans should take 
 note of this, that it's much more arcade like.
  
  The graphics on this game is blurry. To me that means the graphics suck, but supposedly it plays 
 into how the world has deteriorated after countless wars. Even if this was the case, the set the 
 mood, the graphics were still a letdown for me. The missions in the game is very short, almost 
 like a series of quick-missions stringed together. You can see the damage that you've done, but 
 after a minute it disappears. 
  
  All in all, good arcade-like fun (something you can jump into right away without too much work) , 
 but if you're big on story-lines, graphics, or realism, then you're better off passing up this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bumfinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Armored Core 4, the most recent incarnation of the niche mecha-action game series Armored Core, 
 has quite a few changes to the traditional formula that AC games are known for. 
  
  First things first, the graphics have of course been updated quite a bit from the previous AC games 
 on the PS2, the mechs themselves look amazing on a HD TV/Monitor, but the environments can be underwhelming 
 at times, with a bit too many re-used terrain textures. The sound quality seemed decent to fairly 
 good, though that has never been a issue with AC games, and hopefully will never become one. 
 
  
  On to more important matters, Armored Core 4 takes a big step forward for the series in terms of 
 improving and giving a face-lift to the various Menu's and sub-menu's that consist of things such 
 as the Garage, Assembly, etc. In layman's terms, it's much easier to buy parts and equip them, 
 and several features of past AC games were removed to make this installment have a lower learning 
 curve. This was done most likely in hopes of a surge of "new gamers" buying the game. Unfortunately 
 what they did was in all probability anger some of the die hard AC fans with these changes to gameplay, 
 Boosters are of less importance in this game, and their seems to be a reduced number of parts in 
 total as well, allowing for less overall diversity. 
  
  As far as the single-player campaign goes, it is fairly straightforward, in each Chapter, there 
 are multiple missions listed that you can accept, it's usually recommended you go in the order 
 they are listed, but you can do them in whatever order you want. This game, like most other AC 
 games, still doesn't give much advice on what types of equipment/parts would be the best choice, 
 it leaves you to find out for yourself, so it's basically a guess and check system. The missions 
 vary dramatically in difficulty, some being easy as pie, and some being crazy hard. 
  
  Unfortunately the Multiplayer, however awesome as the idea of AC online is, is a letdown in many 
 ways, yes you can fight against multiple players, but for one, there aren't that many playing online 
 at any one time, and 2. most of the people your going to go up against are DIE hard, fans of the 
 series and have been playing one AC game or another for years, and you will probably find that 
 they already have all the best combinations for parts and equipment, + are extremely skilled in 
 AC4's combat. This all meaning that us normal players don't stand a chance in in Hell. 
  
  Overall, this game is a worthy title, if for nothing other than you can battle with giant mech's 
 in High Def with a friend or two, and enjoy the great customizability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSasuke08
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  You can tell as soon as you start the game that 505 went to alot of trouble making this game so 
 detailed i have played the earlier in the series of armoured core this one is deffinatly the best 
 so far the graphics are next generation graphics the areas are very detailed althoug has soon as 
 you destroy a part of a wall or something it changes back to normal as soon as you walk near it. 
 the missions were too easy but when you fight other AC's it brightens up the game.
  
  Once i had completed it i figured it was time to prove myself to the world how good i was (been 
 excited that you could finally battle online) online to be let down because of were i lived. Apparently 
 505 Games has messed something up along the line and a few people in England get it online but 
 i was one of the unfortunate ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimped
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok, 1st off let me say that I have been playing AC since the ps1. there are some changes to this 
 game from the past games in the series. i wont bore you with that, what i have to say is that this 
 is NOT what AC4 should have been. the menus are confusing, the missions are way to short and timed! 
 150 seconds?! I hate timers in ANY game! but in AC4 thats just plain bad and sad. it's so far out 
 of whack on balance of levels newbies are going to be put off and vets are going to be pissed off! 
 In the second mission "sharpshooter" you can be killed in under 30 seconds. This isn't right! There 
 should be a gradual increase in difficulty and navigating the build menus could and should have 
 been much easier. In some games you can forgive the little stuff if it's fun to play but this one 
 has way to many problems. I'm guessing it was rushed out to make a buck. If your a fan of AC then 
 get the demo 1st if your a newbie then just pass on this unless you find my copy in the bargain 
 bin.
  "one used turd, $10 bucks" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azadiscool
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, I know that this game was expected to be great and all, but its not even close to the hype.
 
  
  Since I have no positives that come to mind I'll just start off with the negatives.
  
  This game is extremely hard, not to mention boring. I could get to level 3 or so but after the 
 short and repetitive missions of levels 1 and 2, I couldn't stand this game and stopped playing 
 as abruptly as I started, also it has no Dualshock 3 support, which is a huge disappointment. Also 
 the multiplayer is stupid because one on one is boring, and learning/teaching how to play is so 
 hard it isn't funny, its pretty unfunny, really. I have tried time and time again, but I have never 
 played online because no one is ever online, which is sad.
  
  The customization is nice though, but it wasn't until I was 5 hours into the game that I figured 
 out that I could sell my parts to get new ones. Also changing colors is time consuming as one has 
 to choose a primary and secondary color for every part, and there are, like, 40 parts. And no six-axis 
 use is also kind of disappointing.
  
  So all in all, this game is horrible, and, unlike in my FIFA 08 review, I was not exaggerating 
 or being critical at all. So at this point in the review, one would say that AC4 is only for hardcore 
 AC fans, but, no, I can't suggest it to them either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a huge disappointment to me. I have played Armored Core 2 and 3, and liked them, but 
 was incredible disappointed with 4. It has good graphics, which the previous titles never had, 
 but all you ever see is buildings in the distance, and your own mech. Little red boxes pop up around 
 enemy mechs, and then you hit the fire missile button and the little red boxes disappear. Eventually 
 you earn a ton of cash, and even though the game is still easy, you go to upgrade it and see if 
 you can get some cool stuff. It is nice that it only shows parts that you have unlocked, and not 
 the overwhelming numbers from the last games, but now there are not actual limits to weight of 
 heat, but bad things happen if you become unbalanced, but it doesn't tell you that, it just leaves 
 you to go into combat to figure it out. I still don't quite understand what is going on with the 
 upgrade system. Anyways, that crucial flaw makes the game fun for the first hour or two and then 
 it becomes stale and incredibly boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tknuth55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  As my first Armored Core game I wasn't sure what to expect, but it seemed like a cool idea, and 
 it still is, however, the game doesn't live up to it.
  
  During the missions you'll soon notice something, you never really see the other "ACs" for more 
 than a second before a series of rockets and machine gun fire makes your shield light up the whole 
 screen while you just lock on and hope to kill it before it kills you, because, seriously, who 
 likes to lose? One down side, the robot's shattered remains won't even be there so that you can 
 look and imagine what the robot MIGHT have looked, unless that is it was the big one you were after, 
 then you'll just fade out and go back to the game's hub screen.
  
  The graphics to me seemed pretty smooth, though not on the level of some of the front-line games 
 today. That's all there really is to say about that.
  
  One other pet peeve of mine was that the game boasted letting you loose inside of a city, well... kinda. 
 You get about half of a New York neighborhood to romp around in. A major plus for the game would 
 come if they let you play in massively open areas.
  
  I'm giving this one a definite rent, and buy if big robot is your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaren4355
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  One player seems pretty solid. Not much change except graphics from the old ones and split screen 
 is crap.
  Crazy Dan says "Very disappointed with multi player. Also second player cannot use mechs that player 
 1 has unlocked. Huge disappointment."
  The menu was confusing at best and lacked the options of a game this new. This game was only slightly 
 better than Castlevania 64 would be if released now still for the same system and same graphics. 
 All in all, Armored Core 4 seemed like a good game til I got it home. Me and my buddy were quite 
 disappointed in the overall presentation of the game on what is an amazing system with enough power 
 to do much more than this game has done with it. Armored Core 4, although I only rented it (thank 
 god) , makes me glad I didn't waste more money and makes me wish I'd stuck with Duke Nukem 3d on 
 my old Pentium 75.
  P. S. - Megaman 2 rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightrise
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I really can't say much about this title is that to me Armored Core 2 is possibly the best and 
 only Armored Core I've played and hopefully the last. This time the graphics are nice since its 
 next gen and you do ALOT of changes to your mech over time. The bad thing is that missions are 
 boring and all you do is protect something or defeat a target or two.
  The controls to newcomers may seem confusing and difficult to work with but with practice they 
 tend to be fair. Enviroments are blanned and not pretty to look at. Unless you are a true Armored 
 Core fan you might want to take a look at this but if this is your first time playing the series 
 start of with a different one because the others are pretty cheap nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this was a fun game. And if you like mech games then this is the way to go. 
 But it just seems like they took Armored Core 1 and put new skin on it to make it look pretty. 
 I mean literally nothing has changed about it since its birth on the first playstation system. 
 That was my only problem with it and I think that alone is enough to take 3 points off my score 
 for this game. As for the game itself, yes you get to build your own robot. And I'm not just talking 
 about picking out parts for it, you literally get to select nearly every detail about its design. 
 There are plenty of parts to choose from as well as premade mechs so you can make whatever fits 
 your taste. If you like bulky powerful mechs, you can do that. If you like light but fast mechs, 
 you can do that. If you like a balance both ways, you can do that. The missions do seem overly 
 short, but nonetheless are still fun. Combat is just what you'd expect in a giant robot fight scene 
 at the movies. You can fly circles around your enemy on the ground, or take the battle onto a rooftop. 
 It's difficult, but possible, to fight in the air also. I'd say rent this game if I were you. Play 
 it for a few days until it wears itself out, and then return it so your only 8 bucs or so short 
 (better than 60) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  You do a mission, fight some ACs, and end up doing something very big in the end. For us who have 
 played AC sinc ethe begining, this was a shock and had to get used to it. Sound is good. Not much 
 soudn to think up of. Its guns and stuff. Bang boom ya know. Graphics are pretty good too. Yeah 
 there are some places where it could be inproved but pretty good otherwise. Other than that it 
 is a pretty good game. Oh yea if have dis game n u think your're good dem my PS3 id online is AceTheProblem09
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcocacolax
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be another siquel to some of the sucky armoured core games. But thats wat i thought! 
 this one is kinda different from the rest the graphics are better explosions are better Mobile 
 suits look better i dont know the real name of em but yah alot graphice updates have been threw 
 the game. Just like the rest there is a story mode going round doing missions earning some cash 
 some of em can be fun some can be plan old %$&@. But overall i enjoed it for about 20 hrs i beat 
 it in a day to tell the honest truth but yah can fight in some arena bussiness and stuff so yah 
 keeeps yah running for a bit. If you looking for a robot game to hack or slash or blow moblie suits 
 up i reccamed this game cause i dident really like chrome hounds and all of its training SH*$ so 
 yah go with this instade of chrome hounds . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaotic-Soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is a game that can be either really good or really bad in people's eyes. The single 
 player campaign starts off easy, but then gets nearly impossible Also, each mission is never more 
 than 5 or 7 minutes long. The objectives are can really all be classified in a few groups: kill 
 a boss; kill all enemies; kill a specific target; or protect something until help arrives. Armored 
 Core makes up for this however with blazing fast action that never stops. This is mostly do to 
 the fact that theres multiple boosts for what ever you need; over boosts for covering long distances 
 quickly; quick boosts for avoiding attacks; and some other boost for flying. The customization 
 is really deep, but in a way, a little too deep. Theres so many to choose from, and little indication 
 whether theyre actually stronger, that it is hard to choose what weapon you want. It is usually 
 easier to choose a weapon and just get a better weapon when the upgrade for it becomes available.
 
  
  The multiplayer was a huge letdown for me. I thought it would be great fun with 4v4 online. However, 
 when i tried to join a match, i kept getting a screen that said "no games found" The odd time you 
 can get a game going, usually 1v1 and it is fun while it lasts, which usually isnt a long time. 
 Overall, Armored Core 4 is a game that you shouldn't spend $60 on unless a) u either like the Armored 
 Core series and mech fighting games in general or b) you dont know what else to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is the newest installation of the Armored Core series and is also the first Armored 
 Core to come to the Playstation 3. Being the first onto the new consoles gives 2 different expectations 
 to most people one being amazing graphics and visual effects and the other being relatively mild 
 gameplay due to them being new to this system and arent used to making games for it. Now not everyone 
 has these opinions for the first games that come out on new consoles and defiantly not all games 
 follow these guidelines that I see appear in many next-gen new games. The reason I brought this 
 up is because it is the first next-gen review I have made and this one fits it like a glove.
  
  The reason Armored Core 4 fits is because it lacks customization and gameplay two important 
 functions in a game. Although the game does have customization in fact more than some games but 
 half of the Armored Core games were customization and with the limited amount that 4 provides it 
 dampers the fun that customizing your core and fighting your friends and enemies provides. Most 
 Armored Cores have a very large library of parts, weapons, and other items to pick from when building 
 and advancing through the game to customize your core to your specific play style from reverse-joint 
 legs and dual swords to tank treads and a million missiles. This one however had a limited amount 
 of weapons and a very limited amount of parts I literally used almost all of my original parts 
 that I started with throughout the entire game. Also the gameplay of this game was lacking for 
 the most part although the gameplay was fun and it was entertaining it didnt hold you like more 
 good games do the lack of storyline and the short amount of time it takes to complete the game 
 takes a large amount of fun out of the game it is rather depressing. No matter how fun a game is 
 if you only play it for 10-15 hours there isnt all that much that you can do to save it.
  
  The other reason it fits so well to my cookie cutter next-gen game build is that the graphics 
 although barely using any of the Playstation 3s capabilities it looks fantastic and beautiful. 
 The visual effects in Armored Core 4 were nothing less than great from the explosions to shadows 
 to your cores everything looked great and was well deserving of the title of next-gen. Although 
 amazing graphics cannot make a game excel it requires a lot more than that to accomplish a great 
 game in the video game industry these days. The graphics and sound quality of the game make it 
 great to watch and play but it isnt enough to turn this story-less game to greatness. Big fans 
 of the Armored Core series might still think it to be a great game but in reality it was an upset 
 and it proved that it had the potential to be a lot better even though it didnt achieve the potential.
 
  
  Although I hate to rate an Armored Core game so low especially one with such amazing graphics but 
 it fell quite short of expectations. I would rate the first next-gen Armored Core, Armored Core 
 4 a 7.2 out of 10 for the lackluster customization, short gameplay, and its non-existent storyline 
 although it had the graphics and potential to be a great game it fell short of expectations or 
 the average gamer and the hardcore Armored Core fans.
  
  This review will show up as a 7.0 due to Gamespot unfortunately not allowing a 7.2 to be selected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puablo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I played the AC4 demo on the PSN and enjoyed it, so I rented it and thought I may buy it. Now having 
 played it for several hours I'm not sure I want to go past a rental.
  
  A very basic explanation of the missions is that pretty much all of them last 2 to 5 minutes, about 
 60% are ultra-easy, about 30% are challenging enough to warrant multiple tries, and maybe up to 
 10% are really hard. Unfortunately there is a wayward mission here and there that has improperly 
 explained mission objectives, and you'll find yourself failing repeatedly and never understanding 
 why. Thankfully this is infrequent.
  
  The story doesn't make any sense at all, whatsoever, I think they just made up a bunch of awful 
 names and said yeah, they're at war . It makes the otherwise decent quality voice work almost painful 
 to listen to when the narrators seem overacting about a concept you have no idea about.
  
  The biggest shame is the mech reconstructing - they give you all these options to work with but 
 each option is 1. poorly described (for the most part) , and 2. extremely expensive. So it's very 
 difficult to know what it is you're buying and also not feasible to buy enough parts to really 
 have fun with the mech building. I think I would enjoy this game a lot more if I had more rebuilding 
 options opened to me, and it's not like they don't have the interface for it. You can make extensive 
 changes and save favorite loadouts to stored schematics, which would be awesome if I could actually 
 afford more than a few new parts.
  
  Ultimately I gave this a 7.5 as a throwback to GameSpot's old review guidelines that stated a 9+ 
 game should be played by everybody, an 8+ game should be played by anybody interested, and a 7+ 
 game only would appeal to fans of the genre. For fans of hot mech on mech action, you'll probably 
 love this one. Anyone else, definitely worth a rental because it IS fun, but not worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSchmee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Ok... While the gameplay is short... its not too short but could have had alot more...
  The graphics are where this masterpiece really exists.
  If it wasnt a game you would think it 
 were real.
  the Basic storyline is great but some of the missions arent that good... and some are near impossible 
 to complete...
  But besides that i think bringing armoured core 4 to next gen was a great move...
  they just 
 need a little more story and it would get that extra gold star...
  hope theres gonna be a better sequel...
  
  I dont think mecha could look any better than this... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbkkyle12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  i advise any mech fans or people who have a ps3 to get this game it would be a fine addition. but 
 there really isn't much to be said about this game and to some people that may be a problem. gg 
 gg gg gg gg gg gg gg gg ggggg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g gg g g g gg gg g g g g g g g g 
 g g g gg g g g gg g gggggggggggggggg ggggggggggggggggg g g g gg g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g gg gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game. I thought, hmm, this looks pretty good. So I played it some more. 
 Eventually, I decided that buying it wouldn't be too bad.
  
  Well, basically, I'd never played on these game before, but was instantly engrossed in it! It's 
 got very easy controls, and the game is really quite fun.
  
  I would say that if they'd made the new Transfomers game more like this, it could have been the 
 best movie tie in ever. The game is just so developed and involved.
  
  So, to start with, the controls:
  
  They feel firm, and at the same time, easy. You can just 
 leap into the game, and play it as you want.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Again, excellent, with very beautiful (for want of a better word) looking images, and a fantastic 
 frame rate.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very solid, with only a few draw backs. The levels are too short, but the gameplay does make up 
 for that, in that you have a lot of ways to complete each mission.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Again, excellent. You can be in a multiplayer game within seconds, and play for hours without getting 
 bored.
  
  Basically, this game is fantastic. And a great addition to any PLAYSTATION 3 owner's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: AC4 controls and moves great, the mechs run smooth and are easy to control. Building 
 your mech has never been funner, with smooth transitioning through the menus and specs. The Missions 
 could have been a little longer, they tend to end very quickly and cut short. Online is great, 
 with easy pick-up game style, you can jump into a battle very quickly. As far as Gameplay goes 
 i give AC4 a 8, it would have been 9 if the missions were longer.
  
  Graphics: Next-gen AC does not disapoint in the graphics department. The game looks great, and 
 very detailed. The mechs look stunning and detailed at ever point. The game just looks great in 
 motion, still shoots don't give this game justice. I give it a 9 Sound: Your AC blasting through 
 the enemy has never sounded better. The Boosters, Guns, Lasers.. you can hear everything. When 
 your AC is floating in the water you hear the water getting pushed out and you can here as your 
 AC glides through the streets. If an explosion happened around you, you'll hear it. It gets a 8 
 in this department as well.
  
  Value: Buy it used at Gamestop and try it out, if you like keep and if you don't return it. I liked 
 it and and enjoy the game very well. So go pick it up you have nothing to lose. Tilt: I enjoyed 
 it, it made me a fan of the AC series again. Well worth buying, its a keeper. and has re-play value. 
 You can build mechs for hours upon hours and enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is a game for hardcore gamers. The dificulty of controlling these machines is quite 
 high. Gameplay: THe gameplay is fun but controlling your robot while airborne can get frustrating. 
 Camera angles can easily get in the way of the fun. firing guns and missiles is always great.
 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. Level design looks crisp and clear, although each stage is very limited.
 
  
  Sound: Average, wat you would expect in an explosive game
  
  Replay value: go online (very lackluster) or play with a friend; thats about it
  
  Overall: 
 its ok, but i was sad after experiencing it. Unfortunately, i haven't touched this game in the 
 longest time, and its probably collecting dust in my basement. Missions are WAY too short (avg 
 of 2-4 mins/mission) . Storyline is all over the place (confusing) . I recommend renting this game 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matnaami
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  After watching the Transformers movie i wanted a robot and after checking that my car did not turn 
 into one I rented this game and was not disappointed. Graphics are great, sound is great, missions 
 have varied difficulties but most I found were pretty easy. get very repetitive after the chick 
 said after a mission: Get home soon or something. Other than that i would recommend this game to 
 someone who has never played any in the series (like myself) or someone who wants to build a kick 
 @ss robot. but rent it first or get the demo from the Playstation Store. It appeals to some but 
 not to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  As a true Armored Core fan i bought the game as soon as it was launched and quickly ended the missions 
 in normal mode and after a while in hard mode.
  
  Even for a series veteran like me who has played almost every Armored Core of the past, the missions 
 are ridiculously short. Thats propably the worst aspect of the game.
  
  Other than that, technically the game is above average but not in any way impressive. One important 
 change is that of the sound of gunfire which definately satisfies.
  
  The big challenge was evolution in gameplay which is thankfuly successful. The absense of heat limitations 
 is more than sweet and the whole speed-up of the game doesnt affect the piloting experience in 
 a negative way but in fact improves it.
  
  My big dissapointment until now is the lack of users to play online with.
  Costumization gives 
 this game some endurance but its value would be much more if the online multiplayer servers where 
 crowded, since the missions are practically useless.
  
  I think that this game will bring more people to the series and that it'll raise the expectations 
 for the next one. Potential is there but we need more depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  As GameSpot says, it looks better and it plays faster and those are very accurate words to describe 
 Armored Core 4. I was a bit surprised to see its rating in the low 7s though.
  
  For non AC fans.... If you have a PS3 and are looking to play a Mech Sim game, this is a great 
 game to start with. This latest version of From Software is far better that the rest, and I have 
 all of them. This game is much easier to just get into and play. Once you get interested there 
 is a lot of tweaking you can and will need to do to be successful.
  
  For AC fans... We have waited for this for a long time, its better all around. Yes there is room 
 for improvement, but this is by far the best From Software has put out for us in the Armored Core 
 universe. If you have the other AC games and were let down, do not let that stop you from picking 
 up this game!
  
  The Good: Graphics are much better, the garage is much better, the whole mission experience feels 
 better to me. The improvements in the graphics lead me to believe that the entire game is better 
 overall. At this point I'm on Chapter 3 and in the fourth mission of that chapter and the missions 
 have seemed pretty intense. They also seem to be larger in area also, a nice plus.
  
  The Bad: The stock controls have you aiming with the right stick, and firing with the right keypad, 
 thats been awkward for me to adjust to and I have not come up with a custom configuration that 
 I like better. A complaint of GameSpot is that many missions are too short. Yes some are very short, 
 but as I have had to repeat some dozens of times (Chap3 Aerial Interdiction) I'm not so sure I 
 would really want them to last much longer anyway. So the short mission time, I'm not sure is really 
 a negative.. Lastly, there isn't much information for new players to the series that they may need 
 to tweak their chosen AC to be successful at a mission.
  
  to be pithy.... Armored Core 4, big Mech, big weapons = big fun, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burge999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  what a game. The campaign although quite short is challenging so it will last a long time and now 
 your able to edit the AC rocks. Thereis so may combinations you can have with coulours weapons 
 etc and they all look awesome on the ps3. The gameplay is fast and furious with shooting and explosions 
 after every corner and ive only done 4of the mssions at the moment. The multiplayer is good with 
 a few different modes and battleroyal is the best. The only problem i would say is that hardly 
 anyone is playing the online multiplayer. I have to search through every single region and game 
 mode before i can find a game. But overall a great game for those who like the series and forthse 
 who havent played it.
  
  Xbox 360 and PS3 gamertag: burge999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBerserk
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  great offline aspect of the game but the online is horible. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . .5 . . . . . . . . . . 23. . . . . . 9.8 6.556 .56 .6
  5 6.5 6.56 5.6 5.6 5.65 .6 5.6 5.65. 56 56 56 5 3 3 1 13 65 4 847 56b 1 48 456 3 564 86 54 896558 
 . . .. . . . . .. . .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  ..
  .
  .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Armored Core! More and More! What happened to Last Raven the supposed last? well screw that we 
 got some more Armored Core!
  
  Lots of good stuff! Awesome Graphics and Fast Gameplay! Makes it have that mech smell over it! 
 Gameplay is loyal to old Armored Core games and true to the rest. Multiplayer could have had some 
 Different modes or something. Its a simple Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch (4 vs 4 or 8 Royal Rumble.) 
 Missions could use a REAL length. I've seen some of the missions beaten in 2 Minutes More or less 
 in hard mode! Customization is quite well... Impressive. Somewhat as good as Virtua Fighter 5. Oh 
 though Online and the Campaign may not have much this game is highly Addictive in its own yet simple 
 way which of course made it the awesome game it is!
  
  Armored Core Fan? Then Buy this baby! Its worth your Cash! Not a fan? Rent it its not really long 
 so you might now play it for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyle311
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is very innovative in the series, as one of many installments, it seems that Sega 
 finally got the job done. With high speed combat and your finger always on the quick boost button, 
 this game will keep you riding the tide of constant explosions and constant rigorous challenges 
 that make it so fun. I haven't played Armored Core since the second game back on the Playstation 
 One which looked decent for those days' graphics. However, with the next gen leap it seems the 
 Armored Core games have progressed with the massive graphics upgrade. The game is beautiful, the 
 detail is astonishing in many ways, and I've yet to see anything seem unchecked. More so, I can't 
 remember the last time the game lagged, even when fighting what I would expect to be sixty different 
 enemies. Playing this game will rock your world, as land blurs under your massive mech and you 
 truly feel that your in a several story tall robotic beast. And that is just one part of the game, 
 the other being dealt through menus which are very well organized. With seemingly countless options 
 and combinations, this game may stupefy even some of the most well educated rpg game players. The 
 story behind the game is told after every chapter you complete and appears quite hidden, and from 
 what I understand, this game does not share much of the story line from other games. It never the 
 less is a perfect installment for the series, bringing in both those who have been life long fans 
 of the series and those who are looking for a quick burst of action. The depth at which one can 
 play this game is unlike any. Multiplayer is truly where the game may finally catch players. Though 
 at times hard to find others playing, it is quite exerting, building something to your best ability 
 and then testing it against another's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKane100
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay - All the missions are fun yet challenging. You definitly wont finish every mission on 
 the first try. Plus, each mission briefing is cool, and really makes you feel like a Class-A mercenary. 
 The environments are life-like, the missions are fun and cool to do. Being a mercenary who's paid 
 to sit in a huge robot and blow other mechs up is the theme in AC4.
  
  Graphics - Like I said, the environments are a feast for the eye. And when you spend countless 
 hours customizing your mech, you get a sense of satisfaction when you sit back and marvel it.
 
  
  Story - Some missions are too short. I would have enjoyed some really cool missions for longer 
 than like a minute, but thats only a minor issue in a few missions.
  
  Overall - You definitely don't have to be a mech enthusiast to love this game. Its well worth your 
 money, in terms of story, graphics, fun, and time spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipoltle
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Not much to complain about. Pretty much the same storyline as all the rest. You do a mission, fight 
 some ACs, and end up doing something very big in the end. Probally the only thing i got to complain 
 about is that the controlls are very different. For us who have played AC sinc ethe begining, this 
 was a shock and had to get used to it. Sound is good i guess. Not much soudn to think up of. Its 
 guns and stuff. Bang boom ya know. Graphics are pretty good too. Yeah there are some places where 
 it could be inproved but pretty good otherwise. Other than that it is a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  My first Mech game and I LOVE IT!!! In fact Im gonna label it as one of THE best games for the 
 PS3. Say all you like but thats what I think. The graphics in this game are a huge leap from what 
 Ive seen in the previous installments. Of course that is to be expected. It is a next-gen game 
 after all!!! Destructible environments, great particle effects, a steady frame rate. what more could 
 you ask for??? It didnt take long to understand the games control scheme either. So newbies wont 
 find that hard. The Mech customizing tools are great. You can spend hours upon hours creating your 
 perfect war machine. However this game is not without its faults. After you destroy the surroundings 
 and Mechsit would have been cool if you could just take a look at the havoc you caused. But unfortunatelydestroyed 
 Mechs and buildings disappear soon after theyre destroyed. The levels arent so huge either and 
 missions finish real fast. But overall Armored Core 4 is a faster and more thrilling than most 
 games of the same genre. To me its a must have game for hardcore Mech fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 19, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Armored Core 4 has been improved. the game has destructible environments, impressive 
 explosions, better particle effects and better lighting but it has its flaws: some bland textures, clipping 
 problems and debris that dissappear. The sound has also been improved. You can hear what your mech 
 is doing and the music is now better than the previous games but there are only a few of them. 
 It is now more accessible when you are customizing your mechs. Too bad most of the parts are just 
 upgraded versions of other weapons. Missions are short and few. Some are easy and some are hard and 
 fortunately, many of the missions are action-packed. The game sucks when it comes to online and 
 offline multiplayer. There are few maps and battles only come in two flavors: team battles and free-for-all 
 fights. Most of the maps are just open areas. Armored Core 4 is a good but flawed game. Buy this game 
 if you're a fan of the series, if you like mechs or if you like customizing things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunboyx
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 8, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I have been a hard core fan of the armored core series and I was happy that it made its way on 
 to the ps3. However I can say this is not the best in the series.
  
  first off :Graphics well looking at the opening video and the game play I am a bit disapointed. 
 Im sure they could have made the game look a lot better and more closer to the vid if they had 
 tried. When you look at your ac in side its garage the detail and Graphics look as sharp as they 
 do in the video yet when you are in game play its toned down and looks only a bit better they the 
 ps2 games.
  
  next: Game play this one I was happy with. its much faster, easy to get in to and very fun. by 
 far the best controls for the series. The new energy system takes away the pain of loseing power 
 or over heating and finaly you can do a mission on water and not sink. however this kills the fact 
 that hover legs are no longer needed to do water levels.
  
  Game modes: story mode is ok. There are videos and a guy who tells you whats going on that gives 
 you an idea of the plot. foronce in armored core you know whats going on to some extent. the missons 
 are very short and theres few missions. this kinda kills. You would think that the online feture 
 would fix this... it does not. Infact online is the most disapointing thing. It feels slap on . 
 You have a choice of ranked and none. you can creat a game or look for one.... simple yes but its 
 nearly inposibale to get in to a game. Theres no list of games so you canrt see whats open and 
 when you hit search its rare to find a game. There is no messager, heck there is noo way to realy 
 chat. You get to choose a few already made frases that you can not edit. you would think if they 
 was not goinmg to give us voice chat they could have game us an online keybord but no. very disapointing. 
 the game play online atlest holds up. there is a few minor lags but its not to noticeable
  
  Ac custom: as in all armored cores. there is a lot to do to buld your own ac. agin though here 
 it feels rushed. This is by far the first ac game to have very few main body parts. There is only 
 two reverce legs, one tank and one hover. pluss many other parts. but there still is a good amont 
 to choose.
  
  The emble system has been turned in to more of a stencle process. Im not to mad at this as its 
 understandibal that this keeps people from makeing inopropiot embles for others to see online. 
 You can still make a lot of cool embles. this is just a personaly of mine but Im a biit suprised 
 that in their animal stencles theres no raven O_o odd huh?.
  
  Another nice feature that is a plus is that you can not only make embles but you can mke decalls. 
 this is a great feature to painting your ac.
  
  Sound: you got your basice weapon sonds. nothing to exciteing there. The exciteing part is the 
 new music score. unlike the old armored cores this one rocks. lots of good rock music that keep 
 you pumped, theres many that fit the game.
  
  All in all its a good game but not the best. next time I hope they put more efort in to the online 
 part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time playing a Mech game. I have to say that this game is pretty cool and fun. 
 what i relly liked about this game was the fact you can customize your very own mech and use it 
 on online matches. There are a lot of mission that are either very easy or very hard. What i didnt 
 like about this game was the lack of multiplayer maps, but i do hope they add more in the coming 
 updates. The online is great and all but if you realy a first timer on this game and jion online 
 mode at the strat you can get pwned very easily. But overall this game is the best mech game i 
 have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Armored Core 4.... well... actually ANY Armored Core game, is a complex followthrough on a simple 
 idea; build a robot then go out and blow things apart with it. As time went on, however, the features 
 grew and grew until, at last, the options involved with creating a prized war machine seemed nearly 
 endless and players found themselves more enthralled with constantly overhauling then most everything 
 else. It's fun, and is still basically about trashing gaint robots for cash, but the serise itself 
 has seemed to evolve to appeal to the type of people who simply like to create, test and compete 
 much in the way a streetracing junkie can't stop messing with cars. So while the idea may seem 
 like it's simple, if a player is new to the serise, he or she may find themselves getting deeper 
 into the limitless options as time goes on.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  The story, believe it or not, is quite unique among scifi tales. It's about the shifting of power 
 in a future where companys fight (more often literally than not) for domination over entire planets 
 while small liberation sects try to rid themselves from their absolute rule. You, the player, are 
 what is known as a raven, a mercinary, that makes a living doing freelance dirty work for whoever 
 pays the most and for a while, you and your manager are okay with that, until events unfold that 
 reveal a terrible truth.
  
  Personally, I would have like to see the story go more in depth as it has a lot of potential, but 
 I've wanted this since the first armored core game I've ever played and nothing has really changed 
 too much. GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay in this game can be a little misleading at first. It seems to be simple; you hop in 
 a robot and blow everything up. At first, it IS that simple, but shortly after you got one or two 
 solid missions under your belt you dive headfirst in molding your AC (amored core / giant robot) 
 to fit your playing style. Interestingly enough, while you mold your machine to fit your needs 
 the stances you must take on some of your missions require you to adapt as well. Some mission require 
 mass amount of fire power, while some require speed, others edurance, still others accuracy and 
 so on. Because the AC is treat as an accual vehicle would, a constant game of give and take involving 
 overhauling and using spacific parts takes place. Add and almost limitless supply of parts and 
 combination of AC tactics (both AI and online players opponites) and chances are you be spending 
 a LOT of times twiking your 3,000 ton ride then watching blow up and blow other things up.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Awsome. Like, crazy awsome. The detail of the machines and what it can do 
 to it's surroundings is eye popping. The only real downside in the graphics department is that 
 the missions can go by so fast and the levels aren't that huge.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound is good, but it's the techno track of this game that I really like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Upon first loading up the game, I was surprised to see how familiar the game was having played 
 AC3 years ago. The game begins by running you through a series of tedius tutorials which are helpful 
 but move at a snails pace. Fortunately, you have the option of skipping these. When choosing your 
 first armored core the game is helpful in explaining the differences and average difficulty of 
 that particular style.
  
  The main screen is similar but an overall upgrade from the last game. All of the features are back 
 such as customizing ac's with alarming depth, and being able to make tweaks and test before making 
 any purchases. 1 vs. 1 ac fights are also back with multiple battlegrounds to choose from based 
 on your style. Single player missions are limited to a handful of objectives like defending a target, 
 destroying a single target, destroying a handful of targets, and destroying all enemies on screen. 
 The missions become tiresome eventually but hold their value for a good deal of the games length. 
 AC4 is not without its imperfections however. Customizing ac's is very deep and involved, however, 
 many of the statistics on parts are not self explanatory and its hard to ever find 100% upgrades. 
 Even when replacing stock parts with much superior ones, you won't find any that improve every 
 stat. Some single player missions also seem to be biased towards a particular ac style and are 
 almost impossible to do with others.
  
  Overall, AC4 is a very well designed game which will give hours of exciting mech combat. Single 
 player missions are fun if not repetitive, and customizing your ac is as involved as ever. For 
 fans of mech combat this is a must buy, for any others, its worth a play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatcowbob
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  To bad the afore mentioned group is few in numbers, but I am one of them.
  
  I love a good game where when I crank up the difficulty I don't pass the mission on my fist try 
 nor the 10th. I love Armored Core. Why? because you get your moneys worth. I play though a game 
 on easy fist then the highest difficulty, then get all the extras. By that time (depending on the 
 game) I've max out my dollar unless there's online then I play untell the next cool game comes 
 out then sell it to buy the new one (I'm not made of money) . If the game is good then it stays. 
 Armored Core 4 will be one of the keepers. EASY
  
  AC AI is kinda dumb the fist time though, they randomly stop moving just so you can hit them. they'll 
 stop shooting even though your wide open. And rarely fly up to avoid splash damage from your rockets. 
 Now that doesn't mean it's a walk in the park your first time though and even though some missions 
 are easy does mean you'll get a S ranking at the end. Even the easy missions are difficult if your 
 going for the S ranking. (The driving force to get S ranks is you get unlocks.) S ranks are given 
 if you complete the level within a certain time AND conserve you ammo AND you have to complete 
 the level with the level with a certain amount of health remaining. You now what that means: hours 
 of frustration coupled with the mass rush of adrenalin every time you get close and the final weight 
 being lifted off you shoulders high when you beat it. on easy I beat the game in 8 hours. Went 
 back to get all S ranks took me additional 4.
  
  HARD
  
  The second time though AC steps up the game play. The game becomes even faster paced along with 
 smart AI that: hides, fly often and gets to you back side, all the while taking precise shots and 
 using the appropriate weapon base on the circumstances (EX. the bot has a laser and a cannon, if 
 your above it, it will use the laser which has plenty of ammo while if it is above you it will 
 use the cannon because even if you dodge it will still have some splash damage) , AND is dodging 
 your shots. On top of that when you first play a mission on hard you can't use your old battle 
 strategy because every level changes. It might be you cant use your force field call primal armor 
 and there's more enemies. But thats not all the fun; most of them have a plot twist you could say. 
 After what you think is the end of the level you'll hear some thing like more NEXT spotted or what's 
 that and have to get ready fore another bout of mechs. The characters also say different things 
 and events change ( EX. one mission your suppose to protect a plane untell take off you also can't 
 use your PA untell it leaves. On easy this is well easy your able to kill the 3 incoming waves 
 of enemies before the plane warms up. On hard every thing looks normal at first then after the 
 2nd wave a NEXT appears then you hope the plane is ready so you use your PA, but then the the plot 
 twist the plane has a malfunction and you got to kill the guy infront of you before the 3rd wave 
 makes it to you plane and you don't have PA.) This was a really cool touch that haven't seen done 
 before many times, definitely adds replay value. hard took me about 15 hours to get all S.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Madders what your looking at and at what speed. No madder what speed your mechs 
 still look awesome the detail is insane and the buildings included. Basically if you can blow it 
 up then is looks great. On the other hand the ground, walls, sky box, etc. all look like they were 
 riped out of a repeating texture catalog from 2001. Thats when your standing still if your playing 
 and moving like mad then the games background becomes a useless blur that you don't pay any attention 
 to because your in a roaring battle. EXPLOSIONS there's a lot of them and the biggest I've seen 
 in a game coupled with destructible environments makes for a good show. Some frame rate issues, 
 though it only happened when 40 some missiles met 80 missile mid air with a mech in between. Dynamic 
 shadows KICK ASS!!
  
  SOUND
  
  One of the best I've heard. Explosions coupled with epic BG sound just make the game feel kick 
 ass. Voice acting is kick ass. The quality of audio is also astounding.
  
  POOR POINTS
  
  Why can't I listen to every song from like a song selection menu. I also want to view videos 
 section the opening, credits, maybe 2 expert pilots duking it out. fix auto balance on the heaver 
 corrections it just ignores them and dose nothing. Let me unlock more frs than about 300 I want 
 to max things out and not have a crap core because every thing is focused on one thing. There are 
 only two good shoulder options an both come at the end of the game. Overboost is over rated no 
 one uses it it drains your PA. Why does the game have to go into pitch black lighting FOR THE FINAL 
 BATTLE. The coolest mech in the game and you can't see him. OVERVIEW
  
  Fun game fast and hard. NOT for games who all balls out rush every thing you will never see the 
 end of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Armored core 4 is out, and is available on xbox360 and ps3, this will be a review by me on the 
 ps3 as well as xbox360 since they play the same.
  Firstly, this is a very complicated, begineers might find the missions incredibly hard and impossible 
 to complete, thats what i felt too when i first touch the game. This game is by far, one of the 
 better mech game, it's customisation is really deep. Parts are seperated for customisation, mainly 
 Head, Body, Arms, Legs. These compartments are vital for ur Weight and EN (energy) usage. Having 
 a too heavy would land you a really slow moving AC.
  Further customisation, we have weapons, having Both on the Hands, Shoulder, there's also other 
 compartments like the hangar or something storing a backup weapon when ur current weapon go ammo-less.
 
  more into customisation, there's the design of ur AC, you can put decays, do paint job as well, 
 these are pretty interesting but dun make ur AC look too attractive to get spotted.
  
  Overall: This game is great if you're info mech or is a AC fan, if you're not i suggest you better 
 dun touch it cause the difficulty would turn you off. i wouldn't exactly say it's very difficult, 
 because if you've done enough customisation to your robots, game should be pretty okay, for me, 
 i've already played though every mission and is trying the hard mode. mentioning hard mode, there's 
 the:
  FRS, it's a system that adds points to ur attributes, such as ur Primal Armor, boost, quick boost 
 etc.
  take note there isn't a life system, all they're using are armor system and PA is ur main armor, 
 you have that deplete then it's mission failure for you.
  
  really, if ur a new player, u needa be forgiving to this game, i recommand you get double granade 
 launch on ur shoulder or thing would go really hard for you, guide in gamefaq/ gamespot would help 
 too, can pm me if ur stuck.
  Since there's only the US version now, which is why i ask interested but not a fan to AC series 
 not to touch this, it's expensive and the joy you get won't be worth the dollar. i myself wasn't 
 a fan, so i understand, but i did struggle hard to like this game, now that i find it more interesting. 
 after all you might end up like me, who grew to find this game nicer.
  
  However on the other side, if ur a fan, this game is a great add-on, enough parts to keep you busy. 
 Can take ur AC online to battle other players.
  
  A newcomer might give it a 4/10 but a fan would probably give it a 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainTomonari
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I rented Armored Core 4 for the PS3 and I must say it is a nice improvement of the series. The 
 removal of the radiators and heat index is a nice change. Also flight is near limitless with proper 
 energy management, a feat that has been difficult to pull off since Silent Line. The customization 
 was nice, however there are slightly less parts than I would have liked. The New emblem maker is 
 a nice upgrade of the old system. I also liked the new decal system, which lets you customize your 
 AC with decals like in Midnight Club Dub Edition. The upgraded tuning and the addition of the stabilizer 
 part gives the game a little more depth for gear heads, or you can just let the game decide how 
 best to tune and stabilize. Also the stabilizers add additional flare to your AC. I also enjoyed 
 the narrative as it was much more in depth than previous installments. Over all the difficulty 
 was a little easier than the PS2 games however there were a few missions that were inconsistently 
 hard. The new control scheme was alright, it is a little different for a fan of the classic scheme 
 like myself. However the lack of the ability to invert the axis is a little frustrating but once 
 I got used to it, it was fine. Overall a great game for fans of the old series as well as newcomers. 
 I am going to give AC4 a 9 out of 10, but of course that is a little bias as I am a fan of the 
 Series :P. Kain Signing Off. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BerserkFury1989
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Well, the only Armored Core I have played before this one was the one on PSP, and man, was that 
 game bad. After this, my friend got AC4 for his 360, and he gave me good feedback on it, so I got 
 it for my PS3, and I'm happy that I did. Starting the game off was pretty annoying. Just like most 
 people, I was too lazy to read the manual, so I didn't know what each symbol meant. It was only 
 thanks to my friend explaining everything to me, that I was able to enjoy the game. Getting the 
 right parts on your Next is as important (if not more important) than actual combat skills. In 
 the start levels you can pretty much use any weapons without a problem, but as the game progresses, 
 you start running out of ammo, and getting killed really fast unless you got some powerful ammunition 
 and armor set up. Once you get this down, you can really start enjoying yourself.
  
  Multiplayer was a real let down on the PS3. When my friend told me about his 360 version, he told 
 me how much fun he had. On the PS3 there were only about 4 - 6 people on at a time of the whole 
 North America region. That is somewhat pathetic. Another problem is the the PS3 version lacks voice 
 communication. Now the graphics. When you start the game up, you must watch the intro movie, its 
 probably one of the greatest animations of mechs you will ever see. Then when you start playing 
 the game, the environment might appear to be a little bland, but actually, it is not. Everything 
 that looks small/weak can be destroyed, either by firepower, or by bursting through it with your 
 Next. Shooting walls on indoor battles always leaves some kind of a mark, missiles leave huge craters, 
 laser rifles leave glowing impact points. On some missions when you have to protect a building, 
 it sometimes seems that you do more damage it it yourself.
  
  Finally, this is a great game to get. It is really fast paced and fun to play. I would definitely 
 recommend it to any mech fans, as long as you don't expect great online play. For that, I would 
 recommend the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broken_Mind
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  The 12th installment of the Armored Core franchise, it delivers where many other Armored Core games 
 have fallen short. Filled with customizable parts and a simplified control scheme and building 
 process, it has made itself a bit more accessible to the more casual gamer than others of the series. 
 As always, it is difficult to describe such a customizable game in a single term. The combat can 
 be quick-paced and frantic, calm and collected long-range sniping, or it could be an all out slugfest 
 with heavy weapons and armor depending on how you build your AC. The mission are challenging, if 
 a bit short. Several of the rough, awkwardly worked aspects of the previous games have been either 
 tweaked or removed entirely, and the rest have been polished well. Armored Core 4 has at last delivered 
 the graphical update its fans have been asking about for many years, and the level of detail is 
 astounding, particulary in the department of lighting. From the shadows cast by your death machine 
 to the small illumination of your boosters, the lighting is well done. Armored Core 4 is a well-built, 
 solid addition to the genre and is worth playing through for any fans of mech games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwar2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Armored Core 4 is worth playing for people who have enjoyed the MechWarrior Series. I like the 
 game's fast movement and overall graphics quality. I agree that the missions are quite short, but 
 makes it up by making the missions a bit harder. The movement of your mech is pretty simple and 
 by playing for 60 minutes or less you could pretty much use the boosters efficiently. Mechwarrior 
 fans who liked chromehounds will like Armored Core 4, but the game is really fast and if you are 
 a camper then its harder to beat. Armored Core 4 is a good game to have in your playstation 3 game 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomousmonkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I, as an armored core fan, was hopeing for a little more. I love the new fast pace mech action, 
 and the details on the mechs and weapons are great (especialy watching the missles launch) . The 
 major problem is the lack of detail in the environment. Most of the maps are kinda plain, something 
 i would expect from ps2. Especially the multiplayer maps. basicly theres a desert, a few digital 
 maps and some inside building maps. In the whole intire map of the desert, it is just sand. no 
 rocks, no cactuses, just sand. And the rest are simalar with a exception of a few walls or buildings. 
 Now for the missions. I havent gone through them all, but what ive seen soo far is very short missions, 
 your looking at 2-3 minute missions. But they are hard, which means your repeat them alot which 
 can get boreing as well. And from what i hear, there isnt too many of them.
  
  Now for the gameplay. the gameplay is amazing. In the previous amored cores useing R2 and L2 for 
 aiming was very annoying and tedious. And the boosting would always run dry very quick, which made 
 the game kinda slow. But since nine breaker they replaced the vertical aim by being able to use 
 the R 3 stick they still have it but better. The boost lasts alot longer which is also a relief 
 and makes the game alot more fast pace and exciteing.
  
  Over all the game has alot more improvement, but still needs more work on the hopefully upcoming 
 armored cores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  It is very difficult to think Armored Core 4 is the result of 10 year evolution. The controls, 
 level design, minor technical problems like loading time, and graphics all say they are just entering 
 gaming industry. Well 10 years ago, I picked up this little game called Armored Core. I was blown 
 away with unique aspect of the game, which allowed me to put together a robot. Not just put it 
 together but to think how to make it in so many aspects I never thought about like radar, generator, 
 etc etc etc. 10 years later... here it is. The large difference from the very original is practically 
 analog controls, updated graphics, and more types of booster functions. Graphically, this game 
 is unimpressive. Bland background, no anti-aliasing, and lack of texture quality on it's setting. 
 Robot animation and graphic is good though, but still no anti-aliasing ruins it. Well, I guess 
 the old saying is true. If it ain't broken, then don't fix it. Armored Core 4 control isn't the 
 best you can find, mostly due to slow camera, especially when you try to face sides, but it does 
 give unique feel of control as if you are controlling a robot, not another muscular hero with big 
 guns. Well that's good, but why make some aspect of the game worse? The game has serious lack of 
 depth when it comes down to level design. This was one of the biggest strengths in Armored Core 
 series. Huge number of missions, variety of of the missions, and length of the missions. Only thing 
 left now is variety of the missions. The missions are VERY short and there are much less of them 
 now. The difficulty of the missions are still not easy, but when a mission lasts shorter than opening 
 sequence and loading time combined, then there is some problem with game design. No matter how 
 good the gameplay is, if you don't have proper level to experiance that gameplay fully, then what's 
 the point? Well there is a point, because now there is online mode! Well good thing to have, but 
 executed very poorly. Unlike many shooting games, Armored Core online is very fixed. You can't 
 join a room that is already running. Very much like Starcraft, you must make a room, wait for people 
 to join and then launch the game. This wasn't a problem in Starcraft because the length of the 
 matches can be very long so waiting didn't seem big problem. However, Armored Core 4 has time limit 
 and max is 15 minutes. As of now the online community doesn't seem populated enough and making 
 a room and launching the game takes well over 15 minutes. It's like going to a theme park. You 
 have to wait long lines just for quick fun. In the end it makes you feel like it just wasn't worth 
 it. That isn't the only problem in online mode. You might create a room but it seems like you join 
 any room automatically. This means you can't choose who you want to play with. Well so far that 
 hasn't been a problem for me because there seems to be only one room when I try to join, so I didn't 
 have trouble playing the game with my friend, but I can see potential of serious problem if the 
 game indeed does get populated. On the positive note, the game still provides huge depth when it 
 comes to mixing and matching your robots. huge number of parts to choose from and huge number of 
 specs to look at and all the paint job you can give. No other game gives you this much of options 
 of what you can do with your vehicle. Overall, the fans of the series will love the game for more 
 responsive control and online mode. However they will be disappointed with lack of levels and the 
 depth of missions. For casual players, the game's control and bland online mode and level design 
 could be immediate turn off. In the end this game is for people who just loves giant robots, because 
 no other games can provide you robots like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilcallum
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Well, I had never really played an Armored Core game... ever. Infact, i normally hate mech games 
 do to their slow-ness.
  
  But i decided to pick this up-
  And boy is it fun.
  
  If you, like me, dont like mech games do to their slow, repetitive, all-out boringness. You wont 
 find any of that here.
  
  Your mechs zoom past buildings faster than a plane. There's explosions everywhere. Buildings falling, 
 Mech Arms flying off, etc.
  All with no lag! (Well, on the PS3 version. My friends 360 version lagged a little) .
  
  All 
 in all, Armored Core 4 isnt just for the EXTREME armored core fans out there. Its for everyone.
 
  
  Go pick it up. You wont be dissapointed. (Unless you suck at games... cause this game is hard as 
 hell.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksdowdo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  So lets Frist say its been awhile since the last Armored core game 3or 4 years. And know Armored 
 Core is Back and hard as ever and Insane Graphics.
  
  Gameplay - It ur standard armored core game Mish Mish Mish Boss Mish Mish Boss. And over and not 
 to say thats a bad thing thats actulay a very interesting part. though mish can sometimes only 
 last about 2-5mins they are sure worth them all that action there is involved in it is crazy... 
 So Also this game no difficulty settings which is a BAD THING...... the early mish so From the 
 1 - 2 Completeing all mish are pretty easy but 3s mish are crazy hard. so this game is not for 
 those people who get mad very often.
  
  Graphics - They are Very well done Graphics and every thing show up nice. The Lighting, Shader, terrain, Models 
 everything look So good. Ont the models the lighting is so good on theme and u can see every aspect 
 of the mech ur using..
  mostly the Xbox 360 vs PS3 I prefer PS3 just cause the lighting in the 360 is dark. Sound = Exolentay 
 Online = Ehhhh its alright its fun but the real problem is getting in to a game theres no lobby 
 to show games so its hard all there is is search. but once u get into a game its Alsome. Though 
 play single player frist and get ur good stuff on ur mech or u will get shank real badly... So 
 most of u are asking is it worth it id say yes if ur into customizing ur mech ( and who isnt ) 
 Super fast gameplay. Ther game just doing mission can clock ur time in about 10 hours do to almost 
 spending hours in the customization aspect of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matricks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase. The next gen graphics are awesome. The style of the game represent a post 
 apocalyptic earth. Missions are scattered across the globe where you will experience multiple environment 
 effects, for example a desert sand storm impedes your visibility and will make you be thankful 
 you are in your cool ass mech and not outside getting pounded by the violent sand. City scape's 
 are true to form and buildings are destructible. There is nothing like boosting your way down city 
 streets to engage the enemy. There are a wide variety of mech's and weapons to choose from allowing 
 you to customize your mech to your hearts content. Everything from weapon placement to customizing 
 your paint scheme is here and the ability to create your own emblems is a nice touch. Multi-player 
 is a no frills experience with nothing but mech combat goodness. You can choose 1 vs. 1 or join 
 teams of 4 or 8 other mechs and their ranking system is simple yet effective. Defeating the enemy 
 ups your rank and losing brings down your rank. Simple as that. Now the game isn't perfect but 
 if you're looking for anime style mech action found in Gundam and Macross then look no further. 
 This game will satisfy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Divine_Sword
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I have play previews Armored Core games and they were good but this game has taken everything to 
 the next level with fun gameplay, great graphics, sound, online and just about everything. I have 
 play this game for countless of hours and its fun. don't let other poor reviews given by other 
 sites stop you from buying this game. most of my hours i spend in this game was customization, 
 just making the Mech appearance is just awesome. if you haven't play previews armored core game 
 i suggest you start with this one and you won't regret it one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForlonHope
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to start. The game is all over the place. Compared to the past AC, this by far is one 
 of the best. The graphics are phenomenal. The buildings are destructive and look life like compared 
 to From Software's Chromehounds. The mechs are highly detailed to a fine crisp point where I am 
 able to see fine patterns on the mechs chasis.
  
  Gameplay is fast paced and extremely action packed. I love how the boosters actually benefit the 
 player in this edition rather than hinder. The missiles that other mechs shoot out are able to 
 be shoo down (wow) . Customization of a mech is a key element in winning.
  
  The sound, compared to Chromehounds, was definetly a bit of a let down. They seemed quite softer 
 and the blasts and impact damage on the mechs didn't make the gamer aware of what was happening 
 till it was too late. This was my only complaint about the game.
  
  Overall, a must have. Worth every stinking dollar out of your pocket. I choose this game over Virtua 
 Tennis 3. I am definetly not regretting my decision. Gamespot highly rated this lower than what 
 it should have gotten.
  
  Your PS3 is a waste if you haven't even tried this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9thwardice
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  just when i thought this game series couldn't get any better it looks great, it plays great, its 
 really a next gen game all da way! They have some great new features in it, like the new online 
 intense battles with up to eight players. The looks are beautiful, compared to the last couple 
 of armored core games that have been released on to the ps2. But what else would you expect from 
 a next gen system. I love the new destructible stages it makes you experience the whole realistic 
 combatty kind of feeling u no. They have some great weapons. Not to mention the new boost powers, 
 also thebrand new shields that i find fun to use and let my opponents hit me on purpose just to 
 see the sparks come from the surrounding shield. Overall, i dont think i'll stop playing this game 
 until a new one comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkweed989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Great if you are looking for a robot game which includes speed, power and customization. The weaponry 
 is vast and fits any combatants style the armor can be personalized along with the weapons and 
 so far this Armored Core is the best, graphics fit in very nicely the sound matches with the weapons 
 and Game Spot should be ashamed to give it such a low ranking! Even though the storyline is somewhat 
 boring as usual the game play for anyone who has played the Armored Core series before hand will 
 love this one even though it is fun for veterans it still has a welcoming feel for beginners too. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
