-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Army of Two
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/armyoftwo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The cooperative mechanics work well.
 The online versus play is fast-paced and fun.
 The graphics are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Provides a dumb take on a real issue.
 The campaign isn't very long.
 On your own, you're weak.
 AI is occasionally as dumb as the plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 2,265 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Montreal
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Mar 6, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This better than average shooter is fun to play with a friend, but it's best not to think about 
 the subject matter. 

  Army of Two is a decent third-person shooter that unfortunately sticks its boot in its mouth. It 
 does so by belittling volunteer armed services and selling a power-but-no-responsibility mercenary 
 fantasy, part of which takes place in the modern-day Iraq war. It mostly plays fine. The Aggro 
 system works well (whereby your partner can hold your enemies' attention while you flank) , and 
 the online multiplayer is hectic fun. But the way it broaches and then mishandles such a controversial 
 modern day issue is far from army strong.  

  The story follows Salem and Rios, two mercenaries who fight terror for big bucks with big guns. 
 As they battle through ambush after ambush, it begins to dawn on them that someone within their 
 own organization is selling them out and setting them up. That's right, one bad apple is screwing 
 up the privatized military business for the rest of the upstanding mercenaries. Neither Rios nor 
 Salem engages in any dishonorable behavior, aside from making fun of the Army for being so slow 
 and ill-equipped. That would be fine if the Army they were making fun of were the Venusian Army. 
 Or conversely, if Blackwater mercenaries in the real world hadn't been asked to leave Iraq for 
 flipping out and massacring its civilians. But in Army of Two, there's no such thing as a civilian. 
 If they aren't good guys, they're terrorists.  

           Sometimes it's easier to grab enemies than shoot them.      

  The game itself is a 
 lightly tactical third-person shooter in which you take on terrorists from Somalia to Miami by 
 shooting them with guns, punching out their lights, and hitting them with car doors -- all while 
 wearing a scary-looking goalie mask. As you thwart terror and complete missions, you earn cash 
 that can be spent on awesome guns. From there, you can spend even more money pimping out stocks, 
 adding grenade launcher attachments and even gold plating.  

  But with all this, you'll have a hell of a time hitting anything. Sure, you can stop, aim, and 
 quickly kill a stationary target with a headshot. But if you're trying to run and shoot, you won't 
 do nearly as much damage with that pimped-out AUG as you'd like. This was probably done to force 
 you to rely on your teammate, but it seems like an unnecessary handicap all the same. Even worse, 
 enemies have incongruous visible life bars, and some of them can take more bullets than a terminator. 
 To top it all off, they have superior aim and can hit you just as easily from 50 feet as they can 
 from five. Talk about asymmetrical warfare.  

  To keep yourself and your partner alive, you have to take advantage of the Aggro system. Borrowed 
 from online role-playing games, Aggro is an artificial intelligence system that makes enemies focus 
 on whoever is doing the most damage and ignore the person doing the least. The basic idea is to 
 have one guy draw all the enemy fire while the other one sneaks around back and shoots everybody 
 dead. It isn't rocket science, but coordinating attacks with a friend or with the CPU is still 
 rewarding. Sometimes, one plus one equals fun.  

  At other times, it can be a little confusing. In the single-player campaign, you either control 
 Salem or Rios; you can't switch between the two. If you're mortally wounded, your CPU partner can 
 drag you to safety and heal you. Sometimes, however, he'll ignore all the obviously safe places 
 and drag you through the entire level (assuming you both survive) before patching you up.  

  The campaign isn't that long, but to the game's credit, it is fun to play through cooperatively. 
 You can set up public co-op campaigns that just anyone can join, or private ones for just you and 
 a friend. Once you finish, you can go online to challenge other two-man squads in versus mode. 
 The point of any match is to make more money than your opponents, which is earned by making kills 
 and completing objectives. Some modes have you flying around, racing to kill enemy non-player characters, 
 while others have you rescuing hostages or planting bombs. The best of these throws a mix of objectives 
 at you, so there's a great deal of diversity within a single match. Then again, the fact that you 
 can't hit targets without stopping and aiming is especially apparent online. Instead, you're better 
 off running up and smacking people, then shooting them when they're down. This is entertaining 
 for a few hours, but it gets old pretty fast.  

           That's what he gets for trying to shoot two guns at once.      

  The PlayStation 3 
 and Xbox 360 versions of Army of Two are almost indistinguishable from one another, though the 
 former incorporates some minor motion controls. Both versions look and sound good. But with numerous 
 loads and small environments, they should. And even though the graphics are impressively realistic; 
 the silly hit point bars attached to your enemies break the spell a little. The silly suicide bombers 
 who run at you screaming like something out of Serious Sam don't help either. The gun sounds are 
 mostly fine, and the voice acting is OK, except that any time there's an enemy who has to be killed 
 from behind (once every 10 minutes) , your partner will repeatedly say something along the lines 
 of "He looks tough, better take him from behind!" If there's one thing that can be said for private 
 military, it's the lack of a don't-ask-don't-tell policy.  

  Army of Two is a better than average shooter that roughly treads on a political landmine when it 
 should have stormed some future battlefield. It features cool co-op mechanics and is fun to play 
 online, with or against friends. But even its title mocks the Army, literally one-upping its slogan 
 while glamorizing a sector that, if anything, deserves scrutiny -- not macho fantasy. If you're the 
 type of person who would rather shoot first and ask questions never, by all means, pick up Army 
 of Two. But if you like to think -- and the fact that you're reading this review suggests that you 
 do -- be warned: Army of Two is less than the sum of its parts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (187 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Flamuel
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Running with a friend through the co op mission is what all this game about.
  
  If you expected Army of TWO to have a good single player experience, I would have to say there 
 is something wrong with you. The game is Called army of TWO and you're meant to be playing with 
 someone else who you can work as a team with.
  
  However AO2 still falls short in co op game play especially when it comes to playing online. The 
 situation with high ping servers connected with the PS3's useless blu-tooth headsets, communication, 
 though it may be very important, is almost impossible to achieve without the player being in the 
 same room as you.
  
  However this communication problem does not destroy the game's fun-factor. AO2 uses an aggro meter 
 where one player starts to glow red and the enemies will shoot at them, where the other player 
 goes stealth and hits them where it hurts. I personally found this addition really fun and it enhanced 
 the use for teamwork. Another neat edition to the game's teamwork is the joint sniping where you 
 and your partner countdown from three to shoot a target at the same time. I just wish they would 
 use this more often as it was a really good addition to the game.
  
  Graphics-wise, Army of 2 keeps up with the new age of next gen HD giving players a glamorous environment 
 with pretty looking bloom effects. But when you look at the sound, Army of 2 falls short with plastic 
 sounding grenade explosions and nail gun sound bullets. The Background soundtrack is average and 
 will do its job in getting players into the immersion of the game.
  
  The weapon customization is pretty cool, It was very enjoyable to make my minigun pimped up with 
 gold plated and adding a shield, grenade launcher, scope and damn near short of a missile launcher. 
 
  
  Army of two is a game worth renting and playing with a friend or brother over a rainy weekend. 
 If you don't have a rental shop around I would say, don't exclude this game out of your shopping 
 cart because it is much better than some of the other shoot-em-up games available.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Like Haze 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donovanonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't for the slick CG cut scenes in between missions, Army of Two would be nothing but 
 a glorified arcade game. The action is swift and constant, and any character developement is null 
 and void. Theres solid gameplay mechanics utilized in the action that could be the basis for future, 
 more immersive, story driven installments. When all is said and done, you can basically run through 
 Army of Two in about six hours making it a very short, but satisfying weekend rental. 
  
  PROS:
  - Gameplay is solid
  - Environments and enemies change regularly
  - Character graphics 
 are nicely detailed
  - A. I. teamate responds well to orders and scenarios
  - Weapon upgrade and purchases are fun and useful
  - Theres a mini-gun
  
  CONS:
  - Game 
 ends too quickly with an anti-climactic finish
  - Six hours is too short to warrant a purchase
  - Environment and background graphics are bland 
 
  - Story and character developement is poorly executed
  - You can't pick up enemy weapons
  - Not all weapons are upgradable
  
  OVERALL: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  "Army of Two"s best feature is its cooperative campaign mode. Playing it solo isn't as fun and 
 the online competitive modes sucks. I personally like the coop tactics, but they're not implemented 
 very well in the game. Still, most of the time you'll be and your buddy will be pinned by gunfire 
 and you'll have to do a little thinking to get out of the hotspot. The enemy A. I. is pretty good, 
 but "Aggro" really weakens the game's tactical concept and causes the game to be a bit of a mindless 
 shooter. But still, once you and your buddy get a handle on things, you'll have a good time. If 
 only the game was longer, though. You can beat this game in less than 10 hours. Most of the guns 
 in the game feel similar, but once you upgrade a heavy machine gun, you'll feel the power of Rambo. 
 The game's sequel will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I personally feel that they wanted to make this game ONLY for 2 players. Its not meant to be a single 
 player campaign. The online is horrible and the only great thing about it is the co op.
  This is my review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very smoothly done, great controls (lil bit different 
 but a nice change) . I liked the deal that we went from country to country doing missions but only 
 5-6 missions? I mean I KNOW for a fact that they could have done alot better. Well the weapon customization 
 is a nice touch and this game plays very well with others.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are decent. nothing special for an older game. There are some great touches 
 to it but nothing to be overly excited about.
  
  Sound: Sound is very nicely done, I like the gun fire sounds altough some snipers sound awfully like 
 a deagle (Desert Eagle) . I like the interactions between Salem and Rios as they can give high-fives, wish 
 each other luck and even badmouth each other. The voice acting during gameplay is great altough 
 the cut-scenes are a bit weird just because the voice acting is not that good but I am not complaining.
 
  
  *STORYLINE and CHARACTERS: Well the Storyline is the most important thing in every game and the 
 characters are also very important for us as gamers. This game does not deliver fully on either. The 
 storyline is good but its full of predictable moments. Nothing that we have not seen before a thousand 
 times. The characters are rather OKEY but we dont get to see them alot and we dont even know alot 
 about them when the game ends... its like watching a bad movie.
  
  CO-OP ONLY CAMPAIGN: The reason Im saying this is just because you will enjoy it alot more when 
 you are playing it with a friend. Single player campaign is horrible as the other character that 
 is controlled by the computer is stupid as all hell and gets killed more than the suicide bombers. Altough 
 its a nice add the single player campaign but they should have focused on the co op if they wanted 
 to make it into a success.
  
  THE BAD: The online is horrible just because there is no lobby screen so you just wait and wait 
 without knowing if someone will ever come online. It was a useless thing to add into a game that 
 is not yet complete. I dont like the single player campaign.... It was not needed if they were only 
 going to focuse on co op but even if they wanted to add it they should have made it availible to 
 play with only 1 player not that you have to play with 2 characters.
  
  My 5 Rankings
  
  1. Gameplay: 7.5/10
  2. Graphics: 6.5/10
  3. Sound: 7/10
  4. Storyline & characters: 7/10
 
  5. CO-OP Campaign: 9.5/10
  
  OVERALL: evertything should and could have been improved... inmo its rushed out of the gate too soon 
 with many un-needed things and many needed factors but if your thinking about getting it then you 
 should get it just because if you like to play games with friends then its a blast but dont be 
 looking alot forward to the short story and only 4-6 hour campaign altough it is fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSSJDanny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Only good if you have something other than 480, because if you dont, the text will come 
 out blurry... very blurry, after you upgrade the definition, its pretty good not exactly MGS4 but 
 its alright.
  
  Sound - Its ok didnt notice anything that bad, a few funny comments between Elliot and Tyson. 
 
  
  Gameplay - Its fun but once you beat it theres nothing really else to do but collect all your guns... 
 then after that nothing. If you play with another player prepare to yell at each other to call 
 for cover, and revive you.
  
  Replay Value - You'll probably play it at least 5 times before you give up on it.
  
  By the 
 way there is an Add-On Content (Free) with a few extra leves, not sure if it gives you anymore 
 guns, but nothing to make it any better.
  
  Overall - Its a fun game I'd recommend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyirishmikey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Now, I personally don't think that when you review a game that you should let what is happening 
 in the really world influence your game review ... which is what I think happened with the Gamespot 
 reviewer.
  
  OK, I will admit I didn't play this game in Single Player mode or On-line ... so all I'm going 
 to be reviewing for this one is the Co-op Split Screen mode.
  
  First of all don't pay attention to any mockery of the voluntary Armed Forces (these people should 
 always be honoured for their commitment and sacrifice) ... BUT come on this is just a video game 
 people, and I don't believe that the people at EA Games (Montreal) meant any disrespect to the 
 Armed Forces ... besides I don't recall the game makers ever saying that it was the U. S Armed Forces 
 anyway ... this is just fantasy land for gamers! Enough said about that.
  
  Now let's get back to the actual game ... the game in the Co-op Split Screen mode is a lot of fun 
 for two people. The story line was interesting and possible for two mercenaries that are just out 
 to make a lot of money (and upgrade their weapons and equipment in the process) .
  
  The AI was smart and very unpredictable at times (more often than not) . Yes the AI can be very 
 hard to kill at times (is almost impossible to kill on the run) and the AI can hurt you even when 
 you're on the move or at extreme distances, but this is one of the major challenges of this game 
 ... the other main challenge of this game can be the rationing of bullets between two people - 
 although we never ran out bullets completely we did have to switch to different guns because we 
 were out of primary and special weapon bullets.
  
  The game in all was very hectic at times just like you would expect for an Army of Two trying to 
 save the world.
  
  Unfortunately though, I believe that if you are interested in this game you're going to have to 
 look for it in a bargain bin somewhere. THIS WAS A VERY UNDER APPRECIATED GAME ... too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuckyKidd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I got the game even with reviews saying it wasn't that great I decided to get it anyway if only 
 for the fact that it was damn cheap. 
  
  If you have someone who will play this with you then get this game! It is a stunning example of 
 what cooperative games should play like. You are constantly dependant on your partner for survival, 
 unlike some other third person co-op shooters...
  
  The graphics, although not mind blowing, are solid and well presented. There is no install on this 
 game so it literally is a pick up and play. If i have anything to complain about it is there is 
 some lag in the menu system before start up , but it's not really worth moaning about. 
  
  The controls are tight and easy enough to pick up. Just make sure you and your partner go easy 
 on the ammo as it depletes very quickly. Hiding and shooting mechanics are solid with great implementation 
 of blind firing. If your partner is down you will have to make sure they will cover you untill 
 you have dragged them to safety. 
  
  The levels are not particularly long which is a good thing, action is to the point and never dull. 
 You always feel as if you are making progress. One down side is that you never really have anything 
 like a boss character to attack on most levels, and even if you do they are relatively easy to 
 take down. That said though, this game can prove a challenge to team mates even on it's easiest 
 setting. 
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone that has a partner to play with and is looking for something 
 that adds a little more team work than other games of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to get this game for a bargain price. Even with reviews saying it wasn't that 
 great I decided to get it anyway if only for the fact that it was damn cheap. 
  
  If you have someone who will play this with you then get this game! It is a stunning example of 
 what cooperative games should play like. You are constantly dependant on your partner for survival, 
 unlike some other third person co-op shooters...
  
  The graphics, although not mind blowing, are solid and well presented. There is no install on this 
 game so it literally is a pick up and play. If i have anything to complain about it is there is 
 some lag in the menu system before start up (none in the game itself) , but it's not really worth 
 moaning about. 
  
  The controls are tight and easy enough to pick up. Just make sure you and your partner go easy 
 on the ammo as it depletes very quickly. Hiding and shooting mechanics are solid with great implementation 
 of blind firing. If your partner is down you will have to make sure they will cover you untill 
 you have dragged them to safety. 
  
  The levels are not particularly long which is a good thing, action is to the point and never dull. 
 You always feel as if you are making progress. One down side is that you never really have anything 
 like a boss character to attack on most levels, and even if you do they are relatively easy to 
 take down. That said though, this game can prove a challenge to team mates even on it's easiest 
 setting. 
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone that has a partner to play with and is looking for something 
 that adds a little more team work than other games of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Army of two is an over the shoulder shooter akin to RE4 or Dark Sector, except that there are Two 
 main characters that must work together to save the day. Set in the war torn Middle East, among 
 other timely locations, the action linearly traverses the usual bunkers, jungles and strongholds 
 that shooters do. There are many weapons to trick out, some armor customization, and a little eye 
 candy behind the scenes at HQ to make this an interesting distraction.
  This is not a graphically challenged title. The textures are quite substantial, the terrain is 
 destructible (complete with crumbling concrete when riddled with bullets) and water that acts like 
 water. In fact, one of the maps in the game is a Miami that is partially submerged - a very effective 
 and quite original idea that is carried out hauntingly well.
  The voices of the Army of Two are well acted, if not overly familiar, but unintentionally hilarious. 
 Most of the acting in this game is so over the top that it seems to be catering to 12 year old 
 boys - except that it also has the worst case of potty mouth in recent memory. There should be 
 a drinking game for the f word in Army of Two. Many would pass out.
  The controls are respectable, although ultimately having a 3rd person camera continues to frustrate. 
 When the action gets hot, it is easy to run up beside your adversary and get your butt handed to 
 you simply because you don't know where he went. Bad camera. Bad. However, the introduction of 
 step jump and the cool way you can heal your partner in the battle field are both fun quirks to 
 add to a familiar arena.
  Single player is not recommended here. The game is designed to be played co op online with a buddy, 
 preferably with chat. In this regard it is a lot of fun. Even if they aren't exactly brilliant, 
 they are smart enough so that techniques can be made to take down certain classes of enemies in 
 a systematic and satisfying way. Also, having a real life friend on line to laugh at the acting 
 is more fun too.
  All in all Army of Two is an entertaining romp of mindless action, a great way to pass a few nights 
 online with a buddy. 
  After that I would trade it in for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonaterR
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Army of Two has some cool things that you have probably never tried on any game before. For instance, 
 going back-to-back with your teammate, using aggro, and performing co-op sniping. It has some pretty 
 good graphics but not the best. The main point of the game is to work to gether with your partner/AI. 
 You earn money by completing specific missions in the game and completing levels. The campaign 
 is short and you can easily beat it in a few hours if you tried. Army of Two has online gameplay, 
 but not the best. 
  I'd say the replay value of this game is high because of all the unlockables in such a short game. 
 Army of Two had the potential to create a perfect game but they did not build on the campaign enough. 
 This is why it gets the rating of good, 8/10. Before you go out renting this game or buying it, 
 check out other games with higher ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddiwidddi94
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is the worst shooter I have ever played. This game has one good feature and no others, 
 I was looking forward to this game but for me it was the biggest piece of rubbish I have played 
 except for Red Steel.
  
  There is one good feature on Army of Two and that is how you can work together with each other 
 except for that I hated the whole game and I would recomend people not to waste there money on 
 this bab.
  
  The graphics of Army of Two is alright in my opinion but there are many games you can find in stores 
 today with 10x better graphics. Army of Two has great graphical features of the characters on the 
 game, they have made good surroundings for the games to but they should make the games as good 
 as the graphics.
  
  Army of two I think will be the first of many Army of two games, but I just hope they aren't as 
 bad as this one is because if it is I would just write a letter of complaint to the creators of 
 Army of Two. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this with my brother and found it to be rather fun as well as a good oportunity 
 to "bond" over a manly game session.
  
  Now, I'm not a serious gamer (casual at best) but I found this one to be really fun. I loved the 
 interaction between the two playable characters.
  
  Action was intense and graphics looked really good. Overall it was pretty much your typical shoot 
 but with a great co-op. I'll say it again, the co-op made the game for me.
  
  As a casual gamer I found the controls hard to master but then again I'm not that coordinated with 
 these game controllers. I'm sure most players that have a PS3 will pick up the controls with no 
 problems.
  
  The story, game play and controls are pretty standard. Everything in the game looks and feels like 
 pretty much every other FPS. It's the lively banter and fun to play co-op mode that sets this one 
 apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MataGearCrazy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Army of two was an entertaining game. It is not recommended for a single player expierience though. 
 With a parter by your side makes it very cool. The things you can do with your partner and the 
 costomizaton of weapons makes the game crazy but the story and the game play kinda diminishes the 
 rest. I personally would not play it by myself let alone try it by myself. 
  
  The concept of the game was good but it lacked most in being unique. It was like any other shooter 
 and i gets boring after a while. 
  
  Also boss fights are extreamly easy and stright forward. You always do the same thing and the boss 
 is just like another enemy just with more life.
  
  For a nex gen game, there is a lot of load time which takes away from the game.
  
  Overall 
 this is a "ok" game. The concept was great its just the game that lacked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  First of all let me say that i have only rented this game therefore i do not have a complete "immersive" 
 point of view of this game thus far. The story is the classic "someone did something bad, go get 
 them, come back...... and get another guy, but it works surprisingly good with Army of Two. I've 
 heard people complaining about the "cover system" and how there isnt really one or it felt as if 
 though it as really rushed, NOT TRUE AT ALL. games like Uncharted: Drake's Fortune and Gears of 
 War seemed to do well with the stop and pop cover systems but Army of Two takes it to a whole new 
 level with a much more smooth and natural feeling type of cover system. You have to play it to 
 feel it. 
  The Graphics are deffenitly not the best but the textures are pretty good and the lighting is just 
 OK as well. The story mode is what really surprised me, i rented this game for 2 days and finished 
 it in about 6 hours of gameplay..... which is way too short considering the online play sucks crap, 
 but thats a whole other story i'm not even going to go into. The gameplay is as smooth as ice and 
 the "Aggro" system is perfected the first time around. One more thing, the weapon customization 
 and the amount of weapons is amazing, i absolutely love it. I wish i could say that about the rest 
 of the game though.
  
  Overall: Very smooth and addictive gameplay style, Great weapon system, good but very short story 
 mode and horrible online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_profeshenal
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two was the first game I rented for my PS3 on a whim. I had been wanting to get into shooters 
 because that seemed to be where the bulk of the online community was. So I got home settled and 
 started play a game that quickly had me laughing at the cut scenes and loving the action.
  You play as one of a two man mercenary squad. You pack a lot of armor and a ton of fire power. 
 You learn very quickly to use you partner to help you get through missions. Along the way you're 
 able to upgrade your armor and get better weapons.
  The one thing that I felt really hurt the game was the lack of game play. I beat the single player 
 story mode, twice, and in under eight hours. I would have loved it if it had about 30 to 40 hours 
 of game play. I would have also liked it if you were able to do a little more free roaming in the 
 maps instead of being bottle necked into certain areas.
  I didn't get to play the online for very long, but what I played I enjoyed. Basically you go head 
 to head with another team in completing certain tasks and get money for when you complete them. 
 The way RA set you up to find matches and other players leave a lot to be desired and I hope they 
 revisit and redesign that for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game follows a group of mercenaries around the globe as the uncover a conspiracy theory and 
 battle terrorists.
  Unforunatley, this game doesn't stand apart from others.
  
  You play as Salem or Rios (doesnt matter which) and embark on the story mode. This is done with 
 a friend online, offline or with AI. The AI is bad and responds badely. Equally the co-op is bad 
 because there are the same amount of enemies and not enough to shoot at.
  
  Thats where another problem lies. Once you hit the enemies 2 or 3 times and send them to the white 
 light, the take cover and blind fire. So you only get a shot at their arms.
  
  Your guns can be bought and modded to the point where and AK-47 is as cool as a pimp-mobile.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is a 2 on 2 objective based mode. he problems start before you play as the game 
 is region locked and its very hard to find a game in Europe. Its also buggy without slot of thought 
 in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  You see so many games these days that try to be something they are not. Think of kane and lynch 
 that game was supposed to be an action epic mixed in with a great storyline well they had the storyline 
 good but gameplay graphics and all else failed think of army of two as its opposite an amazing 
 game with a bad story.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Just right i wouldnt want anything more all the textures are amazing and a huge amount of detail 
 put in
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  The gameplay varys slightly first off you can be put in amazing firefights using the excellent 
 system of it automatically putting you into cover when close to something which then allows you 
 to be able to blind fire nicely without having to press a button to go into cover and blindfire 
 but then you are plunged into back to back mode a pulse pounding hillarious ride in slow motion 
 with unlimited ammo where you are faced by hundreads of enemys. And then......... parachute modes 
 i dilike this very much as you have to use sixaxis which is very hard to use with the parachute 
 which makes it often sluggish to move.
  
  Story 4/10
  The only part of this game i dislike so ill keep it short it was just a bit juvenile and overused.
 
  
  Sfx 9/10
  Very nice while in battle you hear the satisfying fire of your gun while you boom over the radio 
 orders to you partner very enjoyable
  
  This game also hosts awesome physics as you see bodys flying around after being shout in the stomach 
 by your shotgun which may i add is fully upgradable. Infact the best upgrade system ive ever seen 
 actualy changing the appearance and power of the fun which also is possible to pimp .
  
  Overall 7.5/10
  
  gameplay +3
  graphics +2
  sfx +2 
  story -2.5
  
  Summary:
  
 
  A great game to buy if your looking for a pulse pounding adrennaline ride with excellent replay 
 value and co op tactics
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  ~xXJ0N0K3RXx~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was so horrible! I was really really anxious to play it based on what I'd heard and how 
 it looked and everything, but man was I disappointed!! The story is lame, and kind of screwed up 
 how they take cracks at U. S. troops. The game looks good as long as nothing moves, but the A. I. 
 move so stiffly they look like cardboard cut outs. The main characters had so much potential with 
 their grungy style. I thought it was awesome how they got tattoos and play air guitar like Wayne&Garth. 
 They had bad@ss armour and you could pimp out the guns and all that was pretty interesting. But, 
 seriously, how much fun can all that be without a good game to enjoy it with?? They really through 
 those guys and their flashy weapons down the proverbial toilet!!! The game play was lousy. I have 
 to blame it on the lazy developers who were, in my opinion, only worried about making this "look" 
 like a good game. 'Cause when you actually get your hands on it it "feels" like total garbage!! 
 And people say the co-ops great, but I can't stand to play this much less invite one of my good 
 buddy's over to suffer this crap. What kind of friend would that make me?? Anyway, to the point, 
 the game blows. Don't even waste your money renting it. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpt_caven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  So I RENTED this game the other night and me and my friend played it until 4 in the morning.
  
  It's fun, and immersive. The "store" in the game in which you buy/upgrade your weapons is well 
 laid out, and the co-op moments, though sometimes tedious, are great fun.
  
  The is story is a bit wonky, your a ranger, who after a mission in (Afghanistan?) is lured into 
 being a mercenary, with a private army. basically you and your buddy are a 2 man killing machine 
 which tears through Desert/ Urban/ Forrest and even an aircraft carrier, killing terrorists and 
 Hauling Ass. 
  
  The AI are decent though often they seemed uterly confused. They will run towards you, then past 
 you to cover behind you. and after playing through GTA 4 for a 2nd time recently the lack of an 
 auto aim "lock" on the enemey was missed, even though it doesn't need it.
  
  IN the Game you'll also fight "mini bosses" which are bascally average guys with tons of armour, 
 only being able to be killed from behind, which requires the game's main tactic, Draw "Agro" while 
 your teamate flanks, ir quite a bit like Brothers in arms in that sense, where one will blind fire 
 at an enemy while the other gets a pefect flank position.
  
  Good game, Definit RENT if you can get a friend to play through it with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost1294
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Like I said I found the game very enjoyable by myself. The ai for the enemy and your partner were 
 very well done. When I was wounded he dragged me to some cover and patched me up. Though there 
 was a few instances where that cover happened to be occupied by a bad guy which was a pain in the 
 butt.
  
  Though he does have one thing down, it is alot better and funner to play with a friend. Did that 
 with my old roomie and we had a blast. I took alot of high agro weapons so I was wounded alot. 
 ^_^
  
  I love how alot of the weapons can be customized giving you an array of options. Though I usually 
 stuck wit the AK 47. Thats a gung that means business, and after kitting it out (minus a silencer 
 of course) that weapon made you stand out like a christmas tree in hawii during the summer after 
 a few shots.
  
  Another point is that it is too short. I suggest that you dont buy it only rent at your local video 
 stores. If they added on more missions I'm sure it would have been better.
  
  As for the political stuff about it. I aint even gonna say a thing. Why? Because I dont give a 
 rats @$% about politics. I'm also saying nothing online since I dont care much for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxAdioxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  First off the game was wayy too short, then you have to think about how bad the A. I. was. I died 
 like 5 times, only because the A. I. would always drag me into the midst of fire. It was so annoying. 
 But I'll have to admit, co-op campaign on this thing was great, if you dont play with a noob. I 
 would rent this game, beat it then return it, cuz it sure as heck aint worth buying, but of course 
 i fell into that trap. I thought it was going to be much better, and ill have to admit, at the 
 beginning when i didnt have any enemys it was fun, but then when you start to get later into it, 
 it sucks.
  
  Another decent thing about this game was the weapon modification system, the shotgun, the golden 
 stuff. The fact that they used the word pimp, was very creative, but didnt make up for the bad.
 
  
  Overall i gave this game a 6.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought army of two thinking i would get a 3rd person shooter with fantastic co-op. And guess 
 what i was right! Its definately a third person shooter!
  
  You play as a couple of mercenaries. You see guys shooting you you shoot them. You look at your 
 amazing ai freind SITTING THERE PLAYING WITH HIS COCK WHILE YOUR GETTIN **** IN THE ASS! I cant 
 even believe i bought this stereotypical piece of garbage. But it just kept gettin better i tried 
 to do this one part where you and your ai dude are on a parachute and you gotta control it with 
 the sixaxis. Well.. they forgot to give you sixaxis controls and i died like 5 times before i just 
 switched to the analogs. Let me get started with the story and its a good one. This games story 
 makes gears of war look like final fantasy 10. Its horrible. I will give it this the controls are 
 good and there is plenty of customization for your guns and what not. But thats it thats the good. 
 I beg everyone reading this not to play this game please please dont buy it it sucks hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  a great game that im glad that i bought. It has its ups and downs like all other games and the 
 down arent to bad.
  
  The good: customize your weapons to become even more powerful and sneaky. Their is a feature where 
 a small bar tells you which one of you (either you or your partner) is being targeted the most 
 of the enemys. This can give you an advantage and kill some hard to get enemys. Plus online play 
 is pretty cool. And the coolest thing is that your partner acts as if they are their. Story is 
 pretty good. You can also save your partner from death when injured and they can save you.
  
  The bad: once in a while when u need your partner they are running in a wall. the combact is 
 very hard when you dont have your partner. at least once in every level your partner ignores orders 
 and goes charging towards a certain death.
  
  I say you buy this game and have some fun and it would problably be a good idea to have a friend 
 to play with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleaver426
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  It has great graphics good guns but terrible story and pretty lame gameplay. Your partner does, nt 
 do much much and theres not enough options to boss him around, eg. you want your partner to pick 
 up a door to defend you so you can shoot well you can, t do that. the AI is pretty slack especially 
 on the recruit/easy difficuly level. The back to back mode is very satisfying because you can just 
 see bodies flaying around while you blow em away. The core gameplay can get really old, it, s basicly 
 the same enemies all the way through apart from boss fights which happen kinda often, Gears of 
 war really delivered on the intensity of the combat and it never seems to get old but here its 
 the opposite, the enemies are the same old enemies the weapons they usually use are the same old 
 weapons and it just gets boring. Half way through I kinda wanted it to end! Get this game if you 
 don, t enjoy a challenge, you hate a story, and you LOVE easy AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  The only thing I like about this game is it's cover. I think it looks good and appealing. That's 
 the first thing I saw at this game. But then I read the Gamespot review and realised it isn't that 
 good. I have many friends who like this game, and I don't understand why. I didn't like it at all.
 
  The main problem of this game is in my opinion the game itself, which doesn't live up to it's cover. The 
 story is terrible and I have to say I haven't watched the cinematics are awful. The voice acting 
 is bad. You won't care about the story. The gameplay isn't that bad but it's repetitive and you will 
 be doing the same things over and over again. The best part of this game is in my opinion is the 
 co-op mode which is good. It's not the best co-op game but it does the job. the graphics are pretty 
 good and the characters look really good. Sound effects are stupid and sound awfull while the characters 
 voices don't do the job of taking you in the universe of this game. One of the most important aspect 
 of the game in the singleplayer mode is the AI controlled character. You can either attack the enemy 
 and tell your ally to sneak behind the nemy and eliminate them, while they are focused on you. Or 
 you can do viceversa. There are many actions that you can do with other player, and that's probably 
 this game is all about and is probably one of the most appealing aspects of the game. This is a 
 pretty moderate game which is worth renting and you can buy it if you often have friends over to 
 play with.
  
  My Score 6.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Ace
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  With a interesting story line, Army of Two will steal around 10 hours of your life. Your partner 
 is pretty smart of a computer but it's always better to play with a human. The controls are alright 
 but can get confusing at times. There are a large amount of guns at your disposal but only a few 
 of them are actually good. There are quite a few upgrades for each gun, like the barrel, clip and 
 stock. Cash (used to buy guns and upgrades) is not that hard to get but saving up for the bigger 
 guns can take some time. You have 4 weapon slots; Main (Assault Rifles) , Side (Pistols/Sub-Machine 
 Guns) , Special (Snipers/Rocket Launchers) , and Grenades (Frag only) . Toward the end of the game 
 when you have bought the RPG or Stinger (Rocket Launchers) it does get a bit hard to snipe the 
 bad guys. The game play is quite good with cover being a main part of the game.
  
  The multi-player can be a bit tricky to first set up, but it is all worth it. This game is defiantly 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a 3rd person shooter in which you take on the role of either Elliot Salem or Tyson 
 Rios. Together they are a dynamic hell raising duo. A near unstoppable force hired as a personal 
 army for the highest bidder. 
  
  "The story begins in 1993 in Somalia when Salem and Rios are still in the U. S. 75th Ranger Regiment. 
 They are tasked to work with Philip Clyde, a private military contractor with the Security and 
 Strategy Corporation (SSC) , to carry out an assassination. After this mission, Philip Clyde, on 
 behalf of SSC CEO Ernest Stockwell, invites Lieutenant Colonel Richard Dalton (commander of the 
 75th Ranger Regiment) to join the company for a desk job. He agrees, asking to bring Salem and 
 Rios with him as contractors, and in the following year, the three enter the private sector. Salem 
 and Rios begin work as mercenaries. Over the course of a decade and a half, they are caught up 
 in a complex scheme to privatize the military, and see to the plot's downfall." - Wiki. The plot 
 is certainly not the reason you'll want to play this game, but it does spark enough interest to 
 keep you playing once you've started. 
  
  The core of this game is the fantastic Co-Op style game play. You have control over the basic actions 
 of your partner, (Advance, Regroup, Hold Position) and whether or not they are performing said 
 action aggressively or defensively. When one of you is doing all of the shooting, that player accumulates 
 "aggro". The more aggro the character has, the more fire they are going to draw. If the aggro-meter 
 of one character is full, the other is basically invisible to the enemies, allowing him to do nearly 
 anything on the battlefield that's needed. 
  
  Many situations require you to utilize this Aggro to survive, such as setting your partner to hold 
 postion, aggressive, he draws all the fire, and you sneak around and eliminate the enemies behind 
 cover. Without your partner you are nothing. With him, you can perform actions such as the step 
 jump, to reach higher places, the back to back, in which you go back to back with your partner 
 and eliminate enemies while being nearly invincible, Co-op snipe, eliminating two key targets at 
 once so they cannot raise alarm, etc. Your partner also has the ability to heal you during battle 
 if you fall, and vice versa. 
  
  The weapons of the game provide a fair amount of variety. There's a number of assault rifles, sniper 
 rifles, handguns, machine guns, shotguns, and grenade/rocket launchers. Not to mention each of 
 them has a fairly good assortment of stat improving upgrades. None of them feel particularly great 
 to fire, but that's always been a problem for me and 3rd person shooters. 
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty good, but certain aspects of the environment are much more 
 highly detailed than others, as are the characters. But I really have no complaints in this department. 
 Over all its good. Sounds is the same. Very adequate, and the little remarks characters have to 
 make can become a little cheesy, but overall help with a little comic relief. AI of your team-mate 
 is generally good, but can definately hit some snags, and if your not playing on the unlock-able 
 professional difficulty, the enemies AI is about as intelligent as a rock. 
  
  Overall, I found this game to be thoroughly enjoyable, and have played through it twice now just 
 trying to upgrade all of the weapons and purchase all of the masks each character has available. 
 Problem is, thats the only way you'll get any replay value out of this game. I say rent it unless 
 your a hardcore shooter fan, in which case this really is a must own. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I hate to see people underrated this game, Army of two is a great game, but people don't get use 
 to it's cooperative system. You will soon get to like it if you know how to play.
  
  The game heavily synthesis on teamwork, you always need to trust on your friend beside you, because 
 he's the key of success and the only way to beat this game. It is recommended that you play with 
 another player instead of AI, not because the AI is stupid or something, but interacting with real 
 players are so much cooler. Split screen has no problem with communications, but in case you're 
 playing over internet, be sure to get a headset, trust me, there will be a lot confusion if you 
 can't chat.
  
  The story is pretty amazing, and the cut scenes are awesome. Both playable characters have unique 
 personalities, and you will find it out when you play through the game.
  
  Graphics is fairly good, I would say it's pretty standard for PS3 and X360. Don't expect too much 
 from this game, I'm sure there are many more games out there offer a much better graphics.
  
  Sicking of all the solo type shooter games? Army of two is what you are looking for, there 
 is no disappointment in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  great co-op play i like the idea and the name army of two it just sounds badass. i like the graphics 
 and level designs the guns are awesome when pimped out there all shiny bling bling. th story could 
 have been more in depth but altogether i was still a good game definitly fun to play with your 
 friends. i spent a majority of my time collecting money to upgrade all my guns and buy armor, and 
 face masks. the game can be difficult at times but its all about using cover clearing an area before 
 moving ahead. i personally liked the game although it could have been better considering they delayed 
 the release, with the extra time they could have had more stages cause i beat it in 6 hours, replay 
 value was moderate only because i like to max out everything. best to play with a friend because 
 your computer partner is not very helpful when there are tons of enemies but he does heal you when 
 your hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riaven
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Army of Two was a difficult purchase for me. Firstly, I rarely buy a game that scores below 7.0, 
 (based on comparing a variety of internet and magazine scores) and secondly, I really needed to 
 justify the investment in my PS3.
  Good thing I ignored many of the official reviews. Army of Two is the most fun I've had with a 
 3rd-person action-shooter. It's a mash-up of the intensity of Gears of War, the lush environments 
 of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune all sprinkled lightly with destructible environments. You get a good 
 dose of blowing things up mixed with a few environmental puzzles and even a few rail-shooter sequences.
 
  
  Army of Two follows the exploits of two ex-Army Rangers turned mercenaries, Salem and Rios, out 
 looking for their next big payday. In conjunction with Alice the mission coordinator (think Otacon 
 in MGS) they get involved in some hairy situations in which the only way out are some cleverly 
 crafted one-liners and an assault rifle!
  
  Many other reviews on the Internet will tell you how the story is light on exposition and heavy 
 on political undertones, bringing about a feeling of imbalance. The central might even offend. 
 To be quite honest, the MGS series has perfected the convoluted plot dripping with politics and 
 moral dilemmas. Army of Two doesn't tread that path but wants the player to focus on the cooperative 
 and tactical assault elements, weapon and armor customization and the varied environments.
  
  In a nutshell, the story revolves around the privatization of the military and the complexity 
 it causes in the relationships between governments and business entities as well as the Army. During 
 the course of their missions Rios realizes that the firm they work for (SSC or Security and Strategy 
 Corporation) is setting them up for a fall down a mine shaft, with a bear trap at the bottom. Listening 
 to the battle-hardened Rios trying to convince the youthful and exuberant Salem of their imminent 
 six-feet-under status, stirs up a few chuckles.
  
  Army of Two is a standard third person tactical shooter where your goal is to successfully complete 
 missions for cash which you use for purchasing and upgrading weapons and armor. Missions are linear 
 in nature but each mission does feature a few side-missions for additional cash. Within each level 
 there are hidden suitcases containing extra cash. These suitcases become very important as the 
 extra money will help you afford the more expensive weapons and upgrades, especially if you desire 
 a gold-plated RPG.
  
  Combat consists of basic cooperative play with the second character (you can play as either Rios 
 or Salem) being controlled by a fairly capable AI or another player. The mechanic works very well 
 as the developers have built the cooperative play from the ground up. During combat you will be 
 introduced to the Aggro-meter. Building up Aggro with a specific character causes enemies to focus 
 on the character doing most of the attacking leaving the other character free to perform flanking 
 manoeuvres. The more the Aggro-meter fills up the more "invisible" the other character becomes 
 to the enemy to the extent where if the Aggro-meter is full, the character not engaging in combat 
 can enter a "bullet-time" mode where time slows down thus guaranteeing greater accuracy and being 
 able to take down enemies more efficiently. 
  
  Army of Two also incorporates a decent cover system. To take on cover you press a single button, 
 the same to move out of cover. You can also vault over low objects or pull yourself up unto higher 
 ground to gain the advantage. Taking cover and directing your team mate successfully is essential 
 as the enemy AI rarely misses compared to your character who's aiming early on in the game is a 
 bit handicapped. As you gain more powerful weapons and upgrades your stats will increase, making 
 head shots easier and shooting from the hip less of a lottery. 
  Making the right choice in what weapons to equip for each character is essential as some missions 
 can only be completed using certain weapons. Luckily you can swap weapons with your team mate so 
 make sure you have a varied arsenal. Certain combat sequences also calls for both characters to 
 engage a single target while another has the characters standing back-to-back engaging multiple 
 enemies in a cinematic slow-motion shootout ala John Woo-style in Face Off. These encounters leave 
 you breathless as you finish your Tony Montana impersonation.
  
  Army of Two employs a health system similar to Gears of War. There is no health meter; the screen 
 will turn red when you take too much damage. Should you be incapacitated your team mate will drag 
 you to the safety of cover and heal you up. While in this mode you can still engage enemies to 
 provide cover as your team mate assists you. 
  
  The weapons are brilliant, nary an underpowered boom stick to be found. Anything from a Desert 
 Eagle to an assault shotgun; high-calibre sniper rifles to a Stinger missile launcher. Upgrades 
 to these weapons include the barrel, the stock, magazine size, aiming assists, silencers, grenade 
 launcher attachments to the aforementioned gold plating complete with a diamond encrusted magazine. 
 Weapons and upgrades are purchased from black-market arms dealers via the menu and are divided 
 into primary, secondary, special, armor and a weapons expert. Armour is divided into light, medium 
 and heavy which are unlocked during the course of the game and cannot be purchased. You can however 
 buy different masks if you fancy one-upping Jason Voorhees.
  
  Enemy AI isn't very challenging although every now and then one or two will try and out-flank your 
 position. Other than suicide bombers and the "Tin Man"-varieties (think the flame-thrower man in 
 Lethal Weapon 4) the enemies aren't varied and easy to take down. Animations are good with enemies 
 realistically falling off high perches when sniped or flailing backwards when taking a shotgun 
 shell to the chest. 
  
  Environments are brilliant, ranging from worn torn cities to the deck of a sinking aircraft carrier. 
 Physics present in the environments are good, textures look real and I haven't come across any 
 clipping or floating. Laying waste to an island encampment is just as much fun as dodging massive 
 containers on the aircraft carrier or shooting anything that moves in the airport terminal.
  
  Sound is good overall, weapons sound realistic; explosions will impress you if you have a sub 
 woofer as part of your sound system although the background score starts to sound monotonous after 
 a few levels. 
  
  Graphics are on par with other next-gen games on the PS3 with very pretty water effects, excellent 
 character models and lots of HDR.
  
  I enjoyed my time with Army of Two immensely; crass characters, big explosions, corny one liners 
 and blockbuster action sequences. If you're looking for an MGS/FF-plot, look elsewhere. If, however, 
 you want a good old fashioned romp with large guns and larger than life egos, Army of Two won't 
 disappoint. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: worthyofnote
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty generic, and that's to say the least. This game tells the story of two characters 
 that function on opposite ends of social behavior trying to find a common ground. And while doing 
 so, make attempts at lame humor while on the battlefield. It's pretty bad when simple air-guitaring 
 and high fives are thrown around with dull conversations in the middle of firefights. 
  
  The game also introduces you to other characters that are obnoxious and generic as well. 
  
 
  But all character flaws aside, this game focuses mainly on co-op play. The coordination of tactics 
 to flank enemies and take certain positions is what it seems to be all bout, however, it's nothing 
 really special. The levels are designed specifically around the use of physical teamwork. One example 
 is using one player to boost you up to a higher platform, or using a car door as cover while your 
 partner trails closely behind you with cover fire. There are also tandem parachute jumps where 
 both players will share a 'chute; one maneuvers and the other snipes enemies while descending into 
 battle. All in all, the teamwork is solid and stable, it provides for some fun moments.
  
  Gameplay, however, reminds me a lot of Gears Of War. This is where I felt like it was a cheap rip-off. 
 Finding cover, blind firing around obstacles, etc etc. Even at times the HUD for such actions looked 
 as if they were copied. The guns are pretty cool. You can upgrade their fire power and other aspects 
 such as accuracy and clip sizes with various attachments. However, things get crazy when you fully 
 customize a weapon. It seems like a cheap gimmick to run in blazing rounds with a gold plated assault 
 rifle. Leave it to EA to "pimp" everything in their games.
  
  Another issue I had with the game was the concept of flanking enemies. Provide some cover fire 
 for a friend, and draw the enemy to you, naturally, but your friend will become like a ghost. Invisible, 
 easily able to progress across the battlefield out in the open. This feels as if you were cheating, 
 or that the AI is poorly constructed. It takes away from the intensity and nitty gritty the game 
 aims to establish. Other than this, the AI is impressive. Grenades, accurate shots, and sometimes 
 even little suicide runs are a part of the methods the AI employs. 
  
  If you're looking to play through this alone, then you won't have as much fun. The accompanying 
 AI is all that it's cracked up to be. And here is where frustration really sets in. Your partner 
 never seems to do exactly as you want/tell him to do. Stick with the multi-player.
  
  Online play isn't much different from playing the campaign. You and a partner attempt to complete 
 missions that include securing valuable intel or escorting hostages. You'll face CPU adversaries, 
 but the real threat comes from the form of another two player controlled team working to complete 
 similar goals. Whoever wins the most cash, kills, and achieves the most goals is the winner.
  
  In conclusion, Army Of Two is like a summer blockbuster movie. You may see it once just for 
 some quick thrills and to pass the time. This game delivers that, but it's nothing special when 
 packaged with dysfunctional and annoying characters, and some other annoying problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The Introduction
  
  Army of Two is a title that led the charge to EA's seeming new initiative to create fresh IPs to 
 combat the "roster update" vanilla-fest complaints they have continually been struck by. Though 
 most were skeptical, plenty more held their hopes up as lots of cool functions and mechanics, particularly 
 at the co-op level, came to light.
  
  However, eyebrows were raised when the game was racked with delays after reports of it being unplayably 
 bad. The game was rebuilt, the tampons minigames tossed out, and the co-op and singleplayer supposedly 
 sharpened. So how does it stack up?
  
  The Pros
  
  Honestly, if I were rating this game strictly as a co-op experience, it would probably get a 6.5, 
 possibly a 7. It's good fun with a buddy, but then again, I could say that about a great many crummy, 
 derivative titles. That said, the game does nail the co-op feel and for the most part, you really 
 do feel in it together.
  
  The graphics and voice acting are also for the most part solid. They occasionally even have flashes 
 of brilliance. No major complaints here.
  
  Some of the fresh gameplay mechanics work out well. Namely, using car doors for cover with your 
 buddy attached to you, shooting from behind, it's all good fun. Sadly, this is perhaps the only 
 fresh gameplay mechanic that functions as promised. Allowing you or your partner to shoot while 
 downed/being dragged to saftey also works great. Certainly makes the game more fun/fast paced.
 
  
  Lastly, I really did like the upgrade system. You get money by completing each mission with the 
 possibility of more money should you find briefcases. The upgrades are extensive, and the available 
 new guns that can also be bought are great. Also, being able to "pimp" your guns by spending cash 
 to turn them a gaudy silver or gold is great for a laugh, as are some of the extra masks. Rarely 
 has a developer actually made "aesthetic" purchases in an upgrade menu some tempting, even worthwhile. 
 That upgrades work great and each additional adjustment, no matter how minor, is definitely felt 
 and appreciated.
  
  The Cons
  
  Oh boy.... on considering the flaws, I'm starting to wonder if 6 is on the generous side. First, 
 the single player sucks. Just don't bother. EA promised partner AI as good as a fellow human. Yeah 
 right, failed promise number 1. It's either a frenetic retard or a docile retard In other words, 
 it either goes wild or you end up having to nurse it, commanding it every little step of the way. 
 Ultimately, it'll follow you and perform, but requires absurd babysitting.
  
  Failed promise number 2: the much vaunted aggro system is spotty as hell. Your partner has aggro, 
 the game claims you should be invisible to the enemy as long as he m aintains aggro. This holds 
 true appromixmately half the time. Also, if you aggro up all the way etc, you should get either 
 a massive burst of super-damage/bullet time aggro time or hyper invisibility. These bursts last 
 far too short a time to even matter.
  
  Failed promise number 3: Intuitive co-op mechanics do not abound in one case. The "step-up" mechanic 
 (your partner lifts you up and then you pull him up) is busted. Grasping your partners arm for 
 the pull up is hyper touchy and you'll often find yourself ambling around for that arm.
  
  Failed promise number 4: A great storyline relating to current issues. Yeah right. This has turned 
 into standard Blockbuster rental schlock. Guys yelling and high-fiving, failed attempts at jokes, 
 and an incredibly lame and unfunny mechanic that allows you to smack your partner or high-five/airguitar 
 him... it's all just pathetic. It's possibly worse than Haze's plotline, in the same pigheaded way. 
 The characters are also flat, boring, and cookie cutter. It's a whole game of the "hardened" character 
 saying "i think there's a conspiracy here" and the "brash, young" character saying "don't be silly! 
 I like money, women, and cars!"
  
  Another flaw in the gameplay is that it is just too damn difficult. A game with such a shallow 
 storyline and humor should not be Ninja Gaiden. This is not hard in a challenging way, it is hard 
 in a frustrating way. There are FAR too many stationary guns.... made all the more frustrating since 
 the intended method of taking them out (aggro) is only half-functional. This is not a game to be 
 mastered. Don't even get me started on the ridiculous parachute portions....
  
  Minor glitches also abound. I saw an enemy run away shooting, another enemy spin in circles, and 
 another one roll... upwards onto a platform.
  
  Lastly, you don't get to fight the big bad guy. Now that's not a big deal, but it is a big deal 
 the way EA Montreal has worked it..... which is a glaringly obvious indicator that they either had 
 no time left or no money left. The big bad guy flies up in a chopper with a minigun and you think 
 "well, derivative, but ok." So you're standing on a rooftop getting ready to fight..... only to 
 be greeted by a cutscene of you shooting down the chopper that goes directly into the game's final 
 cutscene. Utter crap.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  Alright fun with a buddy, but even that'll be pushing it at times. Not alright fun with a buddy 
 on anything but the lower difficulty settings. A failed promise of a game in every way that at 
 times, is painful to play. It is absolutely not worth anything more than a weekend rental. God 
 knows what the previous game played like if this really is so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  I may have said this before, but EA just doesn`t make that good games anymore. This game is a clear 
 example of that.
  Yes, its a great idea in the first place to make a game like this, finally a game that is as good 
 as made for 2 player. 
  But, the graphics feels like the kind of graphics we used to have on the PS2 and the story is so 
 uninteresting and braindead as it can be.
  Its clear from the very beginning that this is a game EA hasn`t put that much work in. 
  You 
 go around as Salem and Rios, earning money to use to customize and buy more weapons aswell as pimping 
 them which aren`t all that bad.
  And yeah. Thats about it. The singleplayer is worthless, but is ok with a friend (as expected) 
 and if you thought that the Online is good, I really dont know because all of the times I`ve tried 
 there aren``t more than 1 people exept me that is Online so.. *sigh*.. Its boring and unmotivating 
 and if you are willing to die for a co-op game, then I guess this game its ok, but only if its 
 on a yard-sale costing less then 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a terrible game, all in all. Before it came out, it was very excited. It turned 
 out to be disapointing. I thought the single player story was extremely short. And as a side-note, 
 the AI was completely STUPID! They would drag you out into the middle of the battlefield when you 
 are injured and they are supposed to heal you. instead of healing you, they drag into battle, as 
 said before, and they get killed, and then without any help, YOU get killed. 
  
  The story is way too short. I was able to finish it in two days. It was one of those when after 
 you finished it, you thought to yourself, "Why the HELL did i play this?". And there is absolutly 
 no replay value. Why would you want to replay this game? For what reason? None. There were only 
 two good things in it; 1) It had multiplayer, which descent, and 2) It ended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goose191919
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, played it with a friend the same day/night, and then returned it the next day. 
 Neither of us liked it very much and were very dissatisfied with it.
  
  The game seemed like it was written by a 6th grader who was trying to act older by using unnecessary 
 amounts of swearing. The plot and storyline were not believable, the two characters seemed almost 
 cartoon-like, and the ending was incredibly lame. I would say to only rent this game, since you 
 will end up beating it in a day or two. The only replay value it had was to play the game over 
 again with all of the weapons unlocked.
  
  The game also does not use the limits of the PS3, it really felt like we were playing a PS2 game. 
 I don't think I have ever bought a game and then turned around and sold it the following day - 
 it was that bad. If you happen to find this game in the bargain bin, then possibly buy it. I have 
 never been angrier at a game for conning me into spending $60 for it. I cannot stress enough how 
 disappointed I was.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumahboi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is like one of those 4th of July fireworks that goes off and "wows" you for ten seconds 
 then when it's over you're like,"What now?". It offers great online play that will entertain you 
 for hours, which make up for a short but thrilling story mode. However, you are missing out on 
 the full experience if you don't have a headset, which really adds to the gameplay as you shoot 
 it out with the other two opponents whilst telling your partner to sneak around the back and snipe 
 at their backs. 
  
  The graphics were very pleasing to the eyes, but most new gen games are. The sounds were good, 
 but there wasn't any contrast between the gunshots and the cracks/commands your partner comments 
 throughout the game. I just thought a grenade would drown out your partner's voice as it exploded 
 between the both of you.
  
  However, even though the story was o. k., they could have improved with the aftermath they left 
 after the story mode's "one night stand". All the money that was left behind after buying all of 
 the upgrades and weapons could have been used in the online play. It would have been interesting 
 "buying" some new guns online that they could have released throughout time, so there would always 
 be something new. Even maybe fan-submitted Mask Art to download for money. Another thing that disappointed 
 me was that they failed to incorporate the money earned during online play into anything besides 
 rank.
  
  However, Army of Two was an experience that could not be experienced any other way (for now) . Even 
 though it had a few disappointments, it is definitely a game you don't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Army Of Two coz i was in desperate need of a co-op game.... in a split second decision 
 between BF: BC and AO2 i had to buy AO2 as BF: BC didnt have co-op. Unfortunately it only took me 
 and my cousin 2 days to finish it (problem 1) all up i think we spent around 8 or 9 hours on it.... 
 which is very short although that was on the easiest difficulty. Problem 2 is the difficulty personally 
 the difference between the easiest and the hardest difficulties couldnt be seen it was basically 
 identical. I have to say online is great.... great concept, great co-op everything is pretty good 
 but (problem 3) it lags.... ALOT! When i say that i mean a half a second delay on what you press 
 to what you see on screen which makes the online hideously bad to the point where you dont bother 
 shooting and run straight up behind people and giv' 'em a one shot kill with the back of your gun. 
 Its pretty over powering compared to the great range of weapons and customizations but hey shooting 
 can occaisonally get you a kill. Going with a kinda Gears of War cover systema and adding to it 
 the "tap triangle to slide/roll/duck to cover" thing really works well and shooting blindly is 
 great but i think it suffers from lack of accuracy because when with a machine gun blindly shooting 
 isnt much of an option as your opponents AI is pretty good and they like to stay stuck to cover. 
 Speaking of AI battles with opponents are great and the concept of aggro is amazing but (Problem 
 4) the thought that someone could shoot alot and attract attention is fine but enough attention 
 to force someone to not even look to the other side where another person is shooting them is a 
 little far fetched but still works out in your favour... although developers maybe made some things 
 to hard thinking that the aggro system will work fine. Problem 5 is that at about 3 points in the 
 game some heavily armed soilders or bosses will be within a very small corridor (corridor as in 
 a pier, room or etc) and you have to kill them from behind, obviously using aggro but the fact 
 is its almost impossible to get past these people to get behind them it requires a real difference 
 in guns between the two players (such as a machine gun to attract attention to someone and the 
 other person needs to have a silenced weapon. When playing single player your teammate automatically 
 adjust to be the complete opposite of you which usually would b the quiet person) . Its extremely 
 hard to defeat the people but the fact is it isnt impossible all you really need is abit of luck 
 and the right weapons.
  
  5 problems with a game that has a very, very, very good concept and judging by the ending a sequel 
 is on its way and i guarentee it'll b a thousand time better than this already great game. I reckon 
 its a must have for anybody with a partner to play with and i would reccomend it to single players 
 (but at a later point in time when the price drops) coz i guarentee the next one will b great! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two was supposed to be realeased in 07 but was pushed back to March 08 to tune up the game 
 a little bit. They fixed some stuff and added more in. Now lets see if Army of Two payed off or 
 is just another big dissapointment. 
  
  In Army of Two you play as Salem or Rios. Two army soilders who have become Mercenarys who are 
 decked out in heavy army and there prety badd ass looking. The Story has Salem and Rios go to Iraq, 
 China and a few more and each mission usualy takes place a year or two appart. The story has realy 
 no big twist in it a few but overall its kinda week. 
  
  The Sound in Army of Two is Ok the voice acting is good and a litte cheesy at times. The guns sound 
 good the machine gun on the back of a vehicle in multiplayer sounds like its just going to rip 
 you to sheards its prety cool. The music is prety good for a action game it goes realy good in 
 the moment.
  
  The Graphics in Army of Two are also ok as well. The Character modles are bad but with the armor 
 on the Two main characters it makes them look bad ass. Other than that they don't rack up to other 
 big titles to today. The lighting is prety good in the game and the level designs are not half 
 bad.
  
  The Gameplay in Army Of Two is well bult around Two. The single player campagin is ok by yourself 
 the AI partner is smart and a little dumb but he works most of the time. WIth a partner it is realy 
 fun. The Combat is kinda like Gears of war meaning you are behind cover a lot. The cover systeam 
 dosn't have you put your back on the back of a giant slab but it has you stand behing them wich 
 works. The Combat is realy fun you have the co-op elements in there for example you have somethingcalled 
 back to back wich will have you and your partner back to back as you lay wast to every bad guy 
 around you. There is also some thing called "ARGOR" wich has one of the two of you glowing red 
 why the other turns bassicly invisable and he can go around and kill every one. You get "AGRO" 
 by blind fireing or just laying wast to every body. When you die your partner can drag you and 
 you can shoot and he can take you around cover and heal you its realy fun. Each mission Gives you 
 certain objectives to complete and as you do you get more and more money wich you can yousue to 
 by more mash or weapons and each weapon has upgrades you can do and its realy fun to pimp out your 
 weapon.
  
  Multiplayer is also prety fun its two on two, but there are lots of AI bad guys to get in your 
 way. The gameplay has you and your partner VS the other two people going around and doing objectives 
 to earn money. The more money you have the more weapons you can by. The team who has the most money 
 wins. Its prety fun for a while.
  
  Overall Army of Two is a fun game that suffers becase of its lenghth. The gameplay is fun and the 
 characters are prety cool too. If i were to say this one is a rent.
  
  Story 7/10
  Sound 7/10
  graphics 7/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Multiplayer 8/10
  overall 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Just like my Title says "Army of me and another". I liked the game play, I liked the graphics, 
 and the weapons were cool... The Game could of been longer, not trying to spoil it but its only 
 like 4 maps to begin with. On the up side the playstation network offers two map packs as of now 
 ( June 29th 08) and maybe will offer more later. Also one of the map packs are free. The A. I is 
 good too, Not So good like they were selling it off to be but it was good. You can upgrade everything 
 some for example: Mask, Body Armor, and weapons. I do own the Game and play it often even though 
 I own other games. Not a must buy but if you live with someone else who enjoys army games Id buy 
 it just because most games you buy now wont split screen. So my review is if you want good graphics 
 and good co-op then it would be a good purchase If not then maybe it wont be the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooklynsez
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Army Of Two was a most excellent Co-Op game! This is the first split screen game that I have played, 
 much preferring to play shared screen co-ops... so needless to say I was a bit skeptical on the 
 power behind this offering. EXCELLENT! We have played it twice through now and will definitely 
 play it again and again. Army Of Two is a keeper! 
  
  AOT was well conceived and excellently executed. Like most new introductions it came with a few 
 bugs, but definitely not enough to stop the awarding of two thumbs up! I loved the ease in which 
 you could locate your partner, no blips, no arrows, just a simple push of the button and you knew 
 exactly where "he" was. The camera angles were less than perfect in the "drag and heal" your partner 
 concept, but still it was workable.
  
  I loved the graphics and the fact that the screen was a horizontal split as opposed to a vertical 
 split. I would have to say the only thing EA could have done differently for my liking was give 
 us free access to the arms we purchased, which I am sure they will do in the sequel... and there 
 really needs to be a sequel. I think many people were pleasantly surprised at what a completely 
 interesting and exciting Co-op game Army Of Two really was. BRING IT! WE'RE READY FOR MORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BPoole96
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two isn't too great of a game. It tries to be too hard to be "hip" and "badass" by using 
 terms such as "pimping" your weapons and having unnecessary language is some areas. The gameplay 
 is fairly slow and there isn't really much variety between the enemies you encounter. The weapons 
 feature of carrying a primary weapon, a secondary, and a sniper rifle at all times did was pretty 
 fun and gave differents options on how to approach your enemy. The graphics were good but the gameplay 
 just isn't there. The campaing mode is fairly short as well. It can easily be beaten in a day or 
 two. The online coop was fun if you have somebody you know to play with, that's probably the only 
 reason why i finished the game. I found this game used for half price and was still a little disappointed 
 with it. It may be good for a rent, but it's not worth shelling out 60$ for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destazio
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  first of all this is more of a rent game than a buy game, unless it cost $10 to buy but unstead 
 it takes $60 from u : (. this game to me is too easy and the story was way to short plus the plot 
 did not make since. one time i was so close to finishing a mission when all of a sudden my teamate 
 is literally running into a wall with an explodable gas tank next to him and and telling him to 
 come over to me and im trying to push him off it but he stil goes back to it (computer played) 
 and then this enemy comes out of nowhere and aims poorly and shoots the gas tank thus it exploding 
 getting my teammate then as i go and heal him the same guy gets me but he only shoots me with only 
 a few bullets (he had to relaod) and so we just layed there and died. so that game was easy but 
 really stressful with a dumb teammate andoh I have to do all the work and kill all the guys and 
 push all the buttons while my teammate is somewhere else shooting missing terribly and sometimes 
 getting me. all im saying is if u have ALOT of patience then get this game. But i must admit it 
 is good if u play with a real human being whether its online or copperative (both are good) then 
 it is an ok game. but for rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a brave step by EA. Despite being responsible for some of the most entertaining 
 games released over the past few years the publisher still has a bad reputation with certain gamers, 
 and Army of Two was looking to change that. As a brand new IP with a clear focus on cooperative 
 gameplay we had high hopes, but for every moment where the ideas seem fresh, the gameplay feels 
 awkward, often to the extent that the fundamental mechanics feel broken. You're certainly an army 
 of two, but you might not want to see your partner again once you're finished.
  
  With a plot revolving around soldiers for hire (mercenaries Tyson Rios and Elliot Salem) , privatising 
 the military, political hot spots and some backstabbing and revenge, Army of Two is set up pretty 
 well. It's got all the ingredients needed of a solid action game, but it doesn't make the most 
 of it. The plot seems patched together and is never all that engaging, the characters are hard 
 to believe - mainly because they don't do enough that plays towards their different personalities 
 - and the threat never seems as big as it's made out to be. Without the story to keep you playing, 
 the gameplay has a lot resting on its shoulders.
  
  Whether played with a real person (online or via split-screen) or an AI partner the game focuses 
 heavily on what EA calls the Aggro system. A meter at the top of the screen shows who is generating 
 the most aggro, and the enemies focus on that character. Taking the aggro is as simple as firing 
 at an enemy location, or better still hitting enemies - the higher the aggro the redder the character 
 becomes. The other character then becomes somewhat invisible to the enemy (to the extent that the 
 game shows him as being slightly transparent) , enabling him to sneak around the back of enemies 
 to get a better shot - indeed, some enemies can only be downed by attacking from the rear.
  
  For this to work you need to play the game as it wants to be played, which means sticking to 
 cover and working as a team. Rather than using cover like in Gears of War or Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 you simply move behind objects and peek out from the sides. The only snapping to cover is when 
 you dive behind something. It feels a little fiddly at first, but you get used to it and it works 
 - although you'll often think you're aiming directly at a target only to find you're shooting into 
 a wall.
  
  Problems quickly arise though. When everyone is playing by the rules - you're in cover or trying 
 to flank the enemy and the enemy is a reasonable distance from you - the game ticks along, unspectacularly, 
 but decently enough. You feel like you're having to use tactics to overcome them and it seems like 
 a job well done by EA. But then someone will rush at you and the game falls apart at the seams. 
 For trained soldiers these guys can't deal with close-quarters combat well at all.
  
  The main problem is the camera, which isn't your traditional third-person shooter viewpoint, instead 
 going for something like Splinter Cell where you can only strafe when using the slightly zoomed 
 in aiming view. Unlike Splinter Cell, Army of Two throws an awful lot of enemies at you and you 
 need to be able to aim and take them down quickly, often while moving. Trying to shoot anything 
 while not using the aiming view makes a joke of the soldiers you're controlling, as they're almost 
 incompetent and the turn speed when using the precision aim view is so slow that you're a dead 
 duck if you're out in the open.
  
  All it takes is one guy to get up close and you'll be a mess of aiming reticules and spinning camera 
 angles, and if that guy happens to want to launch a rocket at your face from two metres (it does 
 happen) , you can wave goodbye to the world. Things aren't helped by an inability to easily spot 
 where enemies are shooting you from. As is the norm, an on-screen red marker appears when you're 
 hit, indicating the direction it came from, but in the heat of the battle - and with enemies ducking 
 down behind cover all the time - it's almost impossible to spot them. It's made even worse when 
 the screen is filled with red to indicate your ill health.
  
  You'd assume playing with a real person would make things easier, but if anything it's actually 
 harder. When playing with an AI partner you know where you stand. Although there's no command to 
 move to a certain location (a big omission in our book) , you can tell him to tag along with you, 
 head on into the level or hold firm by pressing left, up or right on the d-pad respectively. The 
 key to making the best use of your AI partner is deciding when to switch between the aggressive 
 and passive modes for each of these commands. Passive makes him take cover and generally try not 
 to get the attention of enemies, while aggressive sees him taking more risks and making sure the 
 enemy knows he's there - effectively taking the aggro.
  
  By using the on-screen mini-window which shows your partner's position you can pretty effectively 
 move him to the position you want. Tell him to move through the level and then switch to an aggressive 
 hold firm command when enemies are in sight, and he'll do his job. With the aggro on him you can 
 sneak around the side and take out enemies relatively easily. If he starts to take too much heavy 
 fire, a quick tap again right on the d-pad will tell him to play it safe, so he stops firing and 
 takes better cover. You can then take the aggro and give him time to recover. At times it works 
 well, but it's a flawed system with its success depending on the number of enemies and their willingness 
 to rush at you.
  
  With a real partner things aren't as clear cut. The same rules apply, but you've got to work together, 
 with clear roles defined at every encounter and communication needing to be spot on. If you find 
 yourself playing with someone with considerably less ability than you, you might as well forget 
 about it as you'll both be killed, over and over again. When you're shot down you usually get a 
 chance to be given medical aid (unless you take a shotgun to the face) , with your partner running 
 in and fixing you up, hopefully before your time is up. Doing this in the open isn't ideal so you're 
 able to drag your partner behind cover - something I found the AI was far better at, despite coming 
 unstuck by grenades on numerous occasions.
  
  Other co-op actions seem great at first but soon become less and less used as you realise you're 
 better off sticking to what you know. Using a shield and working as a team behind it is ok, but 
 it limits your attacking options, and the co-op sniping is something we found very little use for. 
 You'll be forced to use the back to back move at various points (at least once per level) but it 
 feels rather tacked on. You simply spin round and shoot while a tonne of enemies run at you. These 
 set-pieces could have been cut from the game at no real cost. You'll also have to help one another 
 up onto ledges at various points, but at no point did the game feel especially better as a co-op 
 game than any of the others on the market.
  
  All of the problems are compounded by some dull level design and a lack of variety. Every level 
 plays out the same with the final guy needing to be flanked and shot from behind. Given that a 
 number of these areas are little more than outdoor corridors, finding a path around the back without 
 running straight past the super enemy is practically impossible and it ruins the illusion that 
 you're actually outthinking your foe.
  
  Never before in a game have I witnessed so much anger by two people playing together. At times 
 Army of Two makes enjoying it impossible, with the game seemingly trying its hardest to ruin the 
 potential it has. Add some annoyingly placed checkpoints to the list of problems and you have a 
 game that only the most committed will work through - even though it can be finished in six hours 
 on the highest difficulty available from the start. Hovercraft sections are introduced at a number 
 of points, no doubt to spice the gameplay up a little, but they feel dated even compared to the 
 boat sections in Half-Life 2. Throughout the campaign I was waiting for things to kick off and 
 for the game to go up a gear, but the spectacle never came.
  
  
  When you first use a parachute, sniping enemies below while your partner controls the chute's descent, 
 you get a flash of something brilliant, but later sections make aiming nearly impossible and you 
 can simply fly past most the enemies anyway, making the shooting a diversion at best. You can even 
 perform ridiculous air guitar solos or high fives with your buddy, but they're completely bizarre 
 in the context of the game and largely pointless.
  
  Something else EA almost got right is the weapons upgrade system. Before each mission and often 
 mid-mission you're able to buy new weapons or upgrade existing ones. Cash is earned by completing 
 objectives and it's pretty plentiful so you can upgrade quite regularly. Sadly you can only carry 
 three weapons at once, plus your grenades, so it's unlikely you'll switch to anything new once 
 you've got a fully kitted out killing machine - you can even add bling to make your gun nice and 
 shiny and to attract more aggro. What effectively ruins this though is the lengthy loading you 
 have to endure when you want to buy or upgrade. The menu itself takes far too long to load and 
 then you need to load a new menu for each weapon type. Towards the end we often opted to stick 
 with what we had rather than endure the loading once again.
  
  Whether or not it's a great tool or simply a way to overcome poor level design is unclear, but 
 Army of Two features a GPS, essentially telling you where to go and what the objectives are. For 
 the most part it's perfectly possible to navigate without having to follow a set of glowing orange 
 arrows, given than most of the maps are pretty linear, but we did have to consult the high-tech 
 gadget from time to time.
  
  As in Gears of War, Army of Two's competitive multiplayer modes only cater for a small number of 
 players, in this case four. As a team of two you're placed in a large map (there are only four 
 at the moment, but more via DLC wouldn't be a huge surprise) and you need to complete objectives 
 before the opposition in order to earn cash. With AI enemies also littered about and the objectives 
 being pretty varied for a multiplayer shooter, Army of Two's Vs. mode is certainly something you 
 won't have played before. How much fun you get from it will depend on how you found the core controls 
 during the campaign and if you can buddy up with a real friend who knows the ins and outs of the 
 game.
  
  Built using the Unreal Engine 3 Army of Two looks solid, but nothing more. Character models are 
 excellent, but the environments are pretty sparse and enemies start to resemble clones before too 
 long. The hovercraft sections don't shine visually either, with the vehicle almost looking like 
 it's been pasted into the scene. Thankfully the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions both run at 
 a pretty smooth frame rate and the differences between the two visually are minimal at most - we 
 had both running side by side and it's hard to pick a winner. On the Xbox 360 everyone's got rumble 
 support and there are plenty of Achievements to earn, while the PS3 features a few minor motion 
 control additions, such as moving the controller up and down to reload your weapon.
  
  It's hard to be down on a game that tries to do something commendable, but Army of Two suffers 
 from too many problems to be the game we wanted it to be. It just about scrapes through, enough 
 anyway to warrant some decent sales and hopefully a sequel. Hopefully next time Rios and Salem 
 will be a little less wise-cracking, take things a little more seriously and come complete with 
 levels and gameplay scenarios that match the clever aggro system. While the gun-play certainly 
 grows on you as you progress, some hefty tweaks there wouldn't be amiss either. As a trial for 
 a new gameplay concept Army of Two does its job, but as a great game it falls someway short.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 6
  Overall: 6
  
  The good:
  
  - The aggro system 
 is great.
  - Solid visuals.
  
  The bad:
  
  - Awkward controls.
  - Lacks spectacle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is not bad But It is not the greatest. I would say try to pick up at a cheap price 
 or a long rental. The story line is pretty good and so is the action. however it could get very 
 dull. once you beat it once you get all of the primary weapons and one of those is a huge gatling 
 gun. once you get that you are pretty much set. no one will get in your way. so even a non hardcore 
 gamer could beat the game in six hours. now the on-line. Now i am not sure about this but you can 
 not use headsets at least when i played. That can cause a lot of problems with a team based game 
 play. So it's a okay game but not a must have. So that is pretty much it there are some new interesting 
 things like the back to back and the whole save your partner thing. So there is still some fun 
 with this game. If they make a sequel and improve it a little we may have a good franchise. There 
 are still better games on the market remember kids do your homework on a game before you go out 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Army Of Two
  We were all talking about this game when we were looking at the trailers and the video gameplay 
 and we were like ''WOW''. But when the game came out, there was a bit let down from a big part 
 of the gamers. Some liked this game and others didn't like it. I liked it. I wont say that it is 
 the best multiplayer game in the stores, but the game gives us an interesting view on maybe a new 
 kind of game that could become bigger and bigger, year after year.
  
  The gameplay in this game is fun but a bit repetitive after a few missions. It would be fun if 
 EA putted specials things after you complete a missions so you can discover new things. Also, the 
 way you play, there is many ones. In a way, you create the way you wanna play. If you play solo 
 in your campaign, you choose what you want to do with the commands (the commands that you choose 
 will make move your partner in a certain way) . If you play with your friend you can tell him ''OK 
 ill go behind, you shoot everywhere'' so you can kill them form behind. You can act these ways 
 in the game, cause there is the AGRO. A new kind of gameplay that the tutorial in the game will 
 explain you. In a few words, its a kind of strategy that the both comrades in the game uses to 
 kill they're opponents. If one shoots everywhere, he got the attention of all the bad guys all 
 then you can go kill them all from another side.
  The story of the game is a simple, it could be push further to become greater. You are two special 
 soldiers who have to fight against terrorists who was behind the plot of the 9/11 (September 11th) . 
 You go threw China, Somalia, Afghanistan and more. There is six missions in the game and each one 
 will take you like one hour and a half or a bit less if you go fast.
  While you play (each saves) , you can access to a shop. In this shop, you can buy new masks, you 
 can wear an armors and new weapons. With the money you get while playing, you can buy and upgrade 
 yours arms. This is a great for the game. Also, the weapon selection that you've got is big. You 
 go to stingers to sniper riffles, handguns to SMG and more.
  For the graphics, we can all say that they are really pretty. EA did a great jobs in all the designs 
 and etc, but they should be more careful on the pitches while you play. There are sometimes lags, 
 but its not often. The sound is great too and I have nothing to say against it.
  The things that I didn't like in the game or that they should put were: you need an incredible 
 amount of bullet to kill a single men. Fore example, there was an Arabic guy which had nothing 
 on his chest and i had to use like twenty bullets to kill him. This wasn't realistic and when you 
 have to click use for opening doors, it would be fun if we could make a certain thing so we can 
 use it.
  The back-to-back feature was fun and the parachutes and boating vehicles were fun to ride.
  
 
  So in a few words, you should try Army Of Two because it has great potential and there will maybe 
 have a sequel and if there is one, I hope EA will delete the bads of the game, cause only a few 
 things like these can destroy an entire game. 
  Thanks fore reading this review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincedtm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a game made for co-op play. In this game you always team up with a partner even 
 when you play in single player mode. In single player, you're partner is an AI which means some 
 problems like any game with AI controlled partners... Like sometimes when you get shot he'll run 
 ahead leaving you behind dying instead of coming back for you. On the other hand playing the game 
 in co-op with a friend is simply plain fun. The game really feels like it's been build from the 
 ground for this and the mechanic of the game feels right.
  
  -Gameplay-
  The mission of the game are interesting with lots of time when you must play in co-op with you're 
 partner. There's a lot of situations where you depends on you're buddy to advance or simply to 
 survive! The controls of the game are great: Simple, quick and feels right. 
  
  -Graphics-
  The graphics are pretty good. Even when you get a new armor, gun, gun upgrade or 
 mask, it will show in the game wich makes the game more appealing to the eye. There's some flaws 
 here and there, but nothing too bad.
  
  -Sound-
  The sound of the gunfight are really awesome in this game. If you can play this game on a sourround 
 system, crank up the volume and you'll feel like you're in the war zone! The only flaw in this 
 domain is when you're mission adviser talks to you in you're headset, it's sometime quite hard 
 to hear what she says. I think they should've put the caption text in option in the game.
  
  -Value-
  The game has some nice bonus. When you complete mission objectives, you'll earn 
 money. With this money you'll be able to buy armors, mask, guns and gun upgrades. So you can equip 
 you're character with the kind of weapon you want depending on what kind of player you are. When 
 you're done with the game, you can play online in co-op or versus mode. Sadly the multiplayer menu 
 is pretty bad and most of the time you'll wait a long time before you find a game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  If you play Army of Two by yourself, the game will still rely on co-op mechanics as much as if 
 you were playing with another human being, but the other character will be controlled by the game. 
 So in single-player mode, you'll have a full range of commands you can issue to your partner, including 
 advance, hold position, and regroup. Then you can specify aggressive (shoot everything you see) 
 or defensive (check your fire) postures for each of those actions to control your buddy's behavior 
 to a surprising degree of specificity. You'll also learn about some of your other co-op abilities 
 in this tutorial. You can convince your partner to trade weapons with you; go into a tandem sniping 
 mode; position yourselves back-to-back in a 360-degree firing pattern; and even slap one another 
 five or play some air guitar to signify a congratulatory mood when you've pulled off some especially 
 brilliant teamwork.
  
  After the tutorial, you'll hit the ground running in Somalia -- still as Rangers -- on a mission to 
 take out a local warlord. At this point, we started to realize how much of the gameplay revolves 
 around the interactions between Salem and Rios, whether both of them are human-controlled or not. 
 This first mission will start out with the two of you on a buggy or jeep of sorts, with one character 
 driving and the other gunning from a turret. In our solo game, we drove while our artificial-intelligence 
 partner shot down the bad guys -- of course, one person would take each of these duties in co-op. 
 Our AI partner felt quite competent during the first mission we played by ourselves. In fact, we 
 were often inclined to put him on "aggressive advance" position and let him do all the heavy lifting. 
 He also made a solid effort to heal us whenever we went down (though one time he ran straight through 
 the crossfire and got himself killed before he could bring us back) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Army of Two
  
  This game is pretty similar to the gameplay of Gears of War and Dark Sector (Without the Glaive 
 ofcourse) . Gameplay is a mix between 3rd person and over the shoulder shooter, hiding behind things 
 and shooting enemies, as well as cooperative work with your partner, whether that be co-op with 
 a friend or your partner being a computer. You start out as two mercenary like characters, hired 
 to do work on people when necassary. Overall this game's storyline is worth going through.
  
  Multiplayer on this game is pretty fun, gets old after a while, but yeah, it's pretty fun. 
 It's pretty much either you and another person killing another team of two, or you have to missions, 
 which is gay ass. But the team killing is pretty fun.
  
  Overall, PS3 owners should get this game.
  
  RANDOM BLANK SPACE OF DOOM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  When I got the game I had just got the PS3. It looked fantastic. My brother played as soon as we 
 got home from the shops. The graphics aren't brilliant but there still at the PS2's level which 
 isn't bad. It has great 'Exploding on your screen' feeling to it. Eacc player has a range of specified 
 masks to wear and a range of guns that can be upgraded in so many ways. So it's great 1 player 
 but even better 2 player. Unfortuanatley, the only online mode is story with a partner and knowone 
 is ever on! So nothing major about the gam and there is a massive downfall, you can complete it 
 in a day. There are less than 10 levels to complete. I personaly would of taken it back to Game 
 but they only take it back for only 9 and it's only 6 months old. So I would only recomend this 
 game is you dont mind replaying games or have someone to play it with.
  
  By Hoojher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hkauzi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  i think a game like 'Army of Two' would ever be made. With the extreme amount of swearing and some 
 intense brutal violence, it is definitely not a game for little kiddies. My friend and I were stopped 
 from doing anything for 3 days playing, and we only just got on the last level (slow progress? 
 I know, but with the greed to repeat levels to get more money to buy bigger/better guns, is so 
 worth it) .
  
  The game is basically about you and your blood-brother who are now working for a mercenary company, 
 working for some years, the company goes upside down.........
  
  The Idea of getting the choice to buy and upgrade a massive range of guns, quite alot of communication 
 with you and your multiplayer friend, strategic planning and some random humorous times, i would 
 have to say that this game goes in my top 5 so far. 
  
  As this game is fun, adventurous and full of action, there is the negative of which this game is 
 pathetic, and I mean pathetic, in single-player mode. At the end of the day, you can always go 
 back and redo missions, start a new campaign in a harder difficulty or just try and be as brutal 
 as you can in a mission.
  
  You can always go back to 'Army of Two'.........
  (it's worth the money) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two for the PS3 is a game that falls short on a couple key areas, but it also introduces 
 a variety of clever ideas that make this game worth playing.
  
  The story isn't really the games high point. Its decent I guess, not really something I would've 
 made a game on. Not really gonna touch the main plot of the story because I believe Gamespot has 
 already covered that. What I will say is that the main story covers a span of about 5 or 6 areas/levels 
 such as Miami or Iraq in which you have objectives to complete until you reach the end of the level. 
 It isn't that long, I believe I beat it in under 7 hours or so. Luckily it has multiplayer, but 
 I haven't played its multiplayer yet so I won't really say anything else about it. It also has 
 a two player story split screen co-op where you can go through the whole game with a friend. I 
 would recommend playing through the game like this, just for the fact that your AI partner in single 
 player mode wouldn't be as good as a real life human.
  
  The graphics and gameplay is where this game clearly shines. The graphics are top notch, with some 
 very realistic textures, lighting, and shadow effects. The graphics sort of remind me of Gears 
 of War, I may be wrong because I haven't really played that much Gears of War, but its something 
 I noticed. The shooting is done from a third-person perspective (Like gears of war) , and features 
 a cover system (.... again, like gears of war.) . I have to say the shooting and covering feels pretty 
 good. To cover all you have to do is crouch down by pressing L3 and then moving up to a low wall, 
 or if you want to cover behind a wall then you just walk up to it. The AI, in my opinion, is good. 
 They use cover a lot, and don't pop out of cover when your shooting at them. They'll try to melee 
 you if you get too close (which by the way you can also do) , but it doesn't do much damage. Basically, 
 the game is called Army of Two because you and your partner will have to help each other out when 
 in tight spots or when its necessary. For example, if there is a ledge that you need to get to, 
 your partner will get down and push you up; once your on top, you'll help your partner get up as 
 well. You'll also find having a partner useful when your about to die; your partner can drag you 
 out of the way of incoming fire and heal you. 
  
  There is also an Aggro meter, which is basically the amount of attention you or your partner is 
 receiving from enemies. The idea is, is that whenever you get into a position where an enemy can 
 only be taken down by shooting his back; you or your partner can begin shooting at the enemy, receiving 
 more aggro, while the other person goes behind the enemy and kills him. It makes sense when your 
 actually playing.
  
  In the end, Army of Two is a solid shooter with a bad story, but very good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  You know me I have major beef with games being short. But in this case its WAY too short Army of 
 Two delivers a solid story that relates to current times. The game also has a timeline spannig 
 from 1993 to 2009 the story is basically about terrorism and you go through 4 country's before 
 getting back to a now-flooded Maimi to rescue Murray the boy's controller. One thing that i liked 
 about it though is that they paid attention to 9/11 in 2001. The multiplayer is awsome and yes 
 like Gamespot said without a friend you pretty much weak. There is also something called Mid-Mission 
 Shopping which i find to be highly annoying sometimes. There you can change your armor, get new 
 weapons, and update weapons you already have. All in all Army of Two could've been better but for 
 its worth it was a pretty good game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam526
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Army of two has an intriguing start after the somewhat annoying training process. Your first mission 
 is in Somalia where you have to eliminate warlord al huseef (something like that!?) . Despite several 
 great features of this game it does suffer from identity crisis. its like were travelling to somalia 
 to kill him. were travelling to afghanistan to kill him and so on. being able to access mid-mission 
 shopping is an extra urge to a game which had emmense potential. Salem? Rios? What type of names 
 are they?
  who gives a damn, these are loveable characters of the gaming generation.
  Salem being the hot-headed, Anakin Skywalker 'chosen one' type of guy and rios being the 'six scars 
 across the face' scareface? mmmm..... na. Then More like the master yoda kind of thingy? mmmmm.... yeh. But 
 whether rios is a primary or secondary name I dont have a clue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The game plays relatively well, but is a bit graphically underwhelming. The character models are 
 superb, but the environments are very drab, and not by way of theme -- the textures and tile-sets 
 just suck. But as stated, it plays relatively well... in co-op mode. Blasting through waves of 
 bad guys is fun any time, any place, but Army of Two ups the ante with awesome tag-team mechanics 
 like going back-to-back Hollywood blockbuster style, or having your buddy rip a door off its car 
 and use it as a shield while you take pot shots from behind. 
  
  However, some other team mechanics don't work so well. The simultaneous sniping is a little weak, 
 and the base-jumping sequences, which see one of you pilot the parachute and the other use his 
 gun, was fun but felt like it was missing something. You can also insult each other or hand each 
 other props just for the heck of it. 
  
  Other areas worth mentioning include a pretty entertaining variety of close combat moves you automatically 
 initiate by pressing the primary fire button while next to an enemy, and can randomly range from 
 vicious head bunts to kneeing the guy in the groin -- you never know what you'll do! The game also 
 features extensive customization options that you unlock using the cash you earn by clearing levels. 
 You can purchase new guns, parts for your guns, attachments for your guns, new paint jobs for your 
 guns (these guys really like guns) , as well as tougher armor, or new masks. 
  
  In game, the reticle is a little weak and tends to get lost in the action, which is confusing at 
 time since you lose track of where you're actually aiming. Andalthough the character models are 
 top notch, the 3rd person camera seems a little off. I can't quite explain it, maybe it's the angle, 
 but it just didn't seem to fit as well as in Gears of War or GRAW2.
  
  So the bottom line, the game is not worth a full 60$, but if you can find it for 30$, it's worth 
 playing through with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two concentrates on 2 soldiers who become one mean force to be reckon with. Most of the 
 game is spent doing missions for money. Like hit contracts and much more. since the game focuses 
 on 2 people the co-op s really big. or if you dont have a buddy to play with you can use the A 
 I system for a partner, which is still pretty good. Online co-op is also lots of fun. You can play 
 for hours just havinga blast online or off. the story is really cool and very different from a 
 lot of other military games. the sound effects are right on they did perfect with the sound. the 
 graphis are really good also with some great cutscenes and enviroments. the biggest thing is the 
 great action that the game has to offer. and also being able to customize your weapons and buying 
 new ones you can do lots of cool and different things with your weapons to be able to out do your 
 buddy. the only real thing that is bad about this game is the fact that the game is way too short. 
 you can finish it in about 4-5hours. ]
  Overall; the game is a grat game to buy and it would be nice to have more like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lxixsean
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Great game with Gears of War like game play.. More fun because you can play with a friend and it 
 is only the two of you. No stupid AI on your team which I can not stand. Graphics are great and 
 I hear there are more add ons coming out in the near future that are going to be free. If you love 
 first person shooters then this is a must have. I hope they make a sequel that is longer next time 
 so more people will see how amazing this game is. Maybe more weapons and more characters you can 
 choose to play with.
  
  Great game with Gears of War like game play.. More fun because you can play with a friend and it 
 is only the two of you. No stupid AI on your team which I can not stand. Graphics are great and 
 I hear there are more add ons coming out in the near future that are going to be free. If you love 
 first person shooters then this is a must have. I hope they make a sequel that is longer next time 
 so more people will see how amazing this game is. Maybe more weapons and more characters you can 
 choose to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOTJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  This Game is really good I would recomend it to anyone. Because ithe graphics are superb, the best 
 ive seen on ps3 the gameplay is great and you can pimp out your weapons. The Co-op play is very 
 good and when on your on the A. I for your partner is good but he can sometimes be frustratingly 
 stupid when trying to heal you. The tactics that you use are good especailly Aggr which is were 
 you or your partner shoots a lot with a bigass gun meaning he glows red and all the enemies are 
 attracted to him and will ignore the other player meaning he can sneak around and either kill all 
 the enemies from behind or do objectives unapposed and so on.
  If you max out your aggro for long enough you can go into something called overkill. were the player 
 wtih the aggro gets double damage and the player that has no aggro turns 100% invisible to the 
 enemies which is great fun.
  The Combat is also really good there are many enemies that you have to get round the back of to 
 kill and suicide bombers are funny. There are no problems in combat, the movement is smooth the 
 guns are accurate enough and 1 thing i love about this game is that there are sometimes huge battles 
 were you get pinned down behind cover and you have to tactically get out of it.
  There is also something called back-to-back were basically your surrounded you stay in the middle 
 back to back with each other shooting enemies in slow motion.
  The physics are great if slightly over the top at times there is lots of blood and gore but annoyingly 
 you can blast peoples heads of.
  The weapons are brilliant. You get every gun that you know and love, 44 magnum, Desert Eagle, 50cal 
 sniper, Ak47, M4, Aug, SAW, spas 12 and even a minigun. the only problem i have with the weapons 
 is that theyre not beasty enough if you know what i mean they dont sound much different to each 
 other machineguns all sound a bit to nice.
  
  The story is great and the two guys you can be rios and salem are very funny and along with some 
 others put out some classic lines that i still laugh at now. The only real problem is quite a major 
 one i have to say,
  I paid 45 for this and completed it in a day.
  It also isnt the sort of game you play over and over again, i myself havent played it in a while 
 because ive just got bored of it.
  
  All considered though this game is great, although you might want to rent it because you can complete 
 it that quickly but the co-op is great and its always a good thing to have on your shelf for a 
 good solid bit of two player action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say, "Oh my god!" this was the best game ever. I've tested many games and this was 
 the most fun. It is so addictive that you never want to leave the screen. There is not a single 
 mistake in Army of Two. 
  
  The upgrades allow you to customize any weapon to full potential, unlike Cod4 or Tom Clancy games. 
 Knowing the needs of the player, the creators of this game devised the perfect multi player/ single 
 player teamwork game in existence. With modern day technology, I am not usually surprised, but 
 while playing I was DUMBSTRUCK. Aside from the normal campaign mode, you can play online and online 
 co-op. This lets you play with your friends anytime. Also, "aggro", the energy that attracts an 
 enemy's attention, is the most ingenious idea in the history of mankind. Using the aggro opens 
 up countless strategies and cooperation tactics.
  
  If the company will consider making a sequel, I would suggest that it not be called Army of Two 
 two. I would without thinking buy any updates, such as the SSC challenge packs, or other items 
 because I enjoyed this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Army of Two shines in some areas but has just as many flaws to make up for its good points. The 
 general fighting and shooting fits well and seems to be accurately done. The cover system works 
 well and has a type of feelling of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter but not near as good. The plot 
 itself is very stupid and you feel dumber by the time you finish the game with the plot. The AI 
 can be the worst I have seen in awhile at some points. It seems to think on occasions that when 
 you down and hurt they need to drag you 10 miles before they will acutally heal yo even though 
 there may be perfect cover two feet away. I also noticed they seem to get stuck on many things 
 making gameplay more like a nursery for the AI at times. In other areas it tries to make it up 
 like the melee system is very cool and unique so much you almost want to do that more then get 
 some head shots with your AK. On the subject of weapons there are many to unlock and improve and 
 one of the most interesting and coolest things is you ca pimp out the weapons. Which doesnt really 
 do anything but make you look cooler and add agro to the weapon. Which onto the subject of agro 
 gameplay focuses on this. Where you need to get the enemies attention on you or your idiot AI so 
 that one of them can sneak up and take them out. The online play is great because you dont have 
 to worry about your partner being AI which really makes up for the game which I think is the best 
 part is online area. I think the game is good but they messed up on too many things making the 
 game weak in too many areas to be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorillamo
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a great third-person shooter game that focuses on you and your partner working as 
 a team in order to complete the missions. It starts out with the main characters in the army, but 
 then they decide to drop out and join a private military organization called the SSC. Here, they 
 (you) complete missions for money, which you can use to buy new weapons, or to upgrade the ones 
 you already owned. The ability to customize your weapons is, in my opinion, one of the greatest 
 features of the game.
  
  Besides earning money and upgrading your weapons, this game features something that I think is 
 amazing. When you shoot at an enemy, he shoots back at you and not your partner. If you both shoot 
 at an enemy, he will shoot at whoever has the bigger gun. You must use this (they call it "Aggro") 
 to your advantage, telling your partner to shoot at an enemy to get his attention, and then you 
 can sneak up behind him and take him out. Of course, being that this is a game so focused on two-man 
 tactics, the co-op campaign is a lot of fun to play with your friend.
  
  The graphics in this game are highly exceptional, and it supports up to 720p screen resolution. 
 The sound effects and music are nothing special, only what you would expect in any game.
  
  Pros: Fun multiplayer, good storyline with a twist, you need to use tactics rather than just run 
 and shoot, graphics are good.
  
  Cons: Not all the weapons are fully customizable, other than that nothing.
  
  I would definitely 
 recommend this game to a friend, it is well worth the $60.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRey69
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Army of two it's an awesome game with really good graphics, powerfull weapons n all the things 
 a shooter needs, but the bad thing is the game lenght, cuz if is being played with a live partner 
 the game can be finished in less than 11 hours like just happened to me and the game system with 
 the AI system might become a real nightmare because it takes a while n a lot of bullets for it 
 to adjust to ur gameplay, the AI sistem depends on u for every single step n that will make ur 
 game really dificult n frustrating but the desing of the game and the story almost cover that, 
 the online system might make a lot of ppl throw out because the controls are way to sensitive n 
 the player camera cam move in all angles with just a simple touch, other than that i might keep 
 u infront of ur tv for a whole day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you're a person that takes great pride in the Iraq war and the people that serve there, stay 
 away from Army of Two. The multiple jabs at the U. S. Army, and actually killing Iraqi suicide bombers 
 is definitely not for everyone. On the other hand, if you're looking for a good 6 hours of fun, 
 co-op action and you're able to get past its strong subject matter, Army of Two should suit you 
 just fine.
  
  Army of Two follows two guys named Rios and Salem. Rios and Salem serve in the US military, but 
 soon find out that being a mercenary is a much better-paying and much more exciting job. While 
 Rios and Salem are working as mercenaries they find out that the people that they served with in 
 the army are getting killed off one by one as part of a plot to privatize the military. The plot 
 manages to intrigue you in the beginning, but a plot twist that a blind man could see from a mile 
 away and a poor execution of it just makes the story feel like a missed opportunity. Games like 
 Army of Two are rarely about the story, but the story in Army of Two had the potential to be a 
 pretty good one. It's just a shame that the developers didn't make better use of it.
  
  If you can get past a pretty mediocre story, Army of Two actually provides some pretty great gameplay. 
 Army of Two's main hook ever since it was revealed was the aggro system. Aggro pretty much works 
 like this: There's a big-ass meter slapped across the middle of the screen with you and your partner's 
 face put on the right and left side of it. The more you shoot at your enemies, the more they will 
 focus your attention on you, leaving your partner with the opportunity to take them out easily, 
 and vice versa. It's a really neat system that works great, but it can feel a bit overpowered at 
 times, making Army of Two a pretty easy game. You can basically just order your opponent to fire 
 on the enemy, focusing all the attention on him, making it criminally easy for you to just run 
 up behind them and fill their asses with hot lead. It's not too big of a problem, but a slightly 
 bigger challenge wouldn't have hurt the game. A way to boost your aggro is to pimp out your weapon. 
 This works out just as you would expect: You have a menu system where you can upgrade your weapon 
 with silencers, a bigger clip and a little shield to shield you from some of the bullets  pretty 
 much the usual. But you can also pimp out your weapon by covering it in gold, giving you a huge 
 boost to your aggro, meaning that every shot you fire will attract more attention to you than usual.
 
  
  Army of Two also features some neat order-giving mechanics. At any given point you can just press 
 a button on the D-pad to give your partner an order. Each of these mechanics has a passive and 
 an aggressive version of them. For example, you can order your partner to hold position in the 
 passive version, leaving the aggro neatly distributed between the both of you. The aggressive version, 
 as you would expect, focuses the aggro on your AI partner, leaving a perfect opportunity for you 
 to take your opponents out. It actually works pretty well  when your partner's AI works properly, 
 that is. This is the thing that makes Army of Two's campaign feel lacking. Because Army of Two 
 is so focused on co-op, you really need to have a working AI to actually make the game work. Fortunately, 
 Army of Two's AI is functional most of the time. But there are bound to be a few instances where 
 you will hear yourself cursing loudly at the TV, because it's just so dumb. For instance, when 
 you get shot too many times you end up in a Gears of War-like stance with you face-down on the 
 concrete, waiting for your partner to drag you to a safe place so he can heal you. The problem 
 is that he will sometimes drag you all the way across the map, even though there is a safe spot 
 right behind you, leaving you and your partner filled with bullet holes, forcing you to restart.
 
  
  Army of Two also has a couple of hovercraft sections in it, although they aren't that great, thanks 
 to awkward controls. At any given point during these hovercraft sections, you will find yourself 
 bumping in to walls and just not feeling in control of the vehicle. Thankfully, you will only be 
 faced with these vehicle sections 2-3 times over the six or so hours it will take you to finish 
 the game.
  
  One part where Army of Two definitely does not disappoint is in the visual department. Characters 
 have a great amount of detail put in to them, the lighting is wonderfully atmospheric and it just 
 gives the game this visual "pop." Occasionally, muddy textures and some popup will rear their ugly 
 head, but it's nothing that will detract from the visual delight that the graphics are. 
  
  As for the aural side of things, some will love it, some will hate it. The dialogue is dumb, but 
 it's the good kind of dumb. It manages to grab a hold of the idiot in you by having Rios say "bro" 
 at the end of almost every sentence he says, leaving you with an occasional chuckle here and there. 
 Once Rios and Salem start talking about their favorite member of the Wu-Tang Clan during an intense 
 firefight with bullets flying everywhere, you have to laugh. That is, if you have an appreciation 
 for dumb humor. If you're a Harvard graduate, you'll probably just sit there with a rather confused 
 look on your face. Other than the dialogue, it's pretty much business as usual: Guns go "bang," 
 explosions go "boom"  pretty basic stuff. 
  
  Once you're done with the campaign, you have an online mode to have a go at. Army of Two's online 
 multiplayer is also made with co-operative play in mind, since all the matches are 2 vs. 2, meaning 
 that most of the fun is going to be playing with a friend. If you don't have any friends to play 
 it with, it's just not going to be the same, because the online is rather tactical. If you're just 
 playing with some random idiot who doesn't know what the Hell he is doing, most of the matches 
 you will be playing will be more frustrating than fun.
  
  Army of Two is a rather mediocre game if you're playing by yourself. If you don't mind paying $60 
 ($100 if you're in Europe) for a 6-hour game with little to no replay value and a rather mediocre 
 multiplayer mode, Army of Two is worth a rental. But if you have some friends that are willing 
 to play with you, you should definitely give Army of Two a look. It's not all it was cracked up 
 to be, but if you don't get your hopes up, Army of Two can be quite a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead_stickman
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt Army of Two is something different. it takes co-op play to a new level and is 
 really fun to play with a friend. 
  Sadly though the game's co-op AI is quite disappointing, meaning that if you don't know someone 
 who can and is willing to come round on a regular basis this probably isn't worth getting.
  There are some bad bits in the story but it is generally quite solid and the cut scenes look really 
 great, graphics definately aren't a problem here.
  
  The actual gameplay is good fun and challenging to just the right level. for example, if you come 
 up against a heavily armoured guy with a shotgun, you really need to use some good tactics to take 
 him down.
  AOT also features a system called AGGRO. This basically means that one of you does all the shooting 
 and takes all the damage while your friend turns transparant and sneeks behind the enimies without 
 being seen.
  This fits in well and if it is stupid and unnecessary is up to your opinion.
  
  You get plenty of guns and upgrades which are a fun thing to earn but there doesn't seem to 
 be a heck of a lot of difference between them in the actual game (apart from comparin shotguns 
 and sniper rifles, that kind of thing) .
  If you play it you'll notice why I have called it 'bad'. it's something i can't relly explain, 
 but try it out and you'll see why. This game defines 'try before you buy' and if you do decide 
 to buy it don't pay more than 25 (about $40 i think)
  
  To sum it up i'll just say 'try before you buy'. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is a brand new IP from EA Games (yes, they have made their ow game instead of buying 
 into a successful franchise! OMG!) . It is about two mercenary soldiers, Rios and Salem, and their 
 struggle to leave the US Army forces to join SSC, a mercenary company.
  The story mode is immersive in this game, and is driven along by a good story. However, a camera 
 that glitches in and out of a good, helpful position puts this game on the wrong foot barely before 
 it has started. 
  The game is very macho, which a lot of typical "HooHa!"ing going on along with "friendly" headbutting 
 and such.
  There are a lot of well placed innovations in this game, mainly the continuous co-operative links 
 that work well.
  Being able, for example, to lift your partner up to a higher level, just after he has boosted you 
 up there, feels like you are really working well with the person the other end of the internet. 
 
  However, the versus modes online are really not very good, with barely any players in each game 
 and gets dull fast, which, when you have a shelf of other games sitting there isn't good.
  Back to the story though, it's fun, easy, but then hard when it should be, and suprisingly tactiacl, 
 both with a player or the AI. 
  The guns feel meaty and are fun to use, and the upgradeing system of the guns is very good too. 
 You can change barrel, add a shield, change the magazine size, the appearance to a really good 
 looking "pimped" version with gold and diamonds galore, scopes, attachments such as grenade launchers 
 and shotguns... the list goes on.
  But the best thing about that system is that it actually affects you gun instead of making it look 
 nice. Adding a longer barrel for example will increase accuracy and damage, magazine size changes 
 nothing, apart from aggro, same as shields.
  Aggro is an integral part of the gameplay, because that is what decides who your opponents (mainly 
 terrorists) shoot out of you and your buddy. If you have a minigun, and your partner is using a 
 pistol, the enemies are going to focus their fire on you, which makes you glow red. However, if 
 you instruct your AI partner to fire at will, and hold fire yourself, they will have all the aggro, 
 and you will be free to walk around and shoot who you like as if you were invisible, represented 
 by your characted going slightly transparant. 
  Overall then, Army of Two is a good first effort from EA, and the aggro and strong emphasis on 
 co-op play come together reasonably well, its just a shame about the flaws of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  My reactions about "Army of Two" are a bit mixed to be completely honest. When I first read the 
 previews for the game a couple months before it was out it sounded pretty neat and I was looking 
 forward to it. When it came out I was thinking of buying it, but being low on cash I decided to 
 rent it instead. I'm glad that I made the decision to rent it.
  Don't get me wrong, the game is fun and I've enjoyed it. But it's simply too short; much too short 
 to justify spending $60 on it. There are only five or six stages and none of them are very long. 
 You can beat the game in a day or two. There is really no replay value at all, either. Yes, I'd 
 like to pick it up months from now when the game is a lot cheaper (say around $10-20) , but at its 
 current full price I just don't feel it's worth the money.
  
  The game is fun, there's no doubt about that. The story is okay, I've seen better stories but I've 
 also seen worse. The features of the game work well and are quite fun. The graphics are great and 
 the levels look beautiful. It's fun to purchase weapons and upgrade, customize and "pimp" them 
 out. The two main characters are witty and interact together in a believable fashion. The game 
 is believable as well, probably because it focus and real-life issues and events that have happened.
 
  But that doesn't justify its price tag, at least not to me. This is a game to rent, not to buy 
 (at least until it's cheaper) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enbee05
Rating: 4
Date: May 4, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Months before this game came out virtually every game website were advertising how good it was 
 going to be. I believed this hype and bought a copy of the game. The first thing I did was play 
 the co-op story mode. 
  
  The co-op story mode is the best part of this game, as this is how the game was designed to be 
 played (co-op) . The story mode can be completed on co-op in less than 5 hours and seeing as I bought 
 the game for 50 (around $100 at the current exchange rate) it was definitely over priced. The 
 story line at times can be a bit farfetched but is around fun to play. Although once you've completed 
 the story there is almost no replay value as the story just seems boring second time round.
  
  Multiplayer is literally appalling as for weeks since the launch day the multiplayer didn't 
 work at all. Once the multiplayer was up and running it was still terrible. There is nothing to 
 aim for in multiplayer. All that happens is that after every kill you get you receive money but 
 you can't spend this money in any way so there's no point to it.
  
  Playing the single player story mode can be fun but not as fun as co-op. during the story mode 
 the player has the option of customizing those weapons and equipment. These include: pistols, rifles, 
 specials and body protection. All the guns can be modified with such things as bigger magazines, 
 extended barrels, stocks and many more.
  
  Conclusion - Army of two is fun to play co-op with a friend but after you have completed the story 
 mode there isn't much more you want to do. My advice would be to rent the game instead of buying 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  when i first got army of two i thought it would be great,
  my friend camr over that day and we completed it on the same day!
  it started great, good customisation 
 for guns, story's ok,
  but after completion the game is crap, ita annoying how theres only 6 missions then the storylines 
 done, so what left online yes its ok nothing brilliant, but when somebody leave right at the end 
 of the game you then lose everything you have done!!!!!!!!
  really makes me mad, but going online 2p is good very good for 2p dont get me wrong but online is 
 boring no real point, i would pay 20 for this game so dont go buying it because you will be bored 
 after completing it, theres only 6 missions grrrrrrr i thought i would love it but no no way,
  its in my room as a dust catcher,
  thanks for reading my review hope it helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing the single player and the first impressions were not great. At first the 
 graphics were underwhelming ( especially the textures) . After playing 1st person shooters, it 
 was hard to get used to the controls of the game but eventually it became second nature. Once I 
 got used to it, I really started to enjoy myself. I called up my friend, he came over and we stayed 
 up until 5 am playing it from start to finish. At the end, we were both extremely satisfied with 
 the whole experience. The story won't win any awards but it does provide nice polished cutscenes. 
 The overall humor in the game is a nice touch. There were a few parts that had my friend and me 
 laughing out loud. Some of the setting are also very unique such as hoverboat ride through a flooded, 
 abandoned Miami Airport. The Co-op is probably more fun, but the single player mechanics do work 
 and are usually pretty. The SIXAXIS controls are minimal and those that are there are actually 
 well implemented. By far my favorite thing in the game was the reloading. To reload, just give 
 the SIXAXIS a little jolt. It is a really i nice feature. I even find myself shaking the controllers 
 in other games now out of habit. 
  
  Overall, its fun and you just play it, even if its just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  With the new generation settling in, it looks like it's obvious what the focus of this generation 
 is. 
  
  For Wii, its wiggling your Wii-mote and for other systems, it's Shooters. 
  
  NES era was platformers
  
  SNES era was 2D fighters
  
  PS1 era was RPGs
  
  PS2 era 
 is..... no one genre really dominated it, I guess. Maybe gangster themed games? Mostly sandbox 
 types. 
  
  Now we are at PS3 era and the trend is obvious. Shooters. 
  
  This is pretty much my nightmare come true. Nothing is more generic than shooter genre. Big muscular 
 men (ironic because the point of inventing guns is so you won't need to use your muscles as much 
 to kill someone) in futuristic settle with big guns that looks more like toys, or World War II, 
 or somewhere in the desert shooting middle eastern people or North Koreans/Chinese or other Americans. 
 
  
  Of course this also ends up creating very generic setting. Some brown colored environments with 
 many many buildings or corridors. Or jungle. 
  
  So I hate shooters. I even hated Half Life 2. By far one of the most boring game I've ever played. 
 I would've tossed The Orange Box Blu-ray disc over the bridge if it didn't have Portal. Actually 
 I bought the darn game because of Portal and everything else was pretty much unwanted bull **** 
 I also would've broken Uncharted in pieces if I just had some PS3 games to play with. 
  
  So it might be odd for me to say this.... but I really like Army of Two. 
  
  Of course it's 
 not without flaws. Enemy A. I is rather simple. Your Ally A. I is almost competent as long as your 
 difficulty setting is on easiest. The story is told rather briefly with very predictable unfolding. 
 Also it disappointed me with absence of great humor shown in previews. 
  
  Still, it provides good entertainment and the interaction of two main characters is quite well 
 done. The did great job of making those two feel like partners instead of some random generic NPC 
 following your arse around like a dog. 
  
  Well let's get to details. 
  
  Graphically, the game is rather average. Yes it looks good, but most games these days look good. 
 It's right around the same quality of recent games like Gears of War, etc. After playing Call of 
 Duty 4, Army of Two won't look that impressive. 
  
  The characters are well detailed, but characters are covered with metal suit that really isn't 
 difficult to model. Still, there is some originality with character design. I mean it's not that 
 original considering they look like metal version of Jason, but at least it's a design you haven't 
 seen much in shooter genre. You feel like you are professional mercenary because it has so much 
 personal design to it, but is fully equipped. Good stuff. 
  
  Background is well done, but nothing really impressed me. Rather average I'd say. 
  
  Of course 
 graphically this game falls from it's grace of mediocrity to crappiness when it comes to pre-rendered 
 cut scenes. It is right there with PS1 quality, but cleaner thanks to it being HD. 
  
  Moving on to gameplay. 
  
  I'd say it is rather average. I'd say it is good, but level design 
 is pretty straightforward and uneventful, the enemy A. I is too simple. The aiming is slightly off 
 because moving target seems to immune to bullets too often whenever there is some long animation 
 whenever enemy A. I is doing. 
  
  Also there is almost nothing new to this franchise that hasn't been done before. Except for more 
 fluid cover mechanic that doesn't glue you to the wall, it is pretty much gears of war. Even character 
 design is similar except for the mask.
  
  Honestly, I feel like when they started this project the goal was "Let's make Gears of War clone, 
 but add just enough so it won't be straight rip off"
  
  However, something added extra enjoyment. It is the whole TWO thing. 
  
  The two characters 
 are just entertaining to listen to. It's like watching pair of 10 year old boys. The way you can 
 interact with each other is just golden and things they talk to each other just heightens the mood 
 of the situation which otherwise would've been very boring level design that is nothing but full 
 of repetitive gun action. That entire thing just feels differently due to two characters just constantly 
 interacting each other, making each situation feel little more special. 
  
  It seems like such a minor thing, but for your enjoyment it means a lot. Gameplay is ultimate goal 
 is to entertain you while you play, and I'd say it got it's job done due to it. 
  
  And no, I'm not talking about two player mode. I'm talking about single player mode. 
  
  Maybe 
 it's because I haven't played co-op first, but I never felt like single player mode was incompetent. 
 There was slight annoyance with my A. I not acting exactly like I thought, but certainly not big 
 enough problem for me to complain about it. It was bit too short, as it lasted about 5-8 hours 
 (I didn't time myself, so that's just my guess) Other than that, I don't see big problem that separates 
 single player and co-op like one was piece of **** and the other is the ****
  
  Yeah sure, your ally A. I is decent but leaves you with wanting more. Not quite adequate, but good 
 enough. Of course the experience is only heightened with co-op mode. Aggro system works best with 
 another human player as well, however I feel like aggro system is very poorly displayed. Your character 
 just glowing all of sudden, just ruins the presentation. It would've been better if they just stuck 
 with meter instead of adding visual representation as well. It just sticks out on realistic graphic 
 and setting, which ultimately it ruins the mood.
  
  So in other words, it's rather generic gears of war clone with bland level design, but has the 
 saving grace of dumb and dumber duo that acts like 10 year old, but entertains you by acting like 
 that. 
  
  Gun customization is pretty decent touch. It makes things interesting. 
  
  As for story, it is on the poor side. One of the main villain you go against is typical uber solider 
 thing that gets plenty of camera time to show how much of a badass he is. 
  
  And please don't bother blaming me for spoilers. If you really couldn't predict what happens in 
 the game, you aren't old enough to play this game in the first place, or you don't have the intelligence 
 to read what I'm writing anyway. 
  
  What disappointed me was characters. In the preview, Rio the big bald badass looked so tough and 
 badass he wouldn't have given sh*t what happens. In the actual game, he ended up being major p*ssy 
 who was paranoid of what's happening around him. if the spunky Salem took that role instead, the 
 story might have unfolded smoother. 
  
  Another thing is that they use contemporary events to create that story, but they don't really 
 go anywhere with it. If they at least took it somewhere like Call of Duty 4, it would've been acceptable, 
 but they just use it to catch your interest and then doesn't visit it again. Leaving bad taste 
 in your mouth because the game takes tragic events to just milk the middle east hatred of players 
 to sell itself.
  
  The sound is decent. 
  
  Voice acting is almost great. I say almost because at times you feel like characters aren't giving 
 enough emotions and some lines they act does feel like they are acting instead of feeling natural. 
 However, it does feel professionally done. 
  
  I haven't noticed music at all. That to me means average. If I don't notice music, that means it 
 didn't annoy me to stick out or hasn't been good enough for me to remember it. That to me, means 
 average. 
  
  Gun sound is.... oh hell how the hell should I know what gun sounds like what? I guess it sounds 
 good enough. Not like Grand Theft Auto series where even I can tell it sounds fake.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is what it said it will be. Co-op game that is major Gears of War clone. People 
 talked about bugs and stuff, but honestly I haven't noticed it that much. Your A. I once in a while 
 doesn't respond to you but overall it does good enough job to say it's almost competent. Not many 
 ally A. I was done to that level in modern gaming. Usually when you have ally A. I, they get in your 
 way instead of being helpful, but in Army of Two, at least your ally A. I is helpful. 
  
  If you like Gears of War, you will like this game. More of the same with entertaining presentation 
 of the characters. It's like B rated summer flick. Predictable and pretentious plot, but in the 
 end it somehow manages to entertain you. The difference is that Army of Two gives you a chance 
 to interact with a friend.... whether it is working together or slapping virtual representation 
 of your friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Army of Two is one of the best multiplayer games to come around in a while. If you don't have at 
 least one friend then this game isn't for you.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are excellent and the lighting is fantastic. Explosions are nice and gunfire 
 looks very realistic. If you want to see a beautiful piece of graphical wonder activate your overkill 
 and switch to your secondary grenade launcher on your primary gun (if you have it and why don't 
 you, hmm?) option and just start launching grenades at the enemies. It's the best way to see the 
 explosions and particle effects (You have unlimited ammo in overkill mode) . Character models are 
 on point also.
  
  SOUND: Hear guns spray bullets all around you is what makes you feel like your in the game. Chatter 
 between Salem and Rios is comical and immersive. Speaking of Salem and Rios they curse all the 
 time, so if your one of those people who is easily offended steer clear of this game. If your like 
 me you curse all the time anyway, so you'll feel right at home with this game. Enemy battle cries 
 are nice and sometimes funny (suicide bombers for example) while the music sounds like its from 
 a movie or something. 
  
  CONTROLS: The controls are nice, but not having the option to switch your aim from shoulder to 
 shoulder is weird and frustrating. Controlling the computer and trying to save your own ass is 
 complicated in the single player campaign, so I would just stick to playing with a friend for the 
 most enjoyment.
  
  OVERALL: Although this game has some flaws it's still a very good game. The game could have been 
 a whole lot longer also. The fun factor will skyrocket if your playing with a friend. Customizing 
 your guns is fun too and the masks are cool. This is a step in the right direction for Army of 
 Two the next installment better fix everything, have more guns, and more missions. I suggest you 
 call over your buddy and play the game all the way through if your good like me and bkbiggie you 
 can beat it in under six hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting much with this one and thats exactly what i got. Not a great game but not all 
 that bad either. Ive only played this with a friend so i can't comment on the AI really. I must 
 say though, i hate playing split screen. it really takes away from the game but i was not about 
 to shell out an additional 60 bucks for a 2nd copy of this game so i could play it online. This 
 game has basically served as a "filler" if you will until some of the bigger games like GTA or 
 Metal Gear come out. 
  
  Everything about this game is just okay. Graphics, story, gameplay are nothing really special. 
 Story mode seems to be on the short side, in the 6-8 hour range but i guess thats typical now a 
 days. there is a decent variety of upgrades for weapons but again, nothing special. After playing 
 though most of the story mode, i have little to no interest in playing their online modes.
  
  Overall, i wouldnt really recommend this game as a purchase. Its more of a weekend renter than 
 anything. even if you dont finish it in a weekend, you probably wont have much desire to go back 
 to it another day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collossus77
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it would be really good. It was until i beat the story mode. i got it 
 2 days after realese and only about 5 people played online so it was impossible to find a game. 
 This game is fun for the first week or so. there are a good amount of guns but after u get them 
 all and all the upgrades it gets stupid. I would rent it but not buy it. RENT IT DONT BUY IT. If 
 you want a good shooter for the ps3 get UNcharted, Rainbow 6 vegas 1 and 2, ORange box, or call 
 of duty four, NOT THIS. IF you are so despereate and strang you want to buy it after your first 
 rent rent it 1 or 2 more times till u beat the story mod then see what u think. So i say this is 
 a rent give it a 5.0 out of 10.0.
  
  This is a brutaly honest review from collosus77 ( IN games i use Grimr77)
  
  
  forget, buy, 
 or rent: RENT!!!!
  Rating:5.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel_Thori
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Army of two. Aot is not the single-player kind of game, quite frankly the game really doesn't show 
 any particular strength on that stadge, but however the co-op mode is good, i would say that it 
 is awesome on that level, hav'nt played online that much but it is avarge on that stage aswell. 
 me and my friends have been playing this game lake crazy persons, and im still not bored, so i 
 think it is a keeper, but all though, i think some graph update for the next aot. // Daniel Thorisson 
 crazy icelandic guy that lives in Sweden. (a good solid) Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel 
 Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel 
 Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel 
 Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel 
 Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel Daniel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonchase
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  army of two is a great game with one or two dosen faults i wont list them all but some of the bigger 
 ones are 1 AI very good at following instructions but very bad at thinking its self for example 
 when he is healing you he tends to do it somewhere where he gets hit alot so he keeps having to 
 restart and by the time he is done he is nearly dead or dose not manage to heal you in time or 
 he dies and if you swap weapons with him because you have a better one and you are just to pick 
 up a sheild once he has killed all the enemy and you ask for your weapon back he sais no and your 
 stuck with his low power un upgraded shotgun while he has your pimped gatling gun 2 the difficultys 
 rookie and contractor is two easy you can kill a regular red health enemy with one or two hits 
 with the stock starter machine gun and on hard it takes about 25 or 5 if it is in the head 3 online 
 as good as online mode is it is almost impossible to quordinate your attack 4 not so mutch a problem 
 more of a annoyance that you cant customise your armour like you do with the masks. but overlooking 
 its faults it is a awsome game and the best bit is when the aircraft carryer is sinking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creamyzish08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I have to say when i first played this game i thought it was pretty good as you have awesome guns 
 to buy, upgrades and armor etc but this does die down after a while of playing the game, it is 
 also painstakingly short and could take a hardcore gamer maybe 10 hours to complete. Luckily i 
 had a buddy to play with me through the whole game and i think this was pretty crucial in deciding 
 whether to give this a 6.5 or a 7.5 rating. Its certainly innovative and gives this game quite 
 a unique edge of quality. After you complete this game which ill say again is very short you'll 
 be thinking what shall i do next oh yeah this games got online play. with much disgust i found 
 out the online play didn't work on my ps3
  and this was truly frustrating. I think this flaw definitely made this game "not worth 50." But 
 it is definitely worth a try if you've got a buddy to play it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rastia
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype and long waiting, due to post-poning of realese dates, I really expected something 
 more. The game is not all that bad in co-op mode, but I for one could do without the gimmicky features. 
 I'm talking about the really awful "back-to-back" mode, or the co-op snipe etc. It falls flat and 
 feels like a glued on last minute idea some designer had on a late night a few weeks prior to release. 
 The multiplayer mode feels slow, under-developed and dull, but it would have been great if the 
 game was released 5 years ago. 
  
  Graphics and game design aren't much to cheer about either, with narrow spaces and no open areas, 
 dull grey enviroments and just plain horrid explosions and sound effects. 
  
  All in all if the game is avaliable, play it with a friend, otherwise stay away. Borrow it, rent 
 it, but don't be a fool like me and $120 on it. 
  
  On a final note, I can't be mad at EA games. With their track record, I should have suspected something 
 and kept my money in my pocket, because EA never put their money where their mouths are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a third person shooter game. you take on the role of one of two mercenaries: Rios 
 or Salem. the other character will be played by either the computer or a friend, and will go along 
 with you through six levels of shooting rampage. the action is nonstop, and i found it very satisfying.
 
  
  now, this game is all about looks and its own style. the main characters are incredibly cool and 
 have a very violent aspect to them. not only that but they are also very well voiced. the dialogues 
 are somewhat mature, containing a lot of cursing and the like, which only adds to the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  Storyline:
  Story wise the game is good. it takes real things a bit lightly, but come on, this is a game, not 
 a documentary. they still value American values, and i found GS critic way too harsh. the story 
 is simple, but good enough to play through and keep you interested.
  
  Graphics:
  They are good overall. the main characters look particularly awesome, although some textures sometimes 
 pop up. (very rarely it must be noted) .
  
  Gameplay:
  This is what makes the game shine even more. the Aggro mechanic is very well built, and very rewarding 
 (in which who fires the most, gets more attention from enemies, and things like that) . the shooting 
 is solid and fun. they use ragdoll effects very nicely, and a bit comic sometimes, but it helps 
 keep the game inside its own atmosphere.
  
  Overall fun:
  Ive beaten this game twice already. once with a friend and once without. i really had a blast 
 both times, even more with a friend of course. it is awesome to come up with strategies and stuff 
 together, and take down enemies in a more coordinated fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is the first time ive really disagreed with the gamespot review of a game. I felt that army 
 of two deserves a lot more credit than it got. First of all your not supposed to play a co-op game 
 by yourself. If you want a first person shooter you should be playing COD4 or Resistance: FOM. This 
 game was meant to be played by two people playing with any less is just pointless. Like many others 
 have said the AI for your teamate is truly retarded, unlike the AI for the terrorists who will 
 truly merc you if given the chance. You've got to be truly tactical to succeed in this game, so 
 play it very similarly to how you would play Rainbow Six Vegas I or II. Army of Two had some excellent 
 cut scenes with graphics rivaling Uncharted, but the dialouge could be a little better. I didnt 
 think it was nearly as over the top as most people commented. Sure it was a little bit extreme, 
 but come on their mercenaries. Wouldn't you be too? Overall i thought the visuals in the game were 
 excellent, and minus a few gliches in mechanics it played overall very nicely. Not nearly as bad 
 as people play it out to be, but see for yourself. Its more assuredly worth a rent, and probably 
 a used buy for those of you with a partner to join in the mayhem. Enjoy the merc session. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killmaster3811
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is for the most part a cooperative two player game. It is meant to be played with two 
 friends whether it is online or side by side via system link. As the title suggests you play as 
 a member of a two man team. You and your "colleague" are mercenaries for hire. The game takes place 
 in the near future in a world that essentially resents the United States and is ran by corporate 
 armies. You and your partner are experts in the business as American mercenaries.
  
  Teamwork is obviously the focus of the game, Small instances of teamwork were displayed when the 
 AI was revived via chest compression. They also helped one another climb through a hole in the 
 ceiling from one floor to the next. That's not all; you can help one another rappel down the side 
 of buildings. You can even tell the AI to give you some ammo, who will then actually toss you a 
 magazine so you can continue your firefight. 
  
  Perhaps one of the downright coolest features was gun customization. Obviously as a mercenary your 
 pride and joy is going to be your weapons arsenal and EA did their best to accommodate. You will 
 have the ability to spend money to customize nearly every aspect of your gun from the muzzle to 
 the cartridge. What's more, you get to try it before you buy it at a virtual shooting range. All 
 we need now is Xzibit to make a cameo appearance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSfanboy101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  so.. gamespot u give this game a 6.5 so u? NOOOOO!!!!!! how dare u!
  
  this game rocks! it might be about 6 hours long BUT if u do every diffucltly
  6+6+6=18 hours! 
 then u have online i am set to play with about 6 peeps online co-op thats just co-op and versus 
 is gonna get better as EA has confermed a patch to fix up those lags and wats up with no one complaning 
 about CoD4s gameplay hours or halo3 they get AAA but they give this a 6.5 cause of the hours???????? 
 come on! give EA a break there not that really used to shooters! and my fav part of the game is 
 the shooping (i know it sounds funnny but...) no im not talking about going shopping for clothes 
 and lip gloss i am talking about WEAPONS i mean i purchesed an AK-47 now it looks like a gold.... ummmm.... turtle? 
 idk anyway its AWSOME u can costumize ur guns even pimp them up! its thats not enough y not by 
 a new mask for urself? or upgrade ur armor?
  
  this is somthing that stands out for me u can choose to play as salem or rios! i had no idea!!!!!! 
 lol :-P
  
  i loveeeeeeeeeeee the gameplay its off the hook! i love how there is an agro meter so if going 
 out there and killing EVERYONE and busting them up is ur style then go agro is u wanna sneak around 
 invisible then go do that i dont really give.......
  
  also back to back stands out when there r a heap of guys around u go back to back it goes slow 
 motion and u turn in circles and killl everyone lol!
  
  if allllllll of that isnt enough then listen to this! u can rip off car doors and use them as shields! 
 now its sorta like uncharted, gears or dark secotr i mean the pop up shoot go down realosd then 
 take some more shoots sorta syestem but u cant stick to things...
  
  there r heaps more featurs to army of two but u have to find out ur self...
  
  BUT i can tell 
 u that there r bosses and yeah....
  
  GO BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magatsu23
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is my first review. why? because this is the most unjustified game ive ever seen. reviewers 
 have been too harsh on this game, and have taken into account irrelevant points of the game to 
 make their opinion.
  
  so let us begin. Army of Two is a third person shooter game. you take on the role of one of two 
 mercenaries: Rios or Salem. the other character will be played by either the computer or a friend, 
 and will go along with you through six levels of shooting rampage. the action is nonstop, and i 
 found it very satisfying.
  
  now, this game is all about looks and its own style. the main characters are incredibly cool and 
 have a very violent aspect to them. not only that but they are also very well voiced. the dialogues 
 are somewhat mature, containing a lot of cursing and the like, which only adds to the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  Story wise the game is good. it takes real things a bit lightly, but come on, this is a game, not 
 a documentary. they still value American values, and i found GS critic way too harsh. the story 
 is simple, but good enough to play through and keep you interested.
  
  now ill break down the rest of the game into the main classifications:
  
  Graphics - they 
 are good overall. the main characters look particularly awesome, although some textures sometimes 
 pop up. (very rarely it must be noted) .
  
  Sound - good. excelent voice acting, good music and sound FX. nothing out of this world, but great 
 overall.
  
  Gameplay - this is what makes the game shine even more. the Aggro mechanic is very well built, 
 and very rewarding (in which who fires the most, gets more attention from enemies, and things like 
 that) . the shooting is solid and fun. they use ragdoll effects very nicely, and a bit comic sometimes, 
 but it helps keep the game inside its own atmosphere.
  
  Overall fun - ive beaten this game twice already. once with a friend and once without. i really 
 had a blast both times, even more with a friend of course. it is awesome to come up with strategies 
 and stuff together, and take down enemies in a more coordinated fashion.
  
  in the end, this is a very good game. well made and polished. i didnt find bugs in the game, which 
 is really something. if you like coop, buy this game. 
  if you like the characters and their awesome violent look, buy this game. i did and i am loving 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyGuy0628
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is an amazing multi-player game but lacks in the single player category, your teamates 
 AI is usually pretty bad. The story mode is pretty immersive once you get into the game. With all 
 its plot twists you'll never know what to expect or who to trust. The shooting mechanics can be 
 sloppy from time to time but are overall pretty good. Even on Recruit difficulty the enemy AI can 
 be somewhat of a challenge, and it always seems they hit you when you need to be healed. Parachuting 
 and driving the hovercar are an absoulute pain, with the parachute you must tilt your SIXAXIS controler 
 to manuver it. There are interestin Co-Op game element such as Back-To-Back which is where Rios 
 and Salem stand back to back and spray down anyone that comes your way. Also there is an interesting 
 thing called "Aggro" which is where the character doing the most shooting is attracting attention 
 from all the enemies, this makes the other person completely invisible to the enemy which can buy 
 you some good time. Campaign mode is very short but has a great story to back it up. You earn money 
 throughout campaing and online play to customize your weapons to your pleasure. This is a great 
 2-Player game, but not so much if your one of those 30 year old nerds that still live with there 
 mom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjyunaff
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Not only does this game touch on a good base for a third person shooter but it decides to take 
 it to the next level with the flawless co-op play. It seems to me, however, that Gamespot gave 
 this game such a low score because of the lack in AI. For all those who missed the title when they 
 bought it, let me repeat: Army of Two. The obvious point behind this game is to find a buddy and 
 play along. Once accomplished, the new style of shooting and tactics that come into play are rivaling 
 Gears of War. Almost in an arena-style killing frenzy, Army of Two takes the players into war after 
 war that seem to have a connection with modern day events. The weapons system has a strong base, 
 and with the customizable options, it makes it even more interesting to play. Although there is 
 a bit of confusion because of the later weapons that cannot be upgraded as much, it still floats 
 on its' own system quite well. The level's are jam-packed with enemies to kill, and the producers 
 get a little creative here and there. While in any other game, this repetitive killing can seem 
 a little bit tiring, Army of Two can get away with it. As said before, if you can bother to go 
 and find someone to play with, then this game is as good as it gets. The glory in using your friend 
 as a tactic base will never cease to amaze and with aggro, life just seems a little bit sweeter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrondBraaten
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Army of Two didn't quite live up to all the hype. Before the release we heard of great AI, witch 
 would give you feedback on how you made your decisions. Ability to use microphone to give AI partner 
 instructions, and small mini games to give partner CPR when shot, and to pull/lift them up on to 
 ledges. These have been simplified allot. In single player, the command system is pretty much the 
 same as in every other tactical shooter. There is no ability to give voice commands to AI partner, 
 and healing partner is performed in the same way as any other game to. AI in single player (both 
 partner and enemies) could have been allot better! You'll see enemies running around boxes until 
 you shoot at them, or get to close. You'll have enemies running straight towards you, then suddenly 
 turning around to run back. ( Great opportunity for a free kill!) And your AI partner will often 
 get himself trapped in the middle of fire. 
  The story isn't very good, but it gets you from A to B without getting you bored. Missions are 
 pretty much similar with the exception of location, and a couple of bosses. It's also very short, 
 you'll easily finish it in a day or two, depending on how much you play and difficulty, experienced 
 players should probably amp up difficulty before trying the first time, or you'll be done in about 
 six to eight hours. 
  Controls work fine, though the ability to take cover like in Rainbow six Vegas or GRAW 2 would 
 do a lot for the game play. You do take cover, but it's not as precise! You do have the ability 
 to slide or roll towards cover, and this works very well.
  It's not all bad though, if you really want to play this game to it's maximal potential, play it 
 with a friend! The CO-OP is simply great. The aggro system works very well (with a few exceptions 
 like machine gun turrets) , and having a partner that actually does what he is told is great! The 
 only bad thing about the CO-OP part is that you'll probably finish the game even faster.
  
  It's actually kind of hard to give AoT a score, since the two ways to play the game are so different, 
 even though the game is the same. So I'll have to split it up and meet half way between my own 
 opinions and give it:
  
  Single player - 6.5
  CO-OP - 8.5
  
  Combined score - 7.5 (Worth playing if you are into CO-OP!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2007 when I first saw this title, I thought that it looked like an interesting concept 
 but a game that would only be really enjoyable if played with a friend. Now in 2008, I still feel 
 that way. This a good game, but when you play it solo, you do not get to experience the game the 
 way it was meant to be played.
  
  Army of Two is oozing with production values that mimic any Michael Bay and/or Jerry Bruckheimer 
 big-budget film. You have lots of action, plenty of twists and turns and a buddy-aspect that to 
 some boarders on homosexual (not in my eyes) . The games story, like many hollywood action movies 
 chronicles two army buddies who go from working in the military to being members of a privatized 
 military corporation who help clean up the dirty work. You have them working for an organization 
 then when they discover some shocking evidence, things start to happen that requires them to uncover 
 the truth. I am not big on politics so I couldn't care less how this game connects itself to real 
 world situations or how realistic it was. This, of course is a game, so you shouldn't be expecting 
 realism when it comes to storyline.
  
  The gameplay is interesting, but only when played with a friend. When you start the game you pick 
 the character you wish to start as, either the Veteran Rios or the younger Salem. There doesn't 
 seem to be any real differences in which character you choose, so you won't miss anything by picking 
 one over the other. Once you've selected your character, you play through the standard training 
 mission then six core missions and the game finishes. In all, the game should take you around 6-8 
 hours to play. If you're accustomed to co-op shooters, the time will be less, but if you need to 
 get used to controls and calling out orders, you'll probably take a bit longer.
  
  The main gameplay feature is Aggro. You've probably already heard about so I'll just talk about 
 it in brief. If you shoot a lot or get shot at you're aggression grows. If it gets to a boiling 
 point, you can activate Overkill and now for a certain period of time your partnership gets a boost. 
 If you're on overkill, your damage is doubled while your partner becomes invisible and can attack 
 without being noticed and is reversed if your partner is the aggressive one. This will be a life 
 saver near the end of the game and can make those tough moments really easy.
  
  There are some fairly interesting moments and times when team-work is necessary. The teammate AI 
 is pretty good but like with all games, there are some problems here and there. If for example 
 your character becomes incapacitated for a moment, when your partner comes to heal you, his decision 
 process won't always be spot on. When healing, the computer tends to drag you to cover where he 
 can heal, but often he will go so far out of the way or into enemy fire which results in both of 
 you dying. The only other hiccup I had with the teammate AI was when you are required to do Co-Op 
 Sniping. There was one instance when we required to shoot two guards; I managed to take out my 
 target, but the AI was slow and missed his shot. Very odd.
  
  Another problem with the gameplay is the accuracy of your enemies... they are too good. In one mission 
 located on a Battlecruiser, you have a shootout with the enemy in a missle area. The entire floor 
 is crowded with boxes, missles and other items, but the computer is able to hit you such ease when 
 you are in cover. I thought it was a situation where I just couldn't see a third enemy who had 
 a good shot at me, but that wasn't the case. It's was kind of disappointing, but not to the point 
 that it ruined the game.
  
  The controls in the game while at first take a bit of time, but after a while are pretty straight 
 forward. On the PS3, you'll be using the L2 and R2 buttons the most, with the X button doing almost 
 everything else. That was a bit of problem, as the X button changes use depending on the context. 
 There are times when you want to go into Overkill but instead you'll Feign Death, thus wasting 
 the opportunity and your time. I don't think I ever had to use the Square button (which is used 
 for reloading) , so they could have mapped something onto that, or the L3 or R3 buttons. One thing 
 I did like with the controls was the sixaxis use for reloading. While the Square button was the 
 default for reloading, I was more inclined to simply snap-back the controller to reload instead. 
 While not a big functional use of sixaxis, it was a nice addition that didn't feel like last minute 
 add-on.
  
  The sound in the game is very nice, but like most 'Americanized' games, the fact that all your 
 enemies speak English with awkward accents isn't always fun. It would have been nice to have some 
 native tongue being spoken, but again, who really pays attention to what Random Bad-Guy #1 has 
 to say. The ambiance in some of the levels are nice and help create a better atmosphere for the 
 game. The soundtrack might not win awards, but it still does what he has to do.
  
  The graphics are top notch. The characters, weapons and vehicles look really good and there are 
 very few moments of clipping; while it did happen, it wasn't too serious or detracting. Even when 
 you had a lot going on the screen, there wasn't any moments of noticeable slowdown. 
  The environments were pretty good and showed off the war regions quite well. There are a few moments 
 of back-tracking, but for the most part, as you progress, you get to see more. The cut-scenes are 
 nicely done and really helped to add the Hollywood movie feel. 
  
  This game was to be released late last year but EA stopped it only days from being shipped. Had 
 this game gotten a 2007 release, it probably would have gone un-noticed, but thanks to the relatively 
 low release calender for 2008, it's a game that has gotten a lot of attention. While the reasons 
 behind EA stopping it's release were not revealed, the game for the most part turned out for the 
 best.
  
  In the end, this is a good game, with a lot of promise for future versions. The graphics and sound 
 are where they should be for a HD Generation game. The only real gripe with Army of Two was the 
 games relatively short length and it's need to be played with a friend. If you only plan on playing 
 this game on your own, I would recommend simply renting it and being done with it over a weekend. 
 There doesn't seem to be any real need to play through it twice, so once you're done, you won't 
 pick it up again. But, if you have a friend to play with you, then the value is there. The game 
 is meant to be played with a partner and the interaction with someone in the same room as you will 
 be really enjoyable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is anything but perfect but it is ausome. The games shoot'em up style is very addictive. 
 Its a mindless shooter where you can fire while in cover, fire while parachuting, fire while running 
 around in circles, and even when you are criticly injured. An issue with the shooting is that when 
 you run and gun, the accuracy isnt that great and you might need to pass a terrorist a few times 
 to kill him. Mostly though, you wont have that much trouble with it. The enemy AI arent that stupid 
 but you will always outsmart him. Your AI partner is very effective and can really help you when 
 you are taking too much heat. You can give him a number of commands which produces different results. 
 When you are criticly injured, you might get impatient with you partner while he struggles to patch 
 you up. The command system isnt innovative but it is better than alot of games which employ either 
 the squad follows you system or a useless point and they walk over there system. The storyline 
 based on today's war on terror is a little tasteless mentioning 9/11, Katrina, and basicly smearing 
 our armed forces private or federal. The level designs are good and sometimes ausome. I love driving 
 through a flooded airport with a hovercraft and fighting through an airport terminal. The graphics 
 fit the Ps3 specs with great water and enviromental effects. Combat sounds arent spectacular. Multiplay 
 is fun where you and your freind sitting right next to you get to fight off the other Ao2 team. 
 Anyway, if you want to fight baddies with your freind, this is a great game. It has a few issues 
 which may never be fixed, but I reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  In Army of Two, you can play as either one of the two mercenaries, Rios or Salem. The game takes 
 place during several periods of time and plays in real life locales like China and Afghanistan. 
 Its storyline basically tells us about how the Private Military is becoming more important than 
 the Army, and will most likely take over the usual military, but the main company in which both 
 protagonists work for have a greedy leader bent on making the company the most powerful private 
 contractor in the world, but for the bad reasons like starting wars and such. 
  ANYWHO... Gameplay
  Solid game play, resulting in a lot of teamwork, you have to work with your 
 partner to over come obstacles like large amounts of troops or several heavy units. The game also 
 has the Aggro system placed in it. This is basically a meter on the top or middle right of the 
 screen. BASICALLY how it works is if your friend as a big gun and shoots at the enemy alot they 
 will get the aggro, the meter will move towards his side of the screen ( or on single player, towards 
 his mask) and the enemies will be focused on taking him out first, where as you can sneak up behind 
 the enemy and rape em from behind. This works well and you will find yourself using it ALOT.
  The game has a large array of weapons, ranging from handguns to the M18 Chaingun, you can also 
 customize them with add ons like grenade launchers, shotguns, shield and even give them a pimped 
 out look.
  Gunning down enemies can sometimes become annoying because of bad aiming, BUT DON'T WORRY, you 
 can run up to an enemy, press the fire button and you will wreck the dude with a brutal Hand to 
 Hand move, like cracking his skull open with yours. If your friend is in trouble, (sitting on the 
 floor screaming for help) you can drag him behind cover and heal him, but your not helpless, he 
 can cover you back and you can shoot with you hand gun in front. Theres also a Shield system which 
 lets you pick up a shield and have your friend hide behind it, vice versa, and shoot enemies while 
 you move. By the way, did i mention the Back to Back sequences and Parachuting? well yea, they 
 got those too. Good Stuff
  Any ways, its best to play this game with a Human player, basically because your AI buddy is sometimes 
 unhelpful and inferior to advanced Enemy AI (but this doesn't mean he's not useless) . Also you 
 can have alot of fun yelling at you friend for ****ing up or you can go right next to him in the 
 game, press fire and you character will give him a ' congratulations you piece of ****' head butt. 
 Oh but its not all negative, you can also high five and such by pressing X near em, heh heh.
  and if you don't HAVE any friends (or any near you) you can always go online and join a stranger 
 to do Co-Op Story or a 2 on 2 deathmatch which shows your Co-op Expertise. BUT you can only play 
 with those in the same region as you, for example, if you have a region 1 game, you can only play 
 with those with region 1 games.... which isn't that great...
  Oh and the graphics are great, nice Eye candy for you, but can sometimes slow down because of the 
 chaos going on. OH WELL, nothings perfect
  Overall, its a recommendations for those who like Co-Ops, Shooting and tactical game play. The 
 Storyline and Online may not be great, but the guns, and coop is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluefire48
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that army of 2 is a good game. It has great graphics, great weapons and a decent 
 story.
  
  This game was made to be a coop rental. Its short and sweet. The AI buddy isn't bad. It's actually 
 pretty good. But there will once in a while momoents in the game where the AI might have to save 
 you and it just does't move to a different cover postion since he is being shot at while trying 
 to heal me. Never the less, its good. The higher difficulty setting may give you some replay value 
 with the fact that you get all unlockable weapons after beating the game. The unique coop elements 
 fall short as most feel tacked on just so they can say it is. The best coop feature is the parachuteing 
 snipeing which you won't find very often in a game.
  
  The worst part is that the online is laggy as hell and EA doesn't plan on fixing it.
  
  RENT 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krell_bd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Army of two has hit the nail on the head when it comes to co-op gaming. I don't know what it is 
 that made the console turn away from co-op or two player games. The Wii's sales figures is a testement 
 to the fact that the largest market is for 'party games'. This is exactly what the other consoles 
 need to make them social and fun. Army of two provides a game play experience that is geared towards 
 two players, it says so in the title. If you bought this game to play by yourself, which undoubtedly 
 most PS3 owners did, you are an idiot!
  
  The two factors that define a game seem to be frowned apon in most reviews i have seen. That is 
 that this game is unrealistic and fun, why would you want your games any other way. Just clearing 
 that up for all the old folk out there, because there is a vague reference to some thing real that 
 grounds the game, does not mean that the rest has to even be plausable.
  
  Lets not even get started on the people who keep saying that the AI is 'dumb'. Of course its dumb, 
 your console is an appliance not the super computer you have been lead to believe. Just because 
 a computer can beat a human at chess does not mean it can interact with humans on a tactically 
 reactive level. you need a human to play with, that is what makes this game.
  
  There all only two areas where Army of Two falls down. The games is too short by alot, and it is 
 too linear and repetative. There are far more 'co-op moments' that they could dream up. But the 
 release of the first game expantion should solve at least one of those.
  
  Well done and bring out more co-op games. Otherwize i might as well just play on my PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EightBitWarrior
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  In Army of Two, you and a friend (or an AI buddy) take on the role of high risk, high reward soldiers 
 Elliot Salem and Tyson Rios. You start out in the game as enlisted men, but quickly jettison your 
 positions in favor of joining the SSC private military corporation. Going from two ordinary soldiers 
 to two money hungry die-hards in nothing flat, Salem and Rios are assigned reconnaissance and assassination 
 missions in response to the 9/11 terror attacks. There are a few twists and turns along the way, 
 but this isn't a storyline you'll be talking about for long. In fact, it's doubtful you'll really 
 care at all.
  
  The main gameplay in the game is focused from the ground up on the idea that you're a team, and 
 you must act accordingly. Running out guns a-blazing in nearly any situation will have you taking 
 a dirtnap, even on the games lowest difficulty setting, Recruit. Instead, the game provides a shared 
 meter that both players must utilize called the Aggro Meter. Derived from massively multiplayer 
 online game monster patterns, this bar will show which player the enemies are actively pursuing, 
 and which the enemies are ignoring. When you are being focused on, your character will be glowing 
 bright red, as to take the attention off your teammate. Meanwhile, your buddy will become invisible 
 to the enemy and will be able to sneak up and wreak havoc on any unsuspecting foes.
  
  Things aren't all cherries and gumdrops with this system, however, and that's partially due to 
 the games button layout. Often times as the stealth character, you'll find yourself shooting the 
 enemy rather than meleeing, because both actions share the same button. This is a design choice 
 I just can't understand. There are plenty of buttons on the controller, so there's no excuse. In 
 the event that you find yourself victim of this issue, you'll discover that the games shooting 
 and aiming system is not at all meant for close quarters combat.
  
  So as you find you and your partner frequently raising the bar left and right in turn, you'll be 
 prompted to activate the games Overkill mode. This mode grants you unlimited ammo and removes the 
 need to reload your weapon. This can be pretty cool if you're the stealth guy, but the targeted 
 one will sometimes find this harming them more than it helps, because it disables crouching behind 
 cover. You really need to coordinate to use this well, or you'll find yourself dying a bit like 
 myself.
  
  Scattered throughout the game are these cooperative progression moments that are at first pretty 
 cool, but soon feel tacked on and irritating. These actions include kicking a door open together, 
 helping your teammate up a high ledge, pulling a lever, and just about anything short of holding 
 your buddy's hand while he walks. These segments add to the charm at some points, but at other 
 times it's way too overused, and will have you sighing at each instance they show up. There's a 
 section in the game where you have to watch Salem and Rios open up a busted garage door about 6 
 times in a row within a few minutes. Please go easy on these types of things if you make a sequel, 
 EA. This reminds me of developers of early Wii and DS games that tacked on motion or touch controls 
 for no good reason, and basically ruined their games.
  
  During missions, you'll be prompted if you wish to enter mid-mission shopping or not, and you'll 
 find yourself selecting yes for the majority of the game. There are tons of weapons to choose from, 
 including the AK47, the AUG, and other renamed versions of popular weapons like the M4 or the G36C. 
 There are plenty of pistols and sub-machine guns at your disposal that you can equip as a secondary 
 weapon for your character, but I found that most of these are pretty useless. Pistols can take 
 out some dudes fairly quickly, but you'll have to put forth twice the effort to get them to work 
 effectively. Oddly enough though, despite the plethora of weapons at your disposal, I found myself 
 using the same weapon I started the game with, the AK47, through 90% of entire game, because it 
 felt the most competent.
  
  Within the shop, there are plenty of ways to customize your gear as well, but most of them are 
 throw aways, serving no other purpose but a level 1, 2, or 3 upgrade. You can change the barrel, 
 the silencer, the ammo container, and the stock on most weapons, and you can also "pimp" your gun. 
 This basically blings out your weapon all crazy like, such as plating it with gold, or encrusting 
 it with diamonds. There's no real purpose to this outside of drawing more aggro to your character. 
 Apparently the terrorists get jealous at your success and want to shoot you more sincerely.
  
  You'll find that the shooting in the game mostly feels pretty good, but there are a few gripes 
 with it. The first and foremost being the fact that outside of the sniper rifles, there is no way 
 too zoom in with your gun. This can be a problem because the game likes to pit you a fair distance 
 away from your targets, and it can feel like you're shooting dots on the screen that are constantly 
 bobbing in and out of cover. The other problem being that it takes far too long to actually take 
 an enemy down. Unless you're landing headshots, a lot of ammo is going to be wasted throughout 
 the course of the game.
  
  Breaking up the standard action in the game are a few special sections sprinkled throughout. There 
 are times you'll be guiding a parachute while your teammate snipes, and also times where you'll 
 have to "co-op snipe" a target. There are also these nifty segments where Rios and Salem go back 
 to back. During these, the game goes into a slow, almost bullet time mode, where you unload on 
 guys with an unlimited ammo clip.
  
  There are a few "wow" moments within the game, mostly due to the games terrific graphics engine. 
 Plenty of high dynamic range lighting, beautiful water, and a rock solid framerate to back it all 
 up round out the games visuals. It's too bad that the graphics are about all that sticks out when 
 thinking of memorable moments in the game though. The sound isn't much to squawk about either. 
 From the cheesy dialog to the disappointing sounding weaponry, there's not a whole lot to love 
 here.
  
  So yeah, for the most part, you're hiding behind cover and shooting the same few enemies again 
 and again. It's a shooter, yes, but perhaps if the game had a story you cared at all about, this 
 would become less noticeable. The game actually started to feel a bit tedious 2/3 through the game, 
 which is kind of sad considering the game lasts you only 6 hours before you see the credits roll. 
 As for the multiplayer side of things to extend this, I was actually unable to get into a match 
 that wasn't a total lag fest. I'm not quite sure if the servers were having problems, or if it 
 was the game's fault, but it wasn't running at a playable rate at the time.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is a decent game, but I definitely cannot approve of a full price purchase. 
 It might be an amusing title to play through in a weekend with one of your buddies, but there simply 
 is not enough content to dive into. Not only is the campaign short, but there are only 4 competitive 
 multiplayer maps, and a complete lack of any deathmatch mode. Also, if you don't plan on playing 
 with other actual human beings, I cannot recommend picking up the game at all, honestly. The AI 
 simply isn't smart enough to be your trusted wingman, and you'll be missing out on the fun completely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHECKTHISTA
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i played the Playstation 3 version.
  I guess the first impression to everyone was..."WOAH THERE'S A PURE COOP-GAME OUT THERE", at least 
 that was mine. 
  Lets keep this easy.
  
  ~THE GOOD~:
  -Graphics are pretty good- even the shadows on the PS3 version (because the PS3 has no active anti 
 analysing)
  -some coop-action realy give the feelings of being a two man team
  -the weapon tuning makes fun
  -the so called AGGRO-SYSTEM is innovative
  -it has a least a 
 story, not the best one, but something to remember
  -cool game play and conversations between both characters and other people appearing in the game
 
  -back-to-back situations
  -the flowing game play 
  -it is atmospheric when the camera shakes when you walk
  -sound is also pretty good
  -AI buddy 
 is VERY intelligent and will never let u down
  
  ~THE BAD~:
  -there aren't THAT many weapons to deal with
  -when changing the mag, it doesn't slips out of 
 its placed, instead its stays there and the guys puts in some "air"
  -i had a simple error: when beginning the next mission, after i left the weapons dealer screen, 
 i started at the save point in the level before
  -it doens't last long when u realy sit down on it and play
  
  After all, its a game you should 
 DEFINITELY take a look at! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic_evil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is neat. I really like the aggro system it brings a new element to co-operative gun play 
 games like this. I would like to see more games made in vein like this, with a co-operative centerplay 
 the game is ultimately more enjoyable than if it had just been a single player experience. 
  
  I am not a fan of the third person perspective, it makes shooting difficult at times and really 
 the only advantage it has is when you want to get that close combat elimination, and of course 
 the celebrations are cool and all but I really think it's a mis-step to think that these two bad 
 asses would be walking around fist pumping and air guitaring, it feels completely out of character. 
 Even with the dialog and everything, it feels borderline wrong. 
  
  But oh, oh so right. Grab a friend and buy army of two! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  
  If you like to play online co op with a buddy than search no more this is the perfect game for 
 you and your friend to play together gears of war style. 
  
  The game does take advance of the horse power of the PS3 but I just wish the game look as good 
 as the amazing cut scenes in the game. 
  The controls are pretty good they have the L2 to precision aiming like in gears of war and shooting 
 with R2. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty cool they have team command. You can tell your partner to be as aggressive 
 as possible to draw all the attention to him as you become invisible to your enemies. Though its 
 not good since the AL all your opponents will be shooting your friend .
  
  If you're looking for a beautiful online co op game with a lot of action and explosions then Army 
 of two is a good game that is worth checking out. Especially the online co op will have you coming 
 back for more to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is one of those PS3 titles that was hyped to the heavens, then received some average 
 reviews. Much like Assassins Creed, Kane & Lynch or even Lair. (Although, those last two were very 
 poor anyways)
  
  Sure, its got a "we've heard it all before" story line, but that dosen't really matter in this 
 game. What this game brings to the table thats new is the co-operative aspect.
  
  You can either choose to play with a friend via the Playstation Network, or hook up with another 
 PS3 if you've got two. I haven't had the chance to do this... since I have no friends *sob*. Well 
 thats a lie, I have another PSN friend who has the game, but I havent gotten round to playing co-op 
 with another gamer yet, just with the AI partner.
  
  You can choose to be one of the games two protagonists, Rios or Salem. I chose to play as Rios, 
 simply because Rios is the bigger dude.
  
  The banter the characters exchange with each other is very entertaining and often hilarious. You 
 can also chose to walk up to your partner, press X and give them abit of moral support, either 
 by giving "low 5s" or playing a little air guitar with your primary weapon.
  
  Which brings me to the weapon shopping/upgrading system. 
  
  During each mission, you get money 
 for kills and completing secondary objectives such as acquiring extra enemy intelligence. This 
 money comes in handy when you want to upgrade to a new rifle, or a better add a silencer, boost 
 the magazine capacity etc. Also, with some weapons, you can choose to "pimp" them out, by coating 
 them gold or silver. Pointless really, but to each his own.
  
  Online, Army of Two plays well. It runs smooth and the matches are challenging enough to keep you 
 coming back. The only problem is sometimes finding a game can take a little while.
  
  With more content promised for download the very near future via the Playstation Store, this will 
 surely add life to the online and the main campaign should you want to play it again with another 
 friend perhaps, or maybe even on your own this time... like me.
  
  Army of Two is a solid game, and most certainly not a "Gear of War rip-off"
  If you're looking 
 for something to play with a friend co-operatively, then give Army of Two a shot.
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inciteechc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is not game of the year in anybodies book. But it is certainly NOT a 6.5 or as some have 
 put it "abysmal" and rated it a 1.5.... Come on, this game is well put together, if you know how 
 to play video games and understand the use of AI. The game is pretty tight playing solo, however 
 when playing with a friend the game takes a big step up. The live partner feature is awesome. The 
 aiming and firing of weapons works very well and the melee attacks are a plus. Weapon and gear 
 upgrades are a nice touch. The learning curve is just right. Graphically speaking, no one should 
 be complaining. When it comes to the gameplay and visual aspects, this game is top notch. Here 
 are the problems. First and foremost this game is far to short. The campaign is like 9 different 
 missions max and the flow between missions makes very little sense. The extremely expensive weapons 
 aren't much better than the cheap ones, in some cases they are actually worse. Up close firing 
 sucks and most of the time melee attacks are your only option up close. The pointless swearing 
 gets a bit old, and the air guitar celebrations are queer as **** As for the "plot" of the game 
 (which was a main factor in its low rating on Gamespot and a mutlitude of other gaming sites out 
 there) , it does not flow, there is little explaination as to why they are doing what they are doing 
 or who, specifically, they are doing it for. Rather similar to the hitman series in that sense, 
 contract killers who sort of work for the government. The plot is called "a touchy subject" by 
 many, but seriously, ITS A GAME! It holds no accord on the political climate whatsoever.
  
  There isn't much for 3rd person shooters out there so in the realm of that genre this rates even 
 higher for me. This game has been raked through the mud and been crapped on by a lot of people. 
 Do not let this sway you. Get this game a play it, solo AND with a friend. If you don't generally 
 play shooters multiple times then rent it. If you do play over and over again, BUY THE GAME! You 
 will not be dissapointed if you make your decisions about the game on your own, don't follow the 
 leader here. I rate it an 8.5 and it will remain in my PS3 for weeks to come, then it will probably 
 sit there till I sell it on EBay just like Ninja Gaiden and Assassins Creed. This game is better 
 then AC but not as good as NG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Army of Two (Trans World Operations or just the number 2) is a great game. It gave me more than 
 I expected.
  
  This game is best with a friend..... Gamespot was right about the "subject matter".... otherwise 
 single player doesnt live up to its potential.
  
  The game revolves around two things...... an amazing storyline of revenge and rescue, and money. 
 You can use money to do some amazing things to amazing guns. You will be presented with a great 
 selection of primary, secondary, and special weapons. You can customize them to the point of insanity..... 
 you can add a shield to some, pop on a shotgun or a grenade launcher, extend the barrel and make 
 the gun 50 times better, suppress it to the point of a mouse click instead of a BANG, extend the 
 cartridge to hold twice as much ammo, or "pimp" out your gun. I will not spoil that, because of 
 its potential awesomeness. 
  
  It also contains the standard "regeneration" health thing as in many new games.
  
  Oh, and 
 another thing to note.... in this game, you will use this meter that goes by the name of aggro. 
 You have a bar of aggro, and so does your teammate. To gain "aggro" you shoot, kill, or do whatever 
 you can to make yourself noticed by the enemies. When you do so, you will glow red, and your parter 
 will become slightly transparents, but virtually invisible to the enemy. This is a great oppurtunity 
 to run behind enemies and attack them from behind, while you or your teammate stay in front and 
 distract them.
  
  If you hold aggro for a long time, you will be given the option to engage overkill. Overkill is 
 a special mode where the person who has held the aggro will be pretty much invincible to the enemy, 
 you gun will shoot faster, and you have unlimited ammo. The other person will be invisible to the 
 enemy, and will have like three times as much speed, and can sneak up on enemies while running. 
 All this is in slow motion for about 12 seconds. But its worth every second.
  
  I have beat the game, and i must say that it is one of my favorite ps3 co op games. In fact, it 
 is. Buy it, and savor every moment as it ends quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Fenii
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a new game to play with your buddy, you should be quite happy with the arrival 
 of Army of Two, a game produced by EA for the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 that will take some getting 
 used to at first, but will get you hyped as soon as you get launched in to the game.
  
  This game would be best described as a third-person tactical shooter but proves to be unique in 
 his kind due to its many fun and practical aspects that we've all been dying to see in a shooter 
 these days.
  
  Storyline:
  The game begins with its two leading characters: Tyson Rios and Elliot Salem who start off in the 
 US military. Shortly thereafter they join a private military corporation and serve as mercenaries 
 fighting bad guys in the form of terrorists. From thereon the game focuses on the debate whether 
 or not state militaries should be replaced by private military corporations. If you don't pay attention 
 during the missions though, you'll miss a lot of this, as conversations between the two characters 
 take place during and in-between all the shooting. The story turns out to be very predictable and 
 won't prove to be anything stunning. But personally, I find it a bit far-fetched to look at the 
 quality of a storyline a shooter, simply because we don't play these games to get blown away by 
 its plot. But the ending of the game won't disappoint you and will even prove to be quite satisfying.
 
  Score: 77%
  
  Graphics:
  Not much to say on this area: the game looks nice. The main characters are excellently done though, 
 with an extra level of detail as well as the cutscenes. What adds to the sensation of it all though, 
 is how your weapons look, but I'll cover that later on. The atmospheres of the environments you 
 go through are also neatly done. They look very realistic and really send over the vibe that represents 
 the area. The effects of gunfire and explosions could be better, but nothing to complain about. 
 The game just meets up to the next-gen standards.
  Score: 86%
  
  Gameplay:
  This game combines different elements seen before in other games, as well as introduce new concepts 
 to strengthen its name.
  
  Co-op Play:
  Obviously you can play this game with a friend, and you should! The game loses almost all of its 
 value if you play this game by yourself. It will all get really old, really fast. But if you play 
 with a partner, your roles will change, and the whole experience will feel a lot more thrilling. 
 You can play either split-screen or have a friend online to join you.
  
  Partner Actions:
  As you progress through the game, you will need your partner at your side, 
 either to cover you, or to just help you get past obstacles. Getting to a higher area will be impossible 
 if your buddy isn't there to give you a boost and for you to pull him up. Furthermore, when somebody 
 gets 'fatally' wounded, he won't be dead just yet. He'll only be down, and it's his partner's duty 
 to drag him to safety and patch him up so that he can continue fighting. Also, please note that 
 in the midst of this dragging, both players can still fire their guns.
  
  Aggro/Overkill:
  Some of you might know the term Aggro from MMO's. Well, it's in this game too. 
 The bigger your gun is, and the more rounds you fire, the more attention you'll get. This leaves 
 your partner to pick enemies off one by one, as he's practically invisible to the foes. This is 
 a very important part of the game, as it serves as the most important tactical feature. If one 
 player has gathered enough Aggro, both players can go into Overkill. The player that has all the 
 Aggro will then do double the amount of damage, but lose his speed and evasive moves, while his 
 partner goes into Stealth mode, where he is faster than normal, and invisible to all enemies in 
 the area. It's a great way to add some variety in the game, but (thankfully) it doesn't last too 
 long, because everything goes in slow-mo.
  
  Weapons:
  One of the things that make this game awesome is not only the selection of weapons that you have, 
 but the option to customise them as well. Each player can carry up to three weapons: a Primary 
 weapon (rifles and shotguns) , a Secondary weapon (handguns and sub-machine guns) and a Special 
 weapon (snipers and rocket launchers) . Apart from the vast selection you have, you can upgrade 
 them like there's no tomorrow. Think about changing barrels, stocks, supressors, cartridges, frontmounts, 
 shields and also every single weapon comes with an option to 'pimp it out'. This varies from a 
 chrome layer to a gold coating on the weapon. Just imagine shooting down bad guys with a golden 
 AK-47 that houses 100 bullets a magazine with a grenade launcher stuck to it.
  
  This game has a LOT in store when it comes down to gameplay, and even though there are minor flaws, 
 the combination of all these gameplay elements make up for it without any excuses.
  Score: 98%
  
  Difficulty:
  Okay, on the lowest difficulty, it's very doable, until the last 
 mission. There you will be really challenged and the game demands to show what you got. On the 
 highest difficulty level you're gonna need a lot more bullets for every mission you start. There 
 are a handful of extra enemies, and they all require some extra rounds before they go down for 
 the count. The last mission then forces you to really think and fight tactically, which makes this 
 game extremely challenging and realistic. The game also offers armour levels, so if you feel that 
 the game's not hard enough for you, strip of some plating of your body and go wild.
  Score: 97%
  
  Sound:
  First of all: excellent voice acting, and good work on the personality 
 too. The conversations feel genuine and just real, not at any point do you feel that this is voice 
 'acting'. Another enjoyable factor is the variety of sounds that all the weapons produce. Every 
 type of gun has a different ring to it, and it's nice that the producers put some thought into 
 that. Also, when you're down, or things are in slow-mo, everything around you sounds a lot more 
 tense and dynamic, enhancing the sensation naturally. The music isn't so bad either, although you 
 don't pay much attention to it either way. And although there are some minor flaws here and there 
 (such as a huge falling hangar door not making a loud noise when hitting the ground) the game offers 
 some great work on this department.
  Score: 92%
  
  Overall:
  Normally, I'm not attracted to shooters, of any kind. Third person shooters can draw my attention 
 every now and then, but they grow boring very fast. In reality, this game offers little innovation 
 when played alone. But when it's played together, its features REALLY stand out. It feels like 
 a whole new genre in fact. Never did a co-op feel this exciting, this intense before. And eventhough 
 it borrows elements from games such as Brute Force, Gears of War and Halo, it makes itself unique 
 due to all of its extra features the other games don't have. The choices in weapons give this game 
 a personal touch, not to mention the choice of character and the mask he'll be wearing.
  
  Be advised though, this game contains a lot of swearing and the attitude the game brings with it 
 seems to be rather fake and an attempt to be cool. Like I said before, the character becomes personal 
 by picking weapons and a mask, so try to pay little attention to Salem's childish behaviour.
  
  All-in-all extremely good game. This is raw action combined with tactics, who wouldn't love 
 this? I'd like to see this game as the start of something beautiful in the gaming industry. I'd 
 say that this is easily the best shooter ever made, hands down. Someone who doesn't like this genre 
 can still play this game and enjoy himself, so that says a lot about this game. So let's just hope 
 we'll see another game in this style appear soon...
  Score: 90% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoJaMcco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I think that the critics were a little high maintainence when reviewing this game. it had it's 
 share of flaws, but it wasn't as mediocre and awful as they say. The combat was solid and the dialougue 
 was amusing. I agree that the story wasn't anything to throw a parade over and the controls were 
 a little touchy, but it was an original system that worked well and didn't justify such below-average 
 reviews. I bought this to play with a friend and I say it was well worth it. We had plenty of fun 
 with both standard gameplay and the interesting customization options.
  
  Many have complained about the SIxAxis scheme in the parachuting scenes. I actually enjoyed it. 
 I thought it is one of the few games that have managed to properly apply the motion sensing to 
 a game. It also worked well for the reloading by shaking the controller quickly, which added some 
 real world tension to firefights.
  
  One thing i must say is that the difficulty is a little viscious. There are times when it goes 
 from challenging to just palin sadisitc. A plethora of enemies tend to poor out from every direction 
 and are very good shots. This was playing on Contractor, so I don't want to imagine Professional.
 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who has a friend to play with and is looking for a solid shooter 
 with an interesting twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  An arsenal of upgradeable weapons, and two smartass attitudes; equals two guys who will definitely 
 get the job done...... for the right price.
  
  Salem and Rios, two mercenaries who will take almost any job for the right price.
  Army of two 
 is a game designed for those people out there who enjoy their violence and Co-op games, the game 
 focuses on two people working together too survive and get from point A to point B.
  
  The games gameplay is an exciting adventure that involves working together with your partner and 
 using alot of ammunition, one downside to this though is your partner (the AI or Computer character) ; 
 although your partner knows when too shoot, when to hide, and when to help you, it can sometimes 
 become very irritating, for example: If you have fallen in combat your partner will try to drag 
 you somewere safe to heal you, but it will sometimes drag you somewere then change its mind and 
 drag you somewere else or it will try to drag you to safety even if you are already in a safe place. 
 Thats only one of the things that can go wrong, and it can be very irritating.
  Army of Two's true potential is unlocked during Co-op with another human player, because now you 
 dont have the trouble of an annoying AI, and you can have alot more fun giving orders to someone 
 if they argue back at you!
  
  The games grahics are amazing; they really make it worth playing. The Sound quality during gameplay 
 is alright, it could have been worked on, but the sound quality in the cut-scenes is great.
  
  Overall: This game is one to get if you have a friend too play with, it will give you hours 
 of fun and arguments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Laurel & Hardy, Sonny & Cher, Simon & Garfunkel, Ant & Dec. All very famous duos in modern culture 
 by two more Salem & Rios. Doesnt have the same ring as any of the others does it? Anyway, Army 
 of Two the new double person third person shooter from EA, and like every game, there is two sides 
 to the story.
  
  Initially when I saw Army of Two I thought it looked incredible, graphically impressive and I thought 
 it would be the first game with truly phenomenal and comprehensive co-op AI, so much so that you 
 would think you were palying with a real person. This is where AOT first downfall is.
  
  The AI isn't as disasterous as Conflict: Denied Ops was, but in comparison, the squad mechanics 
 work far better in Call of Duty 4 (there it is again!) The AI is totally thich, it's just not what 
 EA promised, and that's what's disappointing about it. There was no point in the game where I felt 
 the AI was a real person . The command system is very simplistic but good enough but a disloyal 
 compainion leaves you slogging it out a lot of the time whilst he dances pathetically like a moron 
 and falls off ledges. To be honest this games wasn't built for single player, so I'm going to let 
 it off slightly. Naughty Army of Two!
  
  Co op split screen is a lot better, you have some one sitting on the couch next to you and you 
 can discuss tactics and how to best use your Aggro system, which in my opinion is pretty swish. 
 Basically one player shoots the hell at the opposition so all firepower from the enemy is directed 
 at him, so the other one can, in theory, sneak behind the enemy using cover and dodging to fill 
 their backsides full of lead. Sounds simple, but it does get messy. Sometimes, the Aggro will switch 
 if enemies spot a player and this can really send a plan balls up.
  
  This isn't made any easier with a timid cover system, which sees you approaching cover very dashingly 
 as you slide into place, poor crouch position which literally sees your burly guy's big hairy arse 
 up in the air and getting shot at, and, for the first of the game (or until you decently upgrade 
 your weapons) awful recoil. The upgrade system is a lot better. Stick big ass shotguns to you machine 
 gun with barrage shields and grenade launcher and create something that Rambo himself could have 
 given birth to. There isn't much depth within upgrades but you can literally create your own skull 
 shuttering monsters.
  
  However, you never seem to have enough money, from which you earn during missions, to fully pimp 
 out your gear.
  
  Clever features in gameplay include ripping car doors off and using them a shields, back to back 
 gunning situations covering all angles and the fiesty banter between the two soldiers. However, 
 these only happen in specific points within the game unlike how EA described earlier last year. 
 Graphically, it isn't as visually mind blowing as I'd hoped. Character models look great and nearly 
 on par with COD4 (there we go... again) however environments and locations grow bland and all too 
 samey and cliched. There is no particular location that stood out for me.
  
  Gun play is good, despite the minor recoil, and action is ramped up to a maximum, and like Turok, 
 a very manly game. Two players see missions get tactical and action-fuelled and animations are 
 great. You may get injured and die a bit too often though.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is a great shooter but is let down by the enormous promise by EA of human-like 
 AI and scripted events which would have been awesome if they were done in real time any time. A 
 great starting point for a franchise with loads of ideas to work upon but if you're going to buy 
 this game, buy it for the co-op rather than a solid single player experience, the co-op is what 
 really makes it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiemoe
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a cooperative cover based shooter that was planned to come out last year, but pushed 
 back to polish it up a bit. At first, it was planned to include a variety of vehicles, voice commands, 
 a seamless integration of single player going into co- op, and... well, cooperative tampon reviving. 
 To explain, your partner gets shot, you would use a tampon to stop the bleeding while he fought 
 to survive. Apparently that really is the best thing to stop the bleeding, and they actually do 
 use that. Everything was cooperative at all times. Unfortunately, all of this was taken away. It 
 seems the team at EA decided to take the safe road and make a Gears of War clone. The only problem 
 with that? Absolutely NO risks were taken, and when that happens, a game will absolutely NEVER 
 be good. There is nothing large to complain about the game, besides it's shallow weapon customization, 
 but everything has been seen before. EA made a massive mistake by taking a good idea and ripping 
 out all of the originality. There has been a lot of complaints about the dialog, and yes, it seems 
 very brutal and barbaric to say the least. The two sound like they are in the room with you playing 
 the game, with no sensitivity towards their enemies. The enemies seemed to be oblivious to this 
 trait, until the final boss when he tells the team he wants to kill them, drain their blood, put 
 them in a chair around a bunch of elves, and tell them all the cool s*** he wants for Christmas. 
 I couldn't make that up, that is real dialog. Campaign is short and online is tight, it even includes 
 some vehicles. No online coop on the same console unfortunately. But who knows how long online 
 will last, I doubt anyone will be on for much longer. The game is decent fun, and I would suggest 
 a rent. You won't be coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game has some really good attributes like the fact that the multiplayer is worked out so perfectly. 
 No flaws in the multiplayer. You will never get into eachother's ways, the protagonists aren't 
 always that friendly with eachother meaning that they sometimes get into eachother's nerves which 
 is a good thing because if they were always friendly, you would have awkward moments with you console 
 partner. Plus they sometimes yell at eachother for screwing up which makes it even more realistic. 
 The bosses in this game aren't the kind that take forever to kill. The thing that makes bosses 
 more powerful are the guards surrounding them and the extra armour. No huge HP filters in this 
 game. This game also features back to back fights which features the two protagonists back to back 
 circiling eachother shouting the surrounding foes. There is one feature where you can pic up a 
 shield from the floor or a door from a scrapped car and use it as a shield. Your partner walks 
 behind you and shoots the foes being protected from the shield all the same. This technique would 
 be flawless if it weren't for back or side attacks. Some high places can be accessed by step jumps 
 and do I have to explain what step jumps are? Hovercrafts are used quite alot and good thing also. 
 One partner drives the craft and the other shoots from its machine gun. The most simple and effective 
 feature though is the aggro system. If you decide to rest in cover for a while, whilst your partner 
 does all the shooting, he will builled aggro in his aggro filter. The most person who has aggro 
 will be the one that the foes will shoot at. The other player will be as if he was invisible. So 
 when you are against some guard with unpenetrable armour in the front and no armour on the back, 
 you will use this technique by taking him from behind by the one with no aggro at all. This game 
 is very realistic, from the graphics to your foes' and players' reactions to the environment and 
 the story making this even more realistic being that it is happening in 2001 after the attck on 
 the twin towers.
  So why do you think that I gave this realistic, simple controlled, skeletal masked game a 7.0? 
 ...............5hrs into it, the game ended and left no unlockable features giving you a reason 
 to beat it for a second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Let me start the review by saying this. I LOVE Army of two. My reason is different to a lot of 
 other peoples. Army of two plays quite like Kane & Lynch in many ways, but improves upon it in 
 almost every way, and that's why I love it so much. Kane & Lynch was great, but this game is amazing.
 
  
  A 6.5 is absolutely unfair to give to this game. War references aside, the game contains stellar 
 graphics, fluid controls, some of the best multiplayer action in a long time, and an addictive 
 (while short) campaign.
  
  What really excels about army of two is the fact that there is no stretch of the truth when people 
 say the AI partner plays like a real person. This makes for a lot of lifesaving moments on the 
 part of the AI, where in other games you would have died many times.
  
  The story may be a tad ridiculous, but how are you going to pick on army of two when games like 
 manhunt 2, and no more heroes get no demerits for a ludacrace story.
  
  People give army of two too much abuse for referencing the war in Iraq. A game was going to come 
 along at some point and do it, Army of two just happened to be that game. 
  
  If you enjoy great multiplayers, excellent shooters, and some near flawless weapon customization, 
 I cannot suggest any game but army of two.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fstephan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  If you have somebody to play a shooter with, this is great game to go pick up. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics look top notch. The Unreal Engine 3 looks better than ever and help bring 
 the game to life. I'm currently playing both this and half life 2 on the ps3 and makes the Valve's 
 Source engine look a bit dated. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  I'm rating this based on the Co-op portion of the game, since this is what I've been playing and 
 this is how the game was designed to be played. It's fun. Especially if you have a friend with 
 you in the room. We're currently playing through the professional (hard) mode and unlike most games, 
 the harder the difficulty, the funner it gets. This game is not a mindless shoot em up. It takes 
 an equal amount of strategy from both you and you're fellow gunner. Snipe, shoot and push forward. 
 Similar to real warfare. It's a cross between gears of war and Call of Duty... And I enjoy every 
 second of it.
  
  SOUND
  I've been playing this with a surround system and the bullets whiz by and explosions rock!
  
 
  OVERALL
  If you want to play a fun co-op shooter on the ps3, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  First of all, before I even bought the game, I was highly doubtful of the negative review given 
 to Army of Two by gamespot. I felt that gamespot was being unfair to the game and that the review 
 was not as objective as it should have been. Just so you know, I wanted to be as neutral in this 
 game review as possible. I'm going to be comparing Army of Two by what I consider the standards 
 for shooters: CoD: MW, Gears of War, R6: Vegas.
  
  What the game did wrong:
  
  The game has a shallow weapons upgrade system. The weapons upgrade system doesn't give any penalties 
 (only the silencer and the under the barrel launcher and shotgun add-ons have penalties) for buying 
 a whole bunch of add-ons and the progression of weapons upgrades is very linear (i. e. after the 
 weapon is upgraded there is little reason to upgrade another weapon) . What the game should have 
 done was adding penalties (weight, aim, or turning) to the gear Salem or Rios carried. R6: Vegas 
 handled it better having the silencer being able to be attached in the field. Ghost Recon had a 
 cool weight penalty system.
  
  Some of the upgrades didn't make a whole lot of sense since if you upgrade the stock of the gun 
 (gun butt) you'd get a huge boost in accuracy but most of the time your character is blind firing 
 (firing his weapon over his head; not rested against his shoulder) but the accuracy bonus still 
 applies. 
  
  I also felt that the blind firing mechanism wasn't penalized enough because it seemed so accurate 
 that conventional aiming (you're exposed while you conventional aim) was marginalized to shooting 
 distant targets. 
  
  Sliding to cover was also very finicky. It seemed that in order to slide to cover you must have 
 a very exact distance between you and the cover (Gears of War and R6: Vegas handled it better, 
 but you get better as you get use to it in Army of Two) . 
  
  Shooting behind cover was even more finicky because even though your targeting reticle is on the 
 enemy you often shoot the concrete block or the cover you're hiding behind, I remedied this by 
 moving a little bit but it is still a hassle in a fire fight (as stated in the gamespot review) . 
 
  
  I wanted a separate melee button because sometimes when you get close to an enemy the game gets 
 confused and fires the gun (sometimes not hitting the enemy) instead of swatting the enemy. 
  
  The melee attack is also not very practical when you're being rushed because the long animation 
 sequence (compared to Gears of War weapons melee; not the slow lancer melee though) exposes you 
 to enemy fire (it forces you to conform to distance fighting) .
  
  The enemies are not as vicious as Call of Duty: MW (they don't throw grenades like crazy) and they 
 don't flank very well. Heavy soldiers that can only be taken down by flanking are not very deadly 
 and I found them easy to kill.
  
  Can't shoot through thin walls (developers need to make this attribute standard in all shooters) .
 
  
  The game is too short, considering I paid $60 for it.
  
  What the game did right:
  
  The co-op mechanics, for the most part were wonderfully executed. I especially enjoyed the 
 innovative "parachute snipe" and the ability to shoot enemies while you are downed. The game also 
 encourages flanking tactics which is a lot of fun when playing with a friend. 
  
  The AI partner has it's shortcomings at times (not rushing when you give the move forward command) 
 but the AI makes you play more defensively (as a team) . I've heard a lot of criticism about the 
 AI but from what I've experienced the AI is fairly responsive to commands and is very capable (there 
 is a mission where I had to carry a wounded man and let the AI do all the fighting, the AI did 
 a pretty good job) . 
  
  The enemies can sometimes surprise you by rushing at you and sometimes they flush you out of cover 
 with a grenade.
  
  The revolutionary aggro system makes the weak enemies very deadly in groups and it adds a new spin 
 on how people play.
  
  I played the game on a HD projector and the screen size was roughly the seven feet by five feet 
 and the graphics held up very well after being magnified so much.
  
  The story is typical of a lot of buddy cop pictures and I like how it plays out. 
  
  The Conclusion:
 
  
  It seems harsh to judge Army of Two by (score 9.6) Gears of War and (score 9.0) Call of Duty Modern 
 Warfare but the reason I didn't give this game a terrible score was due to it's innovation in co-op 
 and aggro. My review gives it a lot more faults than accolades but in the end I justify my score 
 because I thought the game was fun with or without a friend to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazboi
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I rented it the other day and was very disappointed. The graphics are just not good. The cut-scenes 
 look nice but big deal. I feel as though Half-life 1 is better than this game in gameplay and graphics.
 
  
  When you shoot a wall the bullet hole looks terrible. Very unrealistic. And the grenades blow up 
 like those puff balls you find outside and step on. It's not even an explosion. There's a little 
 smoke but that's it. 
  
  The only thing that was kind of decent was customizing the weapons. But that in no way improves 
 the game enough to make me want to play it more. It's really not that customizable. Sure you can 
 add this or that but other games have this feature. This game does not really take customizing 
 to another level.
  
  I'm not even going to point out all the flaws. I'd be here too long. Needless to say I played it 
 for about 4 hours to give it a good chance to improve as the game went on. I rented it for a week 
 and played it for 4 hours. Nothing more to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I went into Army of 2 thinking the worst just by what I read. Now don't get me wrong, it is not 
 the best game I've ever played, but is still tons of fun. Me and my fiance spent several hours 
 working together on the first couple of missions. You don't have to rush around and run through 
 the game as fast as you can. My fiance is not very good at games, but I don't think we have ever 
 laughed as hard as we did trying to coordinate our attacks and such. I think it is a pretty great 
 game. But as with all games I have played, it is much better on the PS3. So if you have both consoles, 
 don't waste your time on the out-of-date XBox. It's graphics are not too bad and the controls are 
 great in my opinion. It's just a great way to have fun with others. The problem this game has with 
 alot of people, is it doesn't play itself. Most people now days cry and complain if it is not as 
 simple as World of Warcraft, where you just press the same button 1 million times and accomplish 
 the same crap as eveyone else pressing that same button. If you want a game that you can enjoy 
 playing with others or even by yourself, then I would suggest trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharris01
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Like the title of my little review says, Gamespot has been going downhill -and fast- lately, and 
 by letting the way this game handles current-day events impact it's score is garbage. This game 
 is great and guess what Gamespot? It's FICTION. What purpose did you see in throwing your own political 
 view into how you rate a game? If that was the case you should go ahead and go back to all of the 
 reviews you've done for the GTA series and nerf every single score.
  
  With that said the game is a lot of fun, especially if you have a friend to play through split-screen 
 with. The weapon upgrades system is a nice change of pace, the action is fast, and everything just 
 seems to work.
  
  Except for retarded overpowered or idiotic AI behavior. The invincible NPCs are at some times easier 
 to kill than some of the foot soldiers later it the game. All it takes is a good shot with the 
 Master Key attachment to the back to off one of them, but some t-shirt and jeans wearing enemies 
 in the latter stages of the game can take upwards of 20 shells to kill. I mean, really? C'mon.
 
  
  I recommend the game for a rental, and if you really, really get into the online aspect of it then 
 go ahead and give the devs your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operon_r
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I can tell, I am not a kind of shooter, but since I saw the teaser, game plays of Ao2, (w/ amazing 
 graphics and an interesting 3rd person co-op system) , I was very exciting to give it a try.
  
  Although, by the time the game was released, the reviewers scores were letting me down and 
 almost made me give up in buy it.
  
  But the game was underrated and it worthies!!!
  It has a great gameplay, good graphics and has a plenty of fun (single or w/ someonelse) .
  
 
  Besides, when you are playing the single mode, the AI partner is clever enough to cover and rescue 
 you when you need. Also the plot is solid enough, not a best seller, but reasonable.
  
  The weapons editting is also fun, to improve and make them more badass and it makes a great replay 
 value to upgrade all of them.
  
  Well, Ao2 is a game that worth and should be add to anyone's list who is looking for great graphics, 
 great sound and great gameplay (w/ or w/out someone else) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After playing threw this game over and over and over again a 6.5 is a rather harsh score in my 
 opinion. This game is challenging at the same time plain fun to play single player is alright and 
 you can get into the story.
  
  But where this game really shines is online the Coop missions online are priceless fun as well 
 as the versus mode it has some of the coolest things you can see in today's gen games. With a solid 
 system and the availability of being able to use a head set this game it top notch when it comes 
 into Coop play.
  
  the replay value is golden you can beat the game with a friend online unlock all the weapons then 
 go threw it all over again with different tactics techniques and weapons with a harder difficulty. 
 It never fails to amuse nor will it disappoint.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are easily noticeable of next gen material where the textures are beautiful 
 and detail is great as the animations are on par. you can easily say that this game has a good 
 amount of eye candy to make you say that is pertty.
  
  Sound: This game in no way will make you feel like your shooting a animated textured weapon, for 
 this is one of the shining points in this game the sounds of action on a HD TV make you feel like 
 your in a warzone and it makes you use your hearing sense for you can hear where the gun fire is 
 coming from and if someone is creeping up on you.
  
  Controls: where the controls are decent they can be frustrating at some points of the game you 
 will get angered by the stupidity of how your player controls. an example would be if you are leaned 
 up against a wall and you see some one rushing you around the corner your first instinct would 
 be melee, some of the times you will see your guy shooting forward as the guy passes right past 
 you and hits you in the back of the head, Instead of knocking the dude into next weak with a rifle 
 butt or a kick to the face. 
  
  Story: the story of this game is rather fair nothing to exhilarating it has an okay start and an 
 okay ending nothing much to say in this category.
  
  Multiplayer: This is this games highest shining point out of any category the online is unbelievable 
 where it has a great new experience to offer you as you can compare it to splinter cell chaos theory. 
 The COOP is breath taking being able to flank and use tactics of your choice without a stupid AI 
 it's an awesome feeling. Where the versus mode will get you addicted if you give it time at first 
 you might see it as dull and pointless but after you get use to it you see it as kick ass and addictive.
 
  
  Overall: and my overall score of this game is a well deserved 8.0/10 it's great its fun simple 
 and brings new things to the table, you will find your self coming back to this game quite often 
 for the replay value is very high and being able to play versus and witness the experience of a 
 4 man melee brawl is something you don't see in a lot of games. If I could rate this an 8.2/10 
 I would but I can't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This gamr has great graphics and realy fun gameplay. I'm not sure what more people want in a thrid-pearson 
 shooter. You have a choice of many weapons and many different attachments you can buy and put on 
 them. The main key of this game is to follow the objectives and make as much money as possible. There 
 are no lags or bugs and has a great storyline. The online MP is pretty addictive. It's not same 
 old objective threw out the hole game. You are given different objectives and you must complete 
 them before the opposite team does. It's 2 v 2 then there are a bunch of terrorists who attack 
 both sides thrown in the middle. Which was a realy great addition. Some objectives might include 
 capturing a warhead and defending it untill a chopper comes and picks it up, assasinating a special 
 terriorist, or distroying a helicopter and many more. You can play co-op online or split screen. 
 I do recommened renting it first though it might not be "That One" for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_angel74
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Army Of Two looked like it was going to be the best co-op game in quite a while. The trailers looked 
 good, the ideas looked good. It was doing great... that is... until it was released. With constantly 
 changing release dates (well, at least they were in NZ) , people were dying for it to finally come 
 out.
  A game based from the ground up on co-op strategy. 
  
  Working together with your partner to complete the objectives. With a vast array of cool and/or 
 original ideas like weapon customization, co-op moves, the chance to play air guitar with your 
 partner or kidney punch them, the Aggro metre, and a two hardened soldiers that talk trash to each 
 other. They had a great idea, but ultimately failed to capitalize on the concept and what could 
 have been, the co-op game everyone was waiting for.
  
  All in all, it is still a reasonably ok game, but i'd suggest renting it before you decide to buy 
 it. Definitely better playing with a friend though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canders3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the first co-op game I played and it worked very well. There were occasional moments when 
 the computer didn't respond the way I wished but he was probably getting shot at and didn't want 
 to move.
  
  The graphics on the game rank right up there with Call of Duty: 4. The storyline was interesting 
 and the "movie" sceens between campaigns were awesome! I gave the game an 8.5. The "expert" review 
 was harsh but this game is well worth playing. 
  
  The only complaint I had was getting the online part to find a match. Maybe that is because everyone 
 is still playing COD4 but it was annoying. After I tried a few times with no success I took it 
 out and put in COD4 to get a game.
  
  You visit many different locations from Iraq to China to Miami so the terrain is always changing.
 
  
  You can go through the game with a 2nd player as well on split screen or online, awesome feature! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sackley85
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a good rental, but not worth the buy. SHORT game, and too easy. I beat it in 2 days 
 (2 sittings) with my girlfriend. Play on the medium difficulty right away... If I had known that 
 I would have probably enjoyed it more... now it just seems pointless to play the same thing over 
 again except with enemies that have extra health.
  
  Multiplayer is OK, not spectacular...
  
  The controls are comfortable, and the camera angles 
 are usually fine.
  
  Probably my favorite part is the weapon customization though, pretty cool stuff. Being able to 
 budget your income and feel like you have "your" weapon is fun, even customizing the HK (the starting 
 weapon) makes a noticable improvement.
  
  The Aggro meter is fun for strategy, but would probably be hard to take advantage of over the internet... 
 it was easy in person to plan attacks.
  
  As far as gameplay there is a lot of trial and error -- unlimited lives and constant checkpoints 
 save the headache of redoing massive chunks of the game.
  
  The story lacks a lot, and by a lot I mean basically everything. There is a basic plot twist, no 
 character development, a crazy bad-guy and lots of grunts shooting at you...
  
  Overall worth a try, but just rent it and beat it with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  I have to tell you. I am simply. A Single Player gamer. I just brought this game from looking at 
 the cover. I had no idea it was a co op game. After a good hour of gameplay. I was blown away. 
 Graphically its best I have seen. The sound is high quality. Its a very indepth, single player 
 experience. The Artificial intelligence of the partner is very good. Each and every time without 
 fail. He covers me, or uses cover fire, or takes enemies out, when I take to much damage. He drags 
 me to cover to heal me. Always drags me to cover. The pimping weapons is great, as its huge replay 
 value upgradeing all the guns. The interaction between you and your partner is very emmersive. 
 From back to back shooting, from snipeing at same time, changing weapons. 
  
  Forget other reviews. This is my review from just a single player experience. And I wont mention 
 names of games. But most other games with just multiplayer, or co op. Are shallow experiences, 
 with just weak bots. But this game. To me. Is better than such games as gears of war, splinter 
 cell, rainbow six. This is total orignal game. Most games with AI. I dont care if they get shot, 
 as they just get stuck in doors and such. This partner. You really work together. You dont be lazy. 
 And just let him take all of the guys out. As he will die. So you realy help out. But also. You 
 dont just do all shooting yourself. OR you die. So you work together. Sometimes I go aggro, and 
 be offensive, and my partner, defensive, or we change and do opposite of that. 
  
  I brought a PS3. And its my favorite next gen system. But i am tired of getting games that where 
 out afew months ago on other systems and finally out now on PS3. I also wanted a game to show amazing 
 graphics. This has. This is a must buy game. Best game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmgerlach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First I will state that I am not a shooter game person, that said, I really enjoyed this games 
 after I was talked into playing it with the Hubby. The controls are awesome and the camera was 
 simple to figure out. I loved the marks that showed you had your target in sight I found them as 
 a beginner very helpful. By the end of the game I was better at head shots then the Hubby!! 
  
  The story line does go quickly, and there are some things that could have been left out of 
 the story and it still be a good game. The graphics are great, it has really brought out the high 
 quality that we were looking for when we bought a PS3. The only disappointment was the rocket launchers, 
 I mean when you shoot some in the head with a rocket you expect them to die, it took two!! 
  
  
  It was a truely enjoyable two player game for the new PS3 system. I hope there are many 
 more like it in the future. I would highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys action and 
 shooters and for those looking for something just a little different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  AOT is a very unique game in some aspects, while it is very cliche in others. For someone who wants 
 a one line "what's this game about?" answer: I'd say it's a watered down Gears of War type game.
 
  
  The co-op is where the meat and potatoes are at. My friend and I have beat this game three times 
 (twice on the hardest difficulty setting) , and sadly it has only taken us about 8 hours. The main 
 problem with the game is that it IS very short and it doesn't do anything groundbreaking by any 
 means.
  
  I'd have tor rate absolutely everything in this game as "ok". The things that stand above the rest 
 are the graphics, controls and fun factor. They all surpass the "ok" stage, but they don't exactly 
 lift the overall game past it.
  
  This game is a run-n-gun, square jawed manly men game that produces some intense, fun firefights 
 to play through that I was really glad for renting. Probably the best rental you can get out there 
 right now for any system -- hard enough to keep you satisfied for a week, but then it's done and 
 you are too.
  
  I'm giving it an 8/10 with emphasis on the co-op gameplay. Co-op fun factor is a 9.5/10... it's 
 very addicting.
  
  Not a highly detailed review, but, I don't think this game needs one.
  
  Un7!1 N3x7 7! m3, v366!3 0u7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't see how this game gets above a mediocre ratings.
  Graphics could be better, some textures look bland.
  Money is somewhat more worthless after you 
 beat the game.
  Gears of war is way better than this game.
  AI pretty much knows where you're at at all times, they instantly turn to your direction and automatically 
 hit you, I'm not talking about when you have aggro either. You can't sneak around w/o detection.
 
  Sometimes your character gets in the way when you're trying to aim, yes your own character, or 
 if you're being dragged away, the other character gets in the way and you can't see anything.
 
  And your sniper gets in the way when you aim w/ a pistol.
  AI only needs a split second to aim at you before they shoot you, and to shoot around an obstacle, 
 it takes a second before you can, but if you hold R2 you can hold the gun out from the cover and 
 not have to wait that second.
  You don't always shoot where your crosshair says you're shooting at, like if you're tryin to shoot 
 someone while you're behind an obstacle and they are lower than you, good luck w/ that, you'll 
 probably end up hitting the wall while he turns you into a pin cushion w/ his godly aim. Also I 
 hate the part where you can't switch the camera from left to right while you are aiming or anytime 
 at all. You'll be getting hit by enemies you don't even see.
  Controls are kinda tacky feeling but you'll get used to it, but by then you already beaten the 
 game. 5 or 6 missions total. I hope they make downloadable contents.. but it's EA..
  Pretty much alot of things that concerns aiming is badly designed in this game, along w/ the AI 
 of wall hacking enemies.
  I also don't like where the camera is at on your character.
  
  Good things are you can customize unreal weapons, I say unreal because of the stats on some compared 
 to others.
  Graphics are good for the most part.
  Play w/ your friend or some dumb AI partner.
  Game could've been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  I'm a single player guy. I enjoy 90% of my gaming time In nice and quiet environment and I'd pop 
 up online time to time If I really enjoy the game.
  
  There are few exceptions, like Call of Duty 4 but In general I enjoy to play alone. That doesn't 
 mean that I'm anti-social in any shape or form, but when it comes to my hobby I love to have some 
 privacy. ^_^
  
  Army of Two was on my looked out since my good friend has been beeping my ears for weeks before 
 it was released, however my one look at EA tag next to the game made me grin a bit. Nevertheless 
 I don't judge games by the company, (though reputation speaks for itself be it good or bad) .
  
  I don't need to be told that Polyphony Digital is a buy without question game, because I know 
 they delivered top gaming in last years. (Grand Turismo) .
  
  Anyhow, since non of us wanted to buy Army of Two we decided to rent it, 7$ for 5 days rental sounded 
 like a great deal. I was going for one specific idea only in mind, I wanted to experience co-op 
 play. And that was what i received. I can say that after spending four hours or so both myself 
 and my friend had a great time battling bad boys in co-op split screen campaign. Such tactics as 
 aggro management were extremely crucial because the game is solely build for two man team play.
 
  
  This goes for everything, from team tactics, team strategy, team coordination - everything is build 
 for two man workload. Boosting each other up, dragging the fallen teammate, driving the vehicles 
 and parachuting is also interesting. I had a pleasure to use sixaxis to flies us around while my 
 partner was shooting down below.
  
  The back to back is very useful, it happens on specific fixed locations and helps a ton. Time slows 
 down and you get unlimited bullets for the durations.
  
  Our most favorite aspect of the game aside from innovative and good teamwork gameplay were purchase 
 and upgrades of our guns!
  
  I can say that it was the most fun to deal with, you can have Primary Weapon, Secondary Weapon, 
 Special (sniper) and grenades.
  
  Each of the three can be upgradeable with good options to make the default guns much better. Especially 
 since it's recommended to do so, the stock weapon doesn't do enough damage unless it's a head-shot, 
 however that very hard to pull when your weapon has incredibly bad accuracy and to much recoil.
 
  
  Upgrading those guns of choice certainly helps.
  
  For example, my primary weapon - high capacity power and ammo, but low accuracy machine gun is 
 complemented by my secondary weapon which also is my favorite weapon in Call of Duty 4 - P90.
 
  
  After I modified it all the way, my ammo capacity doubles, accuracy went to the top level while 
 damage remained in middle point to balance the weapon. Snipers are also useful, you can also enter 
 a co-op sniping mod with your partner.
  
  The game does a great job of keeping you alert all the time. We played on medium difficulty and 
 I can confirm that the A. I. does pack serious damage in matter of seconds, if you even try to stay 
 in line of fire for more then few seconds - you're toasted. The ability to fake death and your 
 teammate "magical" injection serum to put you back into action is more then welcome.
  
  This holds true to very tough boss fight, who apparently are never alone and always have few bad 
 guys with them.
  
  Our last mission before we called it a night was a bad dude with huge machine gun! It took as literally 
 twenty minutes to take him out. Frontal attacks won't work what soever, nor does sniping or grenades.
 
  
  The trick was, again, to use extreme teamwork - to be more particular, proper use of aggro system. 
 By the time we were able to corner him - we were very low on ammo, at which point my partner decided 
 to run up while I was pinned down with array of bullets, but instead of doing any good, the boss 
 simply whooped the flow with my friend instead.
  
  That was the only opportunity left as he turned sideways, giving me few seconds time to unload 
 a full clip of P90 into his back forehead since my partner had aggro on him. He eventually went 
 down, leaving us in state of happiness completely beat up and with no ammo.
  
  If Army of Two does one thing right, that would be - satisfaction of team-play. It feels remarkable 
 to scream out: "Hell yeah!".
  
  The teamwork aspect was seen outside of the game as well. I was constantly yelling out:"Cover me" 
 "I'm flanking, get the aggro", "Left side, behind the cover" "Watch out grenade!", while my partner 
 would scream: "Get behind me" (when he gets the shield) , "Boost me up" along others lines.
  
  It made us communicate with every line of fire we were on. For each mission you complete, you 
 earn money. There are sometimes additional side missions to complete which grant more cash, and 
 you will need lots of it for you much needed upgrades. There are also money cases on some stages 
 that you can collect if you have observant eye.
  
  There are problems with the game, from pure quality of the game - it could had been much better. 
 Cover system simply doesn't work well, anything other then ducking will get you killed. If you 
 try to do it sideways even though your cross-air shows on top of your enemies head, you will hit 
 the cover wall instead, if you move to much you will get sprayed with bullets. While the enemy 
 does a lot of damage regardless if he has a pistol from 300 yards range, their A. I. is quite mediocre. 
 If you're a patient type you can pick them up one by one, they will also occasionally just run 
 right besides you and won't even shoot.
  
  There are a few glitches here and there as well. Graphically, the game looks very good. Especially 
 the armour models of Tyson Rios and Elliot Salem.
  
  The jokes they exchange are a good way to break the ice so to speak. This game has lots of swearing, 
 actually it has A LOT of it. It seems every few words are complemented with F word as trying to 
 keep up the "Macho" feel all the time. Not as much from Tyson and Elliot as it is from other character 
 that you come across. The game does give out a feel that you're badass duet, no questions. While 
 we figured out that the actual story is about some issues with private companies, we haven't really 
 cared much since the game is all about action. 
  
  The CG movies between the missions are not bad when it comes to models, but the movements are not 
 fluid as many standard games today are. Not a big deal really, if you don't care for it.
  
  The PS3 version runs smooth without any issues or FPS drop. 
  
  In the end i can say few things.
 
  
  Army of Two is not a bad game. It has its moments of glory. It's a co-op game, it's not meant for 
 single player. You can certainly try to play in single player, but trust me - the team A. I. is 
 not so good and it won't even come close to your real life buddy. This is obvious as no-one can 
 replace your friend. Communication is a key, both in game where you need to play together, the 
 moment you try to "Rambo" your way, you will be shoot down and without your teammate you will die, 
 eventually ending the mission. The game won't let you do it alone anyway since the enemies and 
 the maps are positioned for team play. 
  
  When you play with a friend, you must talk to each other. Strategy is vital as it aggro management. 
 That's one part that Army of Two does well. And it's very enjoyable.
  
  Personally, this game It's not polished enough to verify the 60$ tag, at least not for me. Your 
 opinion will vary. EA did a good job to get the feel of teamwork, but the unpolished game does 
 have its mark. I applaud the developers to take such risks and build a game entirely for co-op 
 action. A step in right direction.
  
  If you have a friend, give Army of Two a try. You will have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HanSolo10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun for the first couple of days but only if playing with 2 players. I liked 
 that you can play online with a friend locally via split screen or play in ranked matches with 
 a friend who is playing on their own console. (ranked matches DO NOT allow local split screen matches 
 though) However the game does lack in online upgrades. You are allowed to upgrade your weapons 
 and shop during a match but when the match is over, you begin the next match with default standard 
 guns and you are unable to customize the look of your character also. There are no promotions or 
 unlockable classes iether. You are able to customize your masks and guns during the campaign modes 
 so naturally you would hope to do the same with the online modes. The graphics look good, not the 
 greatest but pretty good. The worst thing about this game is the lousy aiming and controls of the 
 game. The responsiveness and aim is absolutely horrible! Especially if your used to playing "Call 
 of Duty 4". Wether your playing the campaign or online, it is very hard to even hit a still target 
 because the guns move way too much and even if you try to make small corrections with the joystick 
 it can be frustrating because it overcompensates. I have had situations where I am aiming a shotgun 
 at an apponent at point blank range, and yet somehow they don't get hit, and if they do they actually 
 don't go down. Needless to say the weapons and game play need a lot of work. This game is disapointing 
 because it could have been so much better with a few minor additions. It just doesn't have the 
 replay value that you find in some other great shooters like COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zivide89
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on its release day. I got it home and played it, thought that the concept was 
 pretty cool, but the AI wasn't very smart and I soon saw that it was easier just to either kill 
 everyone myself (in most cases just running up to smashing there heads in) . Then is was to get 
 aggro and TRY and let the AI kill a few enemies. That in most cases just lead to him dead on the 
 ground forcing me more pain and trouble then I should have had.
  
  After I got a friend to help me out, I saw that if we worked together and got into a flanking covered 
 position. We where able to get through most combat without getting hurt too bad, but there where 
 a few areas where that wasn't the easiest route. Again in some of the tighter smaller areas we 
 saw that if we ran up and just bashed there heads in the combat went my faster then trying to stay 
 back and shoot at them. The "Shield" option in some areas was just too darn easy, granted the thing 
 broke sooner or later, but again all you had to do is grab the thing and run up to the enemies 
 while your partner shot anything that moved, in a few cases I was able to shield bash more people 
 then he was able to shoot.
  
  The campaign mode was short and the highest priced weapons (the rail gun and the grenade launchers) 
 were either too inaccurate or didn't have enough ammo. The sniper rifles/rocket launchers were 
 not used enough to need to upgrade them and the fact that you could just redo the first three missions 
 in about 1h30m and get over $50.000 made money way too easy to get. Not just that, but when you 
 beat the game the first time you get all of the main weapons for free! What the hell is the point 
 of endless money if you don't actually need it?
  
  Other then a few let backs and a couple of freezing issues on the PS3, I thought this game was 
 worth the buy, just because it's a good game to play when you just want to shoot the hell out of 
 some people with a partner. I give it a 7.0 because it's not the best shoot 'em up game or the 
 best co-op game, but it's fairly easy and slow paced. Plus it should give you something else to 
 do while you wait for another decent game to come out. Or just give you a small break from COD 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nail2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two... I can honestly say that I have been waiting for this game to be released for some 
 time now and I would have to say that I disagree with the Gamespot Review of the game in some ways, 
 but we all have our opinions, so don't think that I am picking on them in a negative way. They 
 seem to take offence to the fact tha the game is based upon "Private Contractors" that somewhat 
 belittle the army. Honestly guys, its just a game... the fact that it is set in current times seems 
 to have struck a nerve in this really contraversial area of the war we are in. Yeah the game is 
 based upon Mercenaries, but they aren't the first ones to go into this catagory of "create your 
 own justice" type of game. I wanted to post an honest review of how i felt about the game personally. 
 So take this as my opinion, not undesputed truth lol.
  
  This game is rated Mature and in additon to all the killing and stuff, it has pretty strong language, 
 so its probably not for kids, just FYI
  
  THIS GAME IS REALLY HARD ON THE HARDEST DIFFICULTY LEVEL!
  
  Visuals: The games visuals are 
 fantastic, especially at the cut scenes which look really good. On my HD TV they look awesome. 
 The character models for Salem and Rios are both very well done, and the armor that you earn upgrades 
 on throughout the game look really sick XD. The masks are very cool as well, and you can buy multiple 
 ones in the game if you choose to. The areas that you fight in are well done also. Nothing incredible 
 sticks out as far as the areas you fight in, but they aren't bland by any means. All of the cover 
 you fight behind and buildings you fight in look like you would expect from a PS3 game. The weapons 
 look good in game and the way that the characters carry them looks realistic (no pulling out invisible 
 guns from out of nowhere) Because they didn't put the game into 1080p for the PS3 (only 720p which 
 disapointed me) I was kinda sad, but it still looks great so I give it an 8.5/10
  
  Weapons: The weapons of this game deserve a little blerb all their own. The real fun of army of 
 two aside from the great co-op play is the weapon customizations. You can take "stock" weapons 
 and customize them into better ones. For example the M249 Saw, you can add multiple new barrels 
 for increased damage, larger box fed clips for higher ammunition compacity, then even re-do the 
 stock of the weapon, and add a front grip, both increasing accuracy. Lastly you can "pimp" out 
 your weapon for 10 grand. Giving in a pre-created golden/decorated exterior. (Some weapons look 
 better than others) This really adds alot to the game, because it will have you playing the game 
 for cash alot, then owning enemies with all your new sweeet toys. (M139 mini gun rings a bell) 
 I love the weapons in this game. You have standard ak-47's, sniper rifles, to mini guns, RPG's 
 and anti-aircraft guns. The sidearms are many pistols, and machine guns like P-90's and desert 
 eagles and kool stuff like that. Just the fact that you can do all this stuff to ur guns, and that 
 it actually affects the way the guns shoot and feel is great! I give them a 9/10 
  
  Plotline: Ok this is a shooter, therefore I figured ahaid of time that it wouldn't have an extremely 
 original or great plot. I have to say the plot isn't boring, but it isn't anything special. You 
 play as characters "Salem and Rios" who are originally two army rangers who turn into private contractors 
 (mercs) in order to make more money basicly. And like any big organization based upon secrets and 
 violence you get backstabbed (Big surprise lol) Honestly I don't buy shooters for the plotline, 
 I buy them for gameplay. There are some small twists in the storyline that make it interesting, 
 but don't go into it expecting something great. This adds up to basically an average plot, so i 
 would give it a 7.5/10
  
  GamePlay 1/4: In the area of co-op gameplay is where this game really shines. my cousin and Iplayed 
 the game for hours working together to complete missions gainign cash for upgrades and just basicly 
 tag teaming enemies and wreaking chaos. The game is based upon a system called "Aggro" where the 
 jist of it is this: The player who has the largest amount of attention drawn to himself gains the 
 Aggro (or enemy attention) . If one player is blasting away at enemies with a mini gun, its safe 
 to say the enemies will all gang up on that player and try to take him out, leaving his partner 
 somewhat able to move around the battle field to flank and kill without being seen. This is really 
 fun because you can work as a team and decimate enemies. Beware though, this game is no "run and 
 gun" type of game, you might be able to get away with sticking your neck out on recruit difficulty 
 to some extent, but on Professional you will be gunned down quickly if you decide to try to charge 
 enemies down while they are firing on you. 
  
  Gameplay 2/4: The game has a somewhat "Gears of War" feel as far as the cover system that it uses 
 and the big horse of a character named Rios. One big difference is that you aren't glued to your 
 cover. (which i really like) Most of the game is spent taking cover, blind firing over your cover 
 and team based tactical advances. If you are looking for something like Unreal Tournament III where 
 you run constantly and hardly ever hide or take cover Army of Two is not that kind of game. Another 
 thing that is note-worthy is that in Army of Two players can heal each other when one is dying. 
 Your character can odviously only absorb so much damage before succumbing to injuries and falls 
 to the ground mortaly wounded. He will cry for help from the other team mate, and will die or be 
 killed by enemies in a rather short span of time unless he is saved by his teammate.. As the un-injured 
 player you must get to him, drag him to the safety of cover, and heal him before he dies. What 
 is nice, is that both characters can fire while one is being dragged, even the injured player. 
 So you can really lay down cover fire while your teammate is saving your can. 
  
  Gameplay 3/4: Some other cool features like Co-op Snipe are really fun also, where you both count 
 down and snipe two unsuspecting enemies at once. You can even rip off car doors and have one player 
 use them as a shield, while the other holds on from behind and takes out enemies as you move. The 
 step jumps are fun also, where you give your friend a boost and he pulls you up afterward. Overall 
 this game is great for this kind of small yet team-bonding stuff. If you enjoy team based games 
 and working together online/in person you will probably love Army of Two's co-op laiden campaign 
 and online games. If you consider yourself more of an "I work alone" type of gamer. Then having 
 a partner may seem to drag you down, since you are both fairly dependent upon eachother for help 
 in fights, and required to work together at may points during the game in order to procede to the 
 next level.
  
  Gameplay 4/4: One thing that i disagreed with on gamespot's review was the part where they basicly 
 said that it wasn't cool that you can't run and gun down enemies at the same time with much accuracy. 
 My reaction is this: How well do you think YOU could charge a bunch of terrorists who are all entrenched 
 in cover and blasting away at you in real life? Sure you have body armor and armored masks, but 
 they don't make you invincible. This is a little more realistic in the fact that ONE person (the 
 player) can't rush 10 guys and shoot/melee them all to death in 5 seconds flat. The accuracy in 
 the game feels really realistic to me, in that you can't shoot the wings off a fly at 100 yards 
 with a pistol, you really have to advance and get closer, unless you are using a sniper rifle. 
 And even with the sniper rifle, the enemies tend to shoot the snot out of you before you can line 
 up a good shot, not that its impossible :D I really love the feel to this games shooting and covering 
 as well as overall working with co-op tactics, so i give it a 9/10.
  
  Sound: Where the game gets a little dull is with some of the conversations between Rios and Salem 
 thorughout the games campaign. Sure they aren't terrible, but they aren't great by any means. Most 
 the time they just holler or swear at each other for doing something stupid, getting ambushed, 
 or just proclaim something that is odvious already. One character gets wise to the plot early on, 
 and gets badgered throughout the whole game by the other one who doesn't belive him. The weapons 
 all sound good, and the dialog between the games characters is believable. But it isn't anything 
 great. so 7/10.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I would recommend this game to anyone who is a big fan of shooters. If you like 
 gears of war, you will probably like this as well. (The Game is in 3rd Person) And if you are looking 
 for a break from COD4 (AWESOME GAME) like i was this is a really realistic combat type of game 
 that really pulls away from the 1 man army type of thing that is really common out there. Sure 
 the characters are kinda pumped up and probably a little unrealstic, but on the hardest difficulty 
 beieve me you feel very mortal and not as much like some sort of superhero who can't be killed. 
 9/10
  
  Ok so this review got kind of long, but hey if you are gona spend $60 bucks on a game, make sure 
 its one that you are gona like. So thats my imput on army of two. If you still aren't sure how 
 you feel, rent the game first and try it out. There is no shame in it!
  
  Please feel free to message me or leave comments.
  
  Thanks for reading and Happy Gaming-Nail2
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_styles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  although there are some issues and glitches in the game, i find this to be probably the best game 
 on the PS3 right now. It's highly addictive and i get to shoot terrorists and chinese people. oh 
 and Americans.
  
  the campaign is short in missions however it took me and my brother over two days of none stop 
 gaming to complete three missions alone!! it is however lacking when it comes to playing on your 
 own, but more than makes up for it with the best co-op in any game and far out-does any of the 
 conflict games as well.
  
  the plot might be seen as weak, but at times you can feel real passion against charcters such as 
 Phillip Clyde (numero uno gimp) (biggest tool since that guy in tomb raider two) . i have been told 
 that it makes light of an important issue (by gamespot  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feshmon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I wasn't going to buy this game, but I am glad i changed my mind. It's no 
 CoD4 and it feels a little short but the co-op gameplay makes it worthwhile. On top of that there 
 are a few nice factors that the review seems to ignore. First of all - and perhaps least expected 
 - there's the quality of the cutscenes between missions. Simply put the graphics are brilliant. 
 Second theres the story. OK so its not going to be novellised any time soon, but for a not-so-sophistocated 
 shooter there are some interesting characters here at the least and an interesting look at the 
 (partial) privitisation of the military. The GS review complains that the Aggro system is unrealistic, 
 and that the aiming is difficult. I think however that theres nothing unrealistic about the effectiveness 
 of suppresive fire or flanking and that while the aim might not be as easy as some other shooters, 
 the advantage of teamwork nullifies this completely, leaving the game feeling balanced. The main 
 thing Army of Two has going for it though is the fun factor, as well as the guilty little action 
 movie machismo moments riddled throughout, and the neccessity of good teamwork. The single player 
 mode is not spectacular and the game is not particularly long but the weapons upgrade system will 
 keep you and a friend coming back for more. Redoing a mission to get that extra cash bonus doesn't 
 feel like a chore when you can rice out your Stinger into a gold-plated Ancient-Chinese-looking 
 hand cannon or fit that shield to the front of your assault rifle. The gameplay is addictive, the 
 arsenal excellent. If you're looking for a game to play with a friend on the PS3 this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk1180
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well I bought the game and started playing it thinking that it would be cool since every gamestop 
 around here was sold out so I buy it from blockbuster. Well it has no single player worth playing 
 it is a great coop game which is fun but I thought the coop would be fun online and it is somewhat 
 if you can find someone to play with and has a mic also so you can hear them and tell them what 
 to do but that doesnt happen at all. The graphics are great the controls are okay but the fun is 
 not there. I would only recommend this game for those with someone to play with in the home! I 
 would rather reommend Devil May Cry 4 or COD4 or Unreal Tournment 3. Dont waste 60+ bucks on a 
 game with not reply value or online for single player wait till next week and get Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2. Or if you got any game that you can play in the mean time play that but not this and if you 
 havent opened it yet and can take it back do it now before it is to late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllyBoy07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Awesome Multiplayer Action and has cool graphics and gameplay features. A must buy for any Ps3 
 gamers. With its great multiplayer qualities i think its one of its first and i bet there will 
 be many more to come. Like Gears of war, gameplay wise and i think its worth having a shot of. 
 Multiplayer online features are cool aswell. The gun customation thing was cool too, and the idea 
 of aggro and making the game a bit hard rather than the stupid A. i you used to get ages ago. Overall 
 a tactical game like gears of war crossed with a little rainbow six. It does have a vastly detailed 
 maping scheme as in the ground looks cool. But we seem to have went back to when a god damn bullet 
 cant go through a piece of paper or wall unlike Call Of Duty4 uhm uhm uhm. Its addictive too and 
 its cool like when your near death your partner comes and helps you to safety and heals you. Also 
 with use of the six axis controler too (unlike you Xbox fans Hiss!!) it really uses what the Ps3 
 has to offer. Check it out sometime until Grand Theft Auto 4 Comes out, becuse we all know every 
 other game will gather dust until thats completed lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This a very dissapointing and dumb game. I pre-ordered it expecting it to be decent, BIG MISTAKE! 
 Don't ever buy it, unless it becomes 1 cent! This game should never have been released , it would've 
 saved me 60 bucks. STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME! The only decent thing is the graphics, but that won't 
 matter when you play it. It is also WAY to shory, it is only six missions long! It feals ok at 
 first, but then you realize how bad it is. It is so not worth any consideration of buying it. It 
 is bad in almost every way. The only other decent thing is the online, but the online dosn't make 
 up for the lack of fun. Overall, this is a horrific game that will cloud my thoughts of shooters 
 from EA for the rest of my life. Bottom line, get something else with the money like The Orange 
 Box, or Call of Duty 4. Or you could pre-order Metal Gear solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure who is reviewing these games but I rarely agree with what the critics have to say.
 
  
  I sat down and played this game with my buddy and we had a blast. Let me tell you a couple reasons 
 why.
  
  1) I had a buddy for coop
  2) You want to do all you can to get as much money as you can to get better guns
  3) You can 
 pimp out your weapons I'm talking gold and diamond inlays the whole bit! I had a pimped sniper 
 rifle pimped secondary weapon and pimped primary weapon. (Whenever I fired any kind of shot at 
 the enemy with my pimped weapons I immeadietly got full aggro, lol....)
  4) Controls are easy and responsive
  5) No lag in gameplay framerate seemed smooth
  6) I actually 
 was disappointed it was over at the end and thats rare
  
  Definition "aggro" - aggro is when you shoot at the enemy with a gun bigger louder or more flashy 
 gun than your partner. This mean all the aggression from the enemy will be put on your shoulders 
 so all the enemies will fire at you. This in turn means your coop AI or buddy can monouver throughout 
 the map and take out the enemy from behind. You can also stop firing and turn the aggro toward 
 your partner by having him shoot at the enemy. This is one of the neat things I found interesting 
 about this game. Along with the pimping the guns I had fun with that.
  
  All in all I loved this game I would give it another run through but R6V2 is coming out on 03/18/08 
 so I'll just return it to gamefly. I loved this game though there were no disappointments for me 
 in this game except for the short campaign mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  These days any game from EA you can almost expect to be a flop, or be lacking in some areas. So 
 Army of Two was expected to be dissapointing. But for what it is, a Coop game, it is very fun. 
 I say rent it first, because if you and a friend sit down and play the game you could finish it 
 in one long sitting. And you can get everything you need to get out of the game in a rental in 
 a few days. So if after that you enjoy it so much that you want to buy it then I would suggest 
 it. 
  
  However It lacks a lot of you play alone and rely on AI to be your teammate. But this game is designed 
 to play with a coop partner, and when you do it is loads of fun. The visuals are beautiful. The 
 gameplay is really good, the aggro system works nicely. I like the fact that you can buy and customize 
 weapons.
  
  Take my advice and rent the game to play with a friend and you will have a great experience. However 
 it is not much more than a rental in my opinion. So if you take it for what it is, it's a great 
 game. However I would not suggest buying it unless you are obsolutely in love with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, this game was made to be played by two players. This was exactly the purpose I bought 
 it for. I have a lot of friends, and most of my games are one player. As you can imagine, it's 
 almost no fun playing Drake's Fortune with your friend there. I, personally, hate taking turns.
 
  
  So in comes Army of Two "Built as a coop game from the ground up" and I can honestly say, it does 
 exactly what it promised too. My friends and I can run around together, plot strategy, throw things 
 at each other (in real life) , give each other 5 (on the game) and smack each other in the head 
 (in both) .
  
  Gameplay - As I said above, the coop engine rocks, but after playing this game with a live person 
 you'll find that you just can't pick it up and play by yourself. The Friendly AI isn't really all 
 that good, and honestly, the game can grow dull when you aren't cussing out your buddy for missing 
 the shot on the turret guy, or praising him for an awesome grenade throw.
  
  Graphics - I'd say about par for the course. The character models are ok, the backgrounds are ok, 
 everything is ok. Not really great compared to some that I've seen, but not really horrible either. 
 Cutscenes looked fairly good.
  
  Sound - Maybe I'm hard on music in video games (or maybe tone deaf) and I know I give out a lot 
 of low scores on sound, but again it was nothing to be remembered. Decent voice overs though, I 
 enjoyed the commentary between Rios and Salem (sometimes) but the enemies had about 5 sentences 
 that were repeated the whole game, and the music was, again, forgetable.
  
  Story - I suppose people consider this controversial (smirk at gamespot) but why? It's plainly 
 fictitious, and though there are a few anti-army remarks.... ok, maybe a couple more than a few...... it 
 wasn't that bad. They portrayed the military members in the game as tough, ingenuitive, loyal comrades 
 (the ship captain, their old army colonel, etc) they just made fun of the political part and lets 
 be serious.... that is pretty laughable.
  
  Things I really didn't like about this game and therefore lowered the score -
  Way too short 
 - Really need a lot more missions, hopefully fixable with downloadable content.
  Too linear - All the cool stuff you do cooperatively in the game (back to back, help each other 
 up, hide behind shields) is all way too scripted, and there are pretty much zero interactivity 
 with the environment (I couldn't even get rid of that annoying star screen saver on most computer 
 screens, regardless of the number of rounds of ammunition or grenades I threw at it.)
  Cruddy friendly AI - He wasn't the base moron you usually see in third person shooters.... but he 
 wasn't much better.
  
  Things I liked
  Aggro - The system worked well, and was a definite plus in coop.
  Customizable weapons - MP5, 
 fully pimped; nough said.
  The whole coop thing - finally a game where it pays to work with a buddy
  
  Play this game 
 with a friend, or rent it if you're curious, or, in the unfortunate event you have no friends..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyunjoon123
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Having friends over to play this game is one of the best experiences out there for gamers, and 
 the online multi player is unique with its style of play. The customization of the weapons are 
 great. The sad part about it is, some of the features in the game are sadly either pointless, useless, 
 or just uncalled for. Also I expected this game to blow up and impress me a lot more. I wanted 
 a game that I could go back and play continuously for hours and hours of enjoyment like COD4 but 
 sadly it just disappointed me especially since it was a generally short game. It is a decent game 
 but still not as good as people hoped it would be. Only one word could describe this game perfectly, 
 and it is disappointing, still one of the better shooters that EA has made, but also not the best 
 of the best in comparison with other shooters that are coming out and are available now. COD4 is 
 still better then Army of Two and has been around longer. The games only big plus is the CO-OP 
 making the game fun if you have a buddy that can come over weekly to play but playing by yourself 
 with the AI can make you lose interest in the game or just get you plain frustrated. Its a game 
 worth renting but might not be worth buying, its fun to rent it just to play with a friend for 
 a couple of hours and thats that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-bldes
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  As I expected, this game turned out to be sub par. I have noticed that recently, especially EA, 
 has gotten lazy and are turning out poor quality games. There was a great build up to this game, 
 but when I actually got my hands on it, I regretted paying for it. This game did not deliver and 
 barely makes an impact. On that note, I believe that EA should listen and do make improvements 
 and redefine the genre instead of turning out recycled games based on their used up engines and 
 backing it with poor, bland and simple game play. 
  
  First off was my main draw to the games, customization. I was under the impression that there would 
 be a wide array of customizable weapons and to have a truly unique game play online as well as 
 in the campaign mode. This is true for the campaign mode to an extent. It's not exactly "customization", 
 it's more of unlocking the weapon upgrade in order until you fully "pimp" ( Gold plate and jewel 
 studded weapons that look shinny and increase AGGRO) . Being that it is a third person shooter, 
 it limits itself naturally on mechanics like scopes, but things like grips, mounts, and barrels, 
 etc, fall short. With your primary weapon, you get your 4 basic classes. 1) Assault Rifle, with 
 customizable front mount Either grip, shotgun mount, or 40MM grenade launcher, 2) Shotgun, with 
 front grip, 3) Heavy weapons which includes a turret and a granade launcher, And finally light 
 machine guns. Now all weapons have the "Pimped", assault riffles and light machine guns have "shields" 
 which increase your AGGRO (still don't understand that) and pretty much it's the same for all weapons, 
 increase the cartridge, and/or stock depending on the gun. Some weapons aren't even customizable 
 because these are what I consider "AGGRO" weapons due to their higher than normal stats, only allowing 
 you to "Pimp" them. Secondary weapons fallow the same unlockables. The "Special weapons" class 
 is sniper rifles and rocket launchers. The last sniper rifle isn't customizable other than "Pimping" 
 it, and neither are the 2 rocker launchers. For the most part, I though that you could truely make 
 the weapons unique. But that doesn't really matter since it only applies to single player and co-op 
 campaigns. My big draw was thinking that you could use customizable weapons online in versus mode, 
 but you just buy premade weapon packs. Anot no real customization for your character, other than 
 choosing a mask in campaign and choosing a skin online. For the most part, I give the customization 
 for this game a 6/10.
  
  One thing I would like to point out is the AGGRO system which is a nice standout in the game. Pretty 
 much AGGRO is how much attention your character has at that time. It is useful to draw attention 
 away from an injured partner, or distracts a heavily armored foe so you can attack him from behind. 
 This works well in both online versus and campaign modes. Being that this is the only truly unique 
 thing in this game, it stands out the most. I give this feature a 8/10.
  
  The graphics of the game are 6.5 generation. Not quite 7th gen, because the only good thing that 
 looks good is you, your partner, and your guns. The areas are bland, enemies look like rag dolls 
 and there is no real mechanics to the game. For example, rolling, You roll up a hill and down the 
 hill the same way, with no change in speed, high, or reactions, There are no true life like physics 
 implications, just basic rag doll physics. The movement and the camera bobbing is only good when 
 your moving forward, and when your standing still, try rotating the movement stick really fast 
 in circles and see how characters move. That is usually a tell when there is no real life like 
 implications in the game. Sometimes when your completing goals, like planting a bomb, you see the 
 bomb there, but the the game "moves" your character into place, or even their robot like movements 
 when performing actions like praising, just "moving" into spot, not walking either. This is proof 
 of how lazy they were. Next Gen? Try next time. I give the graphics and game play mechanics of 
 this game a solid 5/10. 
  
  Campaign mode isn't all that bad, contrary to what most think, I actually like the banter between 
 Salem and Rios. The story isn't that bad, it actually looks logically possible if you think about 
 it. And further more, the cut scenes look good, but fake, and gameplay and cutsense are on a completely 
 diffrent level in terms of graphics. The characters each play an important role, and help push 
 the story along. The story does have some cliche's in it, but for the most part, it was the reason 
 I continued to play the game until beating it. So I give the story a 8/10.
  
  Online Is another. I hope people don't give me that "Ps3 vs 360" deal here, and/or 360 is better 
 than Ps3, because the online sucks period. I don't know if it's like this on both consoles (Ps3 
 owner) but the online is laggy, The leaderboards never really update, and the game play over all 
 takes a huge hit because of this. Although when a game is good, which is very rare, the online 
 games are fun. Extraction, assasination, destruction are a nice twist throwing in NPCs to fight 
 as well. Online level designs are nice and diverse. Money is the "point system" for AO2 online. 
 Pretty much complete missions, get money, buy weapons pack, and repeat once you have died. It has 
 a relatively small community being that it's only 4 people per game and once one person leaves, 
 the game is over, with no penalties or record of what you did. If they had spend a little more 
 time working on the online mechanics, I think it would be worth it, but there is always the next 
 army of 2 game. Online versus gets a 5/10.
  
  The controls are simple and easy to learn. Nothing hard about aiming and shooting. Although the 
 controls feel sluggish at first, but weapon upgrades give you better aim, especially with sniper 
 files, and give you a nicer feel. They don't give you many options to changing your sensativity 
 because they pretty much feel the same regardless, the only noticable diffrence is the highest 
 and the lowest, other than that, all 4 aren't that much off to each other. Controls gets a 8/10.
 
  
  I think this game could have been great if they have a few adjustments, improvements, implications, 
 and actually cared they could have done a good job. If they would have allowed greater weapon customization 
 as well as character customization online, for example, buying weapons online, choosing weapons 
 to start with, customizable skins and armor, and variables that actually affect your gameplay other 
 than aiming and damage out put, for example, how armor affects your speed for example, just to 
 keep it diverse and fresh. Offer diffrent types of bonuses and changes to give players a unique 
 playing experience. Since it's all about playing online, you think they would make it more online 
 orientated, but it seems like their focus was getting the game out, and just making your character 
 look good while playing. I just wish they took the time to actually try and make a good game then 
 just put out what ever they felt was acceptable. EA is getting lazier and lazier on every single 
 game the put out and aren't even trying to do something new, especially with their Madden series. 
 If they reuse the same engines and don't develope anything new they are going to go out of buisness. 
 I give this game an overall score of 5.5/10. I know now to rent every game from EA before buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menmerga
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome, its very fun, it has very good graphics, and the story is ok... but this 
 game was made to play it multiplayer, if you play solo dont expect to have a lot of fun with it, 
 actually i think al partner is stupid, but in multiplayer is fun to play with a friend and plan 
 all your movements.
  
  this games worths a rental but only a rental, because the campaign is short, and there is not a 
 lot of people playing it online plus, if you play it online or in campaign is actually the same 
 tactics over and over again.
  
  to me the game focusses to much in the aggro system, dont get me wrong its nice and innovative, 
 but taking adventage of it the whole game is where it looses some of its fun.
  
  if you liked games like kane and lynch, stranglehold, Gears of War, etc you might like this one 
 because its a good 3rd person shooter but multiplayer like kane and lynch, the only difference 
 between Ao2 and K&L is that this one makes work you and your partner as a team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gubitz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two isn't great game but it does grow on you as a fun game to play with a friend. The story 
 is like reading something from Tom Clancy's novels, Gamespot must have some people they know in 
 the Army if they gave the story such a bad review, yes somethings Blackwater has done is little 
 suspicious but I find that the developers went with a good way to explain why our convoys are being 
 jumped so easily in Iraq and Afghanistan. The online does take awhile to get used to but it's fun 
 to do with a friend, because without a friend you get stuck with a random person and he/she will 
 usaly ditch out on you and you'll be alone. Enemy AI in the agme have the magical abilty to shoot 
 you from 100 yards away as easily as they can from 5 yards. The enemy AI have health bars that 
 get very annoying and enemies that must be killed from the back are very annoying because they 
 usaly have overly powered weapons like LMG's and shotguns. I recommend renting it but it is a good 
 game to buy. And trust me by the time the game is over you'll never want to meet a person named 
 Clyde. trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexg087
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I think that Army of Two is a great Third Person Shooter, but the fact that it lacks missions a 
 lot takes the excitement away a little bit. The graphics are great, and the same goes for the gameplay 
 features and the co-op missions are really fun to play. I also really like the way you get to customize 
 your weapons and buy new oes as well as new designs for your mask. The missions are long but that 
 does't make up for the fatc that there are only 5 of them. Never the less, I really enjoy playing 
 it online and the multiplayer is awesome. I just think that next time, the producers should think 
 about the content of the game more than the graphics, and the online gameplay capabilities (although 
 those things may be compelling features for some of you guys) . Overall I think it's pretty good. 
 I'll give it an 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  still Army of two is good fun as it is also a co-op game and that it concentrates on co-op more 
 than anything else. But it still does not contain many new sources. Yes perhaps you can drag your 
 partner around with him shooting as well as you to revive him and you can give him a boost up on 
 a ledge but that doesn't make it the best. if it contain some of the original ideas such as riding 
 a fork lift with your partner up top while your driving and being able to push objects over for 
 cover it may get a slight better rating but still at least its co-op. and co-op is something most 
 games should have but don't such as COD4 and hopefully Killzone 2. otherwise if your friend or 
 family member is there they either have to watch u play on a game and be board or you could fight 
 each other but then he or her will get pissed off because you keep beating them all the time. And 
 if you fight the computer then both of you can have fun without any arguments unless the A. I keep 
 killing you lol.
  my final rating is 8.2 for second best Co-op game out on PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  1st of all, when i heard the gameplay of Army of two, I was so excited that this game going to 
 rock hard with ur friend but turn out to be a ok ok game .....
  
  Coop is the new gameplay for Army of 2.. With ur friend playing next to u and disscusing how to 
 flank and attack them is cool .. but to bad only if u have a friend playing next to u ... 2nd is 
 the single player mission .. When EA army of 2 director step up and say how amazing is the AI going 
 to be supporting but it turn out to be a bomb... The AI were not function like what we wan ... 
 We wan them stand next to us but sometime it will stand far away and not helping to flank them 
 and the single player mission was short.. It was quit dissapointing.... EA have copied well what 
 Gears of war fighting style .. but have some few isssue with the environment as i wan to jump above 
 some part but couldnt....
  
  Graphic of the game is very good , the cut-scene are wonderfull and amazing ... although somtime 
 during gamplay u wil face some loading time , feel like lagging ... during fire shoot it is smooth 
 with all the gun blazing and grenade bombing.... there are problem with the sound of the grenade 
 sound and the wall mine ... it explode but the sound was like belon pop... LAME ...
  
  The online play give u a new fresh feel of Shooting other u get bored with COD4..... playing helping 
 hostage or deathmatch... 
  
  Not much to say , overall of the game is ok if u can play with ur friend together. If u wan a coop 
 game , this is the game for u... With all the problem that i mention hope EA will learn his lesson 
 and plz create a well game shooter like gears of war... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaAllanon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The story might offend some if you are into politics and follow the war in Iraq closely. But my 
 room mate is a marine and did not ever mention how shotty the story was. I think a lot of people 
 have over hyped themselves and were expecting something bigger. But take the game for what it is. 
 A arcade shooter and just like going to the arcade it is always best to play with another person.
 
  
  One thing and only complaint I had about the game is when you pimp guns. The graphics in the selection 
 screen are ok. But once you pimp it and start playing you look at it, it looks nothing like the 
 selection screen and gold looks UGLY! But to me that is superficial cause pimping just ups your 
 aggro chance. So I guess they wanted it to be ugly that is why they shoot at you more right? You 
 are ugly?
  
  I have yet to play the online versus cause I read on forums how broken it is. So I just opted to 
 keep playing with my friend co-op till they patch up the game, I do not want to get jaded towards 
 the multiplayer. But if you are worried about putting down the funds for this game I definitely 
 highly recommend renting the game at least and give it a shot. I am sure if I read all the reviews 
 before buying it like I normally do I would have missed out on this fun game! So try it for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Awsomererer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  How do I describe Army of Two? How can I begin scratching the surface of one of the most exciting 
 and new games I have ever played? Do I start with the bad? Or the good? Or even the ugly? No, I 
 will start with the plot.
  One of the things that Gamespot got right about Army of Two was its plot, or lack thereof. The 
 game bluffs its way from one fight to the next with a stupid grin on its face and with cutscenes 
 that have been filmed like a soap opera or medical drama, but underneath that shiny exterior lies 
 the serious issue of the privatisation of the military. This should be the part where I tell you 
 that the game manages this issue maturely and with rapier wit, alas, it does not. Continuing the 
 theme of the hammy plot, Army of Two deals with this issue with all the subtlety and emotion of 
 Sylvester Stalone. 
  Now, while I am on this rant of badness, I present to you the AI. On the whole, they are not that 
 bad, and they present some challenges throught the course of the game, but there are some small 
 niggles that just have to be mentioned. Like the part where they stand still in front of your gun. 
 Or the part with the suicide bombers. Or the part where they chase after your grenades like a suicidal 
 dog. Or the part where they run away from cover. Need I say any more?
  After that first part, all of you have probably decided never to even look at this game without 
 trying to burn it. But wait! Put down that lighter and gasoline! Stop listening to those voices! 
 This is a good game, actually this is a great game, and all because of one hyphonated word: co-op.
 
  Army of Two lives on co-op, the air it breathes would be in pairs if it could breathe. That's 
 how co-oppy it is. It would be worth splitting the price with a likeminded friend. Thats how good 
 the co-op is. There is nothing like high-fiving your friend as your on screen counterparts are 
 doing the same thing after getting out of a tricky situation, or a spectacular piece of co-op sniping, 
 or one of the brilliant slow-mo back to back sections, or after drawing all of the enemy fire while 
 your freind takes them all out from the side... 
  The list goes on and on until you get to the end of one level. I'll repeat that again: one level. 
 Then you get to the weapon customisation, and the fun really begins. 
  Okay, maybe it is a gimmik, maybe it is just a shameless jump onto the customisation train, but 
 it is fun. For each mission you earn a certain amount of money that can be spent on either main 
 weapons, sidearms, speial weapons or armour. There are about twenty main weapons, including your 
 own, starting weapon, and each of those weapons have a customisation system. Now, multiply twenty 
 by three and there are your firearm options. With all these guns around, waiting to be customised, 
 you must be saying "surely there are some cloned traits in each gun!" and there is. However, there 
 is only one, and it makes up for being cloned by being awsome. More awsome than you can imagine. 
 More awsome than anyone can imagine. 
  Here is a good un': What can make a chaingun better than it already is?
  Answer: By coating it 
 in gold, silver and platinum.
  You can pimp your guns. No real effect in-game, but it makes you want to show off at every opportunity.
 
  So, to summarise:
  Bad: plot, AI, singleplayer, homie-from-the-ghetto-y'all attitood
  Good: co-op, pimp-my-gun, co-op, high-fives, co-op, air-guitar, co-op
  The rating is in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is the best co-op experience you can find on the PS3 or 360, hands down. I don't know 
 why everyone seems to have such a huge problem with the story. Personally I thought it was pretty 
 cool: two guys in the army get hired by a private corporation and then become pivotal in a large-scale 
 conspiracy. idk about you, but that is pretty cool story to me. 
  
  About the gameplay: The gamespot reviewer must have parkinsons or something, because i found it 
 really easy to aim in AO2. Maybe he should just get good at shooters before complaining about not 
 being able to hit anything. 
  The shooting is solid, the enemy ai, while not excellent is still good enough to get you immersed 
 in the game. 
  The aggro system is cool, but yes, unrealistic. Why would the enemy completely ignore someone, 
 simply because another guy has a better gun? but it still works cool and lets you do some cool 
 flanking manouvers.
  The co-op mechanics are cool, I especially liked going back to back, the game goes slow motion 
 and you take out a wave of enemies coming from all sides. The co-op parachuting was fun to do with 
 the sixaxis controls, but extremely hard for the person shooting while parachuting. 
  I also liked the fact that you can drag your hurt partner to a safe location before healing him. 
 and he can still shoot at enemies while being dragged and healed.
  
  This game is not bad like GameSpot would have you think. It is a good six to eight hour campaign, 
 which has tons of replay value since you can play it with a friend. If you are still unsure about 
 getting it, at least rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elimansfield
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: This is a review of the campaign in Army of Two. I finished the game in co-op mode, 
 but due to my dislike for several aspects of the core gameplay, I didn't bother to try the multiplayer.
 
  
  Army of Two is a game I knew nothing about before I began playing it. A friend of mine picked it 
 up for his PS3, and because it allows for co-op play in campaign mode, he invited me to check it 
 out. I was completely unaware of the hype surrounding this game, and even so I feel let down by 
 it. The four hours or so it took to make our way through the game is time that would've been better 
 spent on numerous other next-gen titles. Here's why:
  
  First the gameplay. I completely disagree with the Gamespot reviewer who said that the play mechanics 
 in Army of Two work well. Aggro is extremely unrealistic. Basically the A. I. totally ignores you 
 as long as your partner is carrying a more powerful weapon and using it to fire on the opposition. 
 Battles, which could've been pretty intense, where the enemy has the high ground and is firing 
 at you from a mounted gun (complete with shield) , are reduced to a simple matter of having one 
 player blind fire over some cover while the other walks up to the turret -- in plain sight -- goes 
 around back and caps the enemy in the head. Ridiculous! For anyone who's experienced the stellar 
 A. I. in Gears of War, this game will be very unrewarding. 
  
  Furthermore, the number of times you and your partner have to use the stupid step jump (one player 
 boosts the other up to a ledge that can't otherwise be reached) , is bound to frustrate any player. 
 This mechanic is pointless. It isn't fun, the animation isn't interesting to see after the fourth 
 time, let alone the fiftieth. As are the many situations in which both players must stand next 
 to a door and press the action button (which, by the way, is EXTREMELY annoying, because even though 
 the button icon is displayed onscreen, the game will not accept a button press until a full second 
 afterward) in order to lift it or tear it down.
  
  Play mechanics I did enjoy... hmmmmmm... let me think... Okay, I did enjoy using the sixaxis motion 
 control to manoeuvre in the parachute sequences. The cover system was decent, though not as fully 
 realized as that in Gears.
  
  And, oh yes, the weapon customization system. This 'play mechanic' results more in laughter than 
 cool, personalized artillery. Because you're forced to purchase each upgrade successively (ie., 
 you can't just save up to buy the best supressor, you must purchase each suppressor in order from 
 worst to best) , I found myself at one point carrying around a Steyr Aug with a shotgun attachment. 
 Yes, a shotgun attachment. It looked even more ridiculous than it sounded. And the pimping options 
 were almost universally tacky. Some were so ridiculous you couldn't help but drop the 10K just 
 to catch a glimpse of them in the cinematics. The 24k gold sniper rifle with tiger stripes was 
 particularly 'ill'. I feel there was a missed opportunity here. EA could've made the weapon pimping 
 interesting by allowing the player to create his own designs in a paint shop type setting. 
  
  The weapons in general were decent, but the combination of weak sound effects, no force feedback 
 (obviously not the developer's fault) , and unimpressive kill animations left me feeling pretty 
 bored with the prospect of taking out a ton of insurgents.
  
  Really, these gripes aren't total deal-breakers. The guns look goofy, and the way you open doors 
 and reach high ledges is tedious. What really kills this game for me is the wacky sensitivity when 
 aiming.
  
  For some reason, the developer chose to scale the horizontal access so that near the centre of 
 the joystick things move too slow, and as you try to turn around to face someone shooting you from 
 behind, the controls become far too quick. It isn't a smooth transition at all. And in fact, no 
 transition is necessary. I've played tons of console shooters without ever running into this problem 
 before. EA should've chosen a speed that wouldn't be too twitchy for distance shooting (sniping 
 btw, is completely unnecessary in Army of Two -- a machine gun and a powerful sidearm being more 
 than enough to make it through the campaign) , and wouldn't be too slow for turning your character 
 around. With the controls as they are, picking off enemies from 20 to 30 feet away is almost too 
 easy, while anyone closer than that can easily outrun the movement of the crosshair, that is until 
 it kicks into turbo mode sending you spinning around 360 degrees. Play around with the sensitivity 
 settings and you may find something usable, but I tried a couple and found them both awkward. 
 
  
  Provided you do stick with the game, you will eventually adjust to this downfall by simply staying 
 far enough back that the enemies can't get in close for a cheapshot. But you won't be rewarded 
 for your efforts.
  
  The end of the game is a HUGE ripoff. Making use of the 'bold, new, innovative' (that's INTENSE 
 sarcasm) Aggro play mechanic, my friend and I managed to kill the final boss in about five seconds, 
 at which point the game cut to a cinematic of one of us kicking the double-crossing bastard out 
 a high-rise window. From there we were treated to another cinematic in which the two protagonists 
 chased their former boss onto a roof before taking out his helicopter with a rocket launcher. Ummm, 
 shouldn't this have been a boss battle? I hate to keep dragging up this comparison, but since the 
 developers chose to rip off so much of GoW (while somehow managing to make a vastly inferior game) , 
 I feel it's apt: The ending of this game would be the equivalent of Marcus and Dom walking out 
 onto the final train car, and the game suddenly switching to a cinematic illustrating their victory 
 over General Raam. You cannot end a game like that!
  
  Graphically, Army of Two has some impressive moments. The water effects in particular were quite 
 spectacular. On the whole, though, I found the art direction far too 'saturday morning cartoon' 
 for the subject matter. The promo imagery leads one to believe this is going to be a dark, gritty 
 game about money-grubbing mercernaries. Well, it's more like a pastel, slap-stick comedy about 
 money-grubbing mercernaries. Who don't shut up. Ever. At any point in the game.
  
  The dialogue in Army of Two is some of the most banal I've encountered in a videogame. And because 
 the two main characters are talking SO often, you really can't escape it. The story is quite lame 
 and really just takes away from the tiny amount of fun there is to be had killing your way through 
 the missions. 
  
  With so many great playing games available, some of which have well-told, INTRIGUING storylines, 
 there is absolutely no reason to waste your money on this one. Weak story, weaker gameplay. br 
 / 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese_10106
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a solid game. It has things it does well and some it doesn't.
  
  Pros
  +Fun if you have a human to play with you
  +Customizable Weapons
  +Great Graphics
  +Great 
 Sound
  +Storyline is Solid
  +Online CO-OP is good
  +You can "pimp" guns
  
  Cons -AI is a complete and total idiot
  -Online MULTILAYER is laggy
  -Controls can be hard 
 to get used to
  -Frequent use of the "F" word
  -Campaign seemed like it was only six hours
  
  If you are one of those people that has friends 
 that comes over everyday then you should buy this game (or if someone lives with you that plays 
 shooter games) then Army of Two is a good buying game. But if you are a person that lives in a 
 hole and has no friends then Army of Two is worth a rent.
  
  ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO
  ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO
 
  ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO ARMYOFTWO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Please dont buy, wait for R6V-2 that is a good game. I got this game from day one hoping to forgget 
 COD4 but i just wasted money. I wish EA Games would have spent some more time in the game story, 
 the enemies are all dumb and the AI is just nothing to other games. I dont know why i bought the 
 game , but i know this, the game lacks on most things that a good shooter has. Story-reallly bad 
 AI- Extremly bad PLOT-horrible. The only good thing is the co-op but that dosent make it fun unless 
 you have a good partner. Please wait for R6V-2 and dont buy ths game is a waste of everyones money. 
 This game needs more work specially when the story line is short and makes no real meaning what 
 so ever. Come on a military traning facility for Mecrs? yea rigth get real, this goes way beyond 
 sic-fic this the champ of all weird games the grand dady. They naeed to remake the game and give 
 it some real meaning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  What you might not have ever imagined about a video game, is that you actually have to play it 
 to base an opinion, and I'm not just saying the first few checkpoints. I give you, the reader, 
 my honest word that I have completed this game and unlocked all weapons, played all modes, swore 
 at the game when I died for a stupid reason. I had fun, laughed, cried, and had moments where I 
 just stared at the screen going, "omg did that just happen?" Anyway onto my review, and I hope 
 you, the reader, enjoy it and get a good idea of what this game is about and how it plays. If you 
 enjoyed this review, then add me as a friend or send me a message asking questions, I will help 
 you as soon as I can!
  
  It's a cold night, you turn your ps3/xbox360 on and pop in Army of Two, you just rented it, and 
 heard bad things about this game from "Professional" reviewers, but Atheno is here, so never fear. 
 This game is actually worth your time. Though the game is not ground breaking by ANY means, and 
 it's made by EA so for some of you viewers this already means the game SUCKS HARD CORE JUSTICE! 
 First lets get the game play out of the way. The game responds and sports normal controls, for 
 the PS3 version, the one I played, basic commands like Triangle to roll or dive to cover. R2 to 
 shoot, which happens to be the newest big thing for shooting in games now, what ever happened to 
 R1 eh? Anyway, since the controls are just about what you would expect, I will go out on a limb 
 here and believe you have a brain and just leave it at that.
  
  Now music, music is about average and sometimes above average. IT gets the job done you know? Its 
 not going to be itched into your memory, or have you humming the tune when your bored, like some 
 Zelda game or Final Fantasy. Don't take that the wrong way through as I'm trying to stress here, 
 the musics good, just don't rush to buy the sound track if there is one. One of my favorite songs 
 in this game is actually the loading screen song, which is good BECAAUUUSEeee....... it loads... it 
 loves to load. This game is a loading champion. If there was an achievement for the xbox 360, it 
 would be "Spend 20 hours or more at the loading screen." This doesn't break the game, but it doesn't 
 make it either if you catch my drift here.
  
  Graphics, now this is one thing that EA did very well. The game, from what I know, (A friend has 
 X box 360, saw the PS3, said, "Wow man this looks just the same as x box 360!" Wow no crap?) Besides 
 you can basically gather that both systems run this game very well, as most, if not all, other 
 reviews say so, but now to the action points of the graphics. At times, you will wonder if this 
 is a game or a CG movie you rented. The water graphics, I found, were breath taking. Character 
 models all sported high polygon counts and very nice details to their clothing and armor, also 
 guns. When you get your guns pimped to case them with gold or silver, get ready for some shiny 
 moments.
  
  "Please Atheno, tell us about the splosions." Yeah ok, the games got some hard core moments, I 
 know thats what some of you want to hear. This might be a spoiler SO BE WARNED, if you don't want 
 to know about missions or what happens then skip down to next paragraph. Starting NOW ---- One of 
 the missions leaves you on a aircraft carrier that had been taken over by, you guessed it, rabbits. 
 Actually no, terrorists. At the ending, it starts to explode, sinking slowly as one of the ends 
 raises to the sky. You have to run up the air craft carrier, as things are exploding and flying 
 right past you. Yes you can get hit, and yes, it will require medical attention. Let me just say 
 that, this game has some moments that just make you go, "Wow, I can't believe I'm doing this!" 
 and thats a good thing! It's refreshing!
  
  Okay spoiler warning off, now let's get down to the actual Co-op. It is done very well, and I have 
 yet to play a game that does it the way this game does. But there will be moments when you just 
 want to strangle your partner, as any moment with someone else, even worse if you don't know this 
 person, you might not have the same idea of what to do or something and resulting in a few bullets 
 to the head, but do not worry, your wearing a mask that just happens to be bullet proof. Now please 
 keep in mind this game truly shines online, not single. Your A. I partner is dumber then a sick 
 dog, trying to find it's food bowl and requires heavy assistance. This makes the game a bit hard 
 to swallow, thats why I advise you to stay online if you want the best playing experience.
  
  A lot of talk about lag online? Yeah right, I only had one moment with lag, and it was no where 
 near un-playable. Now VS has... a higher chance of carrying the lag bug, but I still have yet to 
 experience anything to make me curse EA's name. This might be different for other people depending 
 on where they live and their internet connection or how it's hooked up. If you do experience lag 
 if you get this game and go, "darn Atheno, your as good as dead for lying," then please consider 
 checking your net hook up, make sure nothings blocking your signal like firewalls or a bad router 
 hook up and setup. I really don't feel like hurting anyone : (. 
  
  Anyway I hope this has been SOME WHAT helpful, I just wanted to clear up GS review, NO OFFENSE 
 to the reviewer if he actually played it, and really didn't like it, but from where I stand right 
 now I doubt he finished the game or really gave it a chance. Anyway, send me a message or what 
 not if you have any questions, want to swear at me for making sense of a game, or what ever, see 
 you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I flat out don't like this game and its a shame because the concept is good and the whole visual 
 style is great but I feal like a friggin loser playing this game simply because of the character 
 development, story and the dialog in this game is a total insult to my intelligence and everyone 
 elses.
  
  So lame it makes me sick that game companies make big bucks off of S**t like this.
  
  Basically 
 when I played the game I'm thinking of the creators of the game and what they think we would like 
 to see in games these days. "Ummmmhhhh ya through in some characters that look tough and ofcourse 
 don't forget to make them sound tough so throw in a bunch of "F" words and dirty talk and don't 
 froget these two army guys like to say "bro" so make them say "bro" alot and have them punch eachother 
 act queer for no reason because thats what tough guy army friends/bros do.
  
  I honestly don't think its at all necessary to have such bad language in a video game. 
  
  
 If they had a much better story they could probably afford to use foul language when its more fit 
 and necessary. In this game its seems just too much as though they sware and curse because it sounds 
 cool, and thats the lamest excuse especially for a video game. 
  
  Basically I just hope they realize where they went wrong and make a more worthwhile game.
  
 
  Who ever scripted the game killed it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is mostly known for its sports games, so it's very unlikely that an action title 
 coming from the powerhouse is looked forward to. Army of Two, a highly anticipated action title 
 from EA Montreal has completely changed that stereotype. But the question is, is Army of Two any 
 good? The only answer to that question is a resounding yes. Army of Two is the best action title 
 to be released so far this year. This is in thanks to its superb cooperative mechanics, brutality, 
 and story.
  
  You play as either Elliot Salem or Tyson Rios, two former army rangers, who have made the switch 
 to mercenaries, as they believe that the pay is much better this way. Salem is much more of a kid, 
 who jokes around, and is really casual in his combat. Rios, on the other hand, is much more mature 
 in his stature, and is very professional. The duo get along great, and are a tough group that stick 
 together through the rough. That, being a good thing, of course, as the two are set up, and end 
 up with their former allies against them. Their journey takes place over 16 years, and takes them 
 to places all over the world, from the middle east, to a hurricane ridden Miami. The camaraderie 
 that the two share is unseen in any other game, and you really begin to root for them, as it seems 
 that it's two against the world in this one.
  
  What is a little unfortunate, is even though the game takes place over 16 years, the actual campaign 
 is only a mediocre 6 hours. This is extremely disappointing, as the entire game is just a non stop 
 roller coaster ride, and you'd wish that it'd be longer. You feel as though the story needed some 
 more open space to expand, and 6 hours just doesn't give it enough room. That doesn't make the 
 story any less effective, it just makes it shorter.
  
  There has been some confusion on this, but I can clear things up. Army of Two is 100% a third person 
 shooter. On this current generation, the genre has seen an uprising. Gears of War, Uncharted, and 
 Kane and Lynch have all been ambassadors for the genre, opening it up and letting people know the 
 action that it brings. This is no different in Army of Two. You have an arsenal of weapons spanning 
 all areas. There are assault rifles, snipers, rocket launchers, basically every weapon known to 
 man, you can handle it.
  
  There's no distinct cover system in Army of Two. You can slide into cover, and duck, and blind 
 fire, but you never become magnetically stuck to a wall, for say, like you can in Gears or Uncharted. 
 This is very smooth, and works unbelievably well, and it is very satisfying to do so, and you also 
 feel very safe when doing so. It's innovative and simple to use, and is one of the best aspects 
 of the game.
  
  Melee attacking is somewhat confusing at first, but once you get the hang of it, it can be your 
 best friend. Being a certain distance away from an enemy, and pressing the right trigger, will 
 have you do a melee attack, which may or may not kill them in one hit. This is either a kick to 
 the head, an elbow to the head, or a chokeslam. Sometimes, blood will fly everywhere when you snap 
 his neck, or break his head open, and it is a real breath of fresh air every time you do this. 
 Sometimes the computer can't tell whether you want to shoot or melee, so it can be a little tricky.
 
  
  The enemy AI is decent overall, but sometimes they will absolutely destroy you, and other times, 
 will run right in front of you and do nothing. It's inconsistent, and adds to the variety in gameplay. 
 Your partner AI is actually very good. If you tell him to go on a rampage, he will likely clean 
 house. If you tell him to stay and fire, he will do so without hesitation. He almost never does 
 the wrong thing, although in one instance, the AI just shut off altogether, leaving me alone.
 
  
  What's very innovative in Army of Two, is the aggro system. Aggro is how much attention you are 
 receiving from the enemy. If you have all the aggro, you can send your partner around to flank 
 enemies, as they will all be focused on you. If he has all the aggro, (which you can command him 
 to do) , you will be left alone. This is really cool, and always works well. It's very similar to 
 the aggro in World of Warcraft, if you've ever played that, you will be familiar with the system. 
 There are a few enemies that are armored on the front, and can only be attacked from behind. Here's 
 where you'll need to have one member decoy from the front, while you sneak around the back. this 
 is where the aggro system stands out.
  
  There are a few hovercraft sections, which aren't actually all that fun, and feel really tacked 
 on. Luckily, these are rare and short. There are some parachute/sniping sections which are actually 
 very fun, and there are back to back sections, in which case you have unlimited ammo, and are surrounded. 
 The time goes in slo mo, and it's really fun and bloody when these sections come up. Also, if the 
 aggro is fully on one character, you have the ability to go into overkill. Here, you become twice 
 as powerful as before, and have unlimited ammo. This last about 15 seconds, and is essential in 
 certain areas.
  
  Some of the AI issues I mentioned before, can be avoided by doing coop with another human being. 
 Here, you two communicate in ways you never have before in a video game, and it just becomes so 
 much fun. If you manage to get along well, Army of Two will be an outstanding addition to your 
 library. It's so hard to explain just how much better the game is with another human. The partner 
 AI isn't bad, it's just 100 times better with someone else. You can also do coop online, with a 
 public player, or a private game you can set up with a friend.
  
  Graphically, Army of Two is a good looking game. The blood looks fantastic, as does the water, 
 and vistas. What stands out are the character models, although they do get repetitive. Some environments 
 could have been smoothed out, and they could've been more destructible, but overall, the game looks 
 good.
  
  Even though there are a ton of curse words, the voice actors deliver a great performance. Salem 
 and Rios share normal conversations in the midst of battle, and it becomes such a casual affair. 
 Killing is a chore to these guys. The soundtrack really fits every situation well, as every EA 
 game does have a great soundtrack. It's no different here.
  
  There are 3 online modes, and 4 maps, which add to the longevity of the game. Without these, the 
 game wouldn't be worth your money. Luckily, the game modes are fun, and are worth money, to "pimp" 
 your weapons (turn to gold) , purchase new ones, and new masks, to add to your collection. Upgrading 
 weapons can become a hobby, and is really addictive.
  
  Army of Two is a great game. It's not outstanding by any means, but it brings a lot of new things 
 to the table. Hopefully, a sequel will have even better to show for it in the future. If you have 
 a friend, roommate, or sibling, and are looking for a bloody good time, pick up Army of Two. If 
 you are looking for that third person shooter fix, then Army of Two also fits. There are a few 
 great ideas not executed greatly, but still work out well enough for one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been GOOD, 2 years ago, considering the release of the Shooters today, such 
 as Resistance, Rainbow Six, and of coarse COD 4. EA is behind schedule with this tiltle and it 
 is pretty evident once playing this game. AI, Mechanics all are things of the past. They should 
 have payed more attention to the AI and Mechanics then to cutscenes and curse words. Because the 
 game has plenty of the latter and little of the former. . AI: You have a partner with you throughout 
 the entire game but one who is at times hard to control and has the tendcy to heal you while being 
 fired upon, therefore leading to both of your deaths. The enemis let you walk right up on top of 
 them before doing anything and basically this has the feel of a "old" playstation 2 game in that 
 respect. Why they went to sleep on the AI in this game, that is based around "Coop" play is beyond 
 me. But a let down to say the least. The weapon upgrades are "okay" but always fun to tinker with, 
 although a ski mask may run you 10k and to "PIMP", (turn gold) is just a feature that is laughable. 
 But that might say something about the development team and the target audience. Although the game 
 is not a complete let down the Mechanics and online are both frustrating in there own respect. 
 Not to mention the short lived Campaign. Mechanics: You like aiming, well if so you will hate this 
 game. Aiming can be a hair pulling task, but credit to them for adding the "Blind shot" feature, 
 you'll need it. There is no run feature, you can jump over certain object and you feel like your 
 playing a Robot throughout the game. Considering they made it rather linear, you cannot roam at 
 freely at all. The game has plenty of "F-Bombs" and very little playing value, I like the coop 
 idea and the Mercenary back drop dealing with 9/11 is pretty good, but why they had to throw in 
 all the language and the "PIMP YOUR GUN" feature is a bit MTVish to me that does nothing for the 
 game itself. EA really needs to stick to sports and buying Take Two because this genre is not there 
 strong point at all. They fell flat on there face with this title but they got my money. ONLINE? 
 Well all I have to say about this is, if you own COD 4, do not waste your time with this. Its a 
 coop only that teams you up with one other person to take down your basic objectives. Boring and 
 not worth the time. In short if you have nothing else to play then RENT this game and you can beat 
 it in one sitting..... Then return it and be happy that all you spent was 9 dollars.... I hope 
 EA gets back to making sports games soon.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  At first, alot of people thought that Electronic Arts would not have what it takes to make a good 
 'next-gen', third-person shooter, let alone one that you specifically work with either a real live 
 partner of an AI, online or offline. Concluding that it would not live up to the hype. However, 
 Army of Two just goes to show how wrong those people can be.
  
  The AI is quite advanced, whether its your partner when your playing a single-player campaign, 
 or its the enemies that you have to take down. However, you will find it occassionally annoying 
 when in the middle of a gunfight, they run around in a circle for some reason. But this isnt a 
 big issue as it barely happens. Your orders that you can give to your AI partner during gameplay 
 is essential to your survival. A shame that the orders dont go any further than 'advance', 'cover' 
 etc. But all the same, very effective when these actions are deployed. Obviously when your playing 
 a public (online) or private (offline) multiplayer game, this isnt an issue.
  
  A nice little touch for purposes of humour is added with how you can interact with your partner 
 by complimenting their work by either a hand-shake or a 'Bill and Ted-esque' air-guitar stand-off. 
 Or you could just be a dick and slap your partner across the back of the head or head-butt him 
 when your not happy with what he's done. Yet chances are, your gonna get the same right back.
 
  
  Ofcorse one aspect that is highlighted in this game and is arguably the one reason why you even 
 have that minor chance of actually completing a mission, is 'Aggro'. Basically, the more death, 
 destruction, and skill you cause in a short amount of time, your 'Aggro-meter' rises, and whoever 
 has the higher 'Aggro' will attract the attention of the enemies. This will allow the partner to 
 stealthly go amongst the enemies and pick them off whilst their attention is distracted. It can 
 be either your AI that has the 'Aggro' and allows you to stealth amongst the enemies, or vice-versa. 
 This is definately alot of fun and saves a hell of alot of time trying to get past a vast number 
 of heavily armed terrorists in one go.
  
  You maybe thinking that there is alot to take in as far as the controls and actions are concerned. 
 However thats OK, even for the novice gamers. Because the tutorial at the beginning of the game 
 pretty much covers everything you need to know in the simplest way possible.
  
  The plot-twists within the game are very politics driven, and is very intriguing as the gameplay 
 consists of being in the middle of 'real-life' war-torn countries, including Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 Really lives up to the realism of war and doesnt exaggerates.
  To be fair, the campaign mode is very short. But isnt a problem as once you complete the game; 
 you have the 'professional' difficulty to complete, allowing you to unlock EVERY weapon that you 
 can possibly have in your disposal within the game. Talking about weapons; you can buy new weapons 
 with the money you make from your campaign missions. Not only that, but you can customise them 
 to make them more accurate, destructive etc. From AK47's and Desert Eagles, to the M134 (Chaingun) 
 and Stinger Missile Launchers, you can customise the lot to overwhelm the enemy.
  
  Even when your done doing all of that, there is, ofcorse, the online multiplayer. Put it this way, 
 its the ONLY game online that is going to pull yourself off the online gaming of COD4 and UT3. 
 Many game modes to try out including the conventional 'Deathmath' mode. You can most definately 
 approve when I say that Army of Two is a long lasting game.
  
  Graphics are top-notch. Lighting and attention to detail is just brilliant. The sound is just the 
 same and sounds like your really in the middle of a war zone.
  
  Innovative and revolutionary to the whole idea of co-op gaming... well deserved to be one of the 
 biggest PS3 titles of 2008 to date, well... until MGS4 and GTA4 arrives at least.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEWMAN08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The basic premise of Army of Two is co-op, either between you and a friend online or split-screen, 
 and generally this works out well. The layout of the maps and objectives make players depend on 
 each other succeed. 
  The gameplay like I've said co-op, but there is a unique concept to Army of Two, and that is the 
 Aggro system. Basically its a measure of how much attention you're getting from your foes, and 
 it grows with either a lot of suppressive fire, grenades and explosions, or brutal hand to hand 
 take downs. The system works well and you'll find yourself using it without much thought. One person 
 hangs back a little, lays down some suppressive fire and lobs some grenades and becomes the focus 
 of attention, while the other player sneaks around an takes down the enemy. Its simple to think 
 about, but it adds a new element to game. 
  The cover system in Army of Two is the smoothest system of any game I've ever played. You'll rely 
 on cover for about 99% of the game, so its a good thing it works efficiently. It feels like a mix 
 of Gears of War and GRAW 2, but it feels a little more free. When you run up to a wall or some 
 cover you can either crouch behind it, or press triangle to slide into it. Your back does not press 
 up against it like in most third person shooters, but rather once you're against cover when you 
 fire your character automatically raises his rifle up. You can either blind fire or raise up slightly 
 to get more accurate shots.
  The weapons customization in this game rivals Rainbow Six Las Vegas and similar titles. There aren't 
 quite that many rifles, but you fully customize you rifles before deployment. You choose the barrel, 
 stock, shield, ammo clip, silencer, attachments such as shotgun or grenade launcher attachments, 
 and then if you so choose you can pay to pimp out your gun which basically makes it coated with 
 silver and gold. Not only do these modifications make your rifle of choice look better, but it 
 also affects the gameplay. Adding or upgrading your gun can make each shot gather more aggro, gain 
 better accuracy, more damage, and you can really feel the difference of the mods when playing.
 
  There are some sequences spread throughout the game where you and your bud go back to back in 
 a slow mo action sequence and mow down anyone coming at you. These are preset sequences, but they 
 add some drama. 
  The plot isn't deep, but it has some good voice acting, and it is effective at portraying the two 
 man team. 
  In addition to the online co-op, which you can either invite a friend or search for, there is a 
 VS mode. This isn't as well done as the rest of the game, but its better to have more content than 
 less. There are a variety of modes like hostage escort, warzone, assassination, and some others 
 that are different from your average deathmatch. You may not spend all you time in the VS mode, 
 but it is enjoyable to go in and against other Army of Two players online like a standard game. 
 
  
  I know I've left out some things that make this game great, but this should be enough for people 
 to justify a rental or a purchase of this great shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I said it, I waited on this game for a long time, and I really expected more intricate co-op 
 missions. Its basically just run from point A to point B and make sure to revive your partner if 
 he gets shot up.
  
  
  The graphics are pretty good, and the controls are pretty basic but I didnt care for the aiming 
 system too much. you have an unaimed shot and an aimed shot, but to do the aimed shot youve gotta 
 hold the unaimed, I mean why not just have two seperate buttons do the trick?
  
  
  Everybody has been complaining that its too short, but to me its alot longer than other titles 
 that share the same co-op genre, (gears of war.. etc) But honestly me and my friend took it down 
 in two sittings, to me thats not thrilling when I just paid $60 yesterday.
  
  
  All in all its a great game for two people to run through, maybe my long awaited high expectations 
 let me down a little and now Im bitter. But as Ive said plenty of times before, rent it to see 
 if its your kind of game first before purchasing.
  
  
  Its very tactics heavy and there is some degree of customization with your weapons and outfits, 
 and the aggro meter was a nice twist with the whole making your partner invisible like predator. 
 But rent it first and see if its enough to keep you coming back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spKeeper20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Picked this game up the other and played right away. You can instantly see the resemblance to Gears 
 of War due to the third person view. It plays similarly to Gears as well in combat with the melee 
 ability and the holding the trigger to "aim". Now i'll start the actual review.
  
  Graphics:
  Played it on both HD and SD so i can tell the difference. The HD is brighter and clearer 
 which is expected. The graphics are very good and comparable to the games like Halo 3 and COD4. 
 Water effects are great and explosions look good too. Nice lighting and textures and all that good 
 stuff.
  
  Sound:
  Sounds of combat sound realistic (or at least how I think they would sound like) . A lot of talking 
 and cursing but its all good. Voice acting is good as well.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Finally the good stuff. Beat single player and it is very enjoyable. The PAI works better than 
 most reviews give it credit. I never had a problem while it was dragging to a safe healing spot 
 when I was down. When using the Aggro i found it was easier if you buddy took all the hits while 
 you sneak around because he has unlimited ammo and since you know the objective of the sneaking 
 its easier to accomplish it. Probably a better game if played with a friend.
  The combat can get hectic and toward the end I frequently found myself just running around shooting 
 rather than covering behind stuff because the enemy does a very good job at staying behind cover. 
 The grenades are almost useless with killing but are effective when chasing enemies out of hiding.
 
  
  Other stuff:
  Weapon customization is great ranging from new barrels, silencers, stocks, front mounts, shields, 
 and appearences. Would have liked if more appearences than just "pimped" were available but what 
 ever. There is a story to this game so don't listen to reviews that say there isn't. In the beginning 
 of the game Rios will always talk of conspiracies which plays into the story of the game. Cut scenes 
 felt like they were interrupting the flow of the game such as when theres one to show the two of 
 them opening a door and going into another room.
  
  Conclusion:
  All in all a very fun game to play. Probably not an award winner (unless theres a best co-op one) 
 but if you are a fan of Gears of War or just like co-op games definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrethasfamas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Playing with someone else is purely awesome. Having a buddy pick up the other controller will make 
 you forget the time. Seems pretty easy for someone who isnt a "good" shooter to not be abysmal 
 at this game with little time. Commands arent overwhelming and pretty idiot proof. Passives/ Hostile 
 regroup, advance, hold. Intersesting "AGGRO" system. The AI partner is a little clumsy but the 
 best compared to others. Love the teamwork involved and hopefully will evolve into something greater. 
 The Weapon customization could have been more thurough but will not keep you bored. If youre into 
 playing with somebody like a room mate , friend, etc then a must check out game. Story isnt that 
 good but can someone really complain with the action value. Army of Two is the Two Man Army game! 
 The right steps into making a co-op classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tron
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Decent game, could make a pretty good franchise if they fixed the problems with this one. Single 
 player campaign is a little short but where this game shines is in co-op. there's a lot of problems 
 with the online versus however. Guns don't seem powerful enough, I hate emptying a whole clip into 
 a guy and he is still at half life. Some of those ballistics masks that you can purchase are very 
 intimidating and fun to tear around in. The customization options are fairly well done, however 
 I hate how you can't put a shield on the M134. Clyde was an interesting character especially the 
 first time you meet him, I have to admit that was pretty badass. The main characters were alright, 
 but Elliot Salem seemed like too much of a frat boy who just didn't seem like he'd be a member 
 of an elite commando duo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctan31
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is good but not great. The selection of weapons is not big enough but the customization 
 is good. I would've like more vehicles and a longer game. Finished it under 7 hours play (shorter 
 than heavenly sword) .
  
  On the other hand, the aggro concept is really cool and I've enjoyed playing split screen with 
 a friend but not multiplayer over the net . The mechanics of the game are in my opinion a bit shaky 
 and the coop sniping with a computer partner is too easy (I know, every one's a critic!!!) .
  
  The story is predictable and the maps are way to linear to my taste. Maybe with an update for 
 solo and online game it would add to the replay value.
  
  Over all I would rent it again for the action of the game but not buy it.
  
  Those were my 
 too cents (for what it's worth)
  Happy gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edthetinker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of shooters, and spend most of my weekends playing co-op games with my friends. 
 Needless to say this game should have been right in my wheelhouse.
  Pros: Gun Customization
  Silly Humor
  Cut-Scenes
  
  Cons: Online is awful...
  Controls 
 are clumsy
  Story is horrible
  Partner AI is dumber than your enemies.....
  
  Overview: This game could have been alot of fun if it was written by somebody who cared... I like 
 goofy macho stories like Gears of war, but this story took that to a point where it hindered the 
 story instead of adding much needed levity to a serious topic. The controls made battles very frustrating, 
 and the camera often blocked my objectives. It took half a bottle of "Juice" for me to play through 
 this game..
  Good for a rent, but save your cash for R6V2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is a Modern Third-Person-Shooter wich, as the title says, is made for TWO guys, i'll 
 explain later.
  
  The story's about two PMC contractors ( Salem and Rios ) , who ride over the world killing stuff, 
 and go on until.... --spoilers --
  
  Graphics are awesome. The characters, weapons, shadows, vehicles, lights look great ! And the water 
 is the best i've seen until now, maybe a little worse that Crysis, but, its awesome ! 
  
  Sounds are good too, the weapons do sound very differently that any other game, more like a bass 
 sound, changing to faster and softer, or stronger and brutal, depending on wich weapon you use.
 
  
  Now the gameplay is just awesome. You're always connected to your partner, because of the ''aggrometer'' 
 wich is know for people who played World of Warcraft. Loosely translated, aggro is : You shoot 
 big and alot, they shoot at you, not your partner, and that works fine because some bosses are 
 invulnerable on the front, and Mounted Machines guns are hard to get, and aggro lets the ''aggroed'' 
 partner take all the shots behind cover, while the other sneaks behind ennemys killing them silently. 
 And dont worry, you'll know when you have the aggro, 'cuz you glow red if you do, while the other 
 turns transparent ( you'll get used to it...) , and you even got an aggrometer, in the top screen, 
 to know exactly how much you are wanted.
  
  You also got alot of tactics for TWO man, such as boosting your friend up high ground, going back 
 to back when surrounded ( only works in pre-set areas, but it happens often and its cool ) , going 
 beserker when full aggro, while the other is stealthy and kills from behind, drag and heal your 
 partner when he is down... etc etc, the point is, you'll never be alone in Army of Two.
  
  The enemy and friendly AI are superb, you get to choose between hold, regroup and advance to command 
 your partner, and each of these in passive ( think first, shoot later ) or aggressive ( shoot first, 
 think later ) , and he normally reacts pretty well, covers you pretty well, briefly, he wont disapoint 
 you ! And the enemys, those are sneaky bastards too, always trying to flank you and flush you with 
 a grenade, calling theyr suicide bombers to explode you, getting behind cover blindly firing, and 
 alot of other things. Awesome.
  
  Now that i mentioned cover, you can get in cover in Army of Two, and you dont need to press anything, 
 just get behind something, shoot blindly or aim, the character will always raise his gun to reach 
 the target, or in other cases, shoot sideways. Great ! 
  
  You also get to customize your guns, in alot of different ways, such as new barrels, stocks, clips, 
 frontmounts, shields and appearance., choose between Primary weapons ( shotguns, assault rifles 
 and the 3 special ones :D ) Secondary Weapons ( pistols and sub-machine guns ) and Special weapons 
 ( Sniper rifles and bazookas ) and 3 different types of gear ( light medium and heavy ) and masks 
 ( for only 10.000$ ) . But unfortunatly you can only use frag grenades.
  
  Overall, Army of Two is a great game, only bad things is that its very very short, explosions suck, 
 not alot of trash in the scenarios ( bottles and those little things ) and some little bugs.
  
  Too bad i haven't yet played in Multiplayer, ill edit this review as soon as i do.
  
  But, 
 for now, i think you should buy this game, wether playing alone, splitscreen, or via Internet, 
 you'll never be alone ;)
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jezza141234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing until u finish it 1 1/2 hours after getting it i paid 50 for this game and 
 it has to be one of the shortest games i have ever played apart from the length of the game it 
 is amazing two player coop is the best and online is great again single player is gr8 as well apart 
 from the length of this game EA should be ashamed of this game it is ridiculous for the price people 
 pay if they were getting 10 for this game they would be getting well paid i returned this game 
 2 hours after i got it and got my money back if u don't have time to play games and only get to 
 play them once in a blue moon the this is the game for you as you will not finish it for a while 
 if you don't play on games much take a long hard look at your money before buying this game as 
 you could be very dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XRacer06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Ok so this has ben a very highly anticipated game from EA since the day it was anounced and i have 
 too say the finished project is incredible! Lets start with the graphics wich look very fresh and 
 clean. The enviroments feel different from each other and character expresions to gunfire and the 
 countries and structures that you fight through look great. The feature of the game is its sound 
 FX witch are great. Each gun has a distinct sound and the voice acting is great. You can realy 
 tell the difference between the two characters and they all have there little statements and taunts 
 and shoutouts to make during the action wich realy adds to the expirience.
  Next is the big standout of the game and thats its gameplay. This is one of the few games that 
 realy make a difference with its co-op play and dont just use it as some kind of bonus. If you 
 have someone to play with. I highly suggest you play through the game with them it realy adds to 
 te experience.
  But if your not able too the single player provides a great engaging game without sacrafising the 
 whole team work aspect. The single player AI is also smart and fun to play with. Not making stupid 
 moves or leaving you too do all the work. But then again this also goes for the enemy AI witch 
 does a good job giving you one hell of a challenge. They will give no mercy and that includes when 
 your trying to provide medical aid to your team mate if you go down. But this is when the agro 
 system kicks in. Where one player gets the enemies attension while the other flanks them. But if 
 the other player makes a mistake agro may either switch to the other player or you both will sharing 
 it. This is ONE of the reasons that the whole teamwork aspect works great. The story also helps 
 move the game along pretty well. But its nothing that is suppose to make a trademark on the game. 
 Last but deffinitly not the least is the customization. Theres a great amount of weapons in the 
 game wich give you different advantages in different sennarios but you can customize them for different 
 situations. For example i can get a M4 and put a shield on the front and a larger clip size if 
 im planning on getting in alot of firefight situations. Or i could put a more acurate barrel and 
 a silencer for stealthy situations. Or i could just "pimp" it by having the gun goldplated and 
 all shiny for some personal satisfaction. Things like this can be done to all your weapons. You 
 carry 3 on each mission. A primary like an assault rifle or machine gun, a secondary such as a 
 pistol or submachine gun, and a special. Wich would be a sniper rifle or a rocket launcher. Customization 
 also goes to your armor too. 
  
  Overall the game is great whether your planning on playing by yourself
  or with a buddy. If you 
 dont have one with you the online co-op works too. Its also good for anyone looking for a good 
 shooter. Realistic or fictional. The game has a lot of character and to put it easy if like shooters 
 BUY THIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armeda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Now, before I start. Don't get me wrong, army of two is a great game, everything you expected actually, 
 but there are just too few people playing it online. You can barley find anyone to play with! The 
 game is region locked, so that means you can only play with US or EU depending where you are from. 
 If you are from EU, you will barley find anyone to play with. The versus mode is very fun, best 
 I have played, but it is just too few playing! The game in my opinion, is just a rent, unfortunately. 
 Great game, great fun, but there is barley anyone to play with, so not worth the 60 bucks.
  
  
  Maybe worth a buy after a while, when more people have gotten the game, but thus far, not 
 worth it. 
  
  
  This game gets a 8.5 from me. Would give it a perfect 10, but it is too buggy, too few players 
 and the co-op is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  The concept and storyline are excellent and a fresh new way to use a two player co-op concept. 
 
  You play as one of two of the main characters and are sent of a series of missions some search 
 and destroy some rescue either way you leave a path of destruction behind you and even better is 
 you get paid for the destruction and enemy kills. The co-op concept is good where you and a friend 
 can team up and take on the game or log on line a player with some one via internet or use the 
 computer player with a hype up AI. Let just say if your an ass to your partner than he'll be just 
 as big of an ass if not bigger to you. Team work is a must but this doesnt mean you have to stay 
 together on screen. You member is able to aggro up meaning you do all the shooting and make the 
 enemy focus on you and allow your partner to basic become invisible and sneak up on the enemy. 
 another way is going back to back- feel like they are surrrounding you and you guys have now where 
 to run go back to back and take them out .
  If you use to cod4 then the controllers shold take to much of a learning curve.
  if there is 
 a fall sometimes the camera angles and going online to play you must play with a live partner and 
 if you dont know the guy/gal and they dont work well as a team you lose moeny (game money not real 
 money)
  so there has to be a a lot of trust put into those situations.
  the game is a very good shooter and the hype was worth it . does it better cod 4 ... no i dont think 
 it beats resistance either but it is a very good game and worth the time and money to pick it up 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fady904
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Ahh I don't know man, gets really preparative. You basically do the same thing over and over again. 
 Kill a bunch of enemies, flank the big boss and try to shoot him from behind. I bought this game, 
 i haven't played online yet so i hope that experiment it is worth the $67 i paid for this game. 
 I should have rented it first. The good thing about this game is the fact that it is not a long 
 game otherwise it would be really boring. I was ready to drop this game until i found that i'm 
 close to finishing this game. I was really disappointed after playing MOH and thought that EA should 
 stay away from Shooting Games, but you know what this is a good game by EA and hopefully in the 
 future they will incorporate more challenges and more things to do. Good it wasn't a first person 
 shooter, it would have turned really ugly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SilverGhost-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  A Good game all around. Especially on cooperation with a buddy. You can also play online splitscreen 
 which is awesome. Needs a little more though. Like more options and features on the online multiplayer 
 mode and more human players. Like more teams and a bigger maps like 2 vs 2 vs 2 vs 2 on a bigger 
 map and have 2 objectives going at once for the bigger maps. or you can make it so it's like 4 
 vs 4 or something with one objective. Even a deathmatch would be nice. But the game is still good 
 I think. It's just missing a little bit, that's all.
  The game has awesome graphics. Some cut scenes looks so real, it's insane. Gameplay is a little 
 unreal but real at the same time. I dont like how you can beat up some guy and grab him with one 
 hand and chuck him across the room like a rag doll. It's funny though, but unreal. But the game 
 had me laughing a lot. I wish the game would let you use the knife you have equiped on your suit. 
 atleast use it in the melee attacks so it looks cool. But other then those little things, the game 
 is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defender50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I say it is the best for a number of reasons. One of the best things is that you can drag your 
 partner out of combat, and save him istead of having to wait for him to respawn like in halo. Plus 
 your partner can help you help him by killing people while being dragged to safety. Another is 
 that when laying down supressive fire, your partner can sneak around back and "ambush" the enemy. 
 Therefore, rendering supressive fire more valuable in this game than any other game in the world. 
 Next, you can customize your player to a certain degree by picking a cool faceplate to wear in 
 battle. Also you can customize your weapons to maximize their potential. And you can "pimp" them 
 out, word. Going back to back is one of my favorite things to do. I guess it's just because you 
 can have loads of guys coming at you and you can just mow them them down with your gun. Easy pickin's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioShockOwnz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review and I felt the need to write it since this game is getting some harsh and 
 unjustified scores. Okay, so here we go....
  
  Army of Two has been one of the most hyped and anticipated new IP's out of the powerhouse that 
 is Electronic Arts. Does it meet the hype or fall short?
  
  
  Story:
  In Army of Two you play as Rios and Salem. They are part of a private military corporation, which 
 goes around the world secretly and fights against "terrorism." 
  
  The storyline in Army of Two is deep, but it's not presented in the best way. You can take as much 
 as you want away from the games story when you finish it, because it is a good story, but it doesn't 
 bash you over the head with the plot and corruption going on through Rios and Salem's adventures.
 
  
  It could've been told better, but it gets the job done.
  
  
  Design:
  The levels in Army of Two take place in Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, China, and Miami. There is 
 also a level that takes place on an Aircraft Carrier and it's easily one of the most explosive 
 moments in the game. You won't forget it.
  
  The level design is top notch. This game is designed perfectly for the strategic gameplay the developer's 
 were going for. There are a lot of places to take cover and it's all mapped out well.
  
  The character designs are also one of the best parts of the game. You get a huge selection of masks 
 and they truly make your characters look intimidating.
  
  The design of the weapons may look simple at first, but after playing the game more and earning 
 cash, you'll be able to "pimp" out your weapons and make them dominate your enemies. This option 
 will keep you playing Army of Two well into the future.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Army of Two is a third-person action game in the vein of Gears of War. It is all about taking cover 
 and being strategic when clearing the battlefield of all enemies. 
  
  Rios and Salem move smoothly and are easy to guide around from objective to objective. 
  
  
 Shooting an enemy is simple thanks to a great aiming system with a reticle that is just big enough. 
 Hit detection is great. See an enemy, line him up, and knock him down. It truly is a pleasure to 
 blast your enemies away in Army of Two.
  
  Now, the one issue I have is that you use the same trigger for shooting and melee combat. This 
 will prove to get you in some sticky situations at times, because you'll get close to an enemy 
 to pull off a melee attack and your character will respond by shooting, letting the enemy sometimes 
 get the upperhand.
  
  The cover system in Army of Two is the best cover system to date. It's really hard to explain, 
 though. When you get into cover, you don't press a button to "stick" to a wall, like in Gears of 
 War or Uncharted. You simply crouch or stand behind cover and your character will notice it and 
 act appropriately. You can blindfire just by crouching or standing behind a object and never truly 
 having to go into a cover animation.
  
  The buddy AI in Army of Two usually does its job, because you are free to guide your partner through 
 the battlefield with the D-Pad. He responds to every command and can sometimes get hung up. This 
 is where co-op comes into play. This game is built around co-op and it definitely makes the experience 
 much more enjoyable when playing with someone else. It can be online or splitscreen and both provide 
 enjoyable experiences. This is the deepest co-op game to date.
  
  
  Presentation:
  Army of Two is a great looking game, lets just get that out of the way. The character models are 
 excellent and well realized. They move and act realistically. Their animations are outstanding.
 
  
  The environments are a mixed bag for the most part. While the water and lighting looks fantastic, 
 some of the textures can be bland and muddy, but overall it's a beautiful game that'll be a showcase 
 on your Xbox 360 and PS3 for months to come.
  
  
  Overall - 8.5 
  Army of Two has its flaws, but it gets everything right in the right places and therefore it's 
 a massive success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I already reviewed this on the 360, but I have to do the same for the PS3 since it was the edition 
 that I spent the most time with. Without wasting more negative comments on this, I would adivse 
 anyone of sound mind to avoid this game unless you get it as a gift. EA needs to concentrate on 
 fixing their sports games rather than jump blind into the shooter genre. This game is a joke, but 
 it does get an A for effort. Anyone looking for a Gears of War alternative will shout profanity 
 at the screen after the first few bullets begin to fly. The story is spoiled in the booklet and 
 the game becomes repetitive after the first mission. The cover system is okay, but you are never 
 really behind cover. Moving targets are harder to hit than a nun standing next to God Almighty. 
 This is by far the worst usage of the Unreal Engine next to Too Human. EA would be better off making 
 this into a Fox tv series rather than a videogame. Ratchet and Clank games have better shooting 
 capabilities than this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSinc
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for something like Gear of War then just keep going and save yourself some money 
 and time. The character are extremely forced and lack any depth what so ever. The game mechanics 
 are based on very poor gimmicks instead of any kind of solid game play. Guns are extremely unsatisfying 
 to shoot and your character feels more or less like a god. Enemies constantly come from odd areas 
 so you always feel surrounded but it is never life threatening just annoying. You also get no pleasure 
 from head shots or killing enemies except when you get a close combat kill. The level design is 
 weird and sometimes comes in conflict with the way cover is set up. The games graphics are good 
 but what game these days doesn't have good graphics? All and all this game is a poor game that 
 has way to much focus on very cheap gimmicks and neglects any form of story, solid characters, 
 and good game mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulieisSmallie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Army of Two
  
  Overview
  
  Electronic Arts delves into the seedy and dangerous world of private military contracting with 
 their newest release, Army of Two. Army Rangers Elliot Salem and Tyson Rios are disillusioned with 
 the military and joing up with a PMC with the promise of large paychecks and access to superior 
 armor and weaponry. But even with pockets full of cash things aren't always as good as they first 
 appear.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Army of Two is a third-person action shooter that relies heavily on cooperating with your partner 
 to achieve your objectives. EA has implemented the "PAI" system, or "Partner Artificial Intelligence", 
 to allow the single player experience to flow smoothly without an actual human counterpart. To 
 get through the game you'll have to work with your partner to help each other up walls, go back 
 to back while surrounded by enemies, snipe enemies at the same time, use riot shields together 
 for maximum effect, and even drag them out of harm's way to heal them when they take too much damage. 
 It works out for the most part, with only minor problems as the AI gets hung up on the occasional 
 wall or won't approach from the direction you'd prefer them to. The true fun in the game though 
 comes when you actually partner up with a friend over Xbox Live to tackle the missions together.
 
  
  EA has also introduced a new gameplay concept in Army of Two, known as the "Aggro Meter". All weapons 
 have a varying amount of aggro that they generate when fired, and as you or your partner continue 
 to fire your weapons the meter will swing in that respective direction. As the meter swings to 
 your side, more and more enemies will become aware of you, or "aggravated", and will focus all 
 of their fire towards you. On the flip side your partner becomes almost "invisible" to the enemies 
 and can initiate flanking manuevers with greater ease. Lastly, once a player's aggro meter is full 
 they can enter "Overkill" mode. For the player who has a full Aggro Meter it will double all damage 
 they can dish out but slows them down. Their partner however will be able to move at an increased 
 speed while still being "invisible" to enemies. This raises some interesting gameplay mechanics 
 as players are able to tackle different objectives in a variety of ways by effectively using the 
 Aggro Meter.
  
  As players go from mission to mission they recieve payment for their "services". This money can 
 be used to purchase new weapons, armor and masks. Besides having a huge amount of weapons to choose 
 from, most of the weapons can be upgraded by adding on silencers, stocks, longer barrels, grenade 
 launchers, etc. You can even spend extra money on a weapon to "pimp" it out *author's rant* I hate 
 how that word is synonymous with "upgrade" *end rant* which will raise it's ability to generate 
 aggro. (Cause you know that if you're sporting a golden diamond encrusted AK-47 those bad guys 
 are going to want to take you out first!)
  
  Graphics
  
  Army of Two looks great on the Xbox. Character models are all rendered very nicely and a lot of 
 attention has been paid to your own character model and the weaponry you and your partner carry. 
 It's great to see the different weapons in action and watch them evolve as you upgrade them. Explosions 
 are great to watch and it's very obvious that a lot of attention has been given to the physics 
 of the environment and such. A great example of this is towards the end of the Aircraft Carrier 
 mission (you'll know when you get there!) . In between the missions as well are some pretty nifty 
 cutscenes that look fantastic as well.
  
  Controls
  
  The game just FEELS like Gears of War. It's hard to explain really, but once you start running 
 around I think you'll agree with me. I found myself kept wanting to be able to roadie run, but 
 you move fast enough for the most part. Even getting in and out of cover feels very reminiscent 
 of GoW, complete with blindfiring and all. This isn't necessarily a bad thing though because GoW's 
 controls were pretty refined and tight. The trigger buttons are what you would expect, with LT 
 aiming and RT firing. The bumper buttons are reserved for switching on weapons as well as some 
 teammate controls like co-op snipe. D-Pad is for giving orders to your AI teammate. I found that 
 the Y button is a life-saver in many occasions, allowing you to roll around out of the way of fire, 
 as well as climb over obstacles and such.
  
  
  Sound
  
  Voice acting to the game is top-notch. It's fun to hear the banter back and forth between you and 
 your squadmate and the script is pretty well written. I have no complaints in this section really 
 as all the weapons sound pretty good and the musical score is also appropriate for the game.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer with Army of Two takes it down to the simpleness of 
 2v2. Two squads of two ultra-warriors facing off against each other to complete various objectives 
 such as protecting a zone, escorting a hostage to an airlift, destroying objectives and/or assassinating 
 an enemy. All of this happens of course while your enemy is trying to do the same thing. As each 
 team completes an objective they receive funds with which they can aquire new weaponry and/or armor 
 upgrades as certain Supply Dumps on the maps.
  
  Army of Two offers both ranked and unranked gameplay. I've only played a few matches so far, but 
 it works out pretty well as long as you've got a teammate who communicates with you. One thing 
 I did not like was at the end of the match it will quit back out to the main menu, forcing all 
 players to search again for a new map.
  
  Oh, and of course there is online co-op with a friend through the whole campaign.
  
  Conclusion
 
  Zoidberg says 9.0 out of 10
  
  Army of Two is a wild, short ride down the conspiracy rabbit hole but it's certainly a fun and 
 enjoyable one. Great graphics, customization of weapons, an interesting two-man squad multiplayer, 
 and of course a great co-op experience make for a solid purchase in this reviewer's opinion. If 
 you go flying through the game on the easiest difficulty you'll be able to beat the game in about 
 4-5 hours. but that's no fun and who wants to do that? So, take your time, buy some badass weapons, 
 invite a friend and become an Army of Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IE_Tho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  If you are unsure of this game, thinking; "Hey! This looks cool, but I can't trust good advertising 
 to lead to a good game." *cough* Assassins Creed *cough* I was in your exact same position, but 
 I went ahead and decided to go out and buy this game, so I'm writing this with you people in mind.
 
  
  First off, the game sets you in a realistic story (which is more relevant than people realize I 
 imagine, google Blackwater if you get the chance) with Gears of War type gameplay, all cenetered 
 around cooperative play. My first play through I played with the Computer AI on the 'Contractor' 
 difficulty (medium) and the game starts off well with giving you enough information in the tutorial 
 to really decrease the learning curve. 
  
  The game uses aggro for the players, so the other player with less threat can advance towards flanking 
 enemies more easily. The game also includes some special things like 'Overkill,' which can be enabled 
 when a player has a full aggro bar, giving the player with the aggro a double damage buff, and 
 the player without the aggro to literally become invisible, allowing you to run right past enemies 
 and shoot them while the overkill is active. The other neet little ability they added is'Feign 
 Death,' which allows you to fake a death when close to dying, allowing your partner to help ratify 
 whatever dangerous position you were in, which you can then recover from (hopefully) . Another focus 
 of the game which really sold me, is the earning of money to buy weapons / armor, and literally 
 pimp them out thereafter, I'll get back to this.
  
  The story of the game is nothing special or epic, but it isn't disappointing at all, it definately 
 kept me entertained and interested. It's kind of hard to come up with an original idea in this 
 day and age is all, but the team did a good enough job with it, even though I still feel the female 
 voice guiding you through these missions is too much of a cliche for me. The level designs are 
 one thing in this game that really stood out for me, while the game is almost completely linear, 
 it does a great job setting it up to feel organic and spacious. There are also a wide variety of 
 places in the world you see while changing missions, and all feel different and welcome when first 
 visiting them. While shooters like this can't help but feel repetitive since really the only thing 
 to do is to shoot other people, I only found myself disliking the 'heavy armored' enemies which 
 required you to flank them using both players and aggro or whatever. While this kept the game challenging, 
 it felt like it was happening all too often towards the end of the game, getting very repetitive.
 
  
  Now the aspect of purchasing and upgrading your weapons, was very cool. I mean, a golden AK-47 
 with a grenade launcher attachment.. hells ya! But really, this is where I see alot of flaws with 
 this games design and production. The whole interface for this just stinks honestly. You can really 
 see that not alot of time went into making this aspect of the game feel right and make sense. First 
 off, they decide to give you information about who and where you're buying which type of guns from... 
 why? It has no relevance at all, except one of the weapons dealers make an unimportant cameo at 
 the end, pushing the story along through cut scenes and narratives. To me this is just shoddy EA 
 ideas that weren't implemented properly. I also noticed that the interface itself isn't really 
 that well put together, it would take too long to explain these bugs, especially since they really 
 aren't that big of problems to distract from the rest of the game. I was very pleased that they 
 allowed you to return the gun to original configuration after all the mods though, I wouldn't have 
 had thought EA would have cared to put this as an option even.
  
  The game allows you to play this single player mode online with a friend, or locally on split screen. 
 For online play you can set up private servers with friends easily, and I believe you can even 
 join a game online with a split screen local player (2 players split screen max btw) . I've only 
 played a few matches online, and they seemed decently fun, only problems I encountered was that 
 it really sucks when someone leaves a tournament because it ends the match right then and there, 
 so playing with randoms isn't too appealing. The other thing that got to me, was when I was playing 
 a ranked match, the server all of a sudden became unbearably slow, like nothing I had ever experienced. 
 I overcompensated every time I turned which was VERY frustrating, I believe this to be server side 
 lag though since I hadn't had this problem with any of the other games I played online.
  
  While I'm not sure what words to end this on, I'd like the skeptics who are waiting for the official 
 review to give it a chance if they think theres even a small possibility they would like it. While 
 the replay value on the story line is somewhat there due to it being moderately fun to play again, 
 along with unlocking all of the weapons/upgrades, the online modes of play will keep you entertained.
 
  
  I hope this helped you in any way, thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBX06
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Now if you are going to buy this game for the single player and dont have an extra controller or 
 a friend to play with dont bother this is strictly made for to people from the levels from the 
 entire game.
  
  Army Of Two is a surprising good game when I first heard about it I wasnt really impressed but 
 all the trailers and GP videos kinda made me think and I have a little brother and I pretty much 
 need an extra controller for the PS3 ( Multiplayer On Lego Star Wars) and I pretty much said to 
 much about Me.
  
  At first glance it looks like a Gears Of War rip with a cover system but there is no cover system 
 at all it is all done atomatically (Which is annoying for me) and the firing kinda deals like a 
 much improved version of Kane & Lynch and you are wrong.
  
  The main thingy in the game is teamwork but if you are dealing with the Slightly dim AI on both 
 sides it is better to play with a friend.
  Customation is the most fun you you will have in the menus and it is a nice and the only way to 
 spend your cash but you may spend hours customizing all of your guns and pimping them out.
  
  Aggro is what the game is based around if you dont use it your bound to die and die again so 
 stratagy is needed to customize your guns like Assualt and Support roles.
  
  The game runs on the Unreal Engine and has short beautiful pre rendered cutscenes keeping together 
 the meh plot which you will forget when you begin mowing down your first baddie.
  
  Overall if you dont have any friends and live under a rock down buy this game but if you do have 
 friends online or off go ahead and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Army of Two is, with all justice, one of the more surprising games of action in which it goes of 
 the year. A remarkable effort of Electronic Arts to rise the car of the most spectacular action, 
 violence and emaciated, with two charismatic antiheroes, cynical and to whom only it concerns the 
 money. Excellent presentation, robust vocabulary and a cooperative gameplay for a genuine, personal 
 and enjoyable game.
  
  Shooter is, without doubt, the key word of this generation. There are of all the classes and colors, 
 in first person, with perspective in third; warlike, fantastic, horror... The supply is ample, 
 and in many cases of an unquestionable quality, nevertheless one of the most difficult parts for 
 a game of this sort is to become a hit between the avalanche of titles, and to obtain that the 
 product is remarkable and is equipped with personality.
  
  In the new title of Electronic Arts we will cross part of the professional life of two mercenaries, 
 Salem and Rios, in a military company, the SSC that carries out missions all over the world under 
 the direct orders of the government of the United States.
  
  The force of the game is, indeed, in its cooperative mode, and although the artificial intelligence 
 of our companion is quite competent when we played in single, the certain thing is that it cannot 
 compete with a human rival.
  
  The system to give orders is tremendously simple and it is entirely carried out with the pad in 
 a fast and intuitive form. The money is fundamental in the game, and thanks to it we will be able 
 to do succulent improvements for our arms and equipment. Lamentably, the interaction with the surroundings 
 is null, there are very few objects that react to our bullets or explosions. Also the artificial 
 intelligence of the enemy is not very good.
  
  Army of Two opens in a spectacular form the doors of which it could be one of the new success franchise 
 for Electronic Arts. With great variety of scenes and situations, the new action title from EA 
 bets on the cooperative mode without palliatives, giving it a brutal weight to all the actions 
 in coop-mode, and where to play without considering our companion it is a suicide. Good graphs, 
 entertained campaign and action without limits for one of the first surprises of this 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofreak0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  it was great over all it was just too short. i mean really short, maybe i did blew it out of proportion 
 but it was at least 4-5 hours of game play. nothing new, besides the whole aggro meter thing, that 
 was actually pretty fun and it worked well with the game. story-line was meh' ok. difficulty level 
 was just right. nothing too over the top. i loved the whole co-op 2 players, online isnt all that 
 bad. graphics are pretty awesome. custom guns and gear. i was just let down by the length of the 
 game, its expected i guess. i was just expecting for a great game for the amount of times it was 
 pushed back. this game plays like a lot of games we've played before i. e. Gears of War, Call of 
 Duty4, so there is nothing new about the FPS aspect of the game. i hope to see downloaded content 
 like levels. i think ea rushed this game too soon and left out a lot of game play. my final word 
 is: dont buy this game. its a rent just like everything else, its too short for its price but overall 
 a great game to experience for yourself and maybe a second friend with a ps3 or even an actual 
 friend with second controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowman7000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  There are those days where you eagerly run to the nearest game store to purchase the next big shooter 
 with a buddy. This was one of those games. The idea of 2 fighters, almost invincible, doing awesome 
 feats for a guns for hire corporation is almost too good to pass up. So after you run to the nearest 
 game store and rush home to try it out with a friend that is where the fun begins.
  
  It all starts well with a plot that isn't the most enthralling but who was looking for that in 
 a shooter anyway. They throw in a plot twist and one character figures it out ages before the other 
 which adds a little comedy. But in the end it's just a we're the good guys we've been betrayed, 
 kill everyone who betrayed us kinda thing. 
  
  The shining star of this game is the "Mid Mission Shopping" in which you'll be nowhere near a place 
 to buy guns or talk to anyone about acquiring new weapons but there you will be given the option. 
 In this menu you're given the option of buying primary, secondary, and specialty weapons for use 
 in the missions. Also you're allowed to customize and upgrade you're weapons where you can do everything 
 from giving you're gun a bigger clip to solid gold plating your mini-gun. This is all done with 
 the money you earn from doing you're mercenary contracts. This can add depth by allowing one person 
 to be loud and proud and the other lurk around but in my experience one person will find a gun 
 that is good and both of you will buy and upgrade that weapon. All in all though this is the reason 
 you drive to finish the game not the story. It really is that much fun to upgrade this guns and 
 choose between them.
  
  After the tutorial and opening credits you're thrown into your first mission and this is where 
 the action starts. The shooting is decent and the tactics when played with a buddy are rather nice 
 and add up to a very enjoyable experience. However it's after you've beaten the game in one sitting 
 about 6-7 hours on the first play through and your friend leaves it starts to get bad.
  
  Now as good as the Co-op is, the partner's AI in single player is horrible. He makes Boomer from 
 the first Socom look like a Harvard graduate. (And that takes some effort) Now it's not all his 
 fault though the controls you're given to guide your partner are flawed at best and broken at worst. 
 There is times you'll tell your partner to advance to flank enemies or just move forward and you'll 
 see him run past a swath of enemies, run 2 rooms ahead of you, only to get killed and yell for 
 help. Then you'll ask him to draw fire by gaining aggro and holding position in which he'll hide 
 behind cover and wait for you to die. All in all his decisions on what actions to take are toward 
 the hide and when you get killed trying to accomplish everything, run out and get killed as well. 
 
  
  But coming to an end here the Co-op with a friend right next to you or across the internet makes 
 this a very enjoyable game where you'll have hours of fun. The increased difficulty levels add 
 challenge after multiple times through the game and the story is enough to make you want to continue 
 playing. The gun fighting is average but enjoyable but the one thing that keeps me from giving 
 this a strong recommendation is simply the fact that the game is really almost unplayable single 
 player. So a word of caution to all those who don't share well with others this may not be the 
 game for you. However those looking for a great time with a roommate will have a very pleasant 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Yes it's hard not to mention Gears of War when you play Army of Two. You see the similarities between 
 the two games. Two big bulky dudes with lots of guns. One cool thing you do have on Army of two 
 is the upgradable weapons, gears, and armor. Which makes you want to go back and play some more 
 to unlock some of the cool armors and gears available after you beat the game in the three different 
 difficult levels. 
  
  If you like to play online co op with a buddy than search no more this is the perfect game for 
 you and your friend to play together gears of war style. You can also play this game online with 
 a stranger if you decide to play this game online in public or private if you don't. 
  
  The game does take advance of the horse power of the PS3 but I just wish the game look as good 
 as the amazing cut scenes in the game. Don't get me wrong this is a beautiful looking game but 
 the cut scenes are just beautiful to watch. I'm glad EA took the time to make this game look as 
 gorgeous as it does. 
  
  The controls are pretty good they have the L2 to precision aiming like in gears of war and shooting 
 with R2. You can always blind shoot from behind cover. One thing I don't like is that you don't 
 stick to the walls or cover as good as you want it to be like in rainbow six and gears of war. 
 I caught myself jumping over cover a lot when hitting the triangle button to get in cover. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty cool they have team command. You can tell your partner to be as aggressive 
 as possible to draw all the attention to him as you become invisible to your enemies. As they are 
 all focus on him you can make your way behind their backs and shoot them when they least expect 
 it. This works even better when you're playing with a friend. As the AI is not as good as your 
 friend will be at drawing all the attention. 
  
  If you're looking for a beautiful online co op game with a lot of action and explosions then Army 
 of two is a good game that is worth checking out. Especially the online co op will have you coming 
 back for more to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santiago261988
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  gears of war it is ok it was shrots but army of two is a much better game and it is one of the 
 best game i ever seen right now becuse it looks real and it is one dame cool 3 proson shooter and 
 it is one of the ture games i ever played and it is one of the most 3 proson shooter game i ever 
 seen for the ps3 and it is one best game every body should buy that what i think and it is ture 
 and it is one of the best game in the market that what i think becuse i play the game and when 
 i play the game i think it was addtive game becuse it is the bigest game in the market and my freind 
 play it and we played it in co op and we had a blast becuse we was playing the game togetther and 
 shooting the bad guys together and what osome we palyed death match and we and when we shot each 
 other it looks like he wasd real geting shoot pretty cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited, but when I got it I wanted a bit more. It's a cool game, it looks flawless 
 but it's missing something. The Controls take a bit getting used to, which will cause frustration 
 but once you get the hang of it it's cool. There is a good feeling to the game, but I did see enemies 
 shoot behind walls with out a gun or a body being shown. Close quarters combat controls become 
 a mess in the heat of a firefight. Enemy AI on the China level: they walked back and forth ignoring 
 where I was. The extra three months EA had to polish the game, I think these bugs would have been 
 erased but the polish was missing. Don't get me wrong it's a cool game, but it could have been 
 a bit better. Switching weapons took too much time. Most people will say I'm wrong but I'm being 
 very critical on the development of the game. The sound of the weapons is pretty damm good, as 
 well as the maps, great detail. But not having the free open range, of a map, like hopping off 
 a hill, or climbing up a deck, or running out into the water to attack from another angle makes 
 me disagree with it being the best game out there. It was a fun gaming experience but it's missing 
 the choice of free range. Dialog is repeated often, and being asked to go weapon shopping too often 
 was a bit annoying. But all in all most people will really love the game. It has some course language 
 which is great for adults but some parents will not like what little Johnny & Samantha are playing 
 in the living room. It's an adult game not really for kids, therefore the Bill & Ted air guitar 
 got old after seeing it once. It needs more missions in more countries, air strikes, an extraction 
 little bird for air support or emergency evacuation, smoke grenades or gas grenades, an improved 
 map GPS hud, Partner AI could have been a bit tighter. Overall it's great, but I'm just pointing 
 out things I thought could have made this game a pure classic. I hope someone with agree with me. 
 
  Since it is for adults the dead bodies should stay in the game and not disappear after being killed, 
 and their weapons should be available as an option to the user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachukirby
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Okay so i just got this game last night and haven't gotten very far but this is an awesome game! 
 I've only had the chance to play single player mode and even though this is a co-op based game 
 single player is still sweet. The graphics are out of this world and the story so far is nice. 
 You start off as one of two characters and the AI is actually helpful smart for the most part. 
 You start in the army and have one mission while in the army and then you get hired by the SSC 
 which is outsourced military service and you and your partner basically become Mercenaries. You 
 earn cash with each mission and the more objectives you complete the more cash you get. The cash 
 is used to buy new weapons or even customize the weapons you already have which is really cool. 
 Its also used to purchase Masks and armor. Aggro is something new where whoever is doing the most 
 shooting gets the attention from the enemies so the other player can sneak around and shoot from 
 behind. I'll write more when i play more. PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Goku2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics and gun play. Very responsive A. I. Your communication in online play is very keen. 
 This game is even great alone with the computer controlled character. If you like call of duty 
 4, do yourself a favor and at least give this game a rental. This game does what alot of games 
 of its calibur counldn't do. Unbelievable gameplay strategy, unique story. I for one am a lover 
 of call of duty 4, but this game has me hooked. If you don't get a chance to at least play this 
 game, try and check out a video or a screen or something. Read a review on it, but also don't always 
 believe what editors of game magazine's say. They base to much off of what type of games they like 
 and not the general gaming public. You can't go around comparing every game to your favorite, you 
 have to judge it by its catergory, the type of gameplay, whether its truly in depth or not. Its 
 like comparing killzone (ps2) to halo (xbox) . Yes both are 1st person shooters, but they are 2 
 different classes, one engrosses sci-fi action, the other near future war colonization. Army of 
 two is in no means call of duty 4, but it still is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I finished this game in two days, and within 5 hours. To be frank, it's very short and you would 
 felt like it was ending all too soon. It's introducing you to the Army Of Two contract deals, u 
 get to do some deals and it end really quickly by telling you u've been betrayed and ur mission 
 is to kill the betrayer, and pooof.. the game ends.
  The game isn't without it's merits, the graphics are stunning, the combat system is a little identical 
 to Uncharted. You tag with a mate of yours and do mission together. Along the way, many small jokes 
 comes in. The Weapons upgrades, i'm quite impressed, it's very detailed but u probably won't have 
 that much money to invest in them unless ur going to repeat the game another time.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's great but it still doesn't impress me further. Whenever u get lost, u press select 
 and it guides u along to ur next destination. You play as a Army Of Two, taking on tons of enemies. 
 There's two mode of engagement, aggressive and defensive, when ur aggresive, u take in aggro when 
 u fire shots. When so, enemies will focus on you, ur mate will become kind of invisible. This aggro 
 is very useful against enemies whom u can only backstab. When ur life is low, u can fake death, 
 
  One thing i was quite disappointed is that the story and gameplay is very linear, all those back-to-back, 
 helping ur mate to climb higher etc are all planned and u can do them in any other location other 
 than those selected.
  
  Graphics:
  If i ain't wrong, it uses Unreal Engine, it's very impressive especially during cutscenes. No framerate 
 issues or anything and it runs very smooth. And of course, the presentation from EA is top notch. 
 When ur hit, ur screen turns red, indicating low life.
  
  Sound:
  Was expecting DTS format audio since it's EA but it isn't. But nevertheless, the DD format was 
 as impressive. The bass is strong, everything like helicopter and gunfire sounds very good.
  
  My Conclusion? This game gave me a short but great experience. I've tried to go online but 
 there isn't anyone. I'm thinking that it might take some time for ppl to buy the game and play 
 online. But until then this game is worth a look if u enjoy shooters. It's a 3rd person game and 
 play alike to Uncharted, where u hide behind objects often and peep out to shoot at enemies. I've 
 enjoyed the 5 hours, but if only the online has more people, then will i recommand this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwamiG8R
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I was looking for to this game to relieve some of the boredom from COD4. I was a little disappointed 
 in the controls, most of which being the trigger is the R2 button. When will developers realize 
 that this is a VERY annoying trigger. Why not give the option of changing the controls? The Graphics 
 are REALLY good. The game locked up on me once right before a BOSS battle. Sometimes the camera 
 angle doesnt line up with where you need to shoot. Its easy to pick apart what is wrong because 
 its relatively a small amount of things. The game is challenging and fun, and a nice break from 
 COD4.
  I like the ability to upgrade the guns in every aspect, but wish there were MORE ammo pickups, 
 I ran out of bullets WAY too often. Be efficient with your shots and ALWAYS take cover!!
  The AI in the game is VERY smart, they move in relation to where you are, and will stay in cover 
 until they get a good shot. (EDIT) This game is WAY too short... and for the money, why not have 
 more options on 'GEAR'? lame IMO..... what was the purpose of having a sniper rifle, when you cant 
 use it exclusively to take out long distance enemies with stealth?
  I guess this is another one of those EA games that I will have to trade in after two weeks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsb27
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is not just another run of the mill shooter. There are just so many things to do in this 
 game. You can swap weapons, co-op snipe, upgrade your weapons, slap your friend in the head (which i 
 totally enjoyed doing to my pitiful friend) , storm the front with many tactics like both players 
 hiding behind a shield, back to back firing and so much more.
  
  
  The weapons are just so impressive and powerful, taking out enemies in a few blows. I really enjoyed 
 blowing the A. I away with the shotgun at close range.
  
  I have played about half way through the game and it already rocks and I look forward to the next 
 sequel of the game. Maybe with larger and tougher foes or with skills that can interrogate the enemy 
 for information. Now that would rock. The graphics are also spectacular
  
  If you see it in stores just buy it already, do it. You won't regret the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. The game looks amazing , sounds great and the controls are solid. This game is 
 really what Co-op games should be like. Even if you don't have a friend to play with, you can just 
 hop online and play with someone or if you can't do that the AI will take over the other character 
 for you.
  
  Game-play itself is just fun. You play in 3rd person view much like Gears of War. Which works great 
 for the game. You can tear off car doors and use as a shield while your partner shoots from behind 
 you. Most things require you to work as team and most the fire fights will end pretty fast if you 
 just do your own thing. The more you fire the more you gain "Aggro" which in turn more people will 
 fire at you while your partner can move around to the flanks un-noticed and rain hell on the bad 
 guys. Get enough aggro and you can go into "Overkill" mode which puts you into a slow-motion shoot-out 
 where your bullets send enemies flying and is a very fun feature to watch.
  
  Possibly the best thing of the game is the customizing of your weapons. You get a primary weapon: 
 AK47 , G36 , M4 , etc. Then a seconday: Pistols , MP5's , Uzi, etc... Then Specials: Which range 
 from Sniper Rifles to RPGS to Stingers. Almost all of the weapons can be modified in some shape 
 or form. From the barrel's , stock's , ammo clips , and the best feature "PimPin" your weapon in 
 which your weapon is decked out in gold plating, in turn makes for a nice flashy weapon. There's 
 plenty of weapons to choose from so you shouldn't be bored with just a few weapons.
  
  All and all the game is great. My only complaint is that it's a bit short but from what they've 
 said they will have more download-able content to come. So yeah easily a 9/10. It's a must buy 
 for any shooter fans and for people that love co-op games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psicho_tr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere 
 and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp 
 and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, 
 realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere 
 and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp 
 and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, 
 realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere 
 and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp 
 and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy 
 good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic 
 . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect 
 art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy 
 good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic 
 . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect 
 art and sounds, realy good atmosfere and graphic . very sharp and perfect art and sounds, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I have purchase this game yesterday. And spent a good 2 hours to play it. I would say it is a great 
 game that i had been waiting for.
  
  All the flanking of enemies and covering fire for buddy and most important the weapons used by 
 the player and AI. They are great.
  
  I am impressed by the command given to the AI. When press regroup (red)
  the AI will actually 
 cover fire for the player, which is me in this case. And allowed me to flank the enemy from another 
 direction. 
  
  The weapons selection is not alot. But with some powerful weapons, the enemies are easy to take 
 out.
  
  However, there are some improvement to be made. I realised the characters of this game doesn't 
 hug the wall when they take cover. The producer should look into this.
  
  I hope for the next game, players or AI will be able to call for air strike or call for extraction 
 instead of a cut scenes.
  
  I hope there will be a second version of this game with more powerful weapons and also better equipments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Ok here is what is the game about for those that dont know if they want it or not i give you full 
 review. Well 1st of all really realistic graphics when it comes to video clips. Real guns upgradable 
 with silencers, granade launchers, hand grips for better acc, bigger ammo clips, longer barrels 
 for more acc custom paint for higher argo and custom masks and armor. Many guns to choose from. 
 Amazing acting and you can do pranks as well when you play such as X to cheer you friend up or 
 R2 to protend like you are mad at him by hiting him in a head with a gun etc. Everything works 
 great campaign is awesome just now beat it on professional and everything sims to be fine and work 
 well until i got online to try it out and play versus mode now thats where i found a f**ck up on 
 multiplayer. Huge lag and choppiness online right now just more ure stick and it moves on screen 
 about half second late. I just now posted complain comments for the EA. com and waiting for awnser 
 and see if they patch it over as soon as they can which i bet they will just like they did with 
 COD4 when servers were all messed up on that. Well yet campaign coop private or public with online 
 players works just fine no lag or delays its just the versus 2 on 2 by the way its not really 2 
 on 2 its more of like 2 on 2 and bunch of AI computer trying to kill you as well. Ranking online 
 is $$$ more money you get higher rank it is. Money are earned by killing enemy AI = 1000$ Player 
 6000$ and objectives from 10000 - 50000$ so there is my review game amazing just wait for the patch 
 online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedhades
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  A GREAT NEW IP DEFINES A MIX OF CALL OF DUTY THAT WILL KEEP YOU OFF FROM PLAYING THAT THE GREAT 
 NEXT THING WAIT TILL HAZE AND MGS4 WITH GREAT VISUALS AND GAME PLAY THE FRAME RATE IS AWESOME AND 
 IT DOSENT SKIP AS ITS BEEN WELL OPTIMIZED FOR THE PS3 RSX GRAPHICS ENGINE AND ALL OUT WAR GAME 
 WEATHER YOU ARE NOR ENEMY OR FRIEND AND SOLDIER OR HIT MAN GREAT EA WORK ON THIS TITLE THAT ITS 
 REALLY ENTERTAINING AND OUTGOING WELL MULTI PLAYER DESIGN AND WITH TIGHT CONTROLS AND ITS RIGHT 
 NOW A GREAT TO BE ON WITH TILL I REPEAT AGAIN MGS4 OR HAZE WHICH FOR ME THEY ARE LIKE IN THE SIMILAR 
 UNIVERSE OF GAME PLAYING, ITS MODERN SETTING ITS WHAT MAKES GOOD AND MAKES YOU MAKE MOVEMENTS WITH 
 CONTROLS THAT ARE AMAZING IN EVERYWAY PLUS IN CONTROL OF SQUAD BASE SYSTEM MAKES EVEN BETTER GAME 
 AND SOUND ITS GREAT PLUS THE ACHIEVEMENTS YOU'LL SEE THROUGH ONLINE EXPERIENCE ITS OFF TO GREAT 
 LIMITS GREAT NEW IP FROM EA THATS AWESOME GAME ITS ARMY OF TWO OUT NOW FOR PS3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  IM SICK OF MOST OF THE GAMES IN THE GAME STORE ,THEY ALL LAKE IDEAS AND GOOD GAME-PLAY, BUT YOUR 
 ABOUT TO CHANGE YOUR MIND WHEN YOU PLAY AO2. SIMPLY AMAZING GAME ,THE SOUND OF THE WEAPONS AND THE 
 PEOPLE AROUND YOU MAKE YOU FEEL THAT YOU ARE PART OF THEM AND YOU ARE DOING THIS FOR REAL.
  LETS START WITH THE GRAPHICS ,STUNNING ABSOLUTELY AMAZING EA DONE A GREAT JOB IN THIS GAME AND 
 DELIVERED A GREAT QUALITY OF BACKGROUND AND SEANCE.
  THE SOUND IS GOOD .
  THE GAME-PLAY IS ABOUT TEAM WORK AND HOW TO FINISH YOUR JOB
  IN ORDER TO GET THE REWORD ,THE 
 EVENT WILL TAKE PLACE IN MANY DIFFERENT COUNTRY DOING ALOT OF ASSASSINATION PLUS KILLING WANTED 
 TERRORIST SOMETHING NICE TO DO WHEN U R BOARD .
  ALOT AND ALOT OF GUNS AND WEAPONS FOR MASS DESTRUCTION, AND EASY KILLING PLUS YOU WILL BE ABLE 
 TO CUSTOMIZEYOUR WEAPON TO BE MORE FETAL, OR PIMPED .
  
  SIMPLY THIS GAME IS THE BOMB ,JUST DONT HESITATE TO BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpapimalo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A GAME THAT WILL TAKE YOUR MIND OUT OF CALL OF DUTY4 FOR A GREAT AMOUNT OF TIME this game 
 got a great and amazing graphics, great sound effects and the online game play will not let you 
 down. Are you getting bore of the same thing over and over with cod now you got your self something 
 to hang in there for the greeter games that are coming out? I will give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
 Army of two got everything that u always wanted to do in life. Amen in god we truest. Gamespot. com. 
 the best.
  the only bad thing about this game is the suviver mode to play 2 vs 2 sucks to joing a game is 
 a paine in the neck. why the onlyne suck the only thing is good is the 2 player co-op.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  THIS IS A GAME 
 THAT WILL TAKE YOUR MIND OUT OF CALL OF DUTY4 FOR A GREAT AMOUNT OF TIME this game got a great 
 and amazing graphics, great sound effects and the online game play will not let you down. Are you 
 getting bore of the same thing over and over with cod now you got your self something to hang in 
 there for the greeter games that are coming out? I will give this game 9.0 out of 10. Army of two 
 got everything that u always wanted to do in life. Amen in god we truest. Gamespot. com. the best. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
