-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Assassin's Creed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/assassinscreed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, gorgeous world that feels wholly alive.
 Fluid controls make it fun to run across city rooftops.
 Joyous mix of stealth, action, and platforming.
 Stunning sound design features fantastic voice acting and a beautiful musical score.
 Tons of small details will constantly amaze you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Confusing ending.
 A few small visual glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.0, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 10,332 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Assassin's Creed is a beautiful and exciting experience that you'll remember for years to come. 
 

  Assassin's Creed will stay with you long after you finish it. Here is one of the most unique gameworlds 
 ever created: beautiful, memorable, and alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, 
 subtle details, from astounding visual flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than 
 just a world -- it's a fun and exciting action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, 
 rounded out with silky-smooth controls and a complex story that will slowly grab you the more you 
 play. Make no mistake: Assassin's Creed is one of the best efforts of the year and a must-own game 
 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners.  

           The citizens of Damascus have a lot of secrets to hide.      

  Not enough can be said 
 about the living, breathing world that you'll inhabit in Assassin's Creed. As assassin extraordinaire 
 Altar, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th century: Jerusalem, Damascus, 
 and Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and features meticulously crafted 
 towers that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet corners where citizens converse 
 and drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets (and rooftops) , you'll push your 
 way through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear orators shout political and religious 
 wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altar has a profound effect on this world, 
 but the cities are entities all their own, with their own flows and personalities.  

  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altar's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely you feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally well done. 
 Altar scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights that 
 would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one pose 
 to another without a hitch. Minor characters move gracefully as well, though one of the game's 
 few visual drawbacks is the occasional jerky animation on the part of a citizen. However, it's 
 easy to forgive, considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals. 
 In fact, these tiny blemishes are noticeable only because everything else looks so incredible. 

  What you hear is even more impressive than what you see. At the top of a temple, you hear little 
 but the rush of wind, the twittering of birds, and the barking of a far-off dog. In the most populated 
 areas, your ears will fill with the din of street vendors, the pleas of beggars, and the occasional 
 humming. It's never too much, though, and the game does a good job of making sure you hear what 
 you need to hear (for example, the cries of citizens who need your help) , without filling your 
 ears with pointless noise. All these effects, along with the clangs of swords and groans of assassinated 
 foes, are outstanding. The voice acting of the supporting cast is similarly remarkable. Conversations 
 are completely believable and delivered with the perfect amount of solemn dignity. Oddly, the weakest 
 link is Altar himself. Actor Philip Shahbaz does an all right job, but he isn't up to par with 
 the first-rate acting of his fellow troupe. Rounding it all out is a beautiful orchestral score 
 that is most notable for its subtlety. Many of the game's most impressive moments are accompanied 
 by lovely musical themes that add even more threads to the game's rich living tapestry.  

           Climb to the pinnacle of a tower for a bird's-eye view.      

  Fortunately, the story 
 that binds it all together rises to the occasion. Actually, there are two related stories in play. 
 The unfolding drama of Crusades-era Palestine is a mere memory, forcibly pulled from a modern-day 
 bartender named Desmond by a resolute researcher using a machine called an animus. The memories 
 aren't Desmond's own -- they are Altar's, stored safely in the hapless subject's genetic code. We 
 follow Altar as he assassinates nine public figures at the command of his master, and as the common 
 thread that ties these men comes into focus, so does the true identity of Desmond's captors. There 
 are no cutscenes in the traditional sense; every bit of story exposition and dialogue flows smoothly 
 from the gameplay and takes place entirely within the game engine. The ending is confusing, and 
 it blatantly leaves open the possibility of a sequel, but it's a small blemish on an otherwise 
 stirring tale. Altar's world is not one of absolutes. His assassination targets aren't always 
 evil, and Altar isn't always likable. As he is fond of reminding us, "Nothing is true. Everything 
 is permitted."  

  Of course, such an authentic world would be meaningless without a lot of fun things to do in it. 
 Thankfully, Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy 
 exploration, tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination 
 targets, you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types 
 in this regard. In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations. At other 
 times, you will closely follow someone carrying an important letter that you'll pickpocket. Alternately, 
 you can beat the information out of your target. Most missions are relatively easy to pull off 
 in the early stages of the game. But once the guards and townspeople start recognizing you (or 
 you alert them to your presence too close to the scene of one of your crimes) , they get a little 
 tougher.     

  There are also some optional tasks, such as rescuing innocent townspeople from the clutches of 
 guards. The reward for doing so is a group of vigilantes who will hang out in the area afterward 
 and hinder any foes chasing you. It's also a good way to try out Assassin's Creed's combat, which 
 is surprisingly satisfying, considering the game's focus on sneaking around. You can pounce on 
 enemies using your hidden blade (an incredibly rewarding one-stab kill) , or use throwing daggers 
 to take enemies down from a distance. However, your sword is your melee mainstay, and though the 
 hack-and-slash combat may seem simple at first, it gets more challenging once you unlock the various 
 countermoves. Often, you'll have a dozen or more attackers to fend off at once, but though these 
 fights can be a little tricky, you'll never feel as if you're in over your head. In fact, the few 
 circumstances in which you are forced into combat -- such as a late-game boss fight against a seemingly 
 endless crowd of attackers and their leering leader -- are challenging and require some pitch-perfect 
 timing to counter every strike and lunge.  

           Combat is a whole lot of bloody fun.      

  Nevertheless, brute force is rarely the 
 best way to handle a situation. You want to slink unnoticed through the crowds, but you can draw 
 attention to yourself in a number of ways -- whether it be galloping past a guard station on a horse, 
 knocking pottery off of someone's head, or getting so frustrated by the various beggars that you 
 fling them away from you. (And trust us -- these are the most aggressive panhandlers you'll ever 
 meet.) If you antagonize the guards, they'll give chase. Yes, you can stick around and fight, and 
 though it's never the easiest option, breaking stealth does not damn you to death like it does 
 in other sneaking games. But why not lure them to a rooftop? Once up there, you can grab them and 
 fling them to the street below. Or if there are too many of them, you can jump across the rooftops 
 gracefully until you find a hiding place, such as a nice bale of hay or a curtained garden. Once 
 you're hidden, they'll break chase and you'll be free to roam about.  

  You can also seek refuge in small groups of scholars who serve as mobile hiding places. It's a 
 bit contrived to walk into a stationary cluster of scholars and have them suddenly start moving 
 simply because you're there, but it gets the job done. Actually, if there's any drawback to the 
 usually excellent gameplay, it's how synthetic certain elements feel. Vigilantes are always in 
 the same spot, missions reset if you don't get them right the first time, and those same guards 
 will be harrassing that citizen, an hour after you pass by. It's easy to forgive these quirks though, 
 given the easygoing flow of the world surrounding these pockets of gameplay.  

  Climbing up buildings and jumping around the rooftops is fun and breezy, thanks to effortless controls 
 that strike a great balance between ease of use and player input. You can leap across alleys and 
 scale walls with the pull of a trigger and the press of a button, and though it's possible to launch 
 yourself from a wall or hurtle through a vendor's booth by accident, these moments aren't very 
 common. You'd think that a city specifically designed to let you climb structures and caper about 
 the roofs would look overly artificial, yet there's never a moment when you will think to yourself, 
 "Wow, that looks like a place where I'm supposed to jump." The architecture looks completely natural, 
 which makes Altar's abilities all the more exciting to pull off. The environments don't look as 
 if they were created for him to climb around on; he just uses the hand he's been dealt, as any 
 good assassin should.  

           Eavesdropping will reveal a wealth of information.      

  In Assassin's Creed, the 
 greatest joy comes from the smallest details, and for every nerve-racking battle, there's a quiet 
 moment that cuts to the game's heart and soul. Climbing towers to uncover portions of the map is 
 a simple mechanic but forever satisfying, thanks to the beautiful vistas and soft musical themes 
 that accompany the view. Even the drunks that pester you are amusing and fun, though their constant 
 shoving is more than annoying, especially if you are trying to pickpocket a pedestrian or eliminate 
 a target without a fuss. It all makes your missions that much more compelling, and you'll be inclined 
 to explore every nook and cranny and take on every optional task, just for the fun of it. There's 
 a ton of stuff to do, and even when you've exhausted your official tasks, you can search for the 
 collectible flags and crosses strewn around the cities and countryside. You could probably plow 
 through the main quest in 20 hours if you're lucky, but completists might spend close to 50 hours 
 finishing every quest and gathering every collectible.  

  There are few differences between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. PS3 owners are blessed 
 with a slightly more solid frame rate, although the 360 version features a little more contrast 
 in the lighting, so it's pretty much a wash. But regardless of which platform you go with, you'll 
 have an amazing and unforgettable game. Assassin's Creed is the kind of game you tell your friends 
 about, and one that should be in your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (860 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Eyad-93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is surely an amazing game with an intersting and immersive story and beautiful, 
 stunning visuals that clearly displays the power of the PS3.
  
  Story 10/10:
  There were actually two stories going on between being the Modern day descendent of an Assassin 
 to being the Assassin himself through a machine that lets you access your ancestors memories. While 
 in the machine you play as Altair the Assassin murdering people in places like Damascus, Jerusalem, 
 and Acre. this game is like playing history, probably the best story ever written for a game.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  The graphics is simply breathtaking, with detailed characters and city designs that will surely 
 satisfy you. very few glitches.
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  amazing freedom and the sword fights are so cool and realistic thatt you feel like your actually 
 fighting but the missions in this game are very repetitive involving you going to a place interrogating 
 someone pickpocketing someone and doing mini-assassinations for fellow assassins, requires patience.
 
  
  overall this game is worth playing no questions about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off the most noticeable thing about this game, the graphics are amazing! It stunned me 
 to say the least, and not to mention the weird computerized places you get put in before levels 
 are neat with the great graphics.
  
  The storyline is great, and it keeps you asking questions until the end which make you want to 
 play it even more.
  
  The combat is very good as well, however once you are given the ability to counter your enemies 
 attacks there is a snag. You can use this ability to wipe out a whole army. This kind of defeats 
 the purpose of being sneaky and only fighting when you absolutely have to.
  
  Another thing that is disappointing is that the investigations that you can perform are fun until 
 about your third mission. Then they are repetitive and boring which makes you say "haven't I done 
 this about a million times already?" Luckily this mostly just pulls some people away from wanting 
 to replay the whole game a second time.
  
  Overall this is an amazing game that you must play despite the problems it carries with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theIDENTITYof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  definitely one of my favourite -- if not my favourite -- videogames. cus the thing is, you can still 
 keep playing it, even after you've beaten the game (which is why i've spent overtime playing it) . 
 it has 40 hours of gameplay, the graphics are AMAZING, the moves are awesome (you can hear their 
 skull crack when you hit them!!!) , and the storyline is pretty good. honestly, the graphics are 
 even a lot better than some of today's newest games, and the things this dude can do.... like, omg. 
 really. people may think that the ending is screwed up, but it surely leaves you hanging since 
 there's going to be an AC2. which i totally can't wait for. to me, this game is good for taking 
 your anger out (ha) if you don't have anything you can break... it's especially fun if you've already 
 beaten the game once, because then you can kill innocents without losing health/sync. but, of course, 
 it's usually more fun to fight someone who'll actually fight back. which means the guards. so yeah, 
 i would definitely say that this is a must-have game and i will also say that i have become totally 
 obsessed with it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  In total, I have bought Assassins's creed twice. Once for Xbox 360 and now for Playstation 3. On 
 my first run I nearly completed the game but was so frustrated I couldn't beat the final boss, 
 I decided to return it. However, a few days ago when I was strolling around at EB GAMES, I was 
 very strongly tempted to buy it again but on a different platform due to it's beautiful graphics, 
 fun and addicting fights and unpredictable plot-line. However, what is hampering this game from 
 a full score is it's dry and bland mandatory side missions (investigations) , lousy acrobatic controls 
 and a very small variety of in-game quotes.
  
  What most people would agree on in Assassin's Creed is it's crystal clear graphics and it is even 
 more spectacular with a HDMI cable. The graphics are very well done and it is great to be able 
 to see ancient cities such as Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre from a towering bird-eye view then being 
 able to jump from it in an amazing 'Leap Of Faith'. So quite easily to be said, graphics are A+ 
 in this stunning revolutionary game.
  
  The major let-down of this video-game is it's incredibly bland side-missions because in the entire 
 game you only get to participate in pick-pockets, spying, interrogations and pretty much nothing 
 else. So it's not too bad, however if you are half way through this video game you'll start to 
 ponder if it is too repetitive with it's short-list of side-missions. Still, it doesn't wreck this 
 game.
  
  The sword-fights are astonishing! No matter how many fights you encounter you will never get sick 
 of countering attacks as you cut your enemies open. Just Bravo! Bravo!
  
  A few of my friends have said that Assassin's Creeds storyline is a wreck, I however bravely think 
 that is is excellent! The storyline will keep you thinking till the very end, as it foreshadows 
 it's show-down ending. So, the story is quite good and should be applauded.
  
  Another failed work in this game is the faulty jumping system. The jumping control system feels 
 like a B- version of Uncharted. A direct copy-and-paste version of Uncharted with a few essential 
 pieces missing. Disappointing. . 
  
  Lastly, Assassins's Creed has an incredibly small amount of one-liners from the city people. Every 
 person you save with say the same thing, 'I'll be going home now just in case and I won't leave 
 it anytime soon.' So, I really wouldn't think it would be very hard to get a few more scripts involved. 
 
  
  Overall, a decent game where every fan of the crusades should buy. Not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The setting is the 21st century and you are in a desperate struggle to stave off the Templar Knights 
 from perpetuating war in the Middle East between Saladin and King Richard. Wait, that conflict 
 occurred back in the 12th century though.... a deep thought to ponder in this game that romanticizes 
 the art of the assassin. Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game that uses some very innovative mechanics 
 and ideas that leave you wishing the game would go just a bit further and not stop at it's cliffhanger 
 ending.
  
  We find ourselves in the shoes of famed assassin Altar, who is hot on the tracks of the Templar 
 Knights and trying to bring peace and stability to the land by ridding the world of bad men in 
 cool and new ways. Altar is a very accomplished killer who puts different weapons to use that 
 are incredibly fun to use and in some cases abuse. You have at your disposal two blades, a sword 
 and a dagger, throwing knives, your bare knuckles and the coolest weapon of all, a concealed blade 
 that can snap out in between Altar's fingers and quickly kill anyone without you showing any sign 
 that you drew a weapon. It is so easy to use the blade that you might find yourself trying it out 
 on unsuspecting citizens in the huge, sprawling and alive cities that you conduct your business 
 in. 
  
  Although the concealed blade is fun to use, that does not mean your other weapons of fate lack 
 the fun factor in any sense. Your two other main weapons that you find yourself using are the sword 
 and dagger, both of which have their own unique style and appropriate time to use. When you are 
 caught by guards, you can choose to run or stand and fight. This is where the tactics of the two 
 blades come into play. The sword is bigger so it is better at keeping your enemies at bay but you 
 also have to use both hands when dealing blows to the unfortunate people on the receiving end and 
 the dagger is quick and light allowing one hand to be free so you can get close yet use your throwing 
 knives when enemies are out of your reach. Combat with these is extremely satisfying with great 
 death animations when you pull off a successful counter or thrust and all of this is done with 
 a tactical approach in mind so you rarely find yourself just hacking and slashing away lest you 
 want to die quickly. Most of the game you are outnumbered so being able to defend while striking 
 is paramount and the combat system this game uses allows you to flawlessly kill while repel attacks 
 as well yet there is a learning curve so that the more you use the system the better you will become 
 at killing quickly and efficiently. Lastly your fists are used to combat in a non-lethal manner, 
 such as if you are tasked with extracting information from a henchman of your intended target.
 
  
  You get your orders to assassinate different targets in the game and they are usually somewhere 
 in one of the various and varied cities that you will end up exploring. You find out their exact 
 locations by doing investigations like picking pockets, interrogating someone, eavesdropping on 
 a conversation and performing tasks like assassinating lower ranking people to get informants to 
 give you your info. When you first enter a city you have no idea where these events are at and 
 it is up to you to find these investigation locations. You can simply do this by climbing on just 
 about everything in the game, there are no predetermined spots to climb, everything looks organic 
 and if it looks like you could climb it in real life, then you can do it in this game. You will 
 frequently look for observation points, high spots where you can get a layout of the city and also 
 update your map with vital investigation info and other things as well. As you travel through the 
 cities you will notice that hundreds if not thousands of people occupy the streets and the sounds 
 that you hear are exactly what you would expect from a busy marketplace, or a prison etc. This 
 really immerses you and you feel like you are really there, about to strike at any minute.
  
  Although the game incorporates an awesome combat system and being an assassin is cool and all, 
 there are a few issues that can spoil the experience a little. The first is the guards intelligence, 
 you dress as a man of the cloth but are brandishing swords and what not on the outside of your 
 clothes yet the guards won't try to stop you unless you draw your blade. This works early on in 
 the game because you are not perceived as a threat but as you rack up more and more assassinations 
 the guards become more mindful of people carrying weapons yet seem to not even care that you just 
 finished off several guards that were harassing a woman that you decided to help. Even though you 
 are the only person in sight with a weapon, they don't seem to notice that and as long as you don't 
 draw it or run from the scene they just seem content to walk off. Even though this does happen, 
 when the guards do find you it is hard to shake them and usually the only way you can get them 
 off you is to hide. The last problem is there is some replayability here but not much because of 
 the lack of multiplayer. There are side quests you can do like help women or old men being harassed 
 by guards or accomplishing extra investigations or finding flags strewn about the cities but other 
 than that there is little else. 
  
  Overall Assassin's Creed is an incredible game that needs to be experienced because of the amount 
 of detail and fun injected into this game. You might not want to purchase it because replay value 
 is not high but it is now bargain priced and that is a steal for this well polished game. And as 
 far as the story goes, you might get confused at some points in the game but the ending pulls the 
 strings together and leaves an opening for not just one but several potential sequels and that 
 is extremely exciting considering this is a can't miss game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindz23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight, this game is terrible! The replay value is zero, it voice acting it 
 awful and the game play is just the same thing over and over. There is not much to the story line 
 either. All in all its just a total waste of money. I hated this game so much i returned it the 
 next day and got another game. In the day that i had it i played almost all the way through and 
 i could not stand it any longer. The combat system is awkward and boring. The main character has 
 an American accent which makes no sense. There are two story lines to this game and neither are 
 all that good. It is confusing and broken. What makes a good games is when you actually care about 
 the characters in the game and are interested in the story. This was not the case by any means 
 with this game. Perhaps the only upside is the graphics, though this does not make up for anything 
 in this game. Don't waste your time with this poor excuse for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  So basically Assassin's Creed almost explains the whole story in two words. It's basically about 
 and forms around the Creed. These two scientists in present day have brought you to their facility 
 to "sleep" on a special (very uncomfortable looking) "bed" (if you could call it that) . They need 
 to reach a certain memory in your head as they have discovered that you are an heir to Altair, 
 a famous Assassin. But, they cannot reach the memory, so they have you lay on there and play through 
 some memories, until you reach the specified memory, when they've found what they're looking for.
 
  
  At first, the game really takes you by surprise. The beautiful scenery, the nice combat system, 
 it all makes for a great experience... at first. Once you start doing missions to lead up to assassinating 
 people, it's the same thing over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over 
 and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again.
  
  Basically, you either beat a guy up until he gives you info, eaves drop on a conversation to gather 
 info, or pickpocket some guy to get something to give you, can you guess it? INFO. The whole game 
 evolves around INFO. So your wondering, you're really putting this game down, why'd you give it 
 an 8.5. I'll tell you why.
  
  The combat system when fighting works very well, with your weapons matted to the four d-pad controls, 
 and attacking with the shape buttons. Holding R1 down while attacking brings more powerfull attacks, 
 however they are slower. I really like the combat system.
  
  If you just want to look around for awhile, don't think you're limited to the ground. Some of the 
 highest buildings in the game are no match for Altair's acrobatic skills, and the view is AMAZING. 
 Watch out though, because on some buildings they have archers stationed to watch down below, and 
 they will attack if you don't leave the building top while in their sights.
  
  Sometimes it's nice to just ride a horse around and enjoy the scenery. Again, watch out though, 
 because if you don't slow down on your horse by guards they will attack, probably thinking you're 
 a thief or something.
  
  Other times, it's just fun to piss off guards and fight them, especially instantly killing them 
 with your hidden blade...
  
  So, all in all some aspects of the game definitely need improving, while others are right where 
 they should be. I give Assassin's Creed for PlayStation 3 an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, my reaction was something like this: "Holy sh*t! This game 
 is so cool!" The flashy moves, the semi open-world style, the spectacular visuals and concept of 
 the game had stunned me. So much so, that after playing this game for about an hour, I went on 
 to call this the greatest title I had ever come across in a long time. 
  
  Anybody would say that. After all, there were so many new stealthy or in-your-face flashy moves 
 to perform, an all new control scheme, stunning visuals, and a story that seemed to be one of the 
 best ever for any game (in the beginning, at least) . But as I played on, I found out that this 
 game wasn't all that I was making it out to be. It was not the perfect flashy and breathtaking 
 title I thought it was. In fact, it was quite disappointing.
  
  Once I beat the game (it wouldn't take a lot of skill to do that, trust me. The AI is so dumb. 
 But more of that later) , I realized that this game was repetitive, glitchy and downright boring. 
 The things I had initially come to love were the only things that the game offered. You would initially 
 be awe-struck by the awesome gameplay style, the concept, the assassination style, the open world 
 of this game but later on, those very thing turn out to be downright irritating, repetitive and 
 boring.
  
  There's a new control scheme for Assassin's Creed. It's rather different. You have one face button 
 for different body parts of Altair. One for the head, one for the legs, for the hands and so on. 
 Each task requires you to use one of these buttons. If you want to look around, use the head button. 
 If you want to use your sword, use your right hand. If you want to leap from building to building, 
 use the legs button. 
  
  The context-sensitive actions can be changed by holding down a trigger to switch from stealth mode 
 to high profile mode. This can change the way you kill somebody. For example, if you're in stealth 
 mode, then the assassination of the guard would be quick and stealthy and if you are in high profile 
 mode, then you might make a loud leap and cut the guard's throat with your knife.
  
  One of the only good things about Assassin's Creed is running along rooftops and scaling buildings. 
 To run along rooftop, you just have to hold down the legs button and we automatically keep running 
 and jumping. Whereas this sounds very boring, its quite fun. To scale buildings, you use the same 
 controls as running along roofs, only this time, you use the analog stick to control your hands. 
 The great thing is that the easiness of scaling buildings depends on their architecture. You have 
 to look for cracks and wall ornaments that offer a good foothold. Grab anything that look like 
 it can be grabbed an climb further upward. 
  
  Getting vertical is the best part of this game. You're rewarded when you find View Points. In these 
 key locations (which are abundant in every city) , you gain a panoramic view over the city. It's 
 breathtaking, to say the least.
  
  The View Point are of other use too. The can be used to spot people of interest, when on an assassination 
 mission. 
  
  To make for a successful assassination, you must first gather information on your target. There 
 are a half-dozen people to investigate for each assassination. You are required to investigate 
 at least three of them for most assassinations. 
  
  There are less than a handful of mini-quests possible for an investigation. You may be asked to 
 pickpocket in which you have to walk up to the target and hold down your "empty hand" button without 
 being noticed, or eavesdrop in which you have to sit on a bench and hit the "head" button to listen 
 to a conversation, or interrogate a suspect for which you have to beat them up until they talk, 
 or speak with an informant, who will have you either assassinate a citizen or a guard or have you 
 run a flag-collecting race. 
  
  The more investigations you perform, the more information you have about your target. For some 
 time, undergoing these extremely simple investigations isn't all that bad. But later on, it becomes 
 so repetitive and boring that you want to scream, pull out your hair and throw the remote away. 
 
  
  The same goes for all the main assassinations. At first, you may be awe-struck at the awesome assassinations, 
 which require you to pull off a stealthy move or an in-your-face move. But later on, doing the 
 same things over and over again becomes highly tedious and more of a chore than a mission.
  
  Before every assassination, there is a cutscene in which our targets always turn out to be 
 badass politicians. After assassinating your target, you have to watch a prolonged cutscene, in 
 which Altair talks to his target. And all of them say the same thing: you're being tricked, though 
 not necessarily in as many words. Once, you assassinate your target, the guards of the city become 
 aware of your presence. They chase you through the town. The best option is to find some elevation 
 and do some rooftop free-running. Your goal is the local Assassin's Bureau, which can't be entered 
 while you are being chased. So on your way to the Bureau, you must loose the guards. To do this, 
 you need to break their line of sight and then hide in one of the city's many conveniently-placed 
 piles of hay. Guards are persistent, especially when the city is on the alert. They climb ladders, 
 hop up on roofs, throw rocks and shoot arrows when you are too far to catch. But they are never 
 too difficult to ditch. 
  
  These chases happen at other points in Assassin's Creed away from the main assassinations. You 
 are free to do as you please in the city, even take out every guard you pass, but you generally 
 don't want to. In the upper left corner of the screen is a helpful meter showing the awareness 
 of guards in the city. White means they are unaware of your presence, yellow indicates they are 
 suspicious, and red shows when the guards are alerted. Much like the wanted system of GTA. As the 
 awareness meter moves from white to red, it takes fewer actions to tip the guards off to your location 
 and give them reason to fight or give chase. This can get annoying in the later parts of Assassin's 
 Creed, as you are often forced to move very slowly to get from one end of town to the other without 
 being spotted. 
  
  But not being stealthy is much more easier. The AI is really, really dumb. All you have to do and 
 run along rooftops. If the guards spot you, then they'll raise their sword and just stand there 
 foolishly and warn you that you're not supposed to be there. You can just throw your knife at one 
 of the guards (the others just keep staring) or you can drop off the edge of the roof. The guards 
 do nothing. They don't alert the other guards. They don't even care to look down to see if I'm 
 gone or if I'm still hanging from the roof. So all you gotta do then is wait till the guard turns 
 around ans stick a knife in his throat.
  
  The AI remains the same even when you assassinate someone of high importance. 
  
  All that 
 I've written above about the gameplay is not just about one level of the game. Neither is it spread 
 out properly throughout the game. All of this happens over and over again in each and every level. 
 This is all you have to do in each and every level. This makes each level quite much the same. 
 
  
  The graphics of the game, though stunning to look at, have a few texture pop ins and many frame-rate 
 issues. Even though the frame-rate issues are pesky annoyances in the beginning of all levels, 
 later on, they turn out to be very irritating major hindrances.
  
  The sound is bad. Sometimes, there's no soundtrack at all. Maybe to make the game more atmospheric. 
 But they failed at even that. The game is not atmospheric at all. The voice acting is bad. Whereas 
 all the characters have great voice overs, the main character has a bad voice over. 
  
  There is one really good thing about the game though. The cities and people have been designed 
 really well. They're beautiful to look at and it is really great to see how the cities and people 
 could have been some centuries ago.
  
  Ultimately, Assassin's Creed is a decent game with more glitches and boring parts than the good 
 ones. Even though you'll get bored pretty soon and the game will get very repetitive, rooftop running 
 and scaling walls is fun. I suggest that you overlook this game. It's not worth the money. But 
 if you really want it that bad, then rent it. But you'll be disappointed. That's for sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker_Wylde
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  Despite disliking it intensely, I will probably see this game through to the end. Hopefully the 
 ending will redeem this boring game.
  Firstly, I do not like the story. I can suspend my disbelief enough to think they have invented 
 a time machine, but DNA does not work like that. If you are going to make something up, make it 
 up entirely, don't pretend its got some scientific basis. I think it would have worked fine as 
 a historical fighter, and I can't help wondering if they only came up with this futuristic DNA 
 memory machine plot to hide the fact the main character had an American accent. It wouldn't matter 
 anyway, but how difficult is it to get someone who sounds middle eastern? Lots of the extras do.
 
  The missions are extremely boring. The same routine of climb -  viewpoint -  fall -  rescue/pickpocket 
 is repeated over and over. The combat is dull too, and only the Templars pose any real threat.
 
  The voice acting is so bad it is beyond belief. I walked down a street in Acre, and three women 
 said the exact same thing at slightly different times. If you can't come up with more than 3 lines 
 of dialogue, make the characters talk LESS. I can't comment on the accents, I thought the English 
 woman was ok, but beyond that I have no reference. 
  The main character is a total jerk, which I think is good, but the plot seems to be making him 
 out as a good guy and justifying his actions, which is absurd! No one who kills people for a living 
 is morally right, so what does it matter that he only kills people who are bad? Just kill them 
 and get on with it. 
  The plot is about as thinly veiled as the ending of Zak and Wiki, so the cut scenes are a bit frustrating. 
 
  I find the AI a bit inconsistent. You are dressed as a big white-gowned assassin, you stand out 
 like a sore thumb. But why would a whole hoard of enemy soldiers chase after you just because you 
 are galloping? If you walk around the towns and camps, they ignore you, and even if you climb the 
 towers as long as you're slow. 
  I like the side mission of collecting the flags, and finding the viewpoints. Killing the Templars 
 is quite good too, as they tend to be really inconveniently placed. It adds a much needed challenge 
 to the game. The viewpoints on the world map give a great excuse to show off the beautiful scenery, 
 and although sadly the climbing action isn't as smooth or clever as Prince of Persia, the jump 
 down still gives me nausea (good thing) . The horse riding is brilliant fun. If you go fast enough 
 enemy soldiers give up, and the borders remove your "wanted level". It almost makes the game worth 
 playing.
  
  This game could have been so good if they had varied the action a bit. Make the people say less 
 (especially the prophets in towns) , or limit them to one word responses to your rudeness. Make 
 the game more about sneaking in shadows or limit the amount of fighting you have to do, and the 
 story (although I think its terrible) probably could have held up the game. Hire or borrow from 
 your friends, but unless you really enjoy killing soldiers from around the world in Crusader uniforms, 
 don't buy it. The graphics won't be good in 2 years time and that's really all it has going for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasescott
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  I find that it is more flowing & better graphics than the XBOX 360. I do love the game, the release 
 that I can take out on people, w/o actually hurting anyone. I immerse myself in the game, become 
 the character, as I try to with every game I play. I think that they did a great job on the storyline, 
 game, playability, and the overall making. 2 Thumbs up. I do wish though they would have allowed 
 from the beginning, you could go anywhere in the cities. I was a little disappointed in that part 
 of it. Bring on more like this & give us a challenge in games where they do not get so repetitive. 
 That is one thing that I love, killing never gets old (lol) . I highly recommend this game & I am 
 looking for more like it in the near future. Again I give this 2 thumbs up + 2 toes up= fun, fun, 
 fun, & more fun. Enjoy a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft you have become so bland and.. well horrible over the past 2 years. I don't understand 
 why your stock is priced so high and I don't understand why any fool would buy into your company 
 after a stock split. Maybe you guys have been using too much nectar. Yet another bomb. Vegas 2 
 was also trash. I played this game for about 15 hours and after having the game freeze on me nearly 
 every time I played it, a screen finally appeared that said the disc was either damaged or dirty 
 and could not be played. This was when I returned the game to amazon as defective. Even ignoring 
 the freezing issues, problems with slow frame-rates and a lack thoughtfulness in character dialog, 
 this game is still not bringing anything terribly innovative to the gaming community. Many reviewers 
 are trying to highlight the positive aspects of the game, but I believe this to be a waste of time. 
 This game is very fatally flawed and as such cannot in good conscience be recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking you were a Crusader Assassin roaming through the Holy Land, and it 
 was in a sense. There were actually two stories going on between being the Modern day descendent 
 of an Assassin to being the Assassin himself through a machine that lets you access your ancestors 
 memories. While in the machine you play as Altair the Assassin murdering people in places like 
 Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre all portrayed with amazing graphics that will satisfy you. However 
 the actual story is interesting but its missions are repetetive involving you going to a place, 
 Interogating someone, pickpocketing someone, and doing "mini-assassinations" for fellow assassins. 
 All the cut scenes are interesting but after you beat the game, its annoying not being able to 
 skip through it and just play without watching the 5-10 minute clips inbetween gameplay. Assassins 
 Creed has a good story but its lack of variety makes it get boring after the first 6 targets or 
 so, but for graphics, and wonderful lifelike envirorments it shines. Wait until the discount version 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francois42
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a prime example of why you shouldn't go see a certain movie, play a certain 
 game, or date your sister just because someone says you might not "like it" and you "shouldn't 
 do it." Many of the reviews decryed the gameplay as "repetitive" and "boring" (much like dating 
 your sister) , dropping the score down a few notches. But upon playing Eidos' "Climbing to High 
 Places" simulator, I didn't find that at all.
  
  There are varying ways to classify an activity as "repetitive." If I take my sister out to dinner 
 every Friday night, when does it qualify as repetitive? Always? Only if we go to the same place 
 every time? Only if we order the same thing every time? Only if I get a Three-Cheese Nachos with 
 chicken, extra black beans, hot salsa, cheese, no sour cream, and a topping of Cholula hot sauce 
 every time? Be right back, now I need Qdoba.
  
  Back. That's the issue with Assassin's Creed. Fundamentally, there are some repetitive tasks, but 
 I found the execution of those tasks to be the draw. Sure, I was, again, tasked with the murder 
 of several guys in order to get some information from an informer, but instead of being in dark 
 alleyways these guys were in the middle of a busy market. The challenge comes not from the core 
 task, but figuring out, on the fly, how to complete that task. Sure, it'd be incredibly boring 
 if every instance of the task happened in a crowded market with the same configuration. But that's 
 not what happens.
  
  Unfortunately, Assassin's Creed really is like dating your sister. The core game is engaging, the 
 story is a bit arcane but good enough to keep you rolling through cutscenes, and the visuals and 
 controls are superb. There's a sense of style and danger to the whole package that really gets 
 you hooked and keeps you hooked.
  
  Then I went and finished the game. To paraphrase Douglas Adams, this made me angry, and has been 
 widely regarded as a bad idea. Like dating your sister, the end of the relationship is where all 
 the bad stuff comes out. In your sister's case, it's probably disownment (because, let's face it, 
 your parents like your sister better) and public shame. In Assassin's Creed, it's what I refer 
 to as the Ending Problem.
  
  A fiction author spends a lot of time creating characters and worlds. If the author has any sort 
 of talent, than these characters and worlds end up being multi-dimensional, with depth and the 
 ability to react to any situation in a manner that's either:
  
  1. Logically derived from past events in the world created by the story.
  2. Completely out of 
 character, which will only be accepted by the audience as "valid" if it then leads to a major change 
 in the character for future interactions. (Granted, this assumes a competent audience, which, given 
 recent box-office successes, may not be a safe assumption.)
  
  What does the author hope to attain at the end of a tale? A "big finish," similar to ESPN'S PTI, 
 but with less concern for NBA basketball. Yes, there's always the possibility of a sequel, but 
 you still want to give your audience a "payoff" for their hours of attention.
  
  There's the issue. If you logically derive a result, the changes of a proper big finish diminish 
 rapidly. And if you, as an author, force scenario number 2, you have to damage the characters you've 
 come to love so much.
  
  This is exactly what happened in Assassin's Creed. The "authors" wanted a big finish. But they 
 couldn't figure out how to make silently and stealthily sliding a blade into someone's throat climactic, 
 so they went with the old standby: Horde of guys to fight, straight up. No joking. The entire last 
 3 hours of the game is nothing but you, a character who spent the entire game relearning the "creed 
 of the assassins" by silently murdering people instead of the full frontal assualt that got you 
 in trouble in the opening scene performing a full frontal assault on King Richard's army. Seriously. 
 That's worse than the ending of a Harry Potter book. Also, there are spoilers in this review.
 
  
  So, how does the game rate? Without the ending war, ignoring the fact that it'd be a story without 
 an ending, it'd be a solid 9, if you're the type of person who desperately craves numeric game 
 reviews. With the ending war, it's probably a solid 7, saved and injured in equal parts due to 
 the mind-bending ending to the story which both forces you to think a bit instead of drooling over 
 a cutscene and which practically screams "BUY THE SEQUEL." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is set during the Crusades, a time of religious chaos and Middle-eastern rebels. 
 You play two characters: Altair, a cocky assassin who must rebuild his reputation through his, 
 for lack of a better word, clan, and Desmond, one of Altair's descendants who is kidnapped and 
 subject to a science experiment. Graphics are stunning, with no street looking the same as the 
 last and many different types of people. Landscapes are beautiful, and you decide how and when 
 to complete assignments. The Story is extremely immersive, but sometimes confusing. There many 
 different ways to kill guards, from throwing knives at them, stabbing them with a hidden blade, 
 or fighting them sword on sword. Jumping from roof to roof and scaling walls and buildings are 
 fun and cool, and having guards pursue you while you do this is invigorating. 
  
  The only downfall in this game is the actual assassination process. You can plan all you want, 
 but nearly every boss fight ends in a sword fight. Throwing knives are usless against them, and 
 you are seldom able to kill them with you're super cool hidden blade. 
  Dont get me wrong, I love this game, but in the end you feel more like a hit man than an assassin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  The fact that this was one of the first games for PS3 is a bit of an excuse for its creators. But 
 still its graphics are beautiful and some of the moves in the gameplay makes it worth buying.
 
  
  One great disadvantage though is that it is pretty small and quite easy to be honest. Plus the fact 
 that you won't be playing it for a second time of you finish it. From some part on, it gets dull 
 and you have the feeling that you've been there before. It's "run, run, climb" and the way you assassinate 
 your targets seems like it's not evolving.
  
  Anyway, I gave it an 8 'cause as I said before it was one of the first games that came on PS3 and 
 one of the first I played. I don't know If it's worth buying though. Maybe renting it or borrowing 
 it from a friend would be better. Like I said you won't be playing it a second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalcio
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The game has a superb graphic engine , a marvelous historical environment and an amazing fighting 
 action. However, it was very frustrating realize that all those good stuff ends in an easy and 
 repetitive five-day playing with no explanations. Increadibly disappointing. 
  
  ***** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ****** ***** 
 ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ******* **** **** ***** **** ***** ***** ***** ***** ****** ***** 
 ****** ***** ****** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** 
 ***** ******* **** **** ***** **** ***** ***** 
  ***** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ****** ***** 
 ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ******* **** **** ***** **** ***** ***** 
  ***** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ****** ***** ***** ****** ***** ***** ***** ****** ***** 
 ***** ****** ***** *****
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are willing to look beyond Assasin's Creeds repetitiveness, you will see a vast line of 
 enertainment. The basic theme behind Assasin's Creed is simple. You control a character srtipped 
 of his rank due to a selfish, egoistic act, and by killing nine specific leaders, you gain your 
 rank back inch by inch.
  
  Gameplay is a polished factor in Assasin's Creed, everythin runs smoothly and buttons react on 
 moments notice. Stringing together certain actions you take down armies, but it all depends on 
 reflexes. Most of the time, you cannot hack and slash without defending and dodging. By doing so 
 first, you are able to counter, which unfolds a beautifully thought out manuever which casts the 
 finishing blow to your enemy.
  
  As an assasin, you are provided with a variety of basic commands. Actually, most of the commands 
 are revealed within the trailer, if you have or haven't bothered to view it. Some of these varying 
 commands include high/low profile kills, blending, sprinting, jumps of faith and so fourth. The 
 more you progress the more options will become available.
  
  The sleek graphics draw out the PS3's potential, however like most games, the graphics deteriorate 
 when in actual playing time. They incline once more every cutscene, where you are allowed to freely 
 move around within specific borders. Although graphics don't make the game, they surely can sculpt 
 the game.
  
  Finally, the character. The characters for the most part are rather bland. Voice patterns barely 
 increase when one is angry, or decrease for that matter. Everyone keeps a stern expression and 
 frankly, Altier, the main character, should be the only stealthy frankenstein. Despite all of this 
 however, you will get to see his mindset change.
  
  With a great plot but a weakened feeling of repetetiveness, Assasin's Creed is a make it or break 
 it game. To your almighty character, everyone, everything is a meat steak. That's part of the reason 
 this game is so great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a new entry made by Prince of Persia developers Ubisoft, the game shares some 
 elements from Prince of Persia and adds a few extras to the mix enough to make the game unique, 
 however it will take time to get adapted with the game's mechanics and with enough patients it 
 will be worth it.
  Assassin's Creed is a great game however for most parts feels kind of average and is over hyped.
 
  
  Story: The year is 2012. As Mr Desmond Miles you were kidnapped by an organisation called Abstergo, 
 who knew that Mr. Miles was once an associate in a secret assassination organisation.
  Abstergo was seeking ancient items of which only Mile's ancestor knew of, and so they decided to 
 use Miles as a test subject for their Animus system, which can allow the user to live the events 
 of their ancestor's lives.
  Having no choice in the matter, Miles dives to the past and plays the role of his ancestor Altair, 
 who worked in a secret assassination organisation know as the assassin brotherhood during 1191 
 during the third crusade in the holy land.
  
  Game design: You will take the role of 2 characters but the one that is mostly playable is Altair. 
 
  You will be diving back to the past and take control of Altair as you eliminate assassination targets 
 and regain Altair's lost rank as the order's top assassin.
  The game will mainly function through a machine called the animus. 
  The Animus will not only 
 playback events of the past but will also manage your data and options.
  As Miles you will practically do nothing but have a conversation with the professor and his assistant 
 while as Altair you will be running, climbing building rooftops, fighting and assassinating.
  While the game's main motive is secrecy this is no Metal Gear Solid by any means, rather than sneaking 
 you will try to keep control of your awareness, rather than hiding you just have to make sure people 
 don't start looking at you or it will cause trouble.
  Different chapters are displayed in different memory blocks, you can either play back previous 
 memory or fast forward to more recent events. During each memory block you will first need to find 
 the assassin organisation's hide out in each town, then talk to the one in charge, you will then 
 go around town looking for information regarding your target by climbing rooftop views to update 
 your map, you will then either interrogate, pickpocket or eaves drop on people to gather information, 
 once investigation is complete you will then go find the target, eliminate them and escape back 
 to the hide out, this process basically repeats for each town, there are also optional quests such 
 as rescuing and flag collecting.
  The game has incredible graphics and an incredible physics engine, when you walk besides a person 
 you will shrub aside or can push them gently and it looks very realistic, environments however 
 for most parts look like they completely lack colour as its always day light and everything is 
 pretty much shining.
  The environments are huge and are very detailed regardless of the lack of colour, there are 4 towns 
 in total and a main field that separates them, you will basically need to ride a horse to get to 
 these places however once you visited them you can always fast forward the animus to those places 
 or go to the main field to find hidden goodie.
  
  Game play:
  The top right of the screen will display your awareness level, nothing means nothing, flashing 
 yellow means being watched, flashing red means suspicion and complete red means discovered.
  Unusual actions such as running, climbing and fighting will raise awareness.
  You will be equipped 
 with 4 different arsenals, the arm blade for stealth kill, the sword for combat, the short sword 
 for knife throwing and fists for punching, each weapon has a mechanic and combo system of their 
 own and are pretty fun to use.
  You will need to lock on enemies to engage combat mode, once in combat mode you will draw out your 
 sword, you can attack, step, grab or block. 
  In a classic Prince of Persia feel, you will need careful timing when striking as enemies are quite 
 skilled, you will eventually learn various parry and counter attacks that are very affective against 
 multiple enemies, however they require precise timing and also enemies will eventually learn to 
 use those counter attacks against you which can make combat very challenging and fun.
  Altair is quite an acrobat as he can climb almost all sorts of places so finding escape routes 
 shouldn't be a problem, however while climbing you are vulnerable to attacks.
  Once you managed to run out of enemy site there are either fountains or branches to hide in until 
 the coast is clear.
  
  Sound: The game includes great dialogues and an intriguing story with good voice actors to fit 
 for the casts, however the game does lack music, in fact there are only 5 sound tracks and they 
 basically repeat for most places.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a great game but for most parts over hyped and overrated.
  Depending on who 
 you are you might like or dislike Assassin's creed, while the story is interesting the game play 
 can feel some what repetitive and the lack of colourful environments and music harmed the game's 
 presentation quality.
  The game didn't really live up that much to its hype however it still delivers and PS3 owners should 
 consider giving it a shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  The concept of the game is fantastic. I mean, this game is unique. You can't really find these 
 games in the shelves. Walking around the city as an assassin is a great concept and action fans 
 should enjoy it. There is a downside though. It's repetitive. You pretty much do the same over 
 and over again. Assassin's Creed didn't deserve the extra 10 points because of how repetitive it 
 was. 
  I bought this game in December of '07 and it was pretty fun for the first few months, but then 
 it started to go down. It was so repetitive that it gets boring. After a while, you may find yourself 
 popping the disc in again. 
  The graphics are amazing. It's not in full HD, but it's still great. You can see the great scenery 
 from the rooftops of buildings.
  The gameplay was great. You can slaughter people on the streets, which isn't recommended and just 
 run on the rooftops from the guards. Hiding from the guards was also a great touch to the game 
 and the weapons are pretty simple. You can also pickpocket certain things.
  If this game wasn't so repetitive and had another thing to do, it probably would have been a 9.5. 
 Still, this game is great and nobody should miss it out if you are waiting for a game that's releasing 
 in a few months. If you are waiting for a game that's going to be released in a few months time, 
 pick up Assassin's Creed and play it while you wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicHat1
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  This is game that can leave me gasping in delight, admiring the views from the towers, slowly climbing 
 the larger ones and looking around on a wonderfully beautiful and detailed world. The graphics 
 are still some of the best I have seen on the PS3 when in the Holy Land yet, combined with good 
 camera angle and ability to change it. As always in this game though something leaves a stain, 
 the graphics are rather grainy in the present world moments, perhaps deliberately so but the horrible 
 eyes in that section, very white and creepy are certainly not part of a grand plan.
  
  It is an unholy balance that constantly shifts game from bliss to annoyance. The sound has some 
 lovely moments, good voice acting combined with the different languages of the guards countered 
 by hearing the exact same thing when rescuing citizens for the eleventh time. They manage to look 
 the looks for said citizens unique (if a bit bizarre that a wrinkled old crone is the target) so 
 why only two or three phrases?
  
  The way you do the mission is the same, ride to city, climb the towers, rescue the citizens, collect 
 information by one of four methods, run away/fight guards, you do this in nine separate area's. 
 This does leave a feeling of repetitiveness yet there are moments that add gloss to the proceedings, 
 not just the view points and the resulting leaps. The informer missions are a nice change, while 
 always collecting flag or killing someone, they are a little more difficult then the other ways 
 of collecting information though that this is a welcome says how repetitive the whole thing can 
 be.
  
  The fighting is done well enough for the times when running through the streets and over the rooftops, 
 which is good fun in a major chase, is not an option. Yet you can't take the offensive from very 
 early on, I ended up playing entirely on the counter attack system which is very effective as swarms 
 of guards fought me. It takes skill but sitting there, waiting for an opponent to strike so you 
 can counter might be off putting for many. One problem I had was the lock on system is sometimes 
 slow to react leaving half my health bar taken before I could get in a block and sometimes it makes 
 stupid choices. I want to attack and kill the one guard member who I knocked to the floor, not 
 one of the plenty standing and ready to block!
  
  The assassination missions at the end of all that do differ slightly but generally it is sneaking 
 to the place, watching a cutscene then trying to sneak kill the target. In truth, I often ended 
 up chasing or in a long fight to get my man but it is possible to stealth kill most of them. Each 
 target makes an impact with their personality, from the moment you meet them to the speech as they 
 die, it is a very short time to make any sort of impact yet each one leaves an impression. Only 
 Altair struggles to either be likable or memorable, a flaw considering he is your main character 
 while Desmond, the other playable, struggles as well though has more wit. The non playables though 
 are very well done, from your superior in the brotherhood, to the scientists Lucy and her intelligent 
 but short tempered boss Warren, all the way down to your informants. Some, like the scientists 
 and boss Al Mualim get a lot of time to make their mark and they do but the characterization also 
 reaches down to the other missions. What drove me to do all the information collecting was listening 
 to those people, their own problems in the world laid bear to your listening ears, it livened up 
 the repetitive nature of the tasks. 
  
  The storyline itself is not too strong, most things are laid out from the start and rest affecting 
 the game itself rather then future sequels is revealed midway through. There is little surprise 
 or twist but it is rescued by the characters within it being so interesting (with the exception 
 of the guys you play as) and while the teasing clues at the end are a nice touch if you can figure 
 them out, that is more a set up for the next game then strengthening the storyline for this one. 
 
  
  It is a repetitive but well made game that is dragged from the 5's by good acting and moments of 
 joy that, if patient, does make it all worth while. There is a lot of good that they can work from 
 for the sequel, iron out the flaws, add more variety, hopefully keep Lucy, Wayne and Desmond and 
 add subtitles, we could be looking at a very strong trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingsterX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I just got my PS3 a week ago. This was one of the five games I got.
  The game with all that killing aka "Assassinations" , running from the guards on roof tops etc 
 , etc is just extremely addicting.
  So , all this said , I think its pretty clear that the gameplay is amazing.
  Let's come to the 
 graphics. Everything from the blood effects to the cities to Altair (the assassin you play in the 
 game) is just perfect. 
  The sound is gruesome and satisfying.
  Now , lets come to the flaw of the game , and yes I mean Flaw (not flaws) Well there is a certain 
 lack of modes , extra objectives and there aren't any trophies. By lack of modes I mean , there 
 is no mode other than the story mode. There are extra objectives but they're just so stupid , I 
 mean who the heck wants to search for flags all over the place or kill certain big guys (there are 
 about a 60
  of 'em) .
  Other than THE FLAW. The game is perfect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Well theres no denying that Assassins creed is an amzing game. It sheer genius. Its actualy a bit 
 like Gta IV except a long time ago. You are an altair in it, trained assassin to kill 9 men in 
 different kingdoms. As you assassinate them all you come across new things and unlock you kingdoms 
 and citys. Its a great game but you wont be playing hours and hours on end. The way people react 
 to you doing stuff is realistic but can sometimes be a wee bit unrealistic. Its got much more up 
 sides than down sides and is a great game. Theres also the second one in the series, assassins 
 creed 2 which is in development at the moment. Im looking forward to that release. Anyhow, the 
 freedom that assassins creed brings you is amazing and puts you in the spot of an assassin. Its 
 got decent enough graphics for a PS3 game and is amazing. Its a fun game that you will enjoy playing 
 for ages... that is of course, until assassins creed 2 comes out, ha ha ha ha ha ha lol. See you 
 next time for some more forums and reviews about the gaming network around the world. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMadman94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game was definitely one of the best of 2007. The visuals were awesome, the gameplay was addictive 
 and the story was gripping (along with one of the best twists I've seen in a game since Knights 
 of the Old Republic) . That being said the information gathering missions can start to get a little 
 repetitive over time as you pickpocket, eavesdrop, interrogate etc. Also, the actor who voiced 
 Altair wasn't brilliant. Anyway, don't listen to the Gamespot review, the ending isn't confusing, 
 it just leaves some mysteries unsolved and gets you hyped up for a sequel (which they have to make 
 soon!) . The story is a great part of the game. As you assassinate more and more targets, you become 
 more and more eager to discover the great mystery behind it all. You also get a feel of realism 
 whilst wondering through the streets. When you climb a building, civilians will stop and look at 
 you whilst saying things like "He's going to hurt himself" or "Has he lost his mind?" to each other. 
 When you kill someone they will run around, screaming (some will even cower in corners) .
  My advice would be buy it if it's your sort of game and at least rent it if it isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Where should I start? 
  
  It's a very innovative game, and we've never seen something like this before, we've seen games 
 about assassinations, like Hitman, but nothing like Assassin's Creed. Set in 2012, Desmond Miles 
 is a normal dude who is suddenly kidnapped by Abstergo Industries, and they're testing the Animus 
 on you, the Animus is a machine which lets the user access his/her genetic memory, that is, the 
 memories of his/her ancestors. And apparently, these people want to learn something about your 
 past... You occasionally take control of Desmond in the present, but the game is all about Altair, 
 his ancestor, and his missions to assassinate people during the holy Crusade.
  
  The Gameplay is just perfect, the controls are smooth and easy to learn, you'll soon get the hang 
 of it. Since jumping around buildings is the most efficient way of getting through the cities of 
 Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus, it has to be easy, and it is, it couldn't be any more simple, you 
 just run up to the ledge and Altair will jump to the next building, hop over obstacles, hang over 
 ledges, etc. Combat is also easy, yet thrilling, either with the long or short sword (which is 
 more agile) . But the awesomest weapon has to be the Hidden Blade, which is mainly used for assassinating 
 silently, but you can also run up to your target, jump at them and thrust your blade in their necks. 
 It's also worth mentioning that once you get the hang out of how to perform counters, you can easily 
 kill any soldier with this humble weapon. Once the soldiers have detected you as an assassin, you'll 
 have to run and hide in some hiding locations, like piles of hay, or roof gardens, or... you could 
 just kill them all, however, remember that standing between a pile of bodies is sure to get you 
 detected.
  
  Now, to the graphics. They are cool, but I wouldn't go as far as to say they are breath taking. 
 At least not while on the ground, but once you climb up a tower and admire the entire city, you'll 
 be amazed at what you're witnessing.
  
  Something that must be mentioned, is just how alive the cities feel. The streets are full, and 
 I mean FULL of citizens, some beggars, some people working, other carrying stuff, others talking, 
 some razy dudes which push you around, some monks, soldiers, it's incredible, you'll love it.
 
  
  What else can I mention. well, the basic layout of the missions is to first travel on horse to 
 the indicated city, there you must collect informationa bout your target. To do this, you'll ahve 
 to pickpocket people, beat up some others, collect flags, assassinate certain soldiers, among other 
 objectives. Once you get enough information, it's time to move up to the target, which will always 
 have a cutscene rendered within the games graphics. I wouldn't call them boss battles since it's 
 pretty much like assassinating anyone else, only that you may have to climb up a building to get 
 inside, fight some soldiers, and chase your target to finally assassinate him.
  
  The only issue I could address os the fact that you have only 1 save file. You can replay all the 
 missions as much as you want, but you can't replay any of Desmond's parts, which really sucks.
 
  
  Well, that's about all I cans ay about Assassin's Creed. it's a totally freh game with a never 
 before seen formula which works just perfectly fine, and anyone who enjoys action/adventure games 
 should buy it, seriously, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is undoubtedly a cool game with a killer storyline and beautiful graphics. The 
 voice acting is great. The music and sound effects are decent. The major flaw of this game lies 
 in its repetitiveness.
  Venturing into the various cities to gather enough clues to assassinate one of your nine major 
 targets. The main target gameplay sequences are exciting, but it does get a bit dull prior to these 
 with saving citizens, pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogating, and helping your informers gather 
 flags or killing their targets.
  
  I'm not sure about others having this problem, but my copy of Assassin's Creed probably froze over 
 50 times during my play through. Very, very annoying! Sometimes it would even freeze during the 
 opening scene when initially loaded. I never hard rebooted a game system so much in the past. If 
 I were to include this in rating this game I would drop my score by 2 points. It was that bad.
 
  
  The fights and killings are well done with responsive game dynamics, but again, too bad there was 
 not more variety in things to do.
  
  The time spent in the lab is a nice break, but pretty unimaginative compared to the rest of the 
 game. You do learn a lot of the plot here though.
  
  Overall worth a play. I would not say a must, but if you are into cool storylines then pick this 
 title up. I wouldn't pay more 50% the full retail price.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlsPlayToo89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun. The only complaint I have is that it is really repetitive. You do the 
 same tasks over and over again. And sometimes the objectives aren't very clear and it's hard to 
 tell where you are supposed to go next. The ending is abrupt and is supposed to leave you hanging 
 with a cliffhanger, but it ends up kind of confusing. The good things about this game are the visuals 
 and some gameplay elements. It's fun climbing to the top of a huge church and then jumping off 
 the top into a pile of hay. And of course assassinating is fun. You can walk up to somebody silently, 
 and stab them with your blade. Also the length is pretty good it took me a while to beat this one 
 but mostly because I couldn't find where to go next. But overall I would recommend this game for 
 the price wich isn't that bad. It is fun, good to look at, and has an ending that keeps you interested 
 for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cadley
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Amazing looks and what seems to be good stealth at first but you soon get disappointed. If you 
 like old scool sneaky games like splinter cell, thief etc then this isn't it unfortunately.
  
  You go and do your missions to gain information before you can go and assassinate your target. 
 You get the information on which will tell you how to do it stealthily. This you can do upto a 
 certain point; but as you get close they get alerted and it always ends in a brawl with guards 
 and your objective. 
  
  Another downside is the dialogue. Everything goes on too long when people are talking and it gets 
 pretty annoying quickly. Waiting to pick someones pocked or gettig a brief from an informer goes 
 on far too long. 
  
  It takes too long to get into the memorys and there is too much time waiting aroung to start your 
 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and all but only in the beginning. Later on however it gets really repetitive 
 and story is really really boring. Wait! ... Hold up !!! its in the future ! ?!?!?!
  
  Story:
  Hi, I am Altair and because of my ignorance you are forced to play this whole game and 
 kill some really important villains as an order from the boss. I feel sorry for the developers 
 who were really that lazy to the extent they did not bother improving the story while others worked 
 their ass off on the visuals and sound effects.
  
  Game play:
  Its really simple and easy. very similar to that of prince of persia. You ride horses climb towers 
 and stab people with swords, knifes and punch the crap out of them.
  
  Graphics:
  Wonderful visuals of the most beautiful cities of our old time. Damascus, Jerusalem, Acre and etc. 
 Very realistic and often tend to blow your mind.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: house_elf_dobby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  I bought that game before i bought my PS3 because people had told me about it, and im glad I did. 
 Its an amazing game that is incredibly addictive. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay seems 
 different everytime you pick up the controller. The ability to free-run as Altair is brilliant 
 ! Just running about the city is great fun ! As the game goes on each target gets more challenging 
 and this makes the game even better as it isn't ridiculously easy. It can be a bit irritating at 
 times especially when you run up the wrong wall or drop off a ledge and fall to your death. One 
 of the few bad things about it is the fact that when ever you assassinate a target you must return 
 to your Master and be lectured. This can take some time. Also the extra side missions like killing 
 the Templars or collecting all the different flags can take as long as the main game so that is 
 annoying. You must also go to the Assassins Bureau in every city to find out about investigating 
 your Target, then once you have investigated you must return to get information about the Assassination. 
 After you have killed your Target you must return again with proof ok your kill (don't worry you 
 automatically swab his blood on a quill) . But overall its an amazing game and definetly a good 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game in many respects. However there are definately some problems that 
 I have with this game.
  
  First off, the story. The story to me is probably one of the most crowning points in this game. 
 The game does a great job of leading you on to find out what happens next, which makes you coming 
 back for more.
  
  The gameplay is very fun, but it gets old after a while. They are lucky they made what little moves 
 you can do so cool, such as jumping on a guys back and stabbing him in the neck. However, like 
 I said there isnt much to the fighting. Also, it gets very repetitive because the whole game is 
 pretty much the same thing over and over, assassinating a target one after another with almost 
 no change in the type of assassinating they require from you. However, this repetitiveness isnt 
 all that bad because it is fun to do.
  
  Overall, this game is definately worth renting, however there is little replay value on the ps3 
 (no trophies) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game that had so much potential, but was shot down by repetition. Yes I still 
 had fun and played it through the end, but towards the end it felt like more of a chore to do than 
 having fun playing a game.
  
  Everything is great in this game, except for mission structure. I bought the game a year after 
 it came out as a greatest hit. It was cheap, I heard good things, and I needed something to play. 
 Graphics look great, especially the cities. When you climb to the top of buildings and sync to 
 open up your map, you really get a feel for how big and detailed the cities are. Sound is also 
 good. Nothing stands out as really great or really bad.
  
  The mission structure is what really brings down the fun and ultimately the score for this game. 
 You have to climb a tall structure to open your map where you see different investigation spots. 
 You go to that spot and A) listen to a conversation, B) pickpocket someone C) follow someone and 
 beat them up for info or D) assassinate a few people for info from and informer. After you have 
 done a few of those you assassinate one of the nine targets, then repeat. That is basically the 
 whole game do that over and over and there you go. The story is what kept me wanting to play, its 
 good and keeps getting better as the game goes on. I felt like I was doing a chore to get to see 
 a movie after, a really good movie, but i had to do the dishes umpteen times to get to that movie... 
 The things Altair can do are really cool, but everything gets old so fast...
  
  If you can put up with the repetitive mission structure, you will play a fun game that's great 
 to look at with a great story. The story is the best part of the game by far, as long as you do 
 your chores before you get to see what happens next.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pope_Ginyu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game might be claimed "repetitive" , it's not quite right . I finished it , and until the 
 end i wasn't bored because it's the same thing over and over .. But to be honest , the end was 
 at the perfect time (It almost became repetitive) , and i won't finish it again soon , but it's 
 still awesome .. For 30 bucks , u have a pretty new style of game , with great gameplay , and really 
 amazing graphics .. Some very fun little "attributes" wich make the game great are also included 
 . The difficulty is perfect : When i killed a target , i mostly died because of guards chasing 
 me , but i wasn't stuck 1 complete hour trying to kill them all or escape . After 2 times of dying 
 , you're angry enough , and u know what you gotta do ;)
  
  The length is just perfect : I played it for an entire VACATION week (so like 7 hours a day) , 
 till i finished it .. The end is pretty weird , but it's still the first piece of a trilogy :) 
 
  
  The fighting part of the game is engaging : It's not like u can easily kill hundreds of guards 
 with 5 HP-bars .. And the best part of the game is of course the free-running , but you'll notice 
 that .
  
  Conclusion : Without a doubt worth it's money , and you'll need it to play AC2 , wich will have 
 all the good parts of this game , but won't have the bad parts (i hope so , but i think that they 
 will change what sucked :) )
  
  Graphics : 9.5
  Gameplay : 9.5
  Music : 10
  
  The good : Awesome graphics . Great gameplay . Excellent music . Good story . Lovely to climb on 
 buildings .
  
  The bad : It's not a game u replay 3 times . Some little glitches . Going to the doc can be really 
 irritating ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  After the 2008 Winter Holidays, we got this game to add to our PS3 collection. I played it almost 
 non-stop for a few days.
  
  It was easy to learn. The controls were simple to memorize and were straightforward - very similar 
 to other games, so other than things being on the opposite stick, attack, walk, and other movements 
 were mostly the same as almost every other game I've played.
  
  The graphics are stunning. That gets an A+ from me. The motions are smooth, the gameplay itself 
 is really problem-free until the very end of the game, when after the game was completed and I 
 went back to look at previous memory blocks to get more flags and find more Templars, gameplay 
 became quite choppy.
  
  Speech was funny and quirky and did have me laughing out loud at times. The story was great  it 
 had a great backbone to it and the voice overs were decent enough.
  
  Melee was easy enough to start and progressively got tougher as the player progresses through the 
 game.
  
  What I did find troublesome was the shortness of the game; this goes back directly to the fact 
 that it took only a few hours to complete the game, from start to finish and other than the memory 
 blocks, flags and Templars that was all they wrote. That, in entirety, is why this game is not 
 getting a higher review than it could have gotten. Because the fact is that the graphics were just 
 too good tfor such a short game!! Too long would have become tiresome, but a little longer, with 
 more interactive content as well, would have been wonderful.
  
  On the other hand, a very good thing is that the story line left me wanting more. I am eagerly 
 awaiting a second game, and according to official sources, at the time of this review anyway, that 
 should be a very real thing in the future. Hooray!
  
  I think this is a good game for beginners, yet is still enjoyable for experienced gamers.
  
 
  Several reviews I had read on multiple sites have said the game becomes tedious because it's the 
 same thing over and over, but that isn't my opinion. I'm of the opinion that because there are 
 many flags to find in each city, and the challenges become increasingly more challenging, that 
 it kept me entertained long enough to want to get to the end of the game. And that is a very good 
 thing.
  
  Another thing on the note of other player reviews (on other sites) I'd like to mention is that 
 I've read many times that this game is very open-ended. That is not the case, so don't be fooled. 
 You have a few tasks to complete and once you've done that, you're back at the center again where 
 you can explore for a few minutes and that's it. You can go back and re-do memory blocks, find 
 unfound flags or kill unkilled Templars, but other than that, there is no true exploring. There 
 no skills to learn, no treasures to find, no side-quests. I will not give the game lower score 
 because of false reviews; however, I did want to point that out for anyone who may have read reviews 
 that said such nonsense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a really good game. considering its taken from Alamut. a novel about the Hashasins 
 and instead of your usual Japanese NINJA assassin's, you get Altair Ibn Al-Ahad. an Arab Assassin. 
 which is kinda a breath of fresh air. and that's a + in my books.
  
  The game is considered a little Lackluster to me during the most Repetitive info-gathering quests. 
 especially Save-The-People missions. the people will say the same things over and over again. and 
 the bosses are similar to one another. and its over and done with once you've assassinate them 
 and listen to their stories.
  
  but even with the repetitive quests. the production values are really TOP of the line. it got great 
 graphics and the characters and the WHOLE KINGDOM looks good (standing on the tallest building 
 in Acre is spectacular!) amazing quality graphics.
  
  the story is surprisingly good. but the ending is hard to comprehend. its like watching Lord Of 
 The RIngs FOTR. its those kind of Hanging ending whereby you have to play the Sequel to know more. 
 which is really bad. 
  
  and unlockables for this game? i don't think so. there are virtually NONE. which is bad. so after 
 complaining alot. i still think this game is a worthy game to play if you do not mind any of the 
 weaknesses it has. try it out and see for yourself. i on the other hand. Loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daffydaniel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  As the statement goes 'Assassin's Creed is a beautiful and exciting experience that you'll remember 
 for years to come' which is very true to it's word & not just an advertisement blurb.
  
  In brief it is about a bartender that is kidnapped in the future 2012 and used as a test subject 
 in a device/machine called the 'Animus' that can stimulate the recall of ancestral memories buried 
 in the user's DNA. They are attempting to track down the activities of Altar Ibn La-Ahad one of 
 Desmond's ancestors, in the "Assassin Brotherhood" during 1191 as part of the Third Crusade in 
 the Holy Land, he plays an assassin that failed an assassination attempt and is demoted but is 
 then given another chance to rise through the ranks of the Brotherhood and is given the task to 
 assassinate nine key figures, which is where I am in the game so far, but the game developes futher 
 where he eventually becomes synchronised with Altair the character he is tracing and is able to 
 use some of his traits which becomes useful when he realises he is no longer of any use to the 
 company that kidnapped when they have accessed the information that they needed.
  
  Like all great games right from the start it is very easy to follow, has a great story line, fun 
 to play and has glorious scenery which is a delight whenever you you access the game. It also has 
 a unique approach to saving you game and accessing information which is involved in the story line 
 by use of the Animus, the game in all is a joy to play & watch AWSOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  To start off, this is one of the best games I have EVER played. It is so revolutionary and innovative 
 that if you have not played it YOU MUST go buy it NOW! I MEAN NOW!
  
  The gameplay mechanics of Assassin's Creed are the best part, second only to the amazing graphics 
 (still amazing a year later) . The environments are beautiful and fun to interact with. Although 
 this game has a central storyline (more central than a game like Oblivion, where you can completely 
 ignore the main story and do a lot) it is mostly open world and sandbox style, and sometimes it 
 is fun just to wander around the game's three main cities: Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus, or the 
 countryside between the cities. The fighting mechanics in this game are amazing, and some moves 
 just look plain awesome without being unrealistic. You will have to do assassinations assigned 
 to you in the game, and you can go at them in many ways. You can sneak to the target's location 
 by blending yourself into the crowds on the streets, or you can jump on rooftops and sneak into 
 the building where the target is by climbing. You can start an all out brawl and take out your 
 sword (not the smartest decision) , or you can sneak around with your dagger killing guards from 
 behind. To be able assassinate the target you are assigned, first you have to do investigations 
 around the city, which are usually not that hard. There are other small side things you can do 
 like saving innocent people from guards and collecting flags, but they are not that time consuming 
 or fulfilling compared to the main quests. I thought the sci-fi frame story was actually entertaining 
 and the end made me clamoring for a sequel, which I hear is in the works. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5 The graphics were amazing and showed the potential of the next gen systems. 
  
 
  Gameplay: 9.5 The gameplay was very addictive and fun but at times felt a little empty.
  
  Story: 9.0 The storyline was good and entertaining, but I think it could have been elaborated a 
 bit more.
  
  Replayability 8.0: The game keeps you entertained for some time, but it felt a little short. After 
 you complete the game there is not a whole lot to do, and it begins to grow a little stale. 
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 9.5 Fun and innovative gameplay with great graphics 
 put this game easily in my top 10 games of all time, and it is a MUST PLAY experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulosottomies
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Great medieval Middle East, great atmosphere, I loved it, until got disturbed by that lousy corporation-conspiracy-techno 
 idiotic fiasco. Would have been a great game if there had been a traditional main menu instead 
 of that not-so-good X-files wannabe frame story.
  The ending really ruined a lot. 
  The core game, the story of Altair, is pretty nice in a scale of normal game stories. Exploring 
 the former crusader state sounds and looks fabulous. The fighting mechanism of the game was something 
 I really enjoyed, which is really rare for me. But then again, the X-files reminders, these self-made 
 "graphical errors" in the otherwise great environment spoil pretty much. This goes particularly 
 bad in the ending scene (of core story, not that sci fi brain-fart part of the game) .
  The man-hours wasted to the sci fi part should have been appointed to the content of the core story, 
 for having more variety and individual look for the missions. And for having a traditional, usable 
 main menu. Then it would have been a really great game, now it feels somewhat incomplete and broken... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamenese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Huge, detailed Landscape. Good controls. Something different. Stylish Action.
  
  The Bad: Confusing storyline, gets very tedious, few glitches, crashes often.
  
  Well it opens 
 up with a very large white screen with a big disclaimer telling us how the game was made by a team 
 with varied beliefs and cultures, which is clearly there only to stop people flooding their inbox 
 with cries and wails of racism and discrimination due to the christi-muslim battles going on within. 
 
  
  Anyway onto the game, its set in a 12th Century Holy land, in which the main cities appear to be 
 within five minutes horseride of eachother which doesnt really seem to hit you until you think 
 about it in one of those annoying moments where you sit there and disect it in your mind. Well 
 except thats what they want you to think, your actually playing as an American man in the future 
 whos having his mind probed for one of his ancestors in the 12th century... or something like that 
 anyway.
  
  Altair is the main characer who belongs to a secret order of assassins who seem to have a thing 
 for removing peoples ring fingers and replacing them with various tools, Altiar decided a switchblade 
 would the best best option due to his career in obsessive murder, however the game fails to introduce 
 Amir who decided to have a spoon for his Coco pops and Harry who deicded to go for it all with 
 a swiss army knife. 
  
  The game feels like a sequel to the Prince of Persia series as its made by the same company and 
 has the same idea of jumping around rooftops and murdering things with no real consequences of 
 dying, since in this one you just 'desyncronise' with the fture characters memory, which goes well 
 enough with the plot I guess. Anyway this ones done in a little better in that its completely non 
 linear and you can run about wherever you like to get to the destination however you want looking 
 as stylish, plain, or meaninglessly violent as you like. Which is actually incredibly fun, especially 
 when your being chased by twenty guards from here to the sands of time.
  
  Talking of the guards they seem very quick to mark you to death, if you so much as sneeze out of 
 line then your suddenly surrounded by all the King's horses and all the King's men, who got bored 
 of putting Humpty Dumpty back together again. Im not sure if Ubisoft thought that hoodies were 
 associated with drugs and violence back then also but it could also be to do with the arsenal of 
 swords and knives you flash around like 12th century bling.
  
  They can also notice you if you accidentally decide to give into the temptation to violently murder 
 the first person you see, which is incredibly hard to hold back! More so when you have the poor 
 deicde to pester you for money, and you cant just ignore them like nowadays, no these follow you 
 from here all across the city, and if you decide to climb a building theyl start throwing rocks 
 and stones at you, which causes you to retaliate with a mild dose of murder, which causes guards 
 to come out of nowhere, which is rather annoying since you cant just cry 'wahhhh' she started it, 
 yeh her... the corpse'.
  
  The main problem with the game that you spend more time messing about, and planning your route 
 and doing chores for your neighbours than actual assassinating! First you start in your base at 
 the top of a damn mountain, then you have to get to the city in question, then you have to wander 
 through it occasionally stopping to murder the poor and lepers. Then you have to do the aforementioned 
 chores, which consist of getting information via pickpocketing targets, listening in on people, 
 or beating the crap out of the neighbourhood snitch, which although they sound fun, after doing 
 it for the 50th time they get incredibly tedious.
  
  When you do get to the cutscene you generally have a lovely battle with a laod of guards, the combats 
 stylish but really easy, you just need to not attack and press a button when they come at you, 
 leading to a very easy and stylish wiping out of the Israeli army, the boss themself usually takes 
 a load of hits in which afterwards instead of standing over your victim with glee you decide to 
 give them a cuddle and listen to a ten minute speech they wrote for this very moment, which having 
 the majority of your organs and throat slashed would be quite a challenge in reality...
  
  Finally there's a collectables system in which theres about 100 different flags in each city and 
 collecting them all rewards you with... well nothing at all, which seems a bit pointless and they 
 best rectify in the sequel, which I do look foward to.
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is a good game that tries something new, which is something different in 
 this world of bleak sci fi first person shooters flooding the market. For that reason I suggest 
 you try it as it truly is a good games, but as you get to the later stages it tends to get a bit 
 too samey.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  The game starts off great, fun going around taking different routes, murdering things, enjoying 
 the stylish fighting, but later on gets all too samey.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Excellent portrayal of the 12th century, great 3D graphics that suit the game to a tee.
  
  
 Sound: 9
  Soundtracks good, blends in with combat, the game, stealth and era all together well.
  
  Value: 
 8
  Not something i'd spend a full 40 on, but seen in stores for around 20 preowned now and thats 
 a fair price.
  
  Replayability: 4
  After playing the game once, its all the same, there is no real point replaying it, collecting 
 the flags is pointless and dong all the submissions is incredibly tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Before purchasing this game, I've read about of bad things regarding Assassin's Creed. They say 
 it's one of the most disappointing games of all time, crappy, repetitive, confusing story But 
 I say it's a great game, visuals are beautiful and stunning. It clearly displays the power of the 
 PS3. The story is very interesting and immersive. Jumping over rooftops, climbing walls and viewpoint 
 towers, saving citizens, investigating, and swordfights and assassinating and everything else 
 is amazing. Maybe some people get bothered 'coz this game requires patience this isn't your hack 
 n' slash type of a game. You got to get yourself inside the game for you to appreciate it. If you 
 want constant action, you might say "this is boring", but since you are playing as an old school 
 assassin, you to do it in the old-fashion way and not with photographs, perfect timing, position, 
 and a sniper rifle. Animations are very cool, especially the sword counter attacks! For me, this 
 game is really worth its price. And people should get this game now that it's on the "Greatest 
 Hits"range. It's a good break from all the FPS out there. It's a must-have game. Give it a chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a decent games with great background settings. Altair is going to rock their 
 world. Can you handle his weapons though. Game doesn't seem all that great. Kind of repetitive 
 but the assassinations bring you back into the game's atmosphere. The mini missions keep your skills 
 in check while you run around and pick pocket some villagers. The over all concept was good while 
 the visual art work definitely steps things up a notch. The medival period has me reminiscing over 
 the good old days. When men used swords, knives, cross bows and their bare hands to engage in combat. 
 The coolest part of this game for me has to be the ability to run across the roof tops. Get out 
 of red into the yellow status then find a spot to hide. Climb the tallest buildings to over look 
 the city and take a leap of faith. I really need to go back to Dead Space and play that Impossible 
 Mission mode. I'll finish this first I promise !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I had a fun time playing this game last Thanksgiving of 07', and you probably are wondering why 
 I delayed this review a year. The answer is simple, this game is hard to describe, and I've seen 
 a dozen of different opinions on this game. I finally thought this game over and decided to review 
 it for the heck of it. 
  
  Gameplay 8/10- This actually isn't very bad. The control scheme is well-organized and the combat 
 system isn't too bad. Mostly you will be trying to climb buildings to escape angry guards, which 
 was done pretty well. You can use a few different ranges and bladed weapons. The story is pretty 
 interesting although it does tend to drag on a little long. The ending however, is very disappointing, 
 and there are parts of the story where you can't skip dialogue, which can get boring on your second 
 playthrough. Everything is pretty much in game. Combat is, however, more of a timed game rather 
 than actually needing skill. You can take on a dozen enemies if you block and time your parries 
 right. Also, the stealth system tends to be slightly flawed and guards sometimes walk right past 
 you just because you are sitting on a bench. Overall, gameplay is done pretty well, but seems more 
 like a mini-game than actually needing skill to play. Also, I don't really care for the health 
 system that much. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- Graphics were done well and I have really no complaints here. I think the level 
 design is well done and unique along with the character models and weapons. 
  
  Sound 9/10- Good voice work and soundtrack do wonders for this game. The only problem I would say 
 is the soundtrack may tend to get repetitive. 
  
  Value 5/10- This game is one of the most fun games you can play through the first time, but what 
 about the second or even third. Objectives tend to get very tedious and repeat a lot. I found that 
 to finally get the information you need about your targets, you do the same things over and over. 
 Listen for clues, beat a prophet into talking, or talking with you fellow assassin's located in 
 santuaries. At the end of each mission you finally get to assassinate your target, which is pretty 
 fun but it is hard to do it without being noticed. Repeat this for about 11 or 12 missions and 
 finally go to the last mission which is the only different one from the others. Now, try replaying 
 this game with no trophies or rewards for doing anything else a second time. This game has little 
 to no replay, there are flags and other items you can collect for fun, but doing this does not 
 grant you anything. 
  
  Tilt 7/10- In short this game makes a perfect rental but is not worth buying at all. This game 
 has pretty good gameplay and story and all but has no replay value at all. Objectives get very 
 repetitive and having to listen to your fellow assassin buddies talk to you for 10 minutes after 
 you complete 3 or so objectives in 15 minutes just isn't fun. Sure you can explore, the map is 
 pretty big, and sure you can just randomly kill people and guards but how fun is that. The longest 
 this game may last anyone is about a month then it will end up on a dusty shelf or on a used game 
 rack at Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsgreat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I know it's been said before but this game is repetitive.
  I know it's been said before but this game is repetitive.
  I know it's been said before but... 
 you see where I'm going with this.
  
  Truth be told, all games are repetitive to some level. Super Mario Bros. for example, has you repeating 
 the same actions over and over, but you don't get tired of that do you? That's because the Mario 
 Brothers series have some good games that make all the jumping on koopas fun. So how is Assassin's 
 Creed any different? It's not that different really.
  
  A lot of what Assassin's Creed tries to do it does right. It's concept of "social stealth" (i. e. 
 blending into crowds) it does fairly well, and that concept will be polished with better AI and 
 more options to hide in the next game (there WILL be a sequel for all of you who haven't played 
 through the game yet) . Also the free-running and climbing system is very intuitive and well done. 
 Jumping over the rooftops of the well rendered cities of Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem is very satisfying.
 
  
  Other than the stealth the combat feels really slick. I hear quite a few complaints about AC's 
 one-button combat, but this is no hack-and-slash. Correct timing and waiting for an opening to 
 strike make the one (or two really) button system feel much more deep than it appears.
  
  One of the gripes I have about AC is the "investigations" you have to do before each assassination. 
 While the concept of getting details about your target makes sense, it just isn't put together 
 well enough for you to actually feel like you are a predator stalking it's prey. The investigations 
 really feel like the game designers were trying to add some more length to an already pretty short 
 game. In other words, they feel tacked on and that's where the real repetition is.
  
  The story is hit-or-miss. While it will hold your interest and contains a lot of historical detail, 
 the lack of a real ending as an obvious tie-in to a sequel will be frustrating.
  
  This game sucks you at first, but losses it's focus (and you will lose yours as well) about half 
 way through. The only reason I kept playing was like Killer 7, to finish the interesting story, 
 but when I wasn't even gratified with a proper ending I was kind of pissed off.
  
  So in the end, the graphics and animations are very nice and flow very well together, respectively. 
 The music isn't bad, but a few of the tunes can get repetitive and annoying if you have to listen 
 to them long enough. Sound design and voice acting are well done, but most NPCs don't have enough 
 dialogue and, surprise, they get pretty repetitive. The story has a few good concepts, but the 
 cheap "buy the sequel" ending brings it down.
  
  I would recommend a rental first to see if this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampiraJen
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I thought I'd take a moment to say how utterly disappointed I was with Assassins Creed. Without 
 a doubt it was the biggest let down of the last twelve months. This game promised so much but what 
 it delivered was a punch in the head in all the areas it hyped up on. For example, free roaming. 
 Free roaming to do what exactly? To collect a bunch of flags? To do the same boring tasks over 
 and over again? To listen in on the same generic guy give a talk? To beat the same generic guy 
 up for some information. To help one of you generic colleagues find all his lost items just so 
 he'll give you a bit of useless information that will advance the plot forward? The major problem 
 with this game is repetitively. Sure there quite a few things to do, but it's the same things over 
 and over again. Each mission requires a minimum amount of 'information gathering' before you can 
 actually head towards your target. You are doing the same thing for every mission. You listen in 
 on a conversation, you beat some information out of people, etc etc. You do this in every mission 
 I played. The first mission I played, I did everything that was required of me, then I assassinated 
 the first guy. When I came to the second guy I started to see the repetitive nature of the game 
 and did about half of the total optional info-gathering. By the time I came to the third I did 
 the bare minimum. Afterwards I started to get really irritated.
  
  The story is a rather interesting premise: you're actually a dude in modern times reliving the 
 memories of an ancestor during the times of the crusades. Some of the characters and set pieces 
 are great. The one that sticks out in my mind is the dude in the hospital. It was quite a haunting 
 experience walking around people who were not only physically ill, but seemed to be mentally ill 
 as well. People were getting beaten up for trying to escape and the doctor  our target  for all 
 his mistreatment of his patients, honestly thinks he is helping them. If the game play was as good 
 as the story seemed to be, we would have been on to a winner here. Unfortunately, with this kind 
 of a game, you only get story elements at certain points, and how do you get to those points? Info-gathering 
 mission! God DAMN! Also, because this game is actually set in a modern/near future settings, menu's 
 and the HUD are presented in more of a Sci-Fi style. This, I think, is a major mistake, since the 
 game is suppose to take place in the time of the crusades, a Sci-Fi style display doesn't do anything 
 to help you loose yourself in the streets of Jerusalem. If the game makers wanted to remind the 
 player that this was all just a memory being relived, why not just have more subtle reminders, 
 things that specifically had to do with Desmond in the Animus? Why not have Altair look at a paper 
 map? Ubisoft kept going on about how you'll lose yourself in the game, but it's hard to do that 
 when your life meter looks like it should be on the controls of Luke Skywalker's X-Wing.
  
  Combat was boring. It's really just a case of getting your timing right to block a blow or swing 
 your sword at someone. It was visually really cool to watch limbs getting chopped off, but the 
 lack of any real involvement in the fight means it never really feels satisfying. You rarely come 
 away from a fight thinking you're a kick ass cool assassin, except maybe the first time. Games 
 like Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid work under the premise of 'stay quiet and stay hidden', 
 but even they know when there's a time for stealth and a time for full on action, and it made that 
 action engaging and dramatic. Something you tried to avoid, but still enjoyed when it happened. 
 
  
  Altair moves around these cities by Free Running. This is very visually entertaining, and allows 
 for a bit of showing off for next generation consoles. Things have moved on a lot since Lara Croft 
 had to line up her jumps back in 1996. Now we have characters leaping gracefully from rooftop to 
 rooftop and climbing up the side as of buildings, and doing it all as if it were a dance. It really 
 is amazing to watch as no building is an obstacle, rather a tool to get you from point A to point 
 B. What's my problem with it? It's as dull as the combat. All you do is hold down a button, aim 
 the analogue stick in the general direction you want to go, then sit back an watch. Like the combat, 
 it's so hands off it doesn't really feel like you're doing it.
  
  The actual assassinations are a joke. The idea with this social stealth thing is that you could 
 walk right by someone and they wouldn't look twice at you. Then why can I not get near my target 
 without every guard in the area going insane? The game forces me to take a stealthy approach. But 
 get this  no matter how quietly you take down your target an ALARM will start blaring and you 
 have to get away from your enemies. Why? Why can I slice a generic person down without anyone realising 
 till I'm long gone but I cant quietly kill my target then walk away into a crowd before the guards 
 realise what's happened? What kind of a stealth game doesn't reward you for taking the quiet option? 
 What kind of a stealth game kicks you in the metaphorical balls when you do EXACTLY WHAT THE GAME 
 REQUIRES YOU TO DO? What I ended up doing was - as soon as I got the dull, crappy, boring, info-gathering 
 out of the way - I ran up to my target, pulled my sword out and just hacked and slashed. Then I 
 ran my ass away as fast as I could away from danger. Stealthy! In Assassins Creed, the missions 
 are repetitive, the combat is boring and the assassinations are a joke. There's a sequel in the 
 works, but do you know something? Unless Ubisoft deal with some of the major issues that I  and 
 many others  had with this first game, they can forget about me caring about their sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The game offers something new. Jumping on walls and swinging from pillars fluidity like a monkey 
 it more than fun, it offers a new way to tackle the city. Jumping off planks 1000 feet in sky into 
 hay seems weird at first, but the feeling of a close death experience like this is exhilirating. 
 Getting to Assassin the target and get a beautiful and provacative cutscene that explains the pointlessness 
 of religion is great. The only problem is all of it repetitive. It all feels new and exciting at 
 first, but after a while traveling to each destination yourself on horse or by foot becomes a chore. 
 Also finding eagle points, which are ledges high in the sky which assists you in exploring the 
 vast landscape gets tedious. Then having to fight off 100 men gets annoying, but it is very fun 
 especially on top of a castle. 
  
  Overall, the game is something new and beautiful, but everything just feels like a repeat of the 
 beginning, just an increase in diffuculty. The thing is you are sent to kill a target, but before 
 you can find his location, you must pick pocket someone, kill enemies for a friend who will supply 
 you with information, or become a peeping tom. Everytime you are assigned to a mission, these are 
 usualy the three things you will most likely have to do until you can finally reach your target, 
 then you must travel back to your home town for your next mission. It is very repetitive, but if 
 they game is played in segments, meaning a chapter a day, the game does not feel as repetitive 
 as it is, but it will still be noticable. 
  
  The best thing about the game is the storyline which surpasses most stories is game. It is well 
 thought out with twist and turns to keep you wanting more. It seems the writer knew a finger two 
 about religion and social control because they were able to put them together in a game making 
 it relatable and engrossing. Assassin Creed will make you question your real life choices and that 
 is why this game is worth a play. Its hard for a game like this to dissapoint. The graphics are 
 a treats and gameplay is addictive, even if it is repetitive. Worth a rent, and possibly a buy 
 if this type of gameplay is your preference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawthornfc_30
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  The main reason i brought a ps3 was to get this game before it came to pc, i just couldent wait 
 to go out and buy it and finally play it, well worth the wait.
  The visuals are just out standing, the gameplay were almost nothing is un-climbable is fantastic 
 makes getting around the city nice and easy without running into to much trouble. When you arrive 
 at a city and have to repeat everything you did in the previous city, it can get fustrating, thier 
 are way to many flags to go find and it can get quite boring. The kingdom land is big and can get 
 confusing trying to look at the map running in to dead ends, truning around and getting to the 
 correct city, much easier to just get placed thier. I have played both ps3 and pc version, found 
 the ps3 to freeze up sometimes just while running, which i believe has been fixed with new patchs, 
 and the pc version, depending on your rig, runs smooth and not yet frozen. The pc controls are 
 just as easy to get used to as it is on a console control. This game gets a 9/10 in my veiw for 
 the out standing visuals, concept of the game, running around and assassinating people using stealth 
 or no stealth is just amazing, the gameplay and citys is pure class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismx193
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Now my score of 9 can be a little bit biased mainly because this was my first ps3 game. Kind of 
 like my first love... you know what I mean. 
  
  I liked this game. I had fun playing it. I enjoyed all the great graphics of it. The story was 
 interesting. It made me want to keep playing it, so I can find out more. 
  
  The only bad thing was it was quite (now everybody say it with me) repetitive. You have certain 
 objectives to do (dive off an eagle view, pickpocket someone, etc) , you report to the assassin's 
 bureau, do some more objectives and then kill a leader. You report to your boss/master and then 
 do it all over again.
  
  Dispite that, I still enjoyed doing it. I liked the story. I liked assassinating people. The great 
 graphics helped out a lot too. It was a masterpiece of a game, and I can't wait for a possible 
 Assassins Creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingv16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Basically what this game boils down to is that it just seems to be annoying at times. Personally 
 i don't mind doing the same stuff over and over again, but when I hear the same voices say the 
 same stuff over and over again it really ruins the gaming experience. Don't get me wrong though, 
 assassins creed is a really well put together game, I'm sure that everyone agrees that it has good 
 graphics but what really stands out as amazing is that anything can be climbed on. It takes plat 
 forming to a whole new level. Just the sheet magnitude of these worlds is quite entertaining to 
 walk {for a short time, then it just becomes annoying} . Hopefully they improve on the second one 
 so that they get rid of the frantic repetitiveness in the game. There's a lot of hope for this 
 game! LIke i said if they fix some of the repetiveness dialogue and they get rid the muddy controls 
 then it will really shine brighter in its class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapersXXXGrim
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a great game although theres a shortish story to it it makes up for it brillient 
 gameplay easy controles and superb graphics this is a game that will be played by many over the 
 years to come.
  i found it a very addictive game E. g trying to pull off professional free running with out getting 
 confused of what to do or where to go this game has many haters out the but there are alot of people 
 who love this game i rate it a ten out of ten it really deserves it as will assassins creed 2 soon 
 to be worked on. I dont know what people want in assassins creed two but i sure know i want a longer 
 more exciting story dont get me wrong the story was brill in assassins creed but we need some thing 
 new and fresh some thing you wouldent expect in the game series like why are my own brotheren chashing 
 me, why have i lost my honor again some thing thats gonna twist the balls af the SAW series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBirdPheonix
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Some people like this game and some people just hate it. I like this game. First, There are all 
 kinds of weapons to choose from to kill your target. Secondly, there are areas that you can free 
 roam in and explore. Last, but not least, you can kill anyone that you think deserves to die. These 
 are only a few of the reasons why I think Assassin's Creed is a great game to play
  
  This is a great game to play because you can choose which weapon you want to use. You can use a 
 sword to do counters with and watch the cool scenes that Altair does. Secondly, you can sneak up 
 on the target and do a quick stab in the back, plunging the blade in. Lastly, you can just avoid 
 suspicion all together and throw a knife at him, ending his life quickly. Most will choose to use 
 these methods but another is to just beat him with your fist and make him suffer.
  
  Another reason that this is a great game to play is the reason that you can free roam and do as 
 you please. First, you could just go along getting a headache trying to collect all the flags in 
 each city. Secondly, you could save all the civilians in every district so that you can get away 
 from the guards much easier. Lastly, you can just explore aimlessly around the cities, looking 
 at everything the city has to offer. You may think this is all that you can do but there is much 
 more.
  
  The last reason that I will discuss in this review is the fact that anyone can be your next victim. 
 It could be one of the guards, or it could be one of the crazy people that push you, or it could 
 be one of the annoying beggars that follow you and get in your way. You get to choose. Secondly, 
 you could just be mad and want to vent your anger. Lastly, you could just want some extra practice 
 before you take out your target. Whichever reason this is, you will most likely kill a nonessential 
 sometime or another.
  
  Now that I have covered the good things about this game, lets cover the bad parts, shall we? The 
 story of this game is good, but the way to unlock it is very repetitive. All you do is kill the 
 target and watch a cut scene or get off the animus and watch a fight between the 2 scientists. 
 The ending to this game is just horrific. I know they were trying to set up a sequel but come on, 
 not even a movie.
  
  Assassin's Creed has some great game play. It even has a nice story, but after your fourth mission, 
 you will know how repetitive it gets. In conclusion, if you want a game that plays well and has 
 a good story, and you can take a horrible ending, you should get Assassin's Creed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sOLiD_SNAKE17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The first words I uttered after starting Assassin's Creed were what the f***?!. Shortly after finding 
 out that this game took place in the future, I eventually fell in love with the plot. I have hear 
 a lot of complaints about the plot but I personally believe that those who don't like it probably 
 don't get it. After learning about Altair and his huge ego you quickly figure out why this game 
 is so good. The game play in Assassin's Creed is where this game really shines. You freely travel 
 from city to city and take out key members of the Templar knights. First you infiltrate the city, 
 investigate who it is you must assassinate and then when they bureau assassin thinks you've found 
 out enough, you can assassinate your target. This game does an amazing job of creating the agents 
 of evil you must take down. Every assassination is different and each requires it's own unique 
 method to assassinate. Also, this game looks great. The environments are absolutely beautiful, 
 and the scale is amazing, something achieved by few games in the genre. The environments feel like 
 a mix of GTA and Prince of Persia. Altair can climb almost any surface, and the animations are 
 gorgeous. Combat is also an awesome feat in this game. The realism and clanging of metal against 
 metal makes it feel like you are actually in a sword battle. The plot is one that embeds itself 
 into actual history and makes the overall experience of Assassin's Creed that much more real. Between 
 memory blocks, you will play as Desmond Miles, a descendant of the Assassin's and you will sift 
 through mountains of confusion. After sneaking around at night and reading the company employees 
 emails, you will discover a lot more about the plot. When is all is said and done Assassin's Creed 
 is a gem in the genre. Make sure to pick up this game as there will surely be more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  well... I must say, im really late for the partty, i know i know , were was i when this game came 
 out? i was playing Uncharted and COD4, i really wanted the game but a year later here it is...
 
  
  For starters the graphics look beast, i have a 1080p Sony bravia but it still looks great, i havent 
 encountered any glitches or errors in the game. The character is cool but the story is s little 
 inconsistent.
  
  The only problems i have are these... The travel time from place to place is long and borring, 
 the assasinations are all repetitive and the freaking combat system is badly broken.. thats all.
 
  
  Other than that the game gives a great a rich experience, gamers canot let this game pass, its 
 only 30 bucks in the US, so rush the game sweet to the theeth.. oh and dont forgget to review it.
 
  
  Now im leaving to play the game, im almost done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  The frist thing that caught my eye about this game had to be the graphics and the visual effects 
 of the game. The fighting in the game is good. You dont really have allot of attack moves but you 
 do have some cool finshing moves. This game is one of a kind. I think that this is the first game 
 that had the controls perfect for climbing the buildings and it is just so easy to jump climb and 
 swing from building to building. The only bad thing i have to say about the game is the story. 
 This story was border line on wanting to make me no more about it or not. The ending was not worth 
 it. I dont think a game should end like that but hey thats why i just play them. But over all this 
 games gameplay and grapics are great and i would say a 9 fits this game perfect. So go out and 
 try this game you will not be sorry for tryin this adventurest game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  When Assassins creed came out it got mixed reviews, Gamespot rated it fairly highly but other review 
 sites such as IGN only gave it a 6.5 due to its repetitive nature, taking a gamble i decided to 
 get the game anyway and see what it was like. I was not dissapointed, Assassins creed quite plausible 
 story leaves you wanting more, and although the cliffhanger ending sets it up for a sequel, you 
 wish that the game would have wrapped the game up a bit better.
  
  The game opens up in modern day times with desmond the bar tender, strapped into a machine that 
 can access his ancestors memories and help two scientists find a precious artifact that they want. 
 Desmond claims to have no idea whats going on and throughout the game you are never really sure 
 whether he does or not, however his small sections are irrelevant anyway, the main focus of the 
 game is Altair, the shamed assassin who wants to earn his way back into the top of the ranks.
 
  
  You visit Altair through this machine, through Desmond you see and play as Altair, completing objectives 
 to unlock intel on the whereabouts of your target. Although the intel missions are cool at first, 
 they get repetitive towards the end, and you often end up following the pattern, climb a building, 
 (gain awareness of locations in the map) , stalk a guy, eavesdrop between two people, steal something, 
 kill a man.
  
  However the rest of the gameplay is very intuitive and well made, you run up walls and do amazing 
 acrobatic accomplishments by holding the r1 button and pressing X on the ps3, although it seems 
 simple, it makes for some exciting chases as you can time your jumps and rolls through this feature. 
 The roofs are your best friends, and nothing feels more satisfying then running across them and 
 making an extrodinarly large leap of faith into a hay bale below to evade the guards when you've 
 been caught.
  
  The graphics in Assassins creed are absolutely breathtaking, there are so many different character 
 models and everything looks organic and doesn't look like it was placed there just so you could 
 climb it, it looks like it is naturally part of the building. Another cool feature is eagle vision, 
 which makes altair go into first person and it highlights everyone in different colours to determind 
 their threat level, whether they are friend or foe, or someone that you need to assassinate, very 
 useful for the later levels.
  
  The Swordfighting is very cool and something however that you may want to avoid as to make the 
 rest of the game easier, to many events where you attract attention to yourself make the guards 
 more aware of your activities and suspicious of you constantly. You use square to attack and hold 
 l1 to block, eventually you link together cool attacks and counter attacks to create really fluid 
 swordplay, the kills themselves are usually cinematic and extremely gory, satisfying even the most 
 bloodthirsty of people (like me)
  
  The sound in Assassins creed is also amazing, a cinematic score is a constant undertone within 
 the game, accompanied by the talk of the citizens of Acre and the other cities you visit while 
 your there. Its always amusing to see when two civilians notice you climbing a wall and shout What 
 is that man doing? I tell you he's going to get himself hurt. The developers clearly worked hard 
 to make this as an immersive game as possible and it worked!
  
  There are a few different weapons within Assassins creed, Sword, Short Sword, Throwing Knives and 
 a rather cool 4 inch knife where Altair's finger should be on his left hand. His Finger is cut 
 off and the knife retracts and extracts when Altair wants to use it, its so useful when you are 
 chasing a fleeing target from the rooftops to just jump down land on the target and ram the knife 
 into the back of his head. Each weapon handles slightly differently, however i tended to use the 
 Short Sword and the 4 inch knife in conjunction with each other as it enabled fast brutal killings.
 
  
  Another cool feature are the monks and the blocker citizens within the city, the monks help you 
 into the city by letting you pretend you are one of them, ( you are dressed similarly to the monks 
 and the scholars within AC) . The Blocker Citizens are relatives of citizens that you rescue from 
 the Tormenting Guards, some of the women screaming for help, once rescued, say thank you my brothers 
 will hear of your kindness. etc. They essentially distract guards and can stop them from catching 
 you if you are on the run from them.
  
  Once you complete the game, assassins creed doesn't have much to offer, you probably don't want 
 to go back and complete all the objectives that you missed, as it means restarting the entire chapter, 
 and there are no real incentives, no new costumes, no new hidden weapons, just stats.
  
  Overall, Ubisoft's Assassins Creed is a Masterpiece of a Game, it looks outstanding, and its Gameplay 
 although repetitive towards the end is still great fun and extremely immersive, giving you many 
 ways to kill an enemy, simply depending on your wits and your creative ability.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koukiboy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a great game which shows very well the year 1911. The fighting styles are great 
 for a while but then later on it just becomes repetetive. It is very cool how they tell the story 
 but it was kinda complicated for me. I like the way they give you choices on how to assassinate 
 your target, for ex: go behind him by sneeking or just rush into him by killing his guard or use 
 the scholars to get you where he is. The story is not that short but it isn't that long either. 
 what really amazed me was that you can ride a horse to anywhere you want, You are free to go where 
 you want and you will find plenty of hidden flags, some templars to kill, small villages, view 
 points, you can consider them as side missions. There are other objectives that you must complete 
 before an assassination like investigations, pick pocket, eavesdropping, interrogation and informers ( 
 these get you information) . I enjoy playing this game and i recommend it for you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  If there was one game that was hyped last year, it was Assassins Creed by Uibisoft. Weekly updates 
 showing a game with great graphics and unique fighting moves. In short it looked very promising. 
 Problem with the game was that is quickly became boring. You wander around in a great Medieval 
 world, with an amazing feeling for detail and player interaction with the environment. Your an 
 assassin and you go from job to job eliminating one bad guy after another. Soon you notice that 
 you repeat the exact same approach. You sneak into a building, try to avoid attention, quickly 
 kill the bad guy and then make your escape over the rooftops. It's not all that difficult. Enemy 
 AI is ok, but you soon killing them and fleeing away is not all that difficult. It's a shame, but 
 it's true.
  
  Oh yeah... One very positive thing about Assassins Creed was the appearance of Ubisoft employee 
 Jade Raymond (http://www. jade-raymond. com) ;-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycasey94
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  great game ... but if there were more diverse and immense missions and submissions it would be 
 a lot better and worth all the time it takes to beat ... In other words it took too long to do 
 the same thing again ... and again ... and again ... and again ... until you finally get to the 
 end. Once you beat the game you cant just go free roam around the cities or the country ... you 
 have to replay a section of the game and sit there and listen to grandpa talk to you ... Fun but 
 not worth the sixty bucks i payed for it ... The end made me want more however ... i need to find 
 out what happens ... and what all the weird writing on the ground and on the wall was and why it 
 was in blood ... i cannot wait for Assassin's Creed 2 ... I am sure they will make it a lot better 
 and keep the repetitiveness out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooden16996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the first real revolutionary games for the next gen systems. The way that you 
 r in the late days of the Third Crusade and are an ultimate assassins in the art of killing is 
 amazing. Some say that the gameplay gets repetitive but every victim of your assassination takes 
 different stealth techniques and investigation. The story is very unique almost like a movie in 
 some ways. You play as Altair, an ultimate assassins ordered to kill 9 people throughout the course 
 of the game. You will often go back to the present where you are Desmond a lab rat testing out 
 a new invention called the Animus, used to look at peolple's past and past lives. Turns out that 
 Desmond is really Altair in a past live. Pretty interesting story if you ask me. Controls are very 
 simple to use. Sometimes the counters can be difficult but after a few times you will get it. Overall 
 I give this game a 9.5/10 Lol:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  ive always wanted this game ever since it came out but i didnt hav a Ps3 or Xbox 360 so i went 
 to buy a PS3 later and its pritty hectic!
  Assassins creed is set during the time of the third crusades (bit after that movie kingdom of heaven 
 if ur familiar with it) and you have 9 targets to assassinate. you have to find out how and where 
 to assassinate ur target by investigating which can be frustrating.
  
  basically its got a decent storyline and good ideas with it.
  the graphics are stunning i mean 
 really good i dont know any other Ps3 games with better graphics its realistic and brings the holy 
 land to life.
  the combat is realistic and not like any other hack, n smash games that we are used to the sword 
 fights are not button mashing but require consentration and ways to counter ur opponents strikes.
 
  when you assassinate ur target u enter a demension thing where u talk to them while they die its 
 well done and once i felt sorry that i killed them but eh?.. its a game. 
  
  and you find out what their role in the story was and why u assasinated them if it was for good 
 or evil.
  the world is brilliant with many places to explore like jerusalem damascus and the kingdom all 
 have bonus missions such as rescueing civilians, killing templars or collecting flags keeping u 
 busy.
  a
  nd the climbing is great i even tryed to climb up a building after playing it but i got a wrong 
 foot hold and fell hurting my arm (dont try it!) so im going to take up rock climbing as it may 
 enspire you to climb and sprint.
  
  however the hiding places are a bit sus which means the enemies must be pritty stupid not to check 
 there but its a great game and i reccomend it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarif99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a really good single player game..... when ever you turn it on you can feel 
 this creepy feeling getting all over you. especially when you want to now what happens to Mr Miles 
 at the end. the start is really good which makes it even more realistic. i like the parts where 
 you can look anywhere you want or move to any position you like when in any conversation. the tasks 
 that they give really make you enjoy this game fully!!!!! I like the parts where you have the option 
 of travelling by ground or by jumping on top of buildings which i prefer. I guess the bad parts 
 are that you cant play it in multiplayer, it gets really annoying when random guards start attacking 
 you for no reason and most of all the part which i think is really stupid is that if he jumps onto 
 a puddle... even knee height......... he dies!!!! But over all its a really innovative free game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was a surprisingly good game. The graphics were astonishing, they basically set 
 the bar for graphics on a videogame just like Final Fantasy 10 did and Metal Gear Solid 4 did. 
 The main character, Desmond Miles, ids a abducted and forced to enter a machine that induces a 
 coma and he lives out experiences of his great ancestor Altair an assassin from the late 12th century. 
 Altair can literally climb any building, wall, window etc. If you like the Spiderman games you 
 will definitely enjoy this game the climbing is much better than any of the Spiderman games. The 
 story is a little weak but has potential for a sequel. The gameplay is innovative but repetitive 
 assassinations along with pick pocketing people, eavesdropping and interrogations. Along with that 
 there are multiple flags and things to collect like the secret packages in GTA games. Also citizens 
 must be saved and tens of view points, churches, towers, must be climbed to open more of the map. 
 Overall this game is fun but doesn't have good replay value unless it's picked up months later. 
 It ends with a cliffhanger so it's open for a sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  For the first little while, Assassin's Creed is an intriguing game. The plot is mysterious and 
 compelling, the environments are beautiful, and the gameplay is fun. Unfortunately, these feelings 
 didn't last long.
  
  Assassin's Creed has potential, and could have been a much greater game. Its main problem is it 
 lacks variety. Throughout the game you go on missions to assassinate 10 different people. Each 
 time you follow the exact same steps to get to your target. You climb towers in the various cities 
 to find missions, and then perform two or three missions which consist of pickpocketing, eavesdropping, 
 interrogating, mini-assassinations, or timed flag collecting. Each of these missions provides information 
 (though it's occasionally unclear how the information is helpful) and eventually you can start 
 your main assassination mission. These are the only thing that actually challenges you more as 
 the game progresses.
  
  The lack of variety in terms of the ways of getting information is inexcusable. On top of having 
 some more tasks, there could have even been potential to vary the ways in which the various tasks 
 are performed, but that isn't the case. Pickpocketing always starts by listening to two people 
 talk for a bit, then sneaking up behind a target while holding circle until you get close enough 
 to pickpocket. Eavesdropping always involves sitting on a bench and merely hitting triangle while 
 targeting two people to listen to them. Interrogating always involves punching some guy until he 
 tells you something (frequently this can be done in front of guards with no consequences despite 
 the game telling you to follow the man to a secluded place first) . The mini-assassinations involve 
 killing one or more people, sometimes within a time limit. These truly are the most challenging 
 of tasks as they actually do require stealth. Finally the timed-flag collecting missions. These 
 are just ridiculous. There's no better way to take me out of the experience of being in the Crusades-era 
 Middle East than by having some guy tell me he'll only give me information if I collect some number 
 of flags within some time limit. This bizarre, out-of-place mission type screams of laziness in 
 designing this game.
  
  Just some examples of other types of missions that could have existed could be having to stealthily 
 break into a building sneaking past guards or other people in order to steal some item vital to 
 your assassination. Or perhaps a variation on the eavesdropping could have been to stealthily follow 
 someone until they reach some rendezvous at which point you must hide and eavesdrop. Things like 
 this could have made the game far less boring and repetitive.
  
  The next major complaint I have is the plot. It starts out mysterious, and it ends, well, mysterious. 
 You learn very little about what's actually happening. Sure, you know the world is vastly different 
 than the world we know, and that the main character, Desmond, has some memory of importance to 
 Abstergo Corp. buried somewhere in his subconscious. But even when the memory becomes apparent, 
 its importance isn't really explained. The game ends so abruptly and without resolving anything. 
 I just couldn't believe it. I've played games with cliffhangers before, Halo 2 and Prey, for instance. 
 But never have I played one where so little is explained. Ubisoft could not have known for sure 
 how popular or well received Assassin's Creed would be during production. Without a well-established 
 fan base, the usage of a cliffhanger that resolves nothing is inexcusable. The proper course of 
 action here would have been to resolve the immediate plot while leaving the game clearly open for 
 a sequel. There are very few games that could get away without resolving anything, and certainly 
 a new franchise is not one of those exceptions.
  
  My only other complaint is the wild fluctuation in the difficulty of the game. For the most part, 
 it is easy, thanks to the simplistic and repetitive tasks. But frequently the difficulty skyrockets 
 when facing off against your ultimate targets. This is especially prevalent near the end of the 
 game. This lack of buildup, makes some of the assassinations frustrating due to frequent deaths. 
 This may have been easier to overlook had the rest of the game been more compelling, but once I 
 realized I didn't care for the game, the frustrating bits really got to me.
  
  Assassin's Creed could have been so much better. There are really good elements buried within it. 
 But it's just too repetitive for it's own good. The plot is so disappointing in its lack of any 
 resolution and really makes you wonder what the point of everything you had been doing was. I'm 
 not against playing a sequel to this game, but Ubisoft really has to make vast improvements for 
 me to consider it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  Thought i'd do a review for any newcomers looking for cheap games. This game is really one of those 
 were, You either love it or hate it. Some feel one or the other towards this game. I love it, I 
 really like its concept, It has stunning graphics, And overall good gameplay. The story can be 
 a little slow, During cutscenes, With some that are not passable by the push of a button. The story 
 is overall good, But what strikes me in this game is the freedom. You can just go straight to where 
 you need to be, Or you can just mess around getting chased by guards, Or just climbing and free 
 falling into a box of hay. It really has a great feel to it, The Setting and Scenes feel really 
 nice overall. The fighting with swords is great. This game is such a good game, That a costume 
 of your character in this game, Is available in Metal Gear Solid 4, As an unlockable! 
  
  So overall I give this game an 8.0, Because of some flaws and slow story line. Well worth a buy.
 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Story - 8/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Sounds - 7/10
  Multiplayer - N/A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Now I don't personally own the game, heck I don't even have a PS3! But I have connections with 
 big important people (who own PS3s') and I've played it, beat it, and I have to say its no racing 
 game. But its GOOD!!! No SUPPER FANTASTICALLY HUGELY GREATLY GOOD!!!!! Now the story is confusing 
 at first. See your a dude who lives in the future, and was put in some memory lab against your 
 will. No its not the new Half Life but close. This Doctor or quack if you will, is trying to pull 
 information about the pass back in the good old days with the holey wars and when Muhammad was 
 bringing his religion about. And well your the key to all this. Now this is a more the one game 
 story, and you'll want to buy them all. So rent it, love it, buy it, beat it, review it. You know 
 all the good stuff in life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  You are a Assassin named Altair with 4 blades out to kill 9 war criminals and elimanate them in 
 3 different towns in the Third crusade (Prety straight forward) but that was all in the past, now 
 Desmond (Altair) has got misteriously into a room and has to give information to some people from 
 a Animus (which is a machine which detects your past and the memories that you can remember and 
 look at them all over aagain) , why is because these people need to find something but will not tell 
 Desmond untill the end of the game. This game has got a easy storyline to follow untill the end 
 which gets confusing.
  
  The Graphics in the game is so good that it seems like you are there in the game jumping from rooftop 
 to rooftop, scaling tall view points and the watching civilians walk and talk to people. The cutscenes 
 are really good, i can not say anything bad about the graphics it is just so magical.10/10
  
  The gameplay is very smooth how you run, walk and fight. The best bit is how you throw your knives 
 at the guards how it swerves and kills exactly once, i also like the close range attacks when you 
 press square when the enemy is about to attack and you you do a grusome kill it is a bit like a 
 quick movie and each time you do that it is a different kill. There are many other ways why this 
 game is good like the way you climb buildings, how you jump off view points into hay stacks. The 
 A1 are good and not dumb they get more cleverer in the game because altairs presence startes to 
 be talked about, there is 4 ways to find your target in the the town interogion, pick pocketing, eavesdropping 
 and help informers for information. The 3 towns are Damascus, Acre and Jeruselam, there are some problems 
 first a few glitches, secound the game gets too repetitive and third this action packed game is 
 too short,9.5/10.
  
  The sound is great, when the guards find out that you are an assassin they shout at you and when 
 they start running after you they communicate with each other like where is he gone and all that. when 
 you have a fight you hear the sound of swords clashing and when you kill them they make a death 
 noise. The civilians when getting harrassed you can hear them from far away, when you run into the 
 civilians they shout at you and say watch where your going and all that.9.0/10
  
  Overall this game gets a 9.0 from me, not a 10 because of its repetitiveness, some glitches and is 
 a too short of a game but this game has a totally wicked side like the Magical Graphics, Stunning 
 gameplay and good sound makes this game really good. This a really good action game and a must buy 
 for poeple who like to explore and kill.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dani233
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  saying the truth this is a great action game with probably the best graphic I've ever seen, it 
 gives u liberty on what to do and contains really good people interacton, contains excellent audio 
 and we need to considerate that it was nominee as the game of the year at a time. The fatal error 
 and the thing that upset me was that a real action game of this category needs and lacks more variety 
 of weapons. In some ocassions the game looks unreal and 1 of those ocassions is when Altair jumps 
 from the "1000ft" towers and falls alive in a pile of straw at the floor, the same occurs when 
 the distance of the jump from roof-to-roof is highly large and he gets to jump them :S. This are 
 some errors in the game but they really wouldnt be called erros in other games that dosen contain 
 so much category as "Assassin Creed". In conclusion this unreal interactions of Altair are some 
 that lets you enjoy the game a little bit more.
  
  The lack variety, the some unreal interactions and the duraiton of the game are crucial things 
 so this let me take off -2 points to the rank. In the other part of th
  e game all things are perfect and this make the game raise the majority of the points. Assassin 
 Creed is a game that everybody should play and enjoy cuz this game will tuly leave you with the 
 mouth open in some ocassions!!! :O :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Faisal_94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  "NOTHING IS TRUE AND EVERYTHING IS PERMITTED!!!"-Al-Mualim. That phrase is probably the most spoken 
 phrase in todays gaming language. Why, you ask. Well it mainly has something to do with that game 
 Ubisoft sold 5 MILLION!!! copies of. Yes i am talking about ASSASSIN'S CREED.
  
  VISUALS+SOUND:
  Oh boy, oh boy now this is how all PS3 games should look and sound like. First 
 things first Altair is one of the most detailed characters I've ever seen. His cloak just moves 
 so realistically and his shadow is just mind-boggling. The cities are so detailed it really puts 
 you back in 1191. Hands down simply the most detail-rich and textured environments in a game I've 
 seent to date. I would've definitely liked to see this in 1080p. Even the Xbox 360 version had 1080p. 
 I also would've liked a day/night engine. The sound was also excellent. After an assassination 
 the music ejects you into a instant state of climax and causes you to sweat puddles. After you 
 get wanted the music instantly puts your mind in a state of combat. Although there isn't much to 
 the music it certainly deserves a standing ovation.
  
  EXPERIENCE:
  Simply put it's like pie, too much and you get sick. You'll enjoy it for most of the game then 
 it gets REALLY repetitive. Sure at first you'll go look man the people notice me running up a wall, 
 look they notice me killing that guy. Then it sounds a little something like this OMFG shut up 
 stop saying the same thing i'm running up a wall WOW!!!!!! BIG DEAL!!!! Even though it gets more 
 annoying then nails on a chalkboard its still a step up from other games. Another thing i found 
 annoying is when you blend in with scholars. For God sakes he has a big red sash hanging from his 
 belt how could they not notice him AND he's carrying a sword. Anyways the way tog et information 
 is pretty smart, but it should definitely change form time to time i got so tired from pick pocketing 
 and eavesdropping. There isn't much to the bosses either, but what can you do it would be really 
 hard to make them epic. Well as you can see you should rush through the game forget 100% completion 
 your TV could be at risk of a flying controller.
  
  STORY:
  If nothing is true then that's a lie, because this story is flat out AWE-some. After all it's the 
 third crusade one of the most epic points in history. I really despised Desmond Miles they made 
 no attempt for you to love Desmond only Altair. The plot turns like a winding road and you you 
 can tell Altair begins to lose trust in Al-Mualim. Leading to the end of the game which i won't 
 ruin. The basic story is something happened and you have 9 assassination targets each with a story 
 that relates to the other, or is it only 9. You'll have to play the game to find out.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  While the game play is seriously lacking it certainly does make way for one 
 HELL OF A SEQUEL. From the far east to Europe i'm sure ASSASSIN"S CREED 2 is gonna be one of the 
 most epic story lines in gaming history.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_dudex
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  The first hour or so playing the game is really cool. Assassinating targets, sneakily killing the 
 guards that might be a threat, or just running into a city and slaughtering everyone and everything. 
 But after the first hour or so, it gets a bit repetitive, get information, find the target, kill 
 the target, rinse and repeat. A bit too repetitive. You do get knew abilities and stuff, but that 
 just helps you do the repetitive stuff. But, and that's a big but, it is a lot of fun. Free running 
 on the buildings, trying to lose the guards who are after you. The amazing, lush graphics of the 
 buildings. The viewpoints. All this makes it a great game to buy. The story is enough to keep you 
 playing on it's own. Full of twists and turns. The gameplay is good and the weapons are really 
 cool. The hidden blade is probably the coolest one, but throwing a throwing knife and watching 
 it slowly twirling off into the distance, so graceful. Then you see the victim fall over with a 
 knife in the back. The fighting is good. Instead of mashing the buttons to try and kill the enemy, 
 a well timed attack is what you need to dispatch them quickly. Do it right and you get a nice, 
 if a bit gory, close up of you killing them in one, swift, counter attack. But, if possible, stay 
 ot of fights. The amount of guards that gather around trying to kill you can become very big. But 
 then again, you are a master assassin. That's enough of a reason to get this game I suppose. A 
 very good game all-in-all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montana1983
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I love this game but I'm finding it's just a lot of hunt and kill over and over again. The new 
 skills and attacks you receive as you go are great. The story is great so far and I love the assignation 
 move. I do however find that when you are going from the machine to your memories I find it takes 
 a little too long to get there and you're just wondering around in the foggy nothingness. It is 
 hard to hate the game though, even with these issues. It is challenging I found which I like in 
 a game. I am only about half way through the game so far. I think there are still some things I 
 don't know yet. I can't wait to get to the end. I feel that this game would be great on the pc. 
 I am playing on my PS3 and it's pretty good. The graphics are great, but to me it just feels like 
 a pc game and I am not sure why? There could definitely be more blood, but I like a bloody game 
 (i. e. god of war, still want to get god of war 2) . In conclusion I recommend this game to any one 
 who enjoys this genre. I do recommend buying it but not at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  You thought the life of an assassin would be exciting? Never the same thing again, never knowing 
 if you see tomorrow and so on. That`s what I thought. Turns out I was wrong. Assassins have a very 
 structured life full of investigating, observing and getting approvals from HQ. This all upfront 
 work pretty much takes the fun out of the actual killing, so the Middle-Age assassin simulator 
 turns out to be quite boring. How on Earth is that possible?
  
  To avoid any controversy, a warning "This work of fiction was designed, developed and produced 
 by a multi cultural team of various faiths and beliefs", which basically legalize for "Hey, I`m 
 not a racist, I have lots of Muslim friends."
  
  The game starts with (a lenghty install and horrific load times) one of those great, surreal "Being 
 John Malkovich" moments that makes you go all "What just happened?" After some weird visions, the 
 protagonist, Desmond Miles, wakes up in Tom Hank`s apartment from "Big". It is near future and 
 our hero turns out to be kidnapped by some scientists, who are recklessly testing the ethical boundaries 
 of humanity but will get their comeuppance in a terrifyingly ironic way. Anyway, they force Desmond 
 to go through his ancestors - a Middle-Age assassin`s - memories to find "the thing"... Well, probably 
 some Deus Ex machina responsible for any unexplained event in history of mankind.
  Meanwhile, a few hundred years back, during the Third Crusade, Desmond`s gran-gran-granpa Altair 
 (Flying Eagle in Arabian) is sent to recover "treasure" from recently discovered temple ruins. 
 Unfortunately, Altair, acting as his usual self, that is, being an overconfident and arrogant dick, 
 screws everything up, leaves his two mates in death and flees like a chicken. Luckily, God doesn`t 
 turn a blind eye on him, so Altair is stabbed by a blunt steak knife and stripped from his rank 
 by Al Mualim, the Assassin Brotherhood`s chief. In order to regain his honour, our muumuu clad 
 hero must kill nine powerful men, who stir things up between Muslims and Crusaders.
  
  You might think that "future-past" game design would be cheesy, but you`re wrong. Hexagons, blue 
 colour palette and Middle East cities goes together surprisingly well and the game`s overall design 
 seems very harmonic. I`ll allow myself to praise the storyline a bit - it is good, intelligent 
 and well written, YET everything is presented poorly - cutscenes are shown in stupid, distant angles, 
 we can`t see characters and their emotions too well, also there is something like QTE - during 
 a scene, press any button when you see hexagons popping up. The camera shows more interesting angles, 
 but only for short periods, it also distracts the attention. Yeah, in some scenes you can switch 
 view points by pressing L1 ot R1 but that doesn`t save them from being boring as hell. CGI cutscenes 
 would have been so much better. Also, you can`t skip any of the conversations.
  
  OK, enough about the plot. I think everyone expected to see Hitman, set in Holy Land. Nope, all 
 Altair has to do is:
  1. Chief tells you the victim`s name and you ride to the city where the bastard is, if you`ve already 
 been there, fast travel icon appears.
  2. You must blend in with scholars to enter the city. Nope, no other way in. It applies to ALL cities 
 at ALL times.
  3. If you`re new in town, find a high tower ("View Point") and locate the Assassin`s Bureau.
  
 4. Get to the Bureau an the chief tells you where to start investigating.
  5. Randomly wander around or gather VP`s to find missions.
  6. Complete 3 of them (there are 
 about six but what`s the point of doing all of them? - Info is pretty much the same) and return 
 to the Bureau leader to get the approval to kill the target.
  7. Get to the victim`s place (even if you didn`t collect the info where he is) .
  8. Watch a cutscene 
 and go for the target. If you`re quick enough, you won`t have to chase the bastard through entire 
 city and fight a sh*tload of guards.
  9. Watch another cutscene where the dying person abuses you.
  10. Get lost of the tail and return 
 to the Bureau. Then you can fast-forward to HQ and chatter to Al Mualim.
  And there we go again, until the Nine are dead.
  
  There are 4 types of missions - Eavesdropping, 
 Interrogation, Pick Pocketing and Challenge.
  Eavesdropping - In Assassins Creed it`s not all about killing. Sometimes you have to sit down and 
 listen. Find two dudes, sit on a bench, listen to their blabbering and try to make anything out 
 of it.
  Interrogation - This is where Assassins Creed ends and Apollo Creed starts. Target a preacher who 
 praises your target, follow him to a secluded area and beat him up like a baby. Unfortunately this 
 idea fails ultimately. Designers may have made a narrow alley, but but the programmers royally 
 screw everything up. People show up randomly, for example in main square there may be 3 people 
 in total, but in a God-forgotten corner it looks like a damn post-office worker demonstration.
 
  Pick Pocketing - Even merciless killers aren`t above the level of simple crime. Listen to two 
 dudes talking and when they stop, sneak up to one of the one who has the paper and steal an incriminating 
 letter from his 12th century fanny pack. Brilliant. NOT! Altair can`t read (surprisingly he can 
 give an NBC quality Public Service Announcement speech about tolerance and literacy) , so letters 
 are useless, even those who "show" the position of target`s guards. I guess I`m a total idiot if 
 I can`t make them show up in my map.
  Challenges - Not all assassins are as professional as Altair. In fact they are lazy, arrogant douches 
 who can`t wait to thrust their work upon someone else, in this case, Altair. There are two types 
 of challenges - timed assassinations and flag collecting on time. I found timed assassinations 
 to be the most interesting missions in the game. There is a downside to that - all your "brothers" 
 can tell you is useless rubbish, such as "don`t attract the guard`s attention". How the hell they 
 even got hired?
  There are side quests also. Three of them, actually. You can kill a bunch of guards who harass 
 an innocent citizen (they`re ALWAYS innocent) . Point? Some vigilantes who help you to stop the 
 guards or scholar locations. Next, View Point collecting. They reveal the map and missions, but 
 I did it mostly because climbing towers was fun. The last one is truly embarrassing. It`s flag 
 collecting. Yep you heard it right. It gives nothing else than Achievements on XBox360 version, 
 otherwise they are complete rubbish. In fact, the game`s creative director Patrice Desilets "suggested 
 he could have done without them, but others on his team thought that players would enjoy gathering 
 them". So, because game`s director didn`t have enough balls to tell someone "no", we`re stuck wasting 
 hours of collecting flags.
  Damn, I almost forgot slaying Templars. Basically they are the Elite fighters and can blow your 
 cover instantly. I can`t count how many times I failed a mission because some dickweed designer 
 decided to put them all over the game world.
  
  If you fart the wrong direction, prepare to get chased by guards. Here I laugh. Just lose their 
 sight and sit in a nearby bench, hide in straw carts, roof gardens or scholar company. Seriously, 
 how can one not remember a dude in a white cape, red belt and an entire weapons arsenal on his 
 back? In case if you decide to fight, Altair turns into a one man, 12th century panzer tank bad 
 ass who is able to make a frontal assault on the entire Crusader army. Hell, you can fight, like, 
 50 dudes at a time, but don`t fret - it doesn`t matter if they are two or twenty - only one of 
 them attacks you at a time. The combat system is nice, but when you learn counter attacks, all 
 you`ll do is wait for a guard to attack and then press L1 to do an awesome counterattack move.
 
  
  There are 4 well detailed, crowded and fully interactive cities. The interactiveness means that 
 Altair can interact with any surface just as any normal dude would. Sprinting through cities rooftops 
 is quite fun for a while, but there is nothing else to do in this sandbox. The game uses Havoc 
 engine, I want to full use of it! Why I cant turn on crowd surfing mode, pick up a barell and go 
 crowd bowling? I wanna throw bodies from rooftops in crowds (you cant move bodies in AC, what the 
 hell?) and ride my horse in a mob of guards. I want to have fun! Assassins Creed almost doesn`t 
 have any replay value because a lack of bonuses of any kind.
  I forgot to mention that between the cities is a huge, richly detailed area - the Kingdom. All 
 you can do is collect flags, slay templars, find more View Points and amuse yourself imagining 
 how the designers who were assigned to do the area, feel when all their hard work is obsoleted 
 by the "Select your destination" menu.
  
  It`s not only vile guards and innocent civilians populating the world of Assassins Creed. Besides 
 random people, there are thugs (you can pick picket them for throwing knives) , restless, greedy 
 beggars and my favourite - insane lepers. The raving mad street crazy pushes you and ONLY you around, 
 exposing you to guards more than you`d like. Considering this game was made in Montreal, and having 
 my friend visited there a few times, I have no doubt that the city`s bums were quite the influence. 
 My friend told me that, when he went to an outdoor film screening, this one bum stumbled up to 
 the screen and pointed at the lead character and repeatedly yelled to the crowd: "That`s me! That`s 
 me!"
  
  Visually, Assassins Creed looks so damn kickass that I was completely blown away when playing it 
 for the first time. Everything from the crazy lepers to any back alley is rendered soooo beautifully. 
 Yet, there is a heavy price for that - game often freezes (5 times in 12 hour play time - that`s 
 much) , framerate hiccups, glitches, disappearing people and texture pop-ins. Load times are disastrous, 
 even with the 1.3 GB install. If Ubisoft Montreal would have worked just a little longer on this 
 one, it all could have been disposed of.
  
  Music is composed by Jesper Kyd, so I have nowhere to squabble. Different is voice acting. Muslim 
 accents are voiced well, in Acre you can hear residents speaking with an eastern London cockney, 
 like playing a Peter Molyneux game, not to mention the totally Monty Phyton conversation in one 
 of the pickpocketing missions. The weakest point is Altair/Desmond himself. His voice doesn`t fit 
 in, it`s not awfully professional either. I have something on the Templars also - who is Robert 
 de Sable kidding with his French accent? Was he the best French voice actor Ubisoft could find 
 in Montreal? I kinda expected he would randomly say "baguette" and "croissant." And Sibrand`s "tweasure 
 iz pwouf" German? Oh snap.
  
  Assassins Creed seems the best game ever in the first two-three hours. Then you realize that you`re 
 doing the same thing over and over again until it makes you sick. Having AC in your collection 
 is cool, but I recommend to rent it, since one-part Dan Brown, one-part Matrix storyline (with 
 a miserable cliffhanger ending) is great and rooftop ballet is slightly amusing and may hold you 
 to the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  A guard is standing right above me looking over the city. I am stuck, dangling on the wall directly 
 below him, if he were to look down I would be a dead man. He walks closer to the edge, i hold my 
 breath. Then suddenly he turns and heads the other direction. I hop up onto the rooftoop, run towards 
 him. Before he could even hear my footsteps, i hop into mid air and pounce on his back knockin 
 him to the ground. All while sticking my hidden blade through his neck.
  
  That was the average scene that you might see while playing the game Assassin's Creed. This game 
 is definetly one that most people would appreciate. The graphics in this game are very good to 
 say the least, i can not recall any pixelated affects or any glitches throughout the game. The 
 storyline was well put together, and the gameplay pretty smooth. Running to the edge of a rooftop 
 and flying over the busy market down below, landing on another building, is always fun; and, in 
 the heat of the moment, can become really intense.
  
  The story starts out as you and a couple other assassins are sent on a mission to retrieve an artifact. 
 When you reach it however, there is a gathering of a few bad guys that you meet later on in the 
 game. Being the hot headed assassin you are, you run into action ignoring the warnings the other 
 two assassins gave you. When you run in to deliever a killing blow on one of the bad guys, he simply 
 slaps you silly and throws you into a different room, as you fly into the room the enterance is 
 blocked off. You have no choice but to head back and confront your master about the failed mission 
 and your two dead assassin buddies. Obviously the master isn't happy with this, so he has you killed. 
 Or so you think. You awake later, and your master informs you that you must prove yourself if you 
 want to remain in the creed. He then sends you on a number of missions killing a number of men 
 he says are bad. But the story doesn't only take place in the past, it also takes place in current 
 times. And the ending is abrupt, leaving a wide open door for part 2.
  
  Although Assassin's Creed had good graphics, decent gameplay, and a pretty good storyline, it did 
 have its share of let downs. As you journey though the game completing main missions and submissions 
 along the way, more of the cities become open for you to explore. At first they are cut off at 
 a certain point and you cannot "recall" this part of the city, which means you cannot enter that 
 part. Even though more of the cities become open, nothing really changes. The submissions are always 
 the same (save this lady from the guards, save this monk from the guards etc) . The main missions 
 are also the same as well. You are constantly trying to pickpocket someone or eavesdrop, beat them 
 to get info etc. It never really changes, and after awhile you feel like there are no longer any 
 surprises being thrown your way. You can almost predict what mission you will have to do. Once 
 you reach the main objective, which is obviously to assassinate someone, they too become repetitive. 
 Although the targets are in different areas every time, and are surrounded by a different number 
 of guards, the objective is still the same. Kill them. Sometimes it seems it is impossible to sneak 
 up on them and deliver a silent killing blow, so you engaged in a sword fight with the boss and 
 many guards who just keep on coming. However, if you learned the "counter attack" even the sword 
 fights are easy. All you have to do is wait for them to swing at you, then reverse that attack 
 and they die. Continue doing this till the mob is dead.
  
  Assassin's creed was a pretty good game overall. Definetly at least a renter. When you first put 
 the game in and begin playing, it seems amazing and you are addicted right away. However about 
 mid-way through you begin to realize just how repetitive the game really is. Nothing really changes 
 and the fights become too easy if you master the Counter Attack. When you get really good, you 
 can simply run into the middle of a busy street and just go to war on all the guards. Sure, you'll 
 get surrounded, but they wont stand a chance. Another thing that disappointed me about the game 
 was that there was no difficulty setting. Once i beat the game, the abrupt ending left me wanting 
 me. So i restarted the game in hopes of attempting a harder setting, only to find that one didn't 
 exsist. So now i lost all of the data i just played to achieve, and it's not any harder. This definetly 
 drops the replay value as there is nothing to upgrade throughout the game, just new wepons or more 
 health you recieve for beating missions. Assassin's Creed is definetily worth at least one run 
 through, rent it before you buy it. 8.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a title that implements some great and unique ideas into a stunning detailed 
 world. It's a game that gained much attention and hype prior to release, but the end result is 
 more of a mixed bag then many may have thought, though i did enjoy my time with it.
  
  The story to Assassins Creed is probably the worlds worst kept secret, though a highly enjoyable 
 one. However in case you don't know I shall just say you play the role of an Assassin called Altair 
 during the crusades. The Templars are up to no good and the master of the assassins has given you 
 9 targets to kill to redeem the honour you lost on a previously failed mission.
  
  As Altair travels to the locations of each of his targets he will end up traveling to 3 different 
 cities. Each one different, each one huge. Ache has more of a medieval war torn feel, with gray 
 buildings and castles, a lot of which are in a state of ruin. Jerusalem has more of a holy city 
 feel with sand coloured buildings and mosques. While Damascus sits somewhere in the middle. Each 
 city is also split into distinct areas depending on class, poor, middle or rich which effects the 
 types of buildings as well as the people you meet in the area. So if you are in the poor area, 
 prepare to be annoyed by beggar women....
  
  The game is played from a third person perspective where stealth is key. At the start of each mission 
 Altair starts in Masayaf and must run all the way down a mountain, get on a horse and leg it towards 
 the city his target is in. By the 8th time this is no longer impressive, just bloody annoying. 
 Once at a city Altair must gather information about his target to know the best place to strike, 
 this is fine in theory. But in practice when you spend 2/3 of the game doing the same 3 mission 
 types (eavesdrop, interrogate, pickpocket) over and over there is something very wrong. And that's 
 where this game really falls on it's face because it gets pretty repetitive, really holding it 
 back from being the triple A title it could have been.
  
  Once you have that information however and can take on your target the game really picks up. Finding 
 the best way to aproach them is the most fun, do you blend in with monks to get past the guards? 
 Fight your way through with as much tact as a tank? or perhaps climb the building and drop down 
 on your target from above?
  
  I feel I must make a whole paragraph just to mention the climbing feature in Assassins Creed. It's 
 great. You can climb up pretty much anything. Poles, buildings, walls, anything. Not only that 
 but the animation for it really is impressive, Altair will quite literally only climb if he has 
 a handhold which he will reach for or jump while shuffling his feet. A small detail perhaps but 
 an impressive one, especially when you will spend a lot of time running across rooftops for a better 
 view or just as a quick escape route.
  
  After your target is dead, often the guards will get alerted and chase you. Giving you to options; 
 deal them bloody death or hide until they go away. The combat system in AC is also quite interesting. 
 Altair has two modes he can enter, a stealth mode for blending in and stealth kill using a Katar 
 (like a spring loaded wrist knife) and combat mode using LT to lock on and start it. allowing for 
 combo attacks, some brutal counter moves as well as dodging. It's odd at first but in no time you 
 will discover that Altair can in fact take on 30 guards and win with the right timing.
  
  A lot of the time however doing a runner is in fact easier. When the guards are alerted to you 
 a red icon appears next to your health bar. You can only hide if it turns yellow meaning they have 
 lost sight of you. Running through market stalls, throwing people into wooden frames and climbing 
 up buildings are all good ways of doing that. (The gameplay is surprisingly versatile) Once out 
 of view Altair needs to hide, sitting on a bench, in a group of monks or in a haystack (also good 
 for soft landings) are all good places till the all clear is given.
  
  The visuals to Assassins Creed are actually really impressive. The character models, animations 
 and textures are all fantastic giving the game a great atmosphere for the lively world in which 
 Altair moves around in, it's possibly one of the best looking PS3 titles I have had the pleasure 
 of playing.
  Sound wise the game is also fairly well done, with some good voice acting and great sound effects, 
 though nothing to really write home about.
  
  All in all Assassins Creed is a great game worthy of playing, the free roaming climbing, stunning 
 visuals and unique story twist go along way in making this game great, it's just a shame it's let 
 down by some repetitive gameplay issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benhead08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I have to admit this game wasn't on my top 5 buy list but I got it anyways because I had 
 some extra money and it was only 30 bucks. I'm glad I did too because the story is great. A lot 
 of people are bashing it because it's repetitive as far as climbing the view points, saving people, 
 pickpocketing, ect. and I can see why but I was really into the story and didn't mind one bit. 
 I think this game is truly a work of art. The way you can interact with buildings and ledges and 
 the detail in the graphics. I was satisfied with the combat system as well this wasn't meant to 
 be a ninja fighting game so there wont be crazy off the wall moves. Also when you counter he dosen't 
 always do the same move so it has some flavor and it all looks smooth and not boring. Another thing 
 I see people complaining about is the AI. The ONLY flaw I see in the AI is when your running away 
 from the guards and climb into a roof garden to get away, when you jump out and they see you they 
 don't do anything. Its not always the case sometimes they do but its no biggie. Some people complained 
 that the guards are alerted by you way to much. well yeah they know what you look like and your 
 an assassin if your running by them they may wonder. Anyway I loved the game. Apparently its suppost 
 to be a trilogy so I cant wait for the next one to come out and certainly it will be even more 
 enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  I'm sure noone expected a game like this! You might be thinking - but theres loads of assasins 
 games out there! - , you might think that, and you'd be right! There are lots of assasins games, 
 but none of them are like this, with its GTA style freedom and monkey-like stunts. 
  
  Assasins Creeds plot is strange, its concept is strange but it handles beautifly and looks amazing. 
 Possibly the best thing about this game is the main character Altair's ability to climb and jump 
 through any situation to reach his target. The nice touch is the dive into the haystack once you 
 get to the tip-top of high buildings. Also, the combat has a fresh approach that works very well. 
 The cut-scenes may as well have the same graphics as the normal in-game graphics because they are 
 both perfectly streamlined and break the barrier of realistic graphics into super-realistic. The 
 kind of realism that is actually more detailed than the real world. 
  
  At the beginning, the game leaves you with a high and you say to yourself that this is one of the 
 best games you've played in a long time! First of all, this game lacks RPG elements like changing 
 your blade at your own will, changing clothes colors or gathering gold from victims to buy more 
 items. This may seem needless to the plot but you'd be surprised how much this would impact the 
 overall enjoyability. Secondly, the games biggest problem is its extreme repetitiveness. Every 
 mission you receive involves the same information-gathering interrogation followed by a target 
 appearance, a short cutscene, then the assasination. This gives the game no surprises or straying 
 from the norm that Assasins Creed desperately craves. And because of this, the games lifespan is 
 often cut short from boredom and its replayibility is non-existant. Thirdly, with these annoying 
 nicks in the Single Player you'd expect some kind of multiplayer? You'd be disappointed. This game 
 has no online or co-op play. reducing its lifespan even further! Making this game one of the most 
 returnable purchases this year. 
  
  I know there are all of these frustrating problems. But if you can ignore it and have the time 
 or patience or just enjoy its dramatic effects and enticing realism then its still a playable and 
 accesible platformer all round.
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thank you for reading! Please give me your opinion on the review 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle341
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  the good: great graphics, good sound, climbing buildings is fun, intresting missions
  
  the bad: repetetive missions get boring fast, only 15 hours long, cant skip cutscenes, the AI is 
 terrible 
  
  this game has great potential but was ruined becuase of the repetetive missions-u just keep doing 
 the same things over and over again.. (climb view points, rescue citizens, investigations.. really 
 REALLY boring..)
  also the thing that in my opinion makes this game even worse is the guards AI... I mean why the 
 hell is RUNNING considerd an action that is not socialy acceotable and will attract attention?!! 
 also if u kill someone on the street and just stand like 20m away from there the guards will know 
 u killed him... even if they are 10 more people standing next to u as well... the guards will know 
 it's u.. also they are these drunk citizens that from some reason will push u whenever u come by 
 them (they wont push anyone else... just u..) and if they push u on to a guard then the guards immediatly 
 realize that u r an assassin... even if u didnt kill anyone!!! also after u kill guards and loose 
 your "wanted level" more guards will come.. and even if u are 50m away from the bodys they will 
 know it was u... why? becuase u r running (even though they are more people running near u) 
  the ai in this game is just ridicules.. and it results in being wanted by the guards almost all 
 the time..
  also this game doesnt require a lot of skill at sword fights for example are basicly targeting 
 and then tapping the squire button.. sometimes pressing the R1 button as well to clock and reverse 
 attacks.. really... what a waste of a potential.. dont waste your money on this game.
  I am seriously considering trading this in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 981Master
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I found this game was fun but it also got very repititve. The graphics are nice but there was some 
 frame rate issues that were annoying. Killing someone tho is awesome and counter attacks are sweet. 
 The game starts off really fun and exciting but the assanition tasks were always the same and they 
 never expanded to much. So this game got boring after a while and i dont think it should of got 
 the score its received here on gamespot. Combat was fun though and taking on multiple enemies at 
 once made you feel like a tru assasin and never got old. The end missions of the game were fun 
 i found because it wasnt the usual assaniation tasks and you gott kill heapza guysIt had a cliffhanger 
 ending so i hope the next game in the series is decent. Its a cool game but id say its only worthy 
 of a rental. I rented this game and COD4 and clocked both in 4 days and still had time to play 
 COD4 multiplayer lol But yeah its a fairly sweet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca5hmon3y
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  This was the second game that i got for the PS3 after Call of Duty 4, I saw the trailer and was 
 instantly sold.
  
  But before I tell you what is right with this game, and there is a whole lot of good, i need to 
 get a few niggles off my chest.
  
  The first is the way the story splits between the past and the present. One of the aims of many 
 game companies is to immerse the player inside their character. This is difficult when you are 
 not actually the character in the game but one of his descendants... This does not really take 
 away from any of the core game play, but is a quirk at best. 
  
  It does seem that by going down the memory route and having a sci-fi element that they were laying 
 the foundations for other games, maybe not just concentrating on the pure medieval.
  
  Secondly, when you complete the story that's it, there is no real reason, other than to collect 
 every flag in the game, to re-visit any part. There is no multi-player or co-op, and as far as 
 I know... no hidden secrets. This is sad because the game is fantastic.
  
  Now the good bits. Like I said, the game is fantastic, it look stunning. I find myself using the 
 term breath taking in reviews but that's what it is. As you roam through the world, which is huge, 
 and climb to the top of a huge spire to look out over that world, the views are just that... breath 
 taking.
  
  The game play is simple but extremely satisfying. Rather than forcing you to remember long strings 
 of button combinations to perform tasks, the core "free running" is just that... running at an object 
 while holing one button. And don't think that because of this it will be limited to a few animations, 
 locking on to limited point on a building. The running, jumping and climbing all look very fluid 
 and the whole environment is active.
  
  The combat system is again simple, yet satisfying. You will find it possible to take on groups 
 of 20+ enemy soldiers with ease... or so you think. Get overconfident or use the same move too much 
 and it will cost you, in that way it does keep you on your toes. However time you move right and 
 you see on of the many special kill animations which will have you feeling very proud of you fighting 
 skills.
  
  Finally the story. This has some degree of open ended flexibility and you don't have to complete 
 all the tasks set out to progress through. This is a good thing because the variety of the tasks 
 is limited and can get tedious.
  
  All in all I loved this game and on a 40" 1080p LCD it looks fantastic. Based on the game play 
 I will also be buying into the sequel... but will want more variety and more reasons to replay. 
 As I have said one or twice in this review, Simple yet Satisfying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most amazing games ever made. It combines modern with medieval, 
 stealth with action, great graphics with great SFX and they all revolve around a unique storyline.
 
  
  The storyline revolves around Desmond, a normal guy kidnapped by some crazed scientist who wants 
 to know where 'it' is. So they shove Desmond into a machine called an Animus, which let's Desmond 
 search the memories of his ancestor to find wherever 'it' is. And his ancestor is the feared assassin, 
 Altair. So this is where the gameplay starts. You just access Altair's memory and play through 
 it. Each level is called a Memory Block. I found the concept absolutely ingenious.
  
  The game makes playing as an assassin very realistic as the controls are sharp. The graphics are 
 superb and the SFX are realistic. And the voice acting dialog is almost as good as Oblivion's.
 
  
  But why does it 7.5 if it's as good as everyone says. It's because of no replay value, repetitive 
 missions, and long cut scenes that you can't skip. So it gets boring half way through the games 
 but what kept me playing was the intriguing and unique storyline.
  
  I can't say it's one you should have but I can't say it's one you should not have either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game for the PS3 I've bought that I really enjoyed and couldn't wait to 
 play again each time i put it down. GTAIV was close, but the way Assassins creed is put together 
 is just amazing. 
  
  First off the visuals look amazing. I LOVE the camera blur and depth effects used in this game. 
 The colours and detail are superb and breath taking. It impressed me that I managed to kill over 
 60 people and all their bodies remained on the ground and never disappeared until i ventured very 
 far from the area.
  
  The fighting system can be described as epic and simple. I love this fighting engine. If you are 
 a hardcore fan of Ninja Gaiden or other combo based action / fighting games you will hate this 
 system. It's very simple, and involves only a few buttons and does not require any chain or combo 
 presses, rather it focuses on timing.
  
  If you told me that, I would think the game sucked but it wasn't the case for me. The fights look 
 amazing. The camera work, the animations, the sword play, the parry's the reversals all flow perfectly. 
 You never feel clunky or bare witness to the same 15 frame motion over and over and over.
  
  People keep bashing the story in this game, but I loved it. The ending *which i won't spoil* 
 is a bit shallow for my taste but does leave room for a possible sequel (awesome) .
  
  All in all an amazing game that I enjoyed from start to end. The interactions with the buildings 
 are amazing, the fightings amazing and the look is amazing. The voice actors get a bit repetitive 
 and annoying but that's the only downfall i saw for this game.
  
  Highly recommended purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shraylo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an interesting game. In the game, you are Altair, an assassin who, while on 
 a mission, kills an innocent bystander without thinking about the consequences. His master is pretty 
 furious, and in his anger, decides to take away most of Altair's health and cool ninja-like moves. 
 You must start from scratch, going from city to city, climbing buildings and pursuing people who 
 have information leading to your targets. This sounds like an awesome concept, and it is, but the 
 way it is executed leads to repetitiveness, as you traverse a huge open land, going to each city 
 and doing the same thing, over and over again.
  
  I liked how Ubisoft handled the open world concept here, the land that you are in is HUGE. It's 
 very easy to get lost. There are many enemy soldiers for you to fight, but most of them look the 
 same, and don't pose a huge threat unless in big numbers. There are also civilians walking around. 
 If you kill them, you will lose health, and you will have to wait to get it back. You can scale 
 buildings as well, and in fact, you will have to scale many in order to find your mission objectives. 
 Climbing walls is fun, and it's funny when guards see you climbing them, as they will chuck rocks 
 at you to try to get you down. But other than running around the world and killing enemy soldiers, 
 there's not a hell of a lot to do here. You will probably want to do your missions but they are 
 extremely repetitive.
  
  This is the basic layout of a mission:
  
  Traverse to city
  Break through guards in city
  Go to Bureau
  Climb a few buildings
  Interrogate someone
 
  Interrogate more people
  Pickpocket someone
  Kill target
  Go back to Al Mualim
  
  You have to do this about 9 times before the completion of the game. To get 100% completion, you 
 must do side quests, like finding all the flags scattered around, killing soldiers that are different 
 from the rest, doing mundane tasks for your fellow assassins, etc.
  
  As far as graphics go, the game is visually stunning. All the cities and villages and open fields 
 are done with so much detail, you are basically immersed in the game. Unfortunately, the graphics 
 also translate to some frequent frame rate drops, especially on the PS3 version, or so I hear. 
 On one of the boss missions, I had to jump from a few ledges while dodging enemy soldiers, and 
 sometimes the lag would slow down the game while I was jumping, resulting in my falling down and 
 having to start all over again. It's very frustrating at times. The picture looks very clear when 
 using an HDMI cable.
  
  The sounds used are very fitting. Good use of sound effects with weapons, and voice acting is good. 
 The music played in the towns is fitting for the time period the game is set in.
  
  This game gets a lot of things right. Particularly the sound and graphics. But for replay value, 
 unless you are really into the story or side missions, I don't see much. Also, the repetitiveness 
 of the gameplay and the frequent lag are giant burdens. Overall, Assassin's Creed is a great game. 
 However, if it could fix the lag of the PS3 version, and have a bit more to do, it would be more 
 than great, it would be perfect.
  
  Give this game a try, you may like it more than I did. It's definitely worth $30, but rent it first 
 just incase you're not sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodyJohnson99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is pretty good game. The graphics was awesome and so was the movement. The only 
 part I don't like is the talking between the game-play, but I guess it part of the storyline. There 
 were only 3 1/2 different weapon to use is the sword, close-counter knife with throwing knife, 
 and hidden blade. The hidden blade is very useful for me when running on the roof. I always love 
 killing the enemy when they are in my way because they suck, but now, on the memory 7, has most 
 difficult mission than the rest of the mission before. I died three times somehow. I wish there 
 is online multiplayer to kill each other such as Grand Theft Auto IV online. Anyway, the music 
 background was awesome! So far, I recommended this game to everyone. Now, let's wait for Assassin's 
 Creed 2 if there one making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrakeGladiator
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  It was what I expected for, very good game-play, good assassination's methods, the feeling of being 
 free to walk anywhere, at any time. I can also describe graphics as insane, except on powder quantity 
 (almost nothing) . However, Assassin's Creed doesn't compensates the price because it is a boring 
 game, mostly of it consists on same missions, in each city's district. At first time it seems very 
 good but after some repetitions, you get tired of it and when you finish it (if you have patience 
 to do it) , you says - "Finally, I finished it". That's it, a repetitive game. Other bad point is 
 defined by talks, they are very long, and you don't have any option to skip it or to add subtitles 
 (that point is very bad for me, cause I am deaf, can you imagine what is waiting so much time, 
 in the middle of ignorance?) . Anyway, I like this game and the fighting mode, it is something I 
 never experienced before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace132
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is BORING ASS hell, tho story is confusing, you cant skip cut scenes, which is bad.
 
  
  Sound is poor, Altair sounds like an American back in the 12-century.... Wow how lame. Theres not 
 much of music aswell tho, they made it relativistic but still suffered. its cool to climb stuff, 
 but it gets SO repetitive, theres not much of different missions, you cant steal waggons... and its 
 just PURE lame!!
  
  combat is brainless, story is confuesing.. but its graphics are beautiful.. really.. VERY nice, its 
 a masterpiece... in graphics only.
  
  Dispite its graphics, asscreed is a very bad game, its boring, its repetitive, toy cant explain it, but 
 it just sucks! its boring. Story isnt the best asspect either, it has a wierd ending, plus the story 
 is just told when you play first 5 minutes.... come on! its mindless!
  
  THIS is the WORST GAME I PLAYED ON MY PS3!
  dont buy this.. this.. assycreed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quai_chang_kain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  good graphics, decent story , fun combat system, gret voice acting. this game could have been awsome.. but 
 it isnt. rather then make a huge list ill focus on one thing.
  
  it lacks variety !
  
  in missions, in enemys, in weapons. its pretty much the same thing every mission. there isnt anything 
 else to do in the citys just get info help some street people then blah blah kill target. they 
 could have added some fun little places ( gambling tents, perhaps a bar to hang out at, rather then 
 making every city follow the same boring layout. dont get me wrong it has great characters and 
 a fun story and good game play, it just gets boring quickly.
  
  here are a few things that could have given it a bit more variety.
  
  a few other major characters 
 to interact with (story wise and game play wise) .
  
  a few fun mini games to play in the city 
  
  more wepons to buy and upgrade
  
  different 
 tasks to acomplishin every city 
  
  different ways to hide or avoide gaurds in every city. rather then the same 4 or 5 in every city. 
 
  
  it really felt like each town was just a clone of the last.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing. It combines Laura's wall climbing, Snakes stealthing and the freedom 
 of GTA in a game. 
  
  You play as an assassin in the 3rd crusade and have 9 targets to asassinate to stop the crusades.
 
  
  The gameplay works well. The affair is find the assassin's bureau, do 3 of a set list of 6 tasks 
 ,by climbing whats called eagle view points to see the city, and using the info to get ypu're target. 
 Getting the target isn't very simple. The affair can go 2 ways. You can take the ahrd (but sneaky) 
 way or the easier but less satisfying killing way. And then escaping by hiding on a bench, with 
 monks or in some hay.
  
  The visuals are stunning and there is no real muddy, 2d parts to it.
  
  The only drag is replay. 
 The story is between 8-12 hours, and with extra taks, it could take you upwards of 20 more hours. 
 But the drag is you have to wtach these LOOOONNNGGG cutscenes every time to the point where its 
 not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple_b2k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed starts off nicely. You have to earn your abilities back by playing missions. After 
 every mission, you get another knife or sword that helps you kill enemies quicker or out maneuver 
 them. 
  
  The side objectives like killing Templar's does not do much for the game. Traveling through the 
 larger map trying to find these guys was the most boring part of the game.
  
  After the first 3 missions, you quickly find out how this game will play out (not from a storyline 
 stand point) . You'll have to travel to the same cities multiple times and get into the same fights 
 over and over again to fight a boss that you can quickly kill and run away from.
  
  I found myself bored of the game after the 6th mission. I didn't play the game for a month before 
 I decided to play again so I could beat it. I haven't touched it since. It was fun at first but 
 quickly becomes boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strider_23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  OK, first of all... I was worried that because of all the fuss made around the game, it will turn 
 out to be a disappointment. That it would not live up to the high standards it promised. But as 
 soon as you take your controller and begin playing it, you`ll realize that such worries are useless. 
 When the beautiful scenery and music kicks in, you`ll be sure that every still shot taken is an 
 illustration. It`s as April Ryan would say : "Postcard pretty". And be sure that for an environment 
 as detailed as this one, your console whether it`s a PS3 or an Xbox360 will run it pretty smooth, 
 with occasional slowdowns when things get messy. But given how immersed you`re gonna be when they 
 actually do get messy, you won`t even notice. And graphics are really the best part about this 
 game.. not that the other elements are bad, but they simply don`t give you that feeling of awe 
 that the graphics do.
  
  I was afraid that with such a wide variety of choices, the controls would be sluggish and hard 
 to remember, but actually if you play a bit with Altair during loading scenes, you`ll get the hang 
 of it pretty fast. The controls are very responsive and even if leaping so gracefully from building 
 to building looks hard, it`s actually a matter of holding two buttons and pointing in the direction 
 in which you want to go. Simple as that. Other than that, climbing seemingly impossible heights 
 is equally easy and just as satisfying. I found myself climbing on every high vista point just 
 for the fun of diving in the haystacks that are always down below.
  Stripping it to the bone, you have two ways of behaving: 
  - Socially acceptable (walking, gentle 
 pushing, blending in the crowds and ladder climbing) . This is the way you would want to behave 
 if you`re during your investigation, or near your assassination target.
  - Socially non-acceptable (running, tackling, jumping, climbing buildings and of course, killing 
 people) . You`d prefer this kind of behavior when on rooftops, but you`ll mostly get away with each 
 of those actions if you`re not being watched by an informed guard, in which case you`ll have to 
 keep distance and blend in the crowds.
  And that brings us to the stealth system. The Animus will always show you your status. By which 
 meaning, during anonymous mode, when nobody important is watching you, when uninformed guards notice 
 you and when informed guards are keeping a close eye on you. From the three options, only the latter 
 does not suffer socially non-acceptable actions in any way.
  When revealed, the Animus icon will turn red and blink while guards still have you in their sight, 
 and then turn green when you`ve broken their line of sight. Stealth in this case is a great option, 
 but a thing that separates this game from other stealth games is that Altair is a great fighter. 
 That means if you`re tired of running from rooftop to rooftop, you can stay and fight without dooming 
 yourself, regardless of the number of guards chasing you. You can face them. I rarely died during 
 fights and I found them as yet another strong point of the game. Counter attacks are always satisfying 
 especially since they`re not so easy to pull off in the beginning, requiring quite good timing. 
 When you encounter a guard on rooftops (an event powerfully common in the later stages of the game) , 
 you`ll have a lot less options than on street level. Kill the guard from a distance by throwing 
 a bunch of knives (you can also get up close and take them down with your hidden blade) , or break 
 their line of sight immediately. I always choose the first.
  Main assassinations are fun, as they require you to carefully study the environment, but also a 
 bit more difficult than other achievements in the game.
  
  Story wise, the game is pretty good as well, but it`s not as strong as it could have been. Or maybe 
 it`s part of a bigger picture unrevealed to us yet, but anyhow, I wouldn`t have understood parts 
 of the ending without looking on the net for their symbolic meaning. So that may not be as appealing 
 as the rest of the AC experience. But it`s nevertheless intriguing and practically begs for a sequel.
 
  
  The only thing close to a disappointment I had regarding this game is Altair. While being a great 
 agile assassin that does your bidding to the inch, his personality isn`t quite as colorful as you`d 
 like. He does have somewhat of a character development between the beginning and the ending, but 
 he doesn`t display such wide variety of emotions like other gaming heroes do. He is indeed likable, 
 but the fact that he does not show any obvious emotional attachments definitely draw back the character 
 value a step or two.
  
  Another weak link may be the repetitiveness of actions taken during missions, but for me every 
 chance of exploring the vast and colorful cities is a treat.
  
  Overall, this game is pretty damn good, and while it has it`s minor drawbacks, the beautifully 
 crafted atmosphere combined with edgy gameplay and a nice story was all I needed to unwind after 
 everyday occupations. I recommend it to anyone who has a next-gen console.
  
  
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubano7649
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Okay this game sounds fun jumping around killing people. WRONG!!!!!!!!!!! The stealth factor is 
 completely realistic which makes it bad, I wanna escape from reality not have to follow some complex 
 rules of trying not to be noticed, an almost impossible feat. Especially when it comes to riding 
 the horse. I mean I'll admit the visionals in this game are better then any game that I have played. 
 The sky top scenes are AMAZING. Yet having said that I would rather play a visually bad game with 
 a great story line then vis-versa. As if that wasnt bad enough the rediculous story of DNA memories 
 is kinda worthless when all you wanna do is jump around and assassinate people. Overall its a hard 
 game that though great conceptially fails in its OVERALL delivery. So rent this game or borrow 
 it before you buy it maybe I was just lost on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianAtWar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This review will only give pointers on what's Good and what's bad about this game.
  
  The Good
  ********
  - Amazing graphics that makes not only cities and environments come to 
 life, but makes the people in them look astoundingly real 
  - Visually stunning, yet purposeful environments where anything can be climbed on
  - Very good, 
 solid control, for a third person player
  - Engaging storyline, credible voice acting and subtle but appropriate audio
  - Total control 
 over ways to go about a mission
  - HUD and other elements of screen blend in but become very appropriate in situations
  
  The 
 Bad
  *******
  - Gets boring after the first couple of missions, because of the repetitive tasks and no change 
 in gameplay
  - Too easy and unfortunately does not get any harder even at the end
  - After all the hype, the game's ending may leave some players bitter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickLovin22
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  if you dont like fun and exitement than dont bother. but if you like action and awesome twists, 
 than get the game now. after all it has had a price drop i think. but dont quote me. and the killing 
 techniques make this game one of the most original games. you still have that familiar feel though. 
 you also get every skill of yours a work out. you also get some cool twists. not anything that 
 causes trouble but that shock u a bit. and if you arent doing the missions than you can enjoy the 
 amazing graphics and areas to play in. the only thing i dont like is how you dont have much back 
 up. but that is always a complant of mine. it is a fun game but if you arent known for beating 
 your games because you mess up, than rent it or dont even get it at all. also you get a different 
 weapons and other objects to use. the funest part though is using your own human techniques that 
 cause for some of the most fun. my only real complate is that it is very easy to get a (wanted 
 level) and it isnt easy to get rid of eather. hope this helps and message me if you want further 
 details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I must say this game is truly in a class of its own as far as gameplay goes. The ability to freely 
 run up walls and leap from rooftop to rooftop is pure fun. The motion of it all is completely seamless. 
 Just pick up and go. You'll be across the city in no time. Staying tucked away in the crowd is 
 a nice way to sneak up on the enemy and slay 'em with the ol' hidden blade. Sword fighting is absolutely 
 supurb! Take on one, two, five, hell... ten guards at the same time using the nicely executed counter 
 attacks that will amaze you everytime you see them. I could honestly run around all day and pick 
 fights with the guards just to enjoy some of that sweet sword play. Also the world is pretty big 
 and you have the freedom to pretty much enjoy all of it from the get go. Wether galloping on your 
 horse at what seems like sixty miles an hour through the mountain towns or scaling towers to get 
 a view of the city you won't find many places- high or low- you can't conquer from the very beginning. 
 All of these things are what make this game purely stunning. Here's the brick wall you come to 
 about five hours into the game: These are the only things that make this game fun at all. Everything 
 else is just "blah!" You are faced with a handful of tasks in each city. The same task over and 
 over again in each city. They become so monotanous they really start to feel like chores. Then 
 the game is suddenly a cut and dry formula of "go here, do this, and this, and this, and this. 
 Ok, go here and do it all again." Even the various rewards you get (four different weapons and 
 abilities) quit coming and you feel like you're doing it all for nothing. Oh, and the story goes 
 from confusing at first to just plain boring all the way through. So, honestly, theres really no 
 reason to play this game all the way through. The things that make this game so great can be enjoyed 
 endlessly almost right from the start. For twenty used at gamestop this game is SOOOO worth it. 
 Its nice to have in your collection 'cause there will be times you wanna go jump around the city 
 and pull some sneaking kills on big mouth guards. The fun of this game will always be fun. And 
 that, despite all the "blah," makes this game a CLASSIC!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brd_x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Like many have noted, the game is somewhat repetitive. I would say that it's not boring in the 
 1st hour, but after about 3 hours.... in total I completed the game in 10 hours or so.... so there 
 was 7 hours of repetitive sounds and very similar gameplay. 
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome, but the tasks in the game don't always have a great relevance 
 to the bosses. For example before each boss you can investigate a minimum of 3 investigations, 
 or a maximum of 6... and whether you carry out 3 or 6 the clues given from the investigations provided 
 little benefit to overcoming the boss.
  
  I came across a couple of glitches as well, had to restart at a point.
  
  I would say that 
 the game is well thought out, has a lot of potential, but it doesn't quite realize that potential 
 fully as a amazing overall game. It's almost as though the game budget was pretty much devoted 
 to making the game look good, and the story interesting.... but little thought was given to make 
 the gameplay compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the first games I got to own for my ps3. It was a Christmas gift last 
 year and I just about danced like a little kid in candy store lol. This was right around the time 
 we got our new HDTV too lol. So after then agonizingly long upload, I got to be blinded by a bright 
 white screen b/c we didn't adjust the brightness settings just yet. xD
  
  The intro to this game is one of the neatest ones yet. Crisp, clear and almost realistic. It seriously 
 almost hurt my eyes! Now to the pros of this game!
  
  The cities that Altair gets to maneuver through are amazingly detailed, with a seamless functional 
 enviroment. If it looks climbable, it surely is. Boxes, fences, ladders, benches and practically 
 anything else. The visual effects of sychronizing the map with you was stunning. I'm not so sure 
 there was a market on every corner  _  but then again I could be totally wrong. 
  
  Objectives in the game are clear cut and to the point. You didn't have to spend half an hour wandering 
 aimlessly in a city crammed full a people trying to find that one particular person you needed 
 to shank lol. You help the weak, pickpocket the couriers, and eavesdrop on unsuspecting citizens 
 with ease. When you gathered up all the necessary information, you were given the main objective: 
 kill the main person responcible. Enjoy the memory cutscenes and start your killing!
  
  The controlling for the ps3 version was very smooth. That becomes a very important part in play 
 when an officer of the city catches you doing something that's not to code. You have to traverse 
 the streets, alleys and rooftops to avoid the guards who are almost as nimble as you are. When 
 in a full run from the guards its nice to be able to nose dive through a shopkeeper's tent full 
 of wears, nimbly hop from beam to beam, and duck into a corner where you can find a perfect spot 
 to hide until the coast was clear. I always found it a little humorous that you could blend in 
 with a group of priests when you are the OBVIOUS one packing a quantity of noticible weapons. But 
 that's something you have to let go here lol.
  
  So lets see, to reiterate: Good graphics, and very mobile controls. What I did forget to mention, 
 the storyline seemed very sound.
  
  Now, for what I didn't quite enjoy. Very repetitive gameplay. You do the same things over and over 
 as objectives. Gather info and kill. Rinse, repeat. It reminds me of similar games to it (Spiderman, 
 Superman, The Hulk, ect) . The side stuff like gathering flags and shanking Templars help a little.
 
  
  Conversations in the game were repetitive and annoying. "Curse the Christian King and his army 
 of infidels!" Wow got tired of hearing that. Reminds me of all the time my husband spent playing 
 Madden '08 and I swear I heard the same 5 sentences over and over again til I could repeat them.
 
  
  And the last minor annoyance was the occasional glitch. Everyone's had those, so it's not that 
 big of a deal. The ones here usually were that an NPC guard gets stuck on a roof and apparently 
 can't figure out how to work the ladder in front of him to get down, lol. Leaving a small line 
 of confused soliders behind him waiting for him to hurry up. And you couldn't sneak past them from 
 behind unless you were one building over or they'd somehow spot you again with mysterious invisible 
 eyes in the backs of their heads. The funniest glitches in the game tho are when the NPCs jump 
 off the roof and somehow manage to kill themselves upon landing, sending all the helpless citizens 
 next to him running in a frenzied panic. But that set the guards on alert for a period of time. 
 But its still rewarding to see one fall flat on their face and you didn't even have to stick a 
 hidden blade in their kidney.
  
  All in all, this game evens itself out with stunning graphics and a decent story, with the minor 
 set backs that could have made it a superb game. I enjoyed it, and I hope you do too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delatgamer12345
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game mayb repetitive but lets see y, yes u are assigned a target then kill him but this is 
 1191 AD, anyways who would be dumb enough to rush this game, the graphics are realy good if you 
 play in any t. v, there is no laggy just a small load time, the story ends in a clift hanger but 
 is really good. Any ways the game is supposed to make you feel like an assasin you just dont go 
 and learn three things about ur target and go kill him u want to know every thing, plan out a route 
 to escape and put it to the test, this is a living world so you dont have to do the same thing 
 over and over again. Playing this game in a fast rushed way makes it feel realy bad but if u play 
 it as a tactical game then it is realy good, the people respond to every small thing you do you 
 can use them as ways to distract the guards in the game. This may not be perfect but it is a game 
 anyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Everyone says Assassin's Creed is awesome. 
  It's such a cool game
  with great gameplay 
  and going anywhere, climbing anything, 
  killing people with the hidden blade. 
  
  It's not 
 that good. 
  
  LOL, that's just my bottom line. 
  It's SO repetitive. 'cause this is basically all you do:
  - assigned a new target 
  - go to 
 the new city (or part of the city)
  - climb a tower, look around. 
  - do side quests
  - kill the dude
  - repeat. 
  
  It's basically like Mercenaries 2, but the past. Yknow Mercenaries2? 
 the game that got FIVE outta ten. And this game got NINE outta ten? yeagh. 
  The 5\10 was said to be repetitive and glitchy. 
  and this 9\10 game ISNT?? 
  
  I don't know, 
 i don't think it's fair. 
  It IS a bit fun at times. 
  the combat system is REALLY cool, and you really get in that 'zone' if you're that good. 
  The 
 story stinks, totally predictable (for me) ,
  ends in a dumb cliff hanger. 
  
  All i'm saying is that, this IS an ohkay game. 
  I know why a lot of people like it. 
  The 
 graphics is amazing too, but still, 
  this game is WAAY overrated. 
  You should just, rent it first, or even borrow it. 
  I know you would have a lot of friends who 
 has this game, cause, i do. So i borrowed it. I'm glad I borrowed it. If you LIKE the sandbox type 
 gameplay with the same mission over and over again, (Like GTAIV or MERCS2) and really fun to just, 
 go berserk and fool around everwhere, this is a game for you. But I... just don't like it (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleMD03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is set in and around what I consider would have been one of the best and one of 
 the worst times to have been alive. I feel in love with the time period through history class back 
 in high school, books based on fact or fiction during those times, and even some movies, so when 
 I heard about Assassin's Creed I knew that it was a must have. The game takes you back to around 
 1191, and puts you into two sets of shoes, the present/near future of Desmond Miles, and the other 
 his ancestor Altair, who was part of a Brotherhood of Assassins within the Holy Land. You plat 
 mainly as Altair but in somewhat of a spirit only sense, by living out some of his most life altering 
 events. Desmond is kidnapped by cover company that has designed a device for reading genetic memories 
 known as the Animus. Dr. Warren Vidic and his assistant Lucy Stillman work to get Desmond to settle 
 into the machines functionality, and find what they are searching for in a limited amount of time.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed offers a semi-open world and shuts off parts that the character is not ready for 
 by using the genetic memory storyline. While there is load time and parts sectioned off it does 
 offer a larger world to explore and adventure in. Throughout the game you will use parkour-esque 
 jumps and vaults to evade detection and reach hiding spots. The fluid movement in the game left 
 me with a very good sense of realism and of the interactive environment. Another great touch, while 
 it may be small, and possibly underused was the travel system where you could walk, run, or horseback 
 ride through to get to one of the great cities of the past. I have said in many games, and even 
 in some where it might not make much sense that I would love to be able to ride a horse in this 
 area or such, and with Assassin's Creed they delivered and even went over the top by giving you 
 ability to fight from the saddle. Better yet was that the AI while being a bit of a pushover most 
 times adapted to you being on the horse and moved to dismount you before all else. Obtaining goals 
 and quests was very scenic and required some climbing most times but also offered a great end to 
 each sync climb by jumping off the structure you had just reached the top of. While it was a great 
 way to appreciate the city in which you were working in, it was hard to find a realism in taking 
 the leap of faith from some heights and structures.
  
  The game offered some very nice weapons and a great combat system that was more based on counter 
 attacks and defensive moves than any, but I found myself doing some of the same old Dual Shock 
 3 morse code button mashing. It was useful and humorous to toss a guard or enemy off a rooftop, 
 but again the encounters seemed to be the same thing over and over and over again just in a different 
 city wearing different robes. I think they should take a look at what Hitman does best which is 
 offer a semi-open world with each character having an impact on the others around them, and living 
 in real time. The end of the game was great and leaves you on the edge of your seat wanting more. 
 With the way in which it ended it just screams there is a sequel in the making, and what I would 
 like to see is a great and inspired sequel. All in all an absolutely great game, though not perfect 
 if for only very small flaws. I just hope and pray that Assassin's Creed 2, should it come to realization, 
 does not end up rushed and broken like Mercs 2. They need to inject new life into the combat system, 
 and open the world up so that you can move to the cities in real time with side missions and objectives 
 along the roads and paths to each. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was probably the most highly anticipated game ever released in 2007 for the Playstation3, 
 movies, screenshots and plot details got us all excited to go and buy this expensive game for a 
 great gaming experience. But as soon as popped this game into my console, it was differant...
 
  
  You start on a tutorial, which is good to get to grips with the controls, blending in and climbing, 
 and then you start. I liked this game at first. The graphics are awfully good, except your character's 
 robes are very badly designed, it murges with other peoples cloths and lookes terrible murky and 
 blurred. The other problem with the graphics is blood. When you slice through a body, a little 
 bit of blood falls out, but leaves no cut, scar or marking in there cloths, waste of time! Now, 
 blending. It seems everytime your walking through a city, you have to go very slowly and it takes 
 you 10 minutes to get to your destination. Why can't you walk normally like everyone else?
  
  The story is repeative, very reapeative and riding your horse every level for half a hour is 
 very boring. The voice acting superb though, a nive game for a rent only. Alot of mistakes to clean 
 up, but worth a go!
  
  8.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mix-Master_415
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't feel like writing too much so I'll just tell you what I hate and like about it. 
  
  First of all don't buy this game! Story is not epic enough. All you do is kill 9 people and then 
 a little more people after that. Climbing gets boring after a good 30 minutes. Killing people isn't 
 fun. You run up to your target and he along with his guards will want to kill you. All you do is 
 hold L1 and R1, then wait for an enemy to attack to press square to counter. You could just keep 
 pressing square and guard. Then when you've killed your target you hold L1, R1, X, and forward on 
 the left analog stick to escape the guards. Altair will go nuts trying to climb anything nearby. 
 Gaurds have bad AI. Evading them is as simple as running until they are temporarily out of your 
 line of sight and hiding in hay or behind sheets. The futuristic twist to it ruins the whole game 
 for me. Blue is everywhere. Altair has no money meaning the only way to get the beggars to leave 
 you alone is to push them or run away which both attract negative attention to you. Altair is a 
 bad protagonist. He's arrogant, selfish, ignorant, and isn't cool to be. Upgrades are given to 
 you as the story unfolds. Traveling around cities is very boring: You ride your horse while guards 
 try to kill you. You can't take your horse in the city. I hate thinking about this game. It has 
 so many glitches and bugs. Sometimes it freezes while it loads. Sometimes time is stopped. I like 
 the horses.
  
  All in all this game had a lot of potential but it stinks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuronStrife
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Okay the review of assassins creed. Well at first i saw a preview of this game, and i was really 
 excited! when it came out i didn't own a ps3 or anything, but later on i managed to buy one and 
 this was the first game i got for it. 
  
  The first time i played it, it was really good! the graphics were astonishing!! i started to investigate 
 on the target you had to kill in the game, and so on. The game was breathtaking the first 3 missions 
 and then you figure out. You're always doing the same stuff in the game!!
  
  After 3 missions, this was starting to get boring, way too repetitive always a BUCKETLOAD of f**king 
 GLITCHES!!! it really pissed me off, what they did to this game. This game could easily have been 
 the best f**king game in the world!!! But no!!! it's all the same the entire game you frikkin play 
 it!! heres what you do Go to the guy-go to the city-investigate about the target-kill it-return 
 to the bureau-go back the the guy-and do the same thing.
  
  One thing that is really annoying about this game is the combat system. It's so f**king easy that 
 you could kill 30 guys all attacking you at the same time without breaking a sweat! it gets boring 
 after a while but at first it's pretty cool. 
  
  Overall i think i can say that this game lacks variety and nothing else. i can't see why all these 
 other reviews are giving this game 8-10 in rating!! it's bullcrap! and the only thing that is good 
 about this game is the graphics (which are EXTREMELY glitchy btw (you can look for some glitches 
 on youtube, they are endless) ) and it's also very fun to walk up to people and stab them with your 
 hidden knife. otherwise it's not good
  
  If you have been reading this and not played the game yet, i recommend you to NOT buy this game 
 in any way! if you're friend was stupid enough to get it, play it for 10 minutes at his house and 
 you've played the whole f**king game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  WOW!! thats what I have to say about this game! It was amazing, Great combat, Great dialuge, Great 
 animation!
  I think everyone should play this game. The 2 problems I had where that it was slighty too short, 
 and that it was repetitive, very much. All-in-all though this game was actually one of the best 
 games I have played for the PS3 ever. The ending was... actually... Not good.. But that wasn't to 
 bad as im sure they are making a new one at some point that will explain a little better what they 
 where looking for. I had so much fun playing this game and I think everyone should try this game. 
 It was so cool to have like 10-20 soldiers around me and I could take all of them, easy. It was 
 also really cool if you did a counter attack, and it went into kind of a cut scene. Anyway this 
 game was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkrishnan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed features beautiful sets, but the thrill wears thin too quickly.
  
  The sub-plot with the doctors is jarring and uninteresting and the Altair's unfolding story is 
 highly-predictable. The gameplay is enjoyable at first, but becomes redundant with a plot-coupon 
 feel by about chapter 4. Character models are last-gen and distractingly out-of-place in an otherwise 
 beautiful world.
  
  The environments are stunningly designed and give me a feeling of authenticity, and the world feels 
 open despite the unlocking gameplay mechanic. The predictive free-running mechanic is fun and generally 
 intuitive, though cumbersome near ladders or other places where the system seems to get confused.
 
  
  My biggest complaint is the frequent crashing and otherwise buggy implementation. I find myself 
 re-booting at least once every playing session because the game locked up, crashed during a chapter 
 load, or left me stuck in the environment. Progress loss is minimal because of a frequent save-mechanic, 
 but that doesn't do much to alleviate the frustration.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is an interesting, visually beautiful world overlaid with a good engine, 
 average gameplay, contrived storytelling, and poor stability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGEORG3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  assassin creed is very similar to the legend of zelda: twilight princess and ninja gaiden sigma. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------
  the good: assassins creed offers the same free roaming experience as twilight princess.
  
  
 you dont have to buy any of your assassination equiptment.
  
  almost as bloody as ninja gaiden in some aspects.
  
  Jerusalem, Acre and Damacus are very big 
 cities therefor full of people to assassinate.
  
  the cinematics look well planned and very realistic.
  
  all of the weapons are fun to use.
 
  
  it is hard to die at the hands of normal guards.
  
  the bad: you are stripped of all of your weapons and items along with your rank in the first 5 
 mins.
  
  you have to assassinate 9 people to get all of your weapons, items and get your rank back.
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  so if you are a fan of ninja gaiden and zelda this is the game for you. 
  
  ps: if you complete the game for the first time and start a new game, you can kill anyone you want 
 without loosing any life.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Not many other games can capture the great fun of being a super strong and ultra agile guy with 
 whole entire cities to explore quite like assassins creed. And to add on to the fun of climbing 
 buildings and jumping around the rooftops of a city, you can go around knifing people in the back 
 and not get killed (sometimes) , trample people with horses, collect flags, collect information, 
 kill targets and much, much more. Why not throw an amazing story in there? The story in assassins 
 creed is very good and full with information that could have been published as a book. Of course, 
 this game wouldn't be complete with some astounding graphics and wonderful sound that illustrates 
 and tells this story with perfection. Assassins creed is a great game that defenitly won't disappoint 
 you. Buy this game!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Rpm
  Psn: Asherchuck
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a master piece, and a must-have whether you're a PS3, X360 or a PC gamer. It truly 
 is a master piece
  
  Graphics/Presentation:
  Wow, just wow, the awesomely realistic and lively environments you have are simply magnificent! 
 They used the next-gen power to it's limits! Hehe =D The 3 cities you go throught are huge and 
 everything is beautifully decorated and rendered to look like those existing in real life
  The cutsecnes are also as gorgeous, and the voice acting is great.
  
  Story: 
  You're an 
 Assassin, who needs to kill 9 people before they start the 3rd crusade in Jerusalem, Damascus and 
 Ankara.. But why do you have to play as an Assassin? Because this Assassin (named Altair, means 
 Flying one in Arabic) is one of this guy's ancestors, who's been cougt by scientists to experiment 
 on him and use his DNA to refresh his ancestors' memories.. I know, fun!! hehe!
  
  Gameplay: 
  Third-person adventure.. you can move around, run, pump to people, kill them, then 
 tun away and find somewhere to hide, which can by anything like a roof of a building. You have 
 so many awesome ways to assassinate, but that doesn't mean you can kill whoever you want just like 
 that, people will come all over you and finish you lol, so yes, it's dangerous, you should be really 
 careful.. you really don't want to draw attention to you =P You know how much people are aware of 
 your presence by this little icon you see on the top of the screen, when it's red, ut means you're 
 being chased and you have to run and hide, after you hide it turns to yellow then blue then white 
 then you're off to continue messing people up again! hehe
  
  How do I who should I kill?
  
  You'll know who you should kill using the triangle button, which will allow you to see things 
 from the 'eagle vision' prospective, each person you look at will have different colors, according 
 to the color, you'll know who to kill.. and it also depends on the mission, sometimes you kill people 
 who attacked you.
  
  Overall, this game is a master piece and you have to play it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best multiplatform games available for a PS3 owner. It's a great game and you'll 
 probably find yourself playing it for hours on end. 
  
  The funny thing about the story is that it technically doesn't take place in the Crusades, but 
 actually during modern times. You are a patient for a scientist who's diving deep into your ancestral 
 memory to discover who the legendary assassin really was. The assassin is Altair, and he is nearly 
 banished from the Creed of Assassin's by breaking a few sacred rules. However, he's given a chance 
 at redemption by assassinating 9 major political leaders. A downpoint of the game is a poor ending 
 that doesn't make much sense. 
  
  I wouldn't go so far as to call Altair a complete badass, but he is one stealthy fellow who knows 
 how to kill a guy. Also, he's incredibly athletic and acrobatic. 
  
  The gameplay is sandbox style, open-world, free for you to explore. There are a few major kingdoms 
 with different districts and cities inside, the worlds are quite large. But to get through the 
 game, you have to complete missions, and, of course, assassinations. When you first arrive at a 
 city, you can synchronize your map by climbing up to tall view points and looking around at the 
 gorgeous environments. After that, you can do a high dive frontflip into a pile of hay, which is 
 pretty awesome. Then you can see where you can engage in interrogations with shifty enemies to 
 get more information on your next kill. Such interrogations include pickpocketing, questioning, 
 and eavesdropping, as well as some minor assassinations along the way. After you gather enough 
 information you find your assassination target and you take him out, then proceed to the next city. 
 It's fairly straightforward, and some could arguably claim these missions to be extremely repetitive. 
 This might actually lose a player's interest about half way through the game, which happens quite 
 often in Assassin's Creed. Such a shame. 
  
  To get from place to place, you can ride simply ride a horse. The horse really controls surprisingly 
 well, unlike in most games. Cities aren't exactly huge, but they are pretty large with tons of 
 citizens walking around. Historically acurate locations like Jerusalem and Acre are where you'll 
 be doing your missions. While there may be a lot of people, you can't exactly interact with them 
 much, except for allies and suspects. There are women carrying jars, merchants selling goods, and 
 religious preachers raving about their religion on the streets. You can also save citizens from 
 persecuting guards, and the citizens then become your allies/lookouts. Besides the Save Citizen 
 factor, this lack of interaction is made up for by the acrobatic free running all over buildings. 
 This is a really major part of gameplay. By holding down the action button and pushing the left 
 analog stick forward, Altair will wall run up buildings, shimmy across ledges, leap long from roof 
 to roof, jump from pole to pole and of course climb very high. It's not difficult to jump across 
 an entire city in one fluid run. Besides being probably the most entertaining gameplay aspect of 
 the game, it's also amazing because none of the structures really look like they were meant to 
 be climbed on. The low rooftops all crowded together look quite natural. 
  
  The visuals in Assassin's Creed are amazing. Great production values, beautiful environments and 
 detailed character models come together for one of the best looking games of the generation. Cutscenes 
 always look good, but character animation is slightly faulty and awkward at times. Besides minor 
 frame rate issues as well, you won't find much to complain about graphical-wise. 
  
  There are different ways to kill enemies and sneak around a place. If you want to sneak in by some 
 guards, you can put your head down and walk among some hooded scholars in a disguise. If an enemy 
 guard spots you, your stealth meter blinks red, and you have to disappear in order to regain control 
 of your situation and lose the guards. You can do this by jumping in a haystack and hiding in a 
 roof garden. These can be pretty hard to find if you're frantically hopping across roofs with no 
 sense of direction while being chased by guards. You can use eagle vision to look around and see 
 the location of guards, civilians and allies. You can collect different flags and crosses throughout 
 a level for unlockables like weapons. 
  
  Combat is a bit slow-paced but remains entertaining. Your main weapon of use is your sword, and 
 as your combat skills increase your able to pull off all types of cool moves during battle, like 
 dodges and counter attacks, although at first you'll probably just mash on the Square button. Most 
 of the time you'll be fighting off multiple enemies, so your main strategy is to stay defensive 
 then counter attack. You also have your infamous Hidden Blade for quick, close-quarters assassinations 
 from behind. The short blade can be used for fights, throwing knives are good for ranged kills. 
 Then of course, you can used closed fists for quick melee combos. You can perform charge tackles 
 while running through a crowded street like this. Overall, you really won't have that much trouble 
 fending off attackers, since combat is fairly simple and unchallenging. 
  
  The boss fights are the major assassinations. These assassinations become much more difficult as 
 you progress, because your enemies become much smarter. The targets will usually realize your presence 
 and fight back, along with some others. The targets are usually quite tough to take down! But some 
 major kills remain strictly stealthy, often utilizing the Hidden Blade. 
  
  The game has some average voice acting, but most people on the streets sound good with their accents. 
 I find Altair's voice a little too American. He's a caucasian in the middle of the Middle Eastern 
 Crusades where everyone around him has a strong accent and colored skin. But let's not make mountains 
 out mole hills here, it's really highly excusable, you probably won't notice this about the character. 
 The game also has good sound effects and background music. 
  
  When it comes down to it, Assassin's Creed may be somewhat repetitive, but if you can stick through 
 this then you'll find an innovative and remarkable action game that's like nothing you've seen 
 before. 
  
  Pros:
  -Cool character to play as
  -Highly entertaining and acrobatic free running all over buildings and cities
  -Beautiful production 
 values and environments
  -Huge worlds with open-world sandbox gameplay
  -Fun missions that utilize both stealth and combat
  -Major assassinations are challenging 
 
  -Lots of different objectives to complete
  -Combat is well balanced 
  
  Cons:
  -Unique but strange story with a poor ending
  -Not many likeable characters 
  -Cities are all 
 very similar with not much citizen interaction
  -Missions are very repetitive and occasionally boring
  -Some average voice acting
  -Game is 
 fairly short, lasting about 8-10 hours
  -Combat is overall pretty unchallenging
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Graphics: 9.7
  Sound: 7.5
  Replay Value: 6.5
  Concept: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2uneek4u
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  What the hell is wrong with everybody that are giving the game a high user scores. The game is 
 nowhere near as good as everyone says it is. 
  
  Lets start off with the enemy A. I
  You're surrounded by 6 enemies, and theyre all standing around and they fight you one by one. all 
 you have to do is block their attack and stab them or reverse their attack by pressing one button. 
 I can pretty much play this game one handed. 
  
  The next thing is the Gameplay.
  The missions are fairly repeatative, all you do is find three different informations, kill your 
 target. That is all you pretty much do, repeat the same kind of missions over and over and OVER 
 again!.
  
  I admitt the graphics are impressive, Each level is fairly detailed, but for an open world game 
 theres nothing much to do other than the story. 
  
  In conclusion this game is not worth buying. I ended up trading it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeboosauce
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is a great game... except for the repetition. Lets sum up what you do. Go to a city, investigate 
 by talking to informers, eavesdropping, interrogating, pick pocketing then finally assassinate 
 your target. Then rinse, wash, repeat... This gets old quick. 
  
  On the plus side, compelling story and acting. Animation in game sets the bar high for the industry. 
 The control scheme is different and appreciated. Graphics, simply beautiful. This game could have 
 been a 10 if it had more variety in the gameplay. But it didn't and gets a respectable 8 out of 
 10. DEFINITELY worth playing. Playing through the whole game? Depends on how badly you want to 
 know what is going on plotwise. Which is very probable with the unique premise and story. But, 
 you can skip it and just read online if the repetition really gnaws away at your soul. Wouldn't 
 blame you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Williamthethor
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  good game in the beginning slowly starts to get very very boring then eventually for me it turned 
 into one of the worst most repetitive games i have ever played in my life you do the same thing 
 over and over agian for diffferent people plus it is so easy to beat terrible terrible game. As 
 i said when u first start out its not to bad its fun being all stealthy and stuff plus the graphics 
 are really good but after about 3 hours of playing it u catch your self doing the same thing over 
 and over and over again to the point were you get sick of it after i realized that i never played 
 it agian u go from town to town sneak find the person by jumping on ruffs and talk to him to get 
 ur misssion o but wait once u beat it u get to go back to the palace and get back a piece of equipment 
 stupiddddddd terrible game would never ever play it agian zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Ok...
  This game was disappointing...
  It's good, and worth buying but it isn't THAT good.
  The custscenes are horrible, the only video 
 with great graphics is the intro movie, the one before you "press start"... I wasn't expecting 
 that... 
  The liberty of walking during a custscene or changing camera was cool at the beginning, but it's 
 actually a terrible idea... 
  The story is cool and it's fit for an assassin i guess... but not for us, I mean, we have to kill 
 9 guys but for that we always have to get some info, which is perfectly normal... the only problem 
 is that we get it always the same way, pickpocket, eavesdrop, interrogation... it gets annoying... 
 too repetitive.
  
  The people are repetitive as well, they keep saying the same thing, over and over again: "Want 
 a bargain? I'm your man!" or like "Infedel die!", or worst, just because you're running "He's running 
 from someone" and I'm like... NO WAY? REALLY? NO, I just ****ing assassinated one of the most powerful 
 persons in the damm city... 
  Anyway... Talking about other things, the fighting system is new and awesome, but I mean... with 
 it you're like Kratos, you slain every guard that appears in front of you without getting hit... 
 It's too easy, and if you're an assassin the game should be based in stealth and "getting away 
 with it"... This last one actually exists on the game, you can hide inside a strange thing that 
 i never saw in my life that exists in the top of the buildings... you can sit, or pretend to be 
 a scholar or whatever they're called... 
  Or my favorite, although it's kinda impossible in real life but it's cool on the game world, jumping 
 from the 7th floor of a building and landing completely safe in a car filled to the top with straw 
 (is it the correct word?) ...
  
  About the story itself it's awesome, a real surprise to me, the machine thing... it's cool...
 
  The game gets a bit boring before you finish it that's why i rate it not as high as GS...
  
  I guess that's all... I feel kinda bored right now so I'm going to leave, maybe I'll edit this 
 review later...
  Any Questions just pm me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychowithabow
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll say that I played this game all the way to the end. It's good enough to pull you 
 through the whole story to the end, even if at times it feels more like a job than a game.
  
  Graphics- Pretty. Most of the game is great looking and animations flow well into each other. 
 If I was to try to find a problem it would be there is very little color and variety. It's hard 
 to make a game look lush with a color palette of white, off white, beige, eggshell, and red. Otherwise, 
 it falls in well with the current generation of games, meaning it is good looking.
  
  Sounds- In the first hour, great; in the next nine or so: arrrgh! You'll be hearing a lot of the 
 same lines and dialogue over and over, and some of the voice acting is bad.
  
  Story- Pseudo-science, and agonizingly transparent. You'll get more out of it if you play all the 
 missions and such. The expected ending will be enough to draw you through, and has enough meat 
 to make you wonder about the sequel.
  
  Gameplay- At times wonderful, at times painful, and what kills this game. At the end you will be 
 playing this game on autopilot, with the chore only broken up by the occasional brutally difficult 
 mission and the burning desire for a way to skip cut scenes. There is no stealth whatsoever, and 
 you'll find yourself ignoring what a normal assassin would do, seeing as there is no punishment 
 for it, just to get things done. Also, there is absolutely no replay value.
  
  So, close but no cigar. This game has some good bits, and I'll probably try the sequel, but overall 
 it's only mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twisted_sith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  It was good. A bit confusing at times in terms of the story but most of that was cleared up at 
 the end of the game. There were only a few points in the game that I had to do multiple times but 
 only like two or three. The climbing system can best be compared to that of Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune. (not something that any Xbox fan would have the pleasure of knowing) However I did not 
 like the outstandingly long length of time it took to try and locate all the Flags and Templar 
 soldiers throughout the game. I eventually gave up on that endless quest. I also did not enjoy 
 the amazing new age 'one save file' technology used in this game. And the horrible after game. 
 (you know what i'm talkin about!) But no it was a fun adventure overall and I hope they sort out 
 the legal business and make the two sequels we all await! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When you first pick up this game, It's BOUND to be exciting. Like **** yeah, I just killed that 
 dude with my blade. But let's just start with the Pros.
  ------------------------------------------
  PROS
  Interactive cut scenes.
  Interesting story. 
 Great city life. (People walking the streets)
  Great buy for the money.
  Lot's of optional things to do.
  Small list of pro's right? well the games only 20 hours. Not 
 much I could say.
  ------------------------------------------
  CONS
  WAY TO SHORT. Frame rate slowdown
  No night. Altair is a damn assassin. He can strike at night 
 cant he?
  Fun for only 5 hours then It gets boring
  Limited assassination. You have few choices assassinate the guy and ultimately always enter combat.
 
  Only 3 cities.
  Leaves WAY to much to be desired.
  -----------------------------------------
  Summary
  Overall it's a good game but it could've 
 had more effort put into it. That's pretty much all I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyf55
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Assassins Creed is playable in HD and looks gorgeous doing it. Altair, your character, is beautifully 
 detailed specfically his cloak. Fight sequences and assassinations as well as cut scene movies 
 look clean and are smooth in graphical transition. Colors are vibrant and suit the surroundings 
 of the specific city perfectly. City-scapes looked great in a big picture sense and were varied 
 in their scope but viewpoints in the cities as well as certain buildings had a certain repetative 
 sense to them. That being said, Ubisoft developers did a wonderful job giving each city its own 
 feel as there were monuments, docks, castles, etc. that were unique to the city you were in and 
 were modeled beautifully.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Sound in the game played a background role and did its job very well. Never taking centre-stage 
 or doing anything revolutionary or different the sound in this game was crisp, to the point and 
 covered it's basis' well. The voice-acting for each of the characters is where Assassins Creed 
 shines. The voice acting for each character really enhanced the gaming experience and pulled the 
 player deeper and deeper into this immersive story. Setting the stage for an Assassin's Creed 2, 
 players have the joy of looking forwawrd to many of the same voice actors returning for the sequel.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Although the controls seem a little different at the beginning of your quest, the player quickly 
 learns to control Altair with skill and beauty, like any good assassin. The free-roaming aspect 
 of the game is really taken up a level with the ability to scale walls and more or less go anywhere 
 in each of 4 cities. Outside of this free-roaming world, the missions prior to each assassination 
 are interesting but a bit unchallenging as well as highly repetative over the course of the entire 
 game. Even though the concepts are the same (pickpocket, eavesdrop, informer, etc.) the missions 
 never really feel very different. Once complete 3 to 6 of these missions, the main assassination 
 is the real excitement. The player is really in control here with how he/she chooses to execute 
 the assassination and how he/she will enter and exit the local of the target. This repition is 
 gameplay is also slightly reflected in the fighting mechanic as many times the player can execute 
 the same "move" or sequence of "moves" to take out guards. This is not to say fighting is easy, 
 nor unimpressive as Ubisoft really takes sword-fighting to a whole new level with Assassins Creed 
 in fluidity and beauty to watch.
  
  Value: 7/10
  With 9 assassination missions, there is not much else in terms of substance to draw the hardcore 
 gamer back to assassins creed. Like the first novel in any good series (which is what assassins 
 creed is set to be) it sets the stage but is rarely ever flashy enough to want to be experienced 
 again. The length of the game is average, if not on a bit of the short side, but is perfect for 
 this type of action-adventure. Some may want to just rent, but for any game collector Assassins 
 Creed is set to be the first in a series that is a must have for any PS3 owner.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  I really enjoyed this game, although did at times feel like I wanted to wrap it up 
 soon so I could see the ending. The missions to begin to get a bit repetative and you don't feel 
 the desire to just back into the game once it is over. The story was an enthralling one and the 
 graphics were beautiful. Overall, Assassins Creed is a great game I would reccomend as a must play 
 for anyone with a PS3.
  
  OVERALL: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed - one of the most hyped up video games ever, but far from the greatest game ever. 
 Seriously, how boring can a game get? There is too much empty space between villages, if you ride 
 too fast on a horse people suddenly think they need to kill you, most of the story is boring and 
 dosent make sense, and it is so incredibly repetitive. Ubisoft spent four years making this game. 
 surely they could have made more varied missions in that time? It isnt a complete disaster though 
 as there are some awesome set-pieces and it does feel like a movie. But then, if you want that 
 why not simply watch a movie? I would not buy this if i were you though, rent it mabye, but dont 
 buy it. Im just gonna wait for splinter cell: conviction or shawn white snowboarding. This was 
 too hyped up and there is not enough to show for it. Just avoid it and spend your money on Devil 
 may cry 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  The platforming, to get it out of the way first, is arguably the game's biggest strength. Your 
 journey through the Crusade-era holy land, assassinating the nine targets said to be the source 
 of war in the era, winds you up in plenty of pursuits, and hopping from rooftop to rooftop not 
 only looks fantastic thanks to some truly outstanding animation work, but it's a joy to play as 
 well.
  Altair, the game's hooded protagonist, hops between platforms, onto individual posts and swing 
 from ledges with astonishing finesse, while transitions between animations are so smooth they are 
 impossible to notice. It's worlds head of the jittery movements of most third-person games. Even 
 simple tasks like jumping from one platform to another or climbing a wall are done so gracefully 
 it's a joy to see each and every time. You can see every hand and foot placement make a physical 
 connection with specific rails, ledges and other bits of scenery. Not a finger is out of place. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my ps3 i had to decide what games i was going to get and Assassin's Creed was 
 right at the top.
  i was hoping that it was going to keep my ocupied for a long time and it certinly did, although 
 COD4 was my first ps3 game, i still had to ask my friends about Assassin's Creed. Most said rent 
 it, don't buy it because theres no replay value but i went to eb games and traded in 3 ps2 games 
 and got it for $10, i was sckeptical at first but it shaped up to be an amazing game.
  The characters each have there own personalities and the story line is incredible......... the controls 
 can get a bit confusing but once you get the hang of things you'll be fine. The gameplay is one 
 of the best in the third-person catagory and the graphics are among the best on the ps3
  
  Overall: Great game, does NOT get boring, great storyline, tedious controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Plus: Over 20+ hours of gaming
  Minus: Annoying and stupid AI
  Interesting: The cities you visit are real, as were the people you assassinate
  
  Assassin's 
 Creed for the Playstation 3 and XBOX 360 is a sandbox, meaning you can go anywhere in a restricted 
 area rather than a linear path, stealth-adventure game. I'm reviewing the Playstation 3 version. 
 It was created by Ubisoft, the same team that created Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. This 
 game was one of the most anticipated games of 2007, and was released in the last quarter of that 
 same year. Assassin's Creed has one a few awards, and the controversy about this game is that you 
 either hate it or love it. There were many people who felt let down by it, while many others, like 
 me, felt that it was amazing. 
  
  So anyway you are an assassin who is in this big secret union who kills bad people so poor people 
 can feel safe, I guess. The big deal about this story is that all the targets that you kill are 
 all real people from the real medieval ages. The main enemies that you encounter are the Knights 
 Templar (which were also real) . It is set in the middle-eastern part of the world, in the Holy 
 Land in the Third Crusade (more accurately, 1191 BC) . While one half of the story is set in the 
 past, the other half it set in the future. What's actually happening is there is this guy called 
 Desmond and his ancestor was the assassin you play as. These scientists capture him and do these 
 weird test things, which is kind of hard to explain. The easy way to say it is they put him on 
 this metal bed with flashing colours, the flashing colours scan him, and the scientists are able 
 to look at his memories. The scientists believe that your ancestors memories are stored into your 
 jeans, and they want to unlock them to find out some information about the assassins. It's really 
 epic and big! This part of the story is set in 2012 AD and I must say it would have taken forever 
 to come up with a story and conspiracy -you'll see what I mean when you finish the game- like this, 
 which is brilliant. 
  
  You will never guess how many characters there are in this game. While you only get to play as 
 two characters, Desmond the captured bartender and Altair (pronounced All-tie-air) the assassin, 
 I can't remember exactly but in my limited edition book I bought about it, it said it had something 
 like over 100 different character models that are in the cities you explore. There are some nice 
 characters and some mean ones. Peasants will come up to you begging for food while the guards will 
 tell you to get out of their site (after which, kill them) . Altair seems to be in his late 20's, 
 maybe early 30's and is a reasonably good character. He is pretty cool and one of the best comebacks 
 he said to a guy was when they said, "No doubt you'll be eager to put your tongue to his boot," 
 and he replies, "Another word and I'll put my blade to your throat." I like these characters but 
 the enemies are actually really annoying, especially the guards. 
  
  When you're watching someone play this game the gameplay looks really hard but it's actually really 
 simple. Parkour is the fun part about it. Parkour is a French urban sport which is getting from 
 point A to B by free running. I'll talk about it next so the free running is great fun and deserves 
 5 stars, the combat isn't actually so great. There is only one button you press in combat and it's 
 kind of bland. There aren't very many combos but there are a few. You have 4 weapons to use; you 
 select fists, hidden blade, sword or throwing knives by pressing in a direction on the D-pad. Running 
 up to people and leaping on them with your hidden blade is fun but when you simple stand up and 
 hold down X (A on XBOX 360) Altair puts his hands together and pretends to be praying and he just 
 walks off while guards are all like, "who did this!?" even though you're the only one in plain 
 site with swords and knifes a meter or two away (I'll talk more about the AI a bit later) . If I 
 was rating the gameplay on the free running I would give it a 5, but sadly I need to include the 
 boring and unsatisfying combat; thus earning it a 3.
  
  Anyway to do the free running all you need to do is hold down R1 (RB on XBOX 360) , X (A on XBOX 
 360) and the direction you want to run/jump. It does it automatically and although that seems as 
 though it might get annoying because it might do something you don't want it to it doesn't. There 
 aren't any huge problems with the controls but climbing up buildings can occasionally get annoying. 
 You do the same thing when you're free running, but do it towards a wall that looks like you can 
 climb it and whalla. When you attach to it the only button you move it the left analogue stick. 
 The annoying this about it is sometimes Altair moves in the wrong way you want him to go, and it 
 takes him forever to move up a big building.
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are what makes this game such a masterpiece. They are just 
 so good! I mean I thought they were good, but then I played in on an HDTV! They look absolutely 
 real, and the good thing is that it's the exact same graphics in the cinematics and gameplay. There 
 are a few technical difficulties the game tries to manage that don't look quite good, but I'll 
 talk about that in the good and the bad segment. Usually when there is a cinematic the map and 
 health bar pops up and there isn't even a transition to change it, it's the same thing! I'd give 
 this game a 10/10 if it was based just on graphics but it's not. 
  
  The music is a really nice middle-eastern feel and tune, it's not that noticeable but when you're 
 taking all day to climb a building and there is nothing else to do, I guess you actually start 
 to appreciate it. It probably isn't an award winner nominee but it certainly makes a large effect 
 and feel on the game. 
  
  This might not be a bad thing or a good thing but there is absolutely no multiplayer in this game 
 what so ever. There are a few achievements for XBOX Live but nothing else. The producer said that 
 they were thinking of having co-operative play in the game but it was too difficult to pull off. 
 There is no online or local multiplayer and you could say this was either a bad move or a good 
 move. 
  
  Well it actually is a long game, I didn't finish it for many weeks, maybe a few months. It was 
 too fun to just run through and try to finish it all together. With all the optional missions to 
 do there is over 30 hours in gameplay until it's over but not unless you just quickly run through 
 it and kill everyone straight away that you'll get 15-20 hours out of it. So really it all depends 
 on if you want to get it out and done with or go through and do all the save-the-citizen and climb-the-tower 
 missions so you get to decide how much you get out of it. I think it's good that you get a choice 
 and aren't forced to do the things you may consider boring or fun. 
  When I finished Assassin's Creed I didn't play it for a long, long time. I could say right now 
 that there isn't much replay value, but there sort of is. There is an option to collect hundreds 
 and hundreds of flags. I started over and did this but I didn't get that far when I decided it 
 was boring. I doubt that anyone would actually get all the achievements or collect all the flags 
 unless this was their only game or they were obsessed with it. Even though there are a few things 
 that a few people may consider fun, the majority of people say there's not much point going through 
 twice.
  
  The good and the bad
  So there is lots of good things in this game, and lots of bad things. The majority of it seems 
 good but there is two big things that everyone definitely will notice with playing Assassin's Creed 
 and that is the glitches and enemy artificial intelligence (AI) . There are so many glitches like 
 the screen stopping for a second, body parts going through walls, enemies running into ladders 
 and spinning around like strippers there's just too many to list. Maybe if Ubisoft worked on the 
 game for a couple more months they could have fixed some of it. When you're on a horse, running, 
 characters pop out of seemingly nowhere and sometimes the camera decides to have a little hissy 
 fit and go everywhere. A big bad problem that I had was when I was playing and the game freezed 
 all together. This is the only game that has ever frozen on me and unable to unfreeze. It's got 
 nothing to do with the heating or fan or anything just this game. Lots of people have reported 
 it too. The AI is seriously really bad also. You kill someone in their face then walk off and pretend 
 to pray and they have no idea, but when you've randomly walking past they start trying to kill 
 you! It's all over the place and is really bad and annoying but this is still a great game.
  
  Ok well I would give this game a 9 or maybe even a 10 but because of the annoying AI and glitches 
 it doesn't do so well. The game doesn't have much replay value but makes up for it by having a 
 pretty big length. The first play through will be magical, while the second won't be as good. There 
 are huge vast cities to explore and do missions in which is fun and is pretty good for a newcomer 
 to just pick up the controller and play (first they need to turn the system on a put in the disk) .
 
  
  Story  5/5
  Characters  4/5
  Gameplay  3/5
  Controls  4/5
  Graphics  5/5
  Music  4/5
  Multiplayer  0/5
  Length  5/5
  Replay Value - 1/5
  
  Overall Rating:
 
  89/100 - Awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signore
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game. A VERY repetitive experience, but still a good game. 
  
  The gameplay is fun, the visuals are some of the best seen on any console, the story is interesting 
 enough to give the game's progress meaning and the sandbox/open world gives the game a medieval 
 GTA style experience. It's just too bad that the game suffers from a serious case of 'Been there, 
 done that'. You will replay the same missions over and over again, encounter the same people and 
 basically just undergo the rinse and repeat exercise to ad nauseum.
  
  The unskipable interactive "cut scenes" make this game drag on a lot more than it should. Often 
 fairly long, they are rarely entertaining and really drag down the experience. It comes to a point 
 when you dread certain aspects of the game because you know a 5 minute bore fest awaits. 
  
  I would recommend renting it, but when it eventually goes down to $20-25 it is likely worth 
 a purchase. I think the game has great potential, and with the great sales the inevitable sequel 
 could be one to watch if they build on the good foundations and cut out the repetitiveness of the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sMeAgOl_VaDeR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an amazing game that takes place in the late 11th century. It talks about the 
 evil rulers of the Arabs and you, the assassin Altair, should eliminate them. This game is actually 
 a memory of Desmond, the man in the animus who produces these memories for scientists to learn 
 from. 
  Assassin's Creed combines the best of stealth and action, delivering a super experience of how 
 people used to act during the late 1100s. In the beginning, your character is a greedy bastard 
 who doesn't care about anyone but himself, so his master makes him his student and takes away all 
 his skills and weapons, which you will slowly earn back throughout the game. You can scale buildings, 
 jump the Leap of Faith from the highest tower and assassinate, interrogate, pickpocket or punch 
 any guard you want. The part that i had fun with is when you get your knife-throwing skills and 
 through knives at the guards... it makes a relaxing sound as the knife penetrates the flesh. 
 
  Playing through Assassin's Creed, you'll find that getting to the first 2 leaders will be a load 
 of fun. But after that, it gets repetitive... BORING! You'll feel you've done this before and you 
 won't feel like finishing off those other leaders unless you finished ever other game you have. 
 
  A great feature they could have added would be challenges, like the ones the informers give you 
 during the game for information. Like when you finish the game and you still want the Assassin's 
 Creed experience, you can play challenges that unlock certain things that you can use to unlock 
 more challenges.
  Sadly, a game as good as this doesn't offer any online/downloadable features. If would have been 
 great assassinating players online. 
  In conclusion, if you're bored and looking for a cool middle-age assassinating game, Assassin's 
 Creed is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwolf
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  hi im kellerwolf im gonna tell you about the things i like about assassins creed. [fightings] the 
 fightings are good the combo kill is hard to do the counter atteck is easy to do with the throwing 
 knives you just press L1 lock on and then press the atteck botten to throw. [jumping moves] the 
 jumping moves are hard to do in rael life like thats impossible right ok whatever the jumping moves 
 is awsome incredible wow im gonna like play everyday becouse about the jumping moves hehe. [climbings] 
 the climbimgs is very hard to do in real life like come on who could do it in real life thats impossible 
 he ok the climbing is like you dont know so confusing if poeple are like chasing you and climbing 
 then goodbye you'll get hit easaly and goodbye for it heheheheheh. [sneek atteck] the sneek atteck 
 wow good very good wow wow so good awsome apsaloutly awsome like you go near a guy stap awsome 
 wow. and thats all im gonna talk about it see ya next time people and please read this please i 
 want you guys to read this pleaseim bagging you  will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandy00345
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, story and idea are all great. However the game play is repetitive. You spend most 
 of the game at a slow pace (because you don't want to go too fast and alert guards) , which will 
 kill any impatient gamer alone, hiding in hay, climbing search towers, listening to secret conversations, 
 and picking pockets. Very rarely do you get to do secret and cool assassinations and mostly you 
 just dispatch guards and targets with a sword. I was personally looking foward to beinga cool assassin/spy, 
 but it very much wasn't this. If you do opt to run, and hell to secrecy, you better get used to 
 running up walls, on roofs and in crowded city streets, and hiding. Scaling walls is very fun, 
 but it too gets repetitive. Getting to cities was perhaps the most strenuous task for me, because 
 it was very easy to get lost, while being chased through every town and passage. I get it, you're 
 an assassin, but it still is very inconvenient.
  
  Overall, it's a nice game to rent and get your fill of, but after that, I say don't buy it.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fergocricket93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  When I think Assassins creed I think one of the best video games of all times. Ubisoft Montreal 
 has outdone itself by creating an amazing, interactive and realistic environment to explore to 
 your heart's content. 
  In the Holy land, the crusades led by King Richard the Lionheart are at war with the Saracens, 
 led by Saladin. You play as a demoted agent of a neutral brotherhood of assassins. 
  First thing's first. The gameplay can become a little bit repetitive. You can eavesdrop, interrogate, 
 pickpocket, save civilians to gain allies, scale towers, cathedrals, buildings and much more. There 
 are 9 main assassination targets in the game who must be killed to progress the story.
  The visual side of the game looks amazing. There are three major cities in the game (Jerusalem, 
 Domascus, Acre) and one town (Masyaf) . Each city is huge and takes ages to explore properly. The 
 Holy land itself is extensive and dauntingly huge. 
  You can sword fight, throw knives, punch, and the most-important of all... kill people with your 
 handy hidden blade. 
  The music is also good, as is the modern-side of the game which is set just into the future, involving 
 the assassin's descendant. 
  There are flags throughout the environment which can be collected which are a challenge to find. 
 As are the 60 templars scattered throughout the land, which must be killed. 
  All in all, this a great game. It can be repetitive but it doesn't deserve a score any less than 
 a 8.5 at least. I highly recommend this to anybody who wants a good game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was developed by Ubisoft Montreal, the same group of developers that brought us 
 Rainbow six Vegas 1 and 2. In the game, you play as Altair, a master at assassinating people, hence 
 the name, Assassins creed. He is close to your basic generic protagonist. I said "close" because 
 it seems that he doesn't mind killing a lot of people. You also play as Desmond Miles, but you 
 just walk around with him. I don't really want to spoil anything with him; even though his parts 
 are boring. But it is an interesting way to keep you in the story. 
  The story is a love hate sort of thing. I found the premise interesting and even though I thought 
 the ending was not satisfying enough, I want to know what happens next. But even after the ending, 
 there are ways you can find out more about the story and its future even. For players who know 
 nothing about the game, the start will seem like a huge plot twist; even though it's not meant 
 to be.
  The assassination missions are what make most of the game. As Altair, you travel around real word 
 locations such as Jerusalem to find and kill your target. But first, you will need to do several 
 side missions to receive information about your target. You will pickpocket, interrogate, and ease 
 drop on conversations to learn more about your target. Some of these are helpful in giving you 
 tips about the guard locations and areas to sneak in. Other tips will be very vague and basically 
 useless. For the first couple of missions, I went through and accomplished all the side tasks hoping 
 to get some extra rewards. The only reward I got was a gain in my health meter. That was not a 
 good even reason for me to continue on with the side-tasks for the rest for the game.
  Which brings me to the game's biggest problem: Repetition. Every single assassination mission has 
 you doing the same side-tasks over and over again. Basically in the same order: you climb a building 
 to get an eagle's eye view, save a citizen, pickpocket, and ease drop, repeat. Granted the assassinations 
 are varied, I found myself dragging on toward the end. Another problem of the game is the combat 
 system. Granted it is fun and slick. After you learn to counter someone's attack, you can take 
 on hordes of guards easily. So you never get this sense of dread when fighting an enemy because 
 you know one counter can easily take them down. It would've been cool to see the sword fights be 
 more intense and less forgiving. The combat A. I is nothing great, but it gets the job done. Sometimes 
 you might question why the guards don't all attack you at once, but that would make it too hard. 
 It is cool to see how sometimes guards will run away after you slaughtered several others. The 
 most impressive part of the A. I is when the guards chase and you look for you around the city. 
 The smallest action may alert guards to hold their sword or even threaten you with it. Also, they 
 will throw rocks at you if you're climbing a building. I thought that was pretty cool. BUT, it's 
 lame to see how you can easily just go into low-profile mode and hide from these guards. You can 
 stay in the same area after slaughtering several guards, go into low profile mode, and the guards 
 will walk right by you. 
  But really, the game works just fine to not water down the experience. Every counter you make will 
 pan the camera to a sort of "in-action" view and Altair will perform so gruesome finisher. The 
 atmosphere of each is city is amazing. Most of them are separated into three districts: poor, rich, 
 and middle class. What is pretty cool is how each district has its own unique look and style to 
 it. In the poor district, you will find a lot of beggars and drinks. But in the rich district, 
 you will find a lot of people who snob at you and your actions. All of the details just add in 
 the world and give the player a better experience with the game. The developers did put time to 
 create this rich and beautiful world. 
  The graphics are strong for a next generation game. In terms of scale, art, and geography, the 
 game is beautiful. I found myself just stopping at looking at the scene around me. The models of 
 the citizens are toned down a little, but this was more of a necessary down-scale because of the 
 mass number of civilians on the screen at once. 
  The audio is strong. The citizens' audio is a bit dubbed down, while the main characters are obviously 
 dubbed fine. Everything sounds like it is suppose to in a well developed game like this. The music 
 is fine, but toward the end, I wasn't too crazy about it. 
  Assassin's Creed is a game of ambition, and risk. The developers wanted to create a game that separated 
 itself in terms of diversity and game play. The atmosphere is rich, the story is trying to be different, 
 and the fun elements are there. The game's length is determined by the player, it is a short story 
 that could be finished in a determined weekend. In the end, I enjoyed Assassin's Creed for what 
 it was: An ambitious adventure game that had a unique style to it. Assassin's Creed is a must rent, 
 not buy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Nice Huge World, Great Gameplay, Unbelievable Graphics, and Awesome Moves! Good Storyline and Addicting 
 Replay Value! 
  
  Lots of Side Objectives. Abit repetative sometimes doing the side missions and hiding spots. But 
 it's still fun to do. Running around the cities, jumping roof to roof and climbing buildings is 
 Very Fun! What I really like also is how he moves around while escaping or climbing. 
  
  Nicely Detailed Character. The Character is awesome! Lots of people would think he's like Spiderman, 
 but I think he's more like Batman. Watch his stance when on a ledge hehe. And plus, AC Character 
 seems to be creeping through the night. Storyline reminds me of Matrix. Plugging back into the 
 past and waking back into the Real World. 
  
  Riding the Horses traveling to other cities is also fun. You can also wield your sword while riding 
 on a horse. 
  
  The Fighting system I would say is also pretty repetative except that it's still fun. Fight 3 at 
 the same time. Pretty much block, strike, strike for a combo. Love the Instant Kills! 
  
  One more thing I'll mention that I thought was nice is while loading, you have control of your 
 character, not much you can do, but better then just a loading screen. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is a Must-Have for either Generation Systems! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdogm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  After seeing all the press conferences and gameplay video's, I was really looking forward to play 
 this game. After playing the game a few times I thought I had gotten what I hoped for, but as I 
 got further in the game I started to notice a few things that really bothered me.
  
  Within a few hours I had assassinated 3 of my targets, and things where really going great. But 
 after another few hours I started to notice that things where actually going too great. I had killed 
 8 targets, collected almost all of the viewpoints in every city and saved almost every citizen, 
 but the game wasn't even a bit more difficult then when I first played the game. The only part 
 that is slightly difficult is the last one before you return to Masyaf, where you have to face 
 about a dozen Templar's.
  
  
  
  **SPOILER ALERT**
  What is up with the ending???
  The researchers just walk out of the room, you see a few patters made out of blood, the end!!??!!
 
  I'm a gamer who wants a good story in a game, and so I need a good story ending. This story end 
 was horrible! You don't get to know what they are researching. You don't get to know why they need 
 you for that. You don't get to know why there are patterns made out of blood all over the walls. 
 You don't even get to know how the story ends for Altar!!
  *****************
  
  
  
  It may sound like this is the worst game ever, but it's not. Although there are some major gaps 
 in the gameplay and story, it is still a great game that is really fun to play, with amazing graphics 
 and sound. 
  I expected a bit more from the game but still: 
  Great job Ubisoft!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubiksGenius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is very innovated and really changes the the whole sandbox genre. That being said, it 
 lacked on game play. The game play within the game is in fact very fun, but the ways of going about 
 hunting your assassination targets is the same throughout the game. You basically spend the bulk 
 of the game running around a city saving random people from bully guards or sitting on a bench 
 to spy on some people talking. Needless to say, this can get very boring. But I'll move on to the 
 next most important aspect of the game, the story. Assassin's Creed has a very good story, and 
 it's actually the redeeming quality of this game. The game's story is told in a very unique and 
 refreshing way, I won't go into details to avoid spoilers, but story is told in a way that makes 
 you question whether you are doing the right thing as the character.
  
  Overall, I gave the game a 6.5. The game play is just too repetitive and boring to make the game 
 worth the buy. The story is fun and merits a rent. You should be able to beat the game in your 
 rental period and get everything out of this game without dishing out the 60 bucks for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartik24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  i appreciate this game for its new concept and has never been tapped before
  it has great elements and and fabulous story 
  its boss fights and traditional sword fighting 
 is fun where u can fight with as many as u want at a time
  its open city and climbing heights has made it more exciting sureyly one of the best ever made
 
  although...
  its gets a bit boring as you'll be repeating same mission types and its gets on your nerves sometimes
 
  other than that i have no other complains
  some ppl keep bragging abt frame rates but whichy game doesnt have frame rate problems it happenes 
 everywhere
  nothing is perfect
  (even msg4 has problems)
  i think that a first timer to role playing games would truly enjoy this but if your a regular rpg 
 player it maybe be a bit disappointing as there are plenty of other better rpg's.
  its ending may confuse you but anyone can go online and google the end of assassins creed.. its 
 got an interesting explaination 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishkawy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is very intense game that sucks you in it from the first look.. allot of unexpected 
 actions with great story and gameplay.
  
  When we talk about the character Ubisoft presented "Altair" I must say that they can not give any 
 better characters for the game it is made for him.. his character, the way he talks, the way he 
 walks, and even the way he looks is perfectly an Assassin way! He is a member of the Assassin's 
 creed "Hashasheen" in the time of the third crusade before Saladin enters Jerusalem, He is a master 
 Assassin who's full name is Altair Ibn La'Ahad, Altair means in Arabic: the prey bird, and Ibn 
 La'Ahad means in Arabic: son of no one.
  
  He was punished from his Master and the master of the creed "Al Mu'alem" because of Altair's greed 
 and pride so he was demoted from all of his ranks and weapons and then he start to gain his ranks 
 and weapons back as he finish the missions one by one.
  
  Almu'alem orders Altair to Assassinate nine real-historic characters in Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus, 
 and Masyaf the Assassin's stronghold so he can get his ranks and weapons back.
  
  every single mission in the game has its own story and way of finishing it and its own difficulty 
 but there are some things that you must do in each mission, you first must go to the Assassin's 
 Bureau to have the permission to go and do your mission and have some information of where to start 
 your search for your target, second you will go and eavesdrop or interrogate or steal information 
 from people in cities to know more information about your target and where you can find him, third 
 you go to your target and find him and try to kill him with one of two ways either assassinate 
 him in stealth or go and fight your way to him which takes more time.. and both are extreme fun!
 
  
  fighting in this game is very simple, easy and fun if you know the trick you would never die in 
 this game.
  
  you may find it a bit repetitive but not really its very fun, with great graphics (requires an 
 HD TV for full performance) 
  
  now the unexpected thing in the story of the game is that when you start the game you will find 
 yourself in the modern time wearing blue Jeans and a sweat shirt in a place like a science researching 
 center and ofcourse now you will say: 'what the hell??!' thats what I said actually and all of 
 the people who played it with me but everything will be explained and you will know that the whole 
 game is in the memory of Altair's descendant and being used by scientists to know the place of 
 a treasure through his memory!
  
  voices...
  
  AlTair: Philip Shahbaz
  Lucy: Kristen Bell
  Tamir: Ammar Daraiseh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed follows Altair in the Middle Ages and his quest to regain his rank by assassinating 
 targets after he lost it by breaking the rules: kill no innocents, hide in plain sight, and do 
 not compromise the brotherhood. The kingdom and 4 cities are enormous allowing for hours of fun 
 exploring. The assassinations are all different and very interesting. The plot is fantastic and 
 switches view from Altair to Desmond (Altair is actually in Desmond's genetic memory because the 
 game is set in 2012) The plot has big twists that keep you hooked. You can explore the city and 
 scale view points to get more information about the city. There are optional save the citizen missions, 
 flags scattered around that you can collect, and Templars to find and kill that keep the game more 
 interesting. It is satisfying to stealth kill guards and citizens as well as being able to fight 
 guards and targets with a long sword, short sword, and throwing knives. The animations for counter 
 kills are fantastic and fun to watch. The cities are beautiful and look exactly like the real cities 
 they are based off. The only downside is that the missions can get a little repetitive toward the 
 end of the game and you don't get to use a crossbow like the introduction video shows. Assassin's 
 Creed is a great adventure that makes you want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight37m
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one absolutely beautiful game, truly a next-gen experience. The animations 
 are everything we've come to expect from the developers of the modern classic Prince of Persia 
 series. Some of the in-engine movies are so stunning you want to rewind and watch them over again.
 
  
  The game starts off with somewhat difficult controls but nothing that you can't get comfortable 
 with in an hour. The AI is fairly impressive sometimes (and silly other times) with a very compelling 
 premise. The slow motion assassinations are extremely satisfying.
  
  The one downside to the game is all of the time spent in the future seems stilted and awkward, 
 plus the game does get somewhat repetitive after a few very exciting first hours of play. 
  
  Still, the price is definitely right on this title now and it is one of the top 15 or 20 PS3 
 titles so no reason not to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VAntes14
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is good the graphic are good the story is good the beginning the the game is fun. the 
 only bad thing is the rest of the game is boring the controllers are good but the game gets boring. 
 The ending of the was dumb. A lot of glitches in the game and the guards are dumb as hell and you 
 cant swim. What the point of geting the flags and assassinating all the elite guards. and the special 
 people, the dunks, and the poor people are so annoying. I dont get thing ending of the game its so 
 dumb. What the point of beating the game and what the point of geting the game? If some one can 
 help me with the ending then i shell thank u for it. Is there any way to get the password for the 
 guys computer and is a real ending to this game? The last boss for this game is easy to kill just 
 keep hitting the clones and kill the real one it easy to kill the kings and why is there a cross 
 bow in the thriller
  if theres not one in the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a game based on real history at the time of King Richards crusade. You play 
 as a fictional character (Altair) who belonged to the Hashashin (Arabic name meaning "the Assassins") , 
 a real organisation at the time of the crusaders. Your job is to, well, assassinate people!
  
  The gameplay is good (although not great) , however your tasks eventually become repetitive, 
 even though the cutscenes are interesting to watch and the story is immersive. Your job is to wander 
 the city (either on foot or by jumping from rooftop to rooftop which is extremely fast paced and 
 convincing, just like the rest of this game) collecting pieces of information about your assassination 
 target by interrogating, pickpocketing and doing tasks for certain people who in return will tell 
 you what they know about your target be it location, appearance, job e. t. c. The combat is the best 
 I have ever came across for a sword game, it is deep and extremely satisfying! Nothing compared 
 to countering an enemies attack and then thrusting your swords through their stomach and savagely 
 pulling the blade out while hearing them scream!
  
  That aside, the graphics are a work of art, Altair looks amazing in white robes which reflect the 
 sunlight and show off the beautiful lighting engline that this game uses, the animations are very 
 finely done too, the cities also look amazing and the draw distances are beaten only by GTA4. However 
 the character models for the civilians are poor in comparison to Altairs and could do with more 
 work.
  
  This game is a unique game, nothing quite like it is on the market. The closest thing I can think 
 of is Prince of Persia which is not very similar to it as it is not based on real history, is purely 
 fictional and has less free roaming to it. Assassins creed is like a cross between an intense action 
 game and an open world RPG with an immersive story. However it is weakened by the repetitiveness 
 and lack of multiplayer which totally brushes aside its value and replayability.
  
  Overall, my advise would be to rent this game as it would be criminal to not experience this unique 
 game which unfortunately does not really give one a reason to keep due to lack of replayability.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is truly Superb!
  
  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful and exciting experience that you'll remember for years to come. 
 
  
  Assassin's Creed will stay with you long after you finish it. Here is one of the most unique gameworlds 
 ever created: beautiful, memorable, and alive. Every crack and crevasse is filled with gorgeous, 
 subtle details, from astounding visual flourishes to overheard cries for help. But it's more than 
 just a world -- it's a fun and exciting action game with a ton of stuff to do and places to explore, 
 rounded out with silky-smooth controls and a complex story that will slowly grab you the more you 
 play. Make no mistake: Assassin's Creed is one of the best efforts of the year and a must-own game 
 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners.
  
  Not enough can be said about the living, breathing world that you'll inhabit in Assassin's Creed. 
 As assassin extraordinaire Altar, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th 
 century: Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and 
 features meticulously crafted towers that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet 
 corners where citizens converse and drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets 
 (and rooftops) , you'll push your way through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear 
 orators shout political and religious wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altar 
 has a profound effect on this world, but the cities are entities all their own, with their own 
 flows and personalities.
  
  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altar's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely you feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally well done. 
 Altar scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights that 
 would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one pose 
 to another without a hitch. Minor characters move gracefully as well, though one of the game's 
 few visual drawbacks is the occasional jerky animation on the part of a citizen. However, it's 
 easy to forgive, considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals. 
 In fact, these tiny blemishes are noticeable only because everything else looks so incredible.
 
  
  What you hear is even more impressive than what you see. At the top of a temple, you hear little 
 but the rush of wind, the twittering of birds, and the barking of a far-off dog. In the most populated 
 areas, your ears will fill with the din of street vendors, the pleas of beggars, and the occasional 
 humming. It's never too much, though, and the game does a good job of making sure you hear what 
 you need to hear (for example, the cries of citizens who need your help) , without filling your 
 ears with pointless noise. All these effects, along with the clangs of swords and groans of assassinated 
 foes, are outstanding. The voice acting of the supporting cast is similarly remarkable. Conversations 
 are completely believable and delivered with the perfect amount of solemn dignity. Oddly, the weakest 
 link is Altar himself. Actor Philip Shahbaz does an all right job, but he isn't up to par with 
 the first-rate acting of his fellow troupe. Rounding it all out is a beautiful orchestral score 
 that is most notable for its subtlety. Many of the game's most impressive moments are accompanied 
 by lovely musical themes that add even more threads to the game's rich living tapestry.
  
  Fortunately, the story that binds it all together rises to the occasion. Actually, there are two 
 related stories in play. The unfolding drama of Crusades-era Palestine is a mere memory, forcibly 
 pulled from a modern-day bartender named Desmond by a resolute researcher using a machine called 
 an animus. The memories aren't Desmond's own -- they are Altar's, stored safely in the hapless subject's 
 genetic code. We follow Altar as he assassinates nine public figures at the command of his master, 
 and as the common thread that ties these men comes into focus, so does the true identity of Desmond's 
 captors. There are no cutscenes in the traditional sense; every bit of story exposition and dialogue 
 flows smoothly from the gameplay and takes place entirely within the game engine. The ending is 
 confusing, and it blatantly leaves open the possibility of a sequel, but it's a small blemish on 
 an otherwise stirring tale. Altar's world is not one of absolutes. His assassination targets aren't 
 always evil, and Altar isn't always likable. As he is fond of reminding us, "Nothing is true. 
 Everything is permitted."
  
  Of course, such an authentic world would be meaningless without a lot of fun things to do in it. 
 Thankfully, Assassin's Creed is endlessly entertaining in that it features a fine mix of stealthy 
 exploration, tight platforming, and exciting combat. To discover the whereabouts of your assassination 
 targets, you must first follow up on possible leads. There are several different mission types 
 in this regard. In some cases, you sit on a bench and listen in on secret conversations. At other 
 times, you will closely follow someone carrying an important letter that you'll pickpocket. Alternately, 
 you can beat the information out of your target. Most missions are relatively easy to pull off 
 in the early stages of the game. But once the guards and townspeople start recognizing you (or 
 you alert them to your presence too close to the scene of one of your crimes) , they get a little 
 tougher.
  
  There are also some optional tasks, such as rescuing innocent townspeople from the clutches of 
 guards. The reward for doing so is a group of vigilantes who will hang out in the area afterward 
 and hinder any foes chasing you. It's also a good way to try out Assassin's Creed's combat, which 
 is surprisingly satisfying, considering the game's focus on sneaking around. You can pounce on 
 enemies using your hidden blade (an incredibly rewarding one-stab kill) , or use throwing daggers 
 to take enemies down from a distance. However, your sword is your melee mainstay, and though the 
 hack-and-slash combat may seem simple at first, it gets more challenging once you unlock the various 
 countermoves. Often, you'll have a dozen or more attackers to fend off at once, but though these 
 fights can be a little tricky, you'll never feel as if you're in over your head. In fact, the few 
 circumstances in which you are forced into combat -- such as a late-game boss fight against a seemingly 
 endless crowd of attackers and their leering leader -- are challenging and require some pitch-perfect 
 timing to counter every strike and lunge.
  
  Combat is a whole lot of bloody fun. Nevertheless, brute force is rarely the best way to handle 
 a situation. You want to slink unnoticed through the crowds, but you can draw attention to yourself 
 in a number of ways -- whether it be galloping past a guard station on a horse, knocking pottery 
 off of someone's head, or getting so frustrated by the various beggars that you fling them away 
 from you. (And trust us -- these are the most aggressive panhandlers you'll ever meet.) If you antagonize 
 the guards, they'll give chase. Yes, you can stick around and fight, and though it's never the 
 easiest option, breaking stealth does not damn you to death like it does in other sneaking games. 
 But why not lure them to a rooftop? Once up there, you can grab them and fling them to the street 
 below. Or if there are too many of them, you can jump across the rooftops gracefully until you 
 find a hiding place, such as a nice bale of hay or a curtained garden. Once you're hidden, they'll 
 break chase and you'll be free to roam about.
  
  You can also seek refuge in small groups of scholars who serve as mobile hiding places. It's a 
 bit contrived to walk into a stationary cluster of scholars and have them suddenly start moving 
 simply because you're there, but it gets the job done. Actually, if there's any drawback to the 
 usually excellent gameplay, it's how synthetic certain elements feel. Vigilantes are always in 
 the same spot, missions reset if you don't get them right the first time, and those same guards 
 will be harrassing that citizen, an hour after you pass by. It's easy to forgive these quirks though, 
 given the easygoing flow of the world surrounding these pockets of gameplay.
  
  Climbing up buildings and jumping around the rooftops is fun and breezy, thanks to effortless controls 
 that strike a great balance between ease of use and player input. You can leap across alleys and 
 scale walls with the pull of a trigger and the press of a button, and though it's possible to launch 
 yourself from a wall or hurtle through a vendor's booth by accident, these moments aren't very 
 common. You'd think that a city specifically designed to let you climb structures and caper about 
 the roofs would look overly artificial, yet there's never a moment when you will think to yourself, 
 "Wow, that looks like a place where I'm supposed to jump." The architecture looks completely natural, 
 which makes Altar's abilities all the more exciting to pull off. The environments don't look as 
 if they were created for him to climb around on; he just uses the hand he's been dealt, as any 
 good assassin should.
  
  In Assassin's Creed, the greatest joy comes from the smallest details, and for every nerve-racking 
 battle, there's a quiet moment that cuts to the game's heart and soul. Climbing towers to uncover 
 portions of the map is a simple mechanic but forever satisfying, thanks to the beautiful vistas 
 and soft musical themes that accompany the view. Even the drunks that pester you are amusing and 
 fun, though their constant shoving is more than annoying, especially if you are trying to pickpocket 
 a pedestrian or eliminate a target without a fuss. It all makes your missions that much more compelling, 
 and you'll be inclined to explore every nook and cranny and take on every optional task, just for 
 the fun of it. There's a ton of stuff to do, and even when you've exhausted your official tasks, 
 you can search for the collectible flags and crosses strewn around the cities and countryside. 
 You could probably plow through the main quest in 20 hours if you're lucky, but completists might 
 spend close to 50 hours finishing every quest and gathering every collectible.
  
  There are few differences between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. PS3 owners are blessed 
 with a slightly more solid frame rate, although the 360 version features a little more contrast 
 in the lighting, so it's pretty much a wash. But regardless of which platform you go with, you'll 
 have an amazing and unforgettable game. Assassin's Creed is the kind of game you tell your friends 
 about, and one that should be in your collection.
  
  A Must have for all Playstation 3 Owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: korerand5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Not as good as the hype. Full of glitches. Yes it looks great and the free-running is good, but 
 it's too repetitive. The pedestrians are dumb and they all repeat the same speech. The stealth 
 is terrible. In the video previews i've seen the big missions where u take out a leader you plan 
 your escape route and take out the leader in a deadley way. Each time i face a boss it ended in 
 the same way every time, with me facing every soilder in the game trying to kill them all with 
 defnsive sword play. It's basically just a run -n-gun with knives and swords. There are a few redeeming 
 points about this game, like the sword fights with hords of enemy guards and then running and hiding 
 in the nearest bale of hay. Also finding the next view point by scaling the nearest tower to asses 
 your soundings is very entertaining. I had high hopes for this game but was let down by the overall 
 finish. Just a few more play tests and scratch out the glitches. It could of been a classic, but 
 instead it's just another could of been. Hopefully the sequal will be a step forward on the free 
 running and a step back on the mistakes. I would recommend you to rent it and if you like it go 
 buy it becouse there is alot of better games than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil_777
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  ive played through this game twice, and made sure ive done every mission, and on none of the missions 
 did i think i should stop playing. the fighting is very repetitive but the game hides this well 
 by using a special camera angle whenever you successfully complete a combo.
  
  the story is a bit odd, but i wouldn't say it stops the game from being great.
  the most annoying 
 thing about the game is not being able to skip through the talking scenes (which becomes noticeable 
 during the second play-through) , although you can control your character and the camera during 
 all of the cut scenes in the game which makes it a bit more interesting.
  
  im sure there are lots of extras and bonuses in the game. ive found a few secrets myself (obvious 
 and less obvious) , but they don't seem to have any obvious use, although im sure their uses will 
 become more apparent during the sequel. there are many hidden things to find, such as flags and 
 even hunting down your enemy and killing them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jqh97116
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is somwhat hard to describe, it's fun but can be very annoying at times. The gameplay 
 is very interesting at first, until the point that later in the game you can take on hordes of 
 enemies and live through it. The assassinations are fun, but get old and repetitive, the graphics 
 are one very good point of this game, they look amazing for the time this game came out, and the 
 story is ok. You are basically an assassin that needs to kill 9 templars to bring down the whole 
 crusade. and thats it. thats pretty much all of it, and their is a whole bunch of little flags 
 you can find and 60 templars in the whole world to kill. This game pretty much has no replay value 
 and in my opinion i would rent it first, the game is not hard and i would not recommend buying 
 it for more than 20 or 30 bucks. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Now, that aside it is an absolutely beautiful game. And the missions do get slightly harder, you 
 get more skills and such. The game is great, but it's by no means perfect. I'll say this, at first 
 when I played this game I was more than satisfied, but looking back on how much this game was hyped 
 for me, I'm not quite sure it delivered what I expected. I expected a game that would be remembered 
 for years and years and years. I'm not exactly sure that's what we got. We got a great game, but 
 to be honest, I'm not exactly sure I'll be coming back to this game in a few years and playing 
 through it again. Just because of how repetitive it is. So... Gameplay I'll give it a 9.0. Graphics 
 a solid 10, because it truly is a beautiful game that is very historically (In a geographical sense) 
 correct. Sound is great, not exactly like a Zelda game or Shadow of the Colossus, but still pretty 
 good I'll give it a 9.0. Replay value is gonna bring this game down, simply because of the repetitive 
 nature of it... and my final score for this game, is going to be a pretty solid 8.5- 9.0 And I 
 think I'm leaning more towards 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed its not just a regular game. Its a work of art. Its not just about killing people 
 and messing around the cities but it goes much deeper into the ambience and the player gets absorbed 
 into the story impressively fast.
  The excelent and flawless graphics were delicious while climbing all sorts of buildings, troughout 
 the citadels.
  The story its a great joy, till the end... thats actually very confussing and felt quite dissapointed 
 cause the story development was so cool that in the end it kinds of spoils it a bit but its fantastic 
 anyway.
  The fighting mechanics may be a bit repetitive but it ends up to be quite fun after all. I think 
 this game should deserve the same popularity as GTA 4... i dont see any difference between both 
 games... graphically speaking. I think this game will be remmembered in the years to come as a 
 great piece of work and should be missed at all.
  
  Its a must buy, for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed will be one of those games you should buy just to say you have Assassin's Creed. 
 But it is one of those games that you might not finish because it is so repetitive. You do the 
 same thing over and over again. This game does have some of the most beautiful environments you 
 have ever seen. Not just being a good-looking world, it has smooth controls of running across the 
 rooftops and around the cities. The story however is so complex and boring you stop paying attention 
 and when you try to get back in it; it is to late. No doubt you should own this game on any console 
 or PC.
  
  I can't go into words on how the environment just acts to you. The people of the town see you 
 running up walls and across rooftops, and they stop and react to you and stop and stare.
  
  You play as a character called Altair who in an assassin in the 12th century in the cities of 
 Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Each city is constructed so beautifully and is hand crafted so perfectly 
 from streets to rooftops. You will see women carrying jars or vases on their heads and if you run 
 past them you will knock vase off (if your trying to get away from some) . If your trying to sneak 
 you can and you'll walk and just gently push yourself passed them without knocking anything over. 
 Drunk guys walking around town pushing you out of the way gets annoying but is funny at the same 
 time.
  
  Like I said earlier the world is beautiful and the shadowing (which is this gens most important 
 thing) . Shadowing from everyhing including your robes that you have on to the trees swaying back 
 and forth to the vases laying on the ground. You can jump from rooftop to rooftop with ease. You 
 can even run up walls like you see in Asain movies which we have all wanted to do.
  
  When you click onto some on the tallest buildings, you will hear the wind rustling and the birds 
 humming and also the dogs in the distance. Some of the most exciting parts of the game have some 
 of the best classical music from a orchestra. The music is great.
  
  Now to the story or should I say two stories. The first story consists of you being the assassin 
 which is confusing and so complex and boring. The second story is of you in modern day. You are 
 a person where these scientists have kidnapped you, and they say your ancestors are assassins in 
 the 12th century. So they say that the story is in your memory. So they log into your memory (which 
 when they do this is the assassin part where you play as an assassin) and want to study and learn 
 of the assassin ways.
  
  You will assassinate nine men throughout the story. But not all of them seem that bad. The story 
 is ended with a state that their will be a sequel which I heard this game is going to be a trilogy.
 
  
  You will start out doing missions like pickpocketing which sounds fun but really isn't. Listening 
 in on a conversation and getting information. Listen on a guy talking and then follow him to the 
 shadows and beat him until he tells you the information you need. Like I said earlier you will 
 start with this the entire game, but you'll end like this also. Like I said earlier. It is SO repetitve. 
 But one good thing is that as the game goes on is that it gets harder because the town people start 
 to recognize you and know who you are and the guards are more aware. So committing these crimes 
 get harder and harder.
  
  The fighting is fun but kinda fake. Say you are fighting multiple enemies you will be actually 
 on fighting one because when your fighting all of the others stand there waiting on you to finish 
 your fight with the other person. Maybe every once in awhile you will have someone from behind 
 you try to get you. The fighting is so easy because if you want to, you can just stand their and 
 press the counter button and kill them instantly which looks pretty cool by stabbing your weapon 
 through them.
  
  Even when you're done with the game you can still have a lot to do. Their are hundreds of flags 
 scattered throughout the entire area (in cities and in between cities) .
  
  This game could take you about 20 hours if you just beat the story but if you want all the extra 
 stuff try about 50 hours. It's a long one.
  
  But overall it's a game to have for your collection and just to tell people you have it and when 
 people ask about it you can say you have beat it and can say it is boring and overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintanger730
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that AC is a pretty good game overall, the movements and climbing seem very fluid, 
 and the graphics are great. 
  
  I'm going to mainly focus on the problems with the game. My first and pretty much biggest complaint 
 is having to walk my horse at a crawl, almost slower than I can walk on foot to get past guards. 
 A mere trot gets you killed, and makes it both annoying and unrealistic to get to places. Sometimes 
 the guards will attack you if you so much as hop on a horse without having the 'blend' button pressed. 
 Another thing is that while the world looks and feels realistic at a glance, it is actually very 
 boring and there isn't much to do at all besides the main quests. You can't enter buildings, there 
 aren't any side quests. It almost feels like if you took a game like oblivion, took out all the 
 doors, side quests, inventory, pretty much everything so that all that was left were a bunch of 
 pretty cities and civilians milling around, and made the player play the same mission 9 times. 
 I know that AC isn't trying to be an RPG but that's what it feels like, an unfinished RPG. The 
 flag quests, templar, viewpoint, and other achievement type quests are a joke 100 flags in one 
 area of the world are you kidding me. Overall, the game lacks things that make a game feel like 
 an assassin game like disguises, poisons, etc. and feels like a very linear and repetitive game 
 dressed to look like a free roam rpg. 
  
  Also, combat is pretty easy, often you can just block until some one try to hit you then go in 
 for the 1 hit counter kill, during which no other enemies will attack you and just watch as your 
 back is facing them while your preoccupied stabbing their friend. Just do this over and over until 
 theres no one left. Also, if you're at a high place the enemies will just keep climbing up the 
 ladder only to get thrown right off the edge, and if they survive, repeat, and will keep doing 
 this till they die, it is very easy to exploit the combat system, basically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh645
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very different game i liked it, but probably wont ever try to beat it again. 
 It was a long game but you just do the same thing over and over again. I will buy the second Assassin's 
 Creed, and hopefully it improves a lot. The ending is what really got me. I mean that was messed 
 up, but at least it left another game to come. Don't get me wrong, because i loved the hidden blade, 
 and stabbing some guard in the neck. That was fun, and i liked just running on the rooftops throwing 
 knives at the archers. The graphics were amazing though, and i don't recall ever having a glitch. 
 It seemed to me that ever town had the same design just moved around and in a different color. 
 Thats fine but it would have been better with a little difference. I thought it was rather easy 
 not much intelligence needed to beat this game. I liked that you could move they camera while they 
 talked, but i would have also liked it if you could skip the conversations. I give Ubisoft major 
 props, they did good. Overall there were goods and bads, but it was buy able.- josh s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFisty
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. The first half of the game is brilliant, the second half is a boring, repetitive 
 slog. You have all of four mission types: eavesdrop, pickpocket, save citizen, and informer (either 
 a flag collection run or kill a few soldiers) and these become predictable and repetitive after 
 the fifth assassination.
  
  The story, although it starts great, becomes so convoluted and wordy by the end, it's both difficult 
 to follow and to really care. There is also no option to skip through the lengthy dialogue if you've 
 had to redo a mission and sit through a cut scene more than once.
  
  Combat starts off as carefully planned stealth assassinations but later become drawn-out sword 
 on sword battle that is overly long and plain ridiculous as you often face off against a ring of 
 12 or more soldier, each waiting patiently to attack you one at a time. In the final levels, you'll 
 be forced to battle wave after wave of enemies, with zero emphasis on stealth, as you mindlessly 
 hammer on the counter-attack button.
  
  The opening level inside the tombs promises so much, and the lavish cities you explore are among 
 the most immersive environments in gaming, but it's all a rude reminder of what could have been 
 as Assassin's Creed becomes victim of boring, repetitive and predictable game design.
  
  It's still worth playing, but you'll have a hard time justifying a second visit. I can only hope 
 any sequels in the series learn from the mistakes made this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game.
  First of all the story is quite complicated for me but for some, it will be an easy one to understand, 
 but by what I've understand, it's really good. In the beginning you have a mission that you got 
 to succeed but you won't and then your boss kills you and gives you another one. Because of this, 
 you'll have to acquire informations and assassinate some persons (Kings, prince, etc...) .
  The graphics are beautiful and the sound is pretty good. But! There is a lot of glitches, graphically 
 and for the sound. The game's environment is so big that the producers must have cut some points 
 in they're, because a perfect game isn't and wont be released for a bit of time (this game was 
 released in 2007 remember and the game that is perfect and th best that I played is maybe my next 
 review) .
  The A. I.'s enemy is well done, but some times a bit moron and that is worth too for the citizens 
 in each cities.
  What is great in the game is that it is not obligated to accomplish every challenges in every cities 
 before you assassinate someone so for those you likes to complete everything its good and also 
 good for those you prefers to finish quickly a game.
  What is an amazing and probably what I prefer about this game is to climb on the giganticness towers 
 and then look at the magnificent view and then jump. AH!!! What an incredible feeling. . . .
  The gameplay is really good and looks like the one that was use for PoP. actually first of all, 
 this game was suppose to be a PoP.
  But the game is repetitive but what you always have to do isn't annoying. Could be for some but 
 not for me.
  So in a few words, this game is really good.
  Go try it!
  Thanks for reading this review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosskinsey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Right lets get the good out of the way the presentation is clean and sharp with some stunning visuals 
 and the missions are quite entertaining
  In playing the game you will enjoy pick pocketing people and murdering people in many different 
 ways which usually involve sharp objects
  
  As for the downside after you have preformed 3 out of the 9 assasinations the game gets really 
 really repetative. I'm not joking by the time you get to the final missions you will feel exhausted 
 and a little borred and wanting for the climactic ending as to what happens to the main characters 
 and thier connection.
  
  Heres the downside it just ends right there and then no explanations as to what happens to Desmond, 
 just a room full of puzzles to which you will have no idea how to solve unless you search the internet.
 
  The game is worth a rental but not a buy the ending will leave you angry and give you a feeling 
 of being used. I understand to leave the game off on a cliffhanger is one thing, but this game 
 just leaves you standing lost, confused and thinking that the developers just decided to put the 
 pencils down and stop work one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent audiovisual presentation; good story; large cities to freely roam around in; 
 combat is a lot of fun; great voice acting; lots of side missions and extras to collect.
  The bad: The enemy AI is sometimes bad; the missions stay the same throughout the entire game; 
 the game has a bad ending
  I wasn't sure what to expect out of Assassin's Creed, but I happened to get it anyway. This is 
 the best game made by Ubisoft to date. This makes me wonder why more games aren't like this. This 
 is a very special game, and anyone likes action adventure games will be more than just impressed 
 with what Assassin's Creed offers.
  The main character you play as is Altair, an assassin assigned to kill nine different targets, 
 each in one of three different cities of the Holy Land: Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre. Each city 
 looks amazing, with tons of detail put into every object. Altair's animations look excellent, though 
 there are small visual glitches where his clothing can go through objects. The way the citizens 
 walk aren't as well done as Altair, but it's forgivable, considering that there are tens of thousands 
 of them. The cities both look and feel alive, and a big plus to that are the size of the cities. 
 The cities are absolutely huge, and there are lots of places to explore around. Simply wandering 
 around the city is easily the best aspect of this game. But the cities aren't the only places you'll 
 be traveling through: you can wander around the countryside where there are small villages, and 
 Masyaf, a large town where Altair is from. Everything in this game looks spectacular.
  
  Adding to the visuals is the audio. All the character's voices are excellent, even though Altair 
 does speak with an American accent. Every other character speaks in an accent that actually sounds 
 like their character should in the game. Not only is the voice acting great, but so is the sound. 
 From the clashing of swords to Altair's cloaks gliding through the air while sprinting down a street, 
 the sound is excellent. The story in this game is Altair is supposed to assassinate nine different 
 targets throughout the cities. Altair will have suspicions on why he has to kill these men, and 
 why they're leading their people in a certain way. The storyline is compelling, but the ending 
 is a bit disappointing. You do play as another character besides Altair, but I don't want to spoil 
 anything. I like the story, plus the audio really makes this game shine.
  
  As Altair, you will be able to explore these giant cities. You can climb up or on just about anything. 
 It's fun to climb to the top of a tower to just see the breathtaking view from above. You have 
 three different weapons: throwing daggers, a sword and your assassination blade. Combat is fun, 
 mainly because Altair's moves look awesome, but also the controls are so well done. There are many 
 guards around, and if you do something like kill a civilian out in public, they'll come after you. 
 There are places to hide, such as a pile of hay, behind curtains on top of a roof or blending in 
 with scholars. You do kind of have a trouble indicator, which blinks yellow when guards sense an 
 assassin in the city or red when they're coming after you. Combat is pretty basic: all you have 
 to do is wait for one of them to attack and do a counterattack. This may seem to get repetitive, 
 but Altair's awesome moves never really get old.
  
  The only really bad about Assassin's Creed is the mission design. Basically there is one assassin's 
 bureau hidden within the city. You go to it, and a comrade tells you three different locations 
 to find information on your target. There are only a few different ways of getting information. 
 One is by sitting on a bench near two men and eavesdropping on them, as they will be talking about 
 your target. Another is by pick pocketing someone for a letter on where your target will be. Another 
 is by waiting for someone to enter a dark alley and beat the information out of them. The last 
 one is finding an informant, who then challenges you to collect a number of flags or killing a 
 few people in a certain amount of time. Once you gather enough information, you find where your 
 target is and watch a short cutscene where your target is arguing with another person about politics. 
 After that, the target retreats back into a secluded place, and this is where you assassinate him. 
 You can either sneak in quietly or burst in and fight everyone. There's nothing wrong with this 
 formula except that it continues for another eight targets, and it gets repetitive. One thing that's 
 frustrating is when you're not paying attention to the locations on informants, you can't get that 
 information back, leaving you searching huge cities for a handful of people. There are also side 
 missions where citizens are being harassed by guards. The game won't actually take you that long 
 to beat, but it definitely is one of the best games of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  It isn't a terrible game okay some great pros would be you can run around the top of buildings 
 your not forced to go places ( like GTA ) and killing people, jumping off cliffs, and throwing 
 a knife at a enemy is really fun ( it also brought a whole new meaning to fingering ) . The story 
 line is also really great but here comes the bad news. There is basically nothing to do once you 
 beat it. Really there is no online ranking or like side missions secret missions or whatever. You 
 can collect all the flags ( kind of hard ) and you can also save all the villagers and crap but 
 other then that crap. It also isn't really that hard I mean all you have to do is press like block 
 as soon as there about to hit you and you kill them which is very easy. Gathering info also can 
 get pretty dull. But again not a bad game. It has beautiful graphics and the fact how it has a 
 GTA feeling really helps it. But a huge mistake was not adding extra things that was the biggest 
 mistake. All in all I will say you should get it but I am not so sure about keeping it unless you 
 want to get all the flags and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's assassins creed Is great! It has a nice story line, gorgeous graphics, and plenty of 
 killing and assassinating to keep you busy for a while. Yes, I know it's repetitive but I don't 
 mind because I always find differn't ways to assassinate the target. It has great controls to help 
 you climb, kill, run away from guards, and find flags. The only problem I have with is the ending 
 because it's confusing... I had no idea what it meant and also there is some minor glitches but 
 that's all. Assassin's Creed Is a great adventure and action game with it's great fighting ability. 
 It will keep you busy for a while in my opinion just if you don't mind the repetition. But None 
 the less Assassin's Creed Is a game that I'd say You should get. But only If You don't mind the 
 repetition If You don't you'll love this gorgeous adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Throughout your first play-through it's pretty fun but you just keep on doing the same damn thing 
 throughout the whole game and it gets really repetitive all you do is pickpocket, eavesdrop and 
 maybe do a challenge then assassinate a guy, rinse wash and repeat. I don't recommend anyone to 
 get this game trust me, the graphics are great and the climbing walls thing is cool but it doesn't 
 make up for the boring story and game play. I regret choosing this game over Uncharted since Uncharted 
 blows this game out of the water. So if anyone is thinking of getting this they should get something 
 like Uncharted instead. 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 
 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 
 100 Words 100 Words 100 Words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john057296
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  He also sees messages that only he can see, scrawled across the floors and walls that refer to 
 the end of the world described by several religions, among other writings; such writings include 
 references to the biblical passage Revelation 22:13 ("I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and 
 the last, the beginning and the end.") , a Lorenz attractor, the Eye of Providence, as well as part 
 of a Mandelbrot set and other writings in foreign languages. Additionally, there is the Mayan date 
 of 13.0.0.0.0-December 21, 2012 AD - the date on which the Templars' "new world" will begin, only 
 three months away within the game's timeline and represents the planned date of the launch of a 
 mysterious satellite the Templars have created, which they claim will "permanently end the war." 
 The Arabic word "Az-Zalzala", literally meaning "The Earthquake" can be seen, which is the title 
 of a chapter in the Qur'an that talks about Judgment Day. Some Nazca Line drawings are also found. 
 There is also a reference to Yonaguni, a Japanese island similar to Atlantis. Also written on the 
 wall of his room are the Hebrew words "Olam Ha-Ba" ( ) , 
 literally meaning "the world to come" and figuratively used to mean the afterlife. If used in the 
 room with the Animus Machine, There are messages written on the ground that can be read by parsing 
 the letters into words, starting with the bottom right letter and moving up, then to the next line 
 left. The message close to the door that Vidic leaves by warns of "artifacts in the skies" and 
 tells Desmond not to help Abstergo. On the opposite side is a shorter message containing "they 
 drained my soul" and "now I drain my body," presumably meaning Subject 16 wrote these messages 
 in blood. Further investigation after the credits reveals an email sent to Vidic by Lucy, stating 
 that the drawings come from a mysterious "Subject 16" who went insane due to what they describe 
 as a "bleeding effect" (essentially, genetic memory assimilation comes to a point where the subject 
 can no longer distinguish between their life and their ancestors' memories) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Halfway through this game, I told one of my friends that this was a must-have game. Having now 
 finished it, I think I might amend my recommendation... The graphics in Assassin's Creed are stunning. 
 It's a truly beautiful game. And the gameplay, while it does have a couple minor issues that can 
 be a little frustrating at times (they always get you at the worst time) , is overall really good. 
 The sword fighting and free running are well designed. This is a game where you really can have 
 just as much fun (and sometimes more fun) running away from your enemies as you can fighting them. 
 It is repetitive, but I think for this game, it really only makes it more realistic...
  
  The game is great right up until the conclusion. At that point, it really lost me. I'm left with 
 the same feeling I had after watching the second Matrix movie. I had such high hopes to start with, 
 but then somebody decided to try to make everything way more complicated than they had to. Instead 
 of a "everyone lived happily ever after" or some other tying up of loose ends, the game ends with 
 more unanswered questions than you even know needed to be asked during the game. They may be setting 
 us up for a sequel, but with an ending like that, I'm curious about whether that will actually 
 be something I would look forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed
  
  In Assassin's Creed, you are part of the assassin brotherhood. You and your partner journey to 
 the city of Jerusalem and into the ruins of Solomon's Temple. There you break every single rule 
 of the Creed.
  
  The assassin master, Al Mualim, has given you an opportunity to redeem yourself. You must assassinate 
 nine dictators to restore your lost status.
  
  The game play is amazing. You can climb everything in the game and there are dozens of handholds 
 everywhere. The combat is simple at first but then you learn new techniques at the training arena. 
 You have your sword, assassination blade, short blade, and your fists to help you in combat.
  
  You have to kill a death dealer, an evil doctor, a slave trader, a merchant, a lord, a dictator, 
 a scholar, a port master, and a Templar named Robert de Sablo. You must journey to the districts 
 of Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem, the cities of the Holy Land. You can get information about your 
 target from eaves dropping, pick pocketing and interrogating.
  
  Finally, you must journey towards the location of your target. Usually your target will harshly 
 beat or kill a person before you can strike. Then you must get back to the bureau. But every time 
 you are seen some music comes on to make the chase more epic.
  
  The three cities of the Holy Land are alive, as well as the crowd. The citizens will react to your 
 every movement and action. The slightest disturbance will trigger the attention of a guard.
  
  Altair is one that sticks in your mind. He is armed with a sword, throwing knives, a dagger, 
 assassination blade, and a crossbow (which you sadly cannot use in the game) . Of course he has 
 fists. He is a small figure and has a white robe so he is different from the other crowds. That 
 is what makes him stand out.
  
  The game is very repetitive. Nothing changes except the content of what the people say, whether 
 you eavesdrop, pick pocket, interrogate, or help an informer. But what makes this fun is that the 
 whole world is open game play, meaning you can achieve your objective however you wish.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a great game. It's not perfect, but it surely is one we will all 
 remember for a few years. There is chases, fights (and I'm talking street fights as well) , climbing, 
 and assassinating. This is a should buy. Not a must buy, but should.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  If your like me, when you first sit down to play this game you'll think your about to play a movie 
 style epic of a game.... but instead you get some stupid sci fi crap, but let's not forget that gameplay 
 is what's the deciding factor. So what's the gameplay? It's decent. Just decent. I mean it's pretty 
 fun... but it's quite hard and the controls aren't really on your side. The voice acting and sound 
 effects are good. However the music is nothing special and the story is screwed up. The missions 
 start off fun and quickly become boring and uninteresting. However the game does look very good. There 
 are some aspects of the game that are fun. Pickpocketing really comes down to luck and the combat 
 comes down to if your fighting more than two people, either run or die. Overall it's okay, but there 
 are much better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most realistic, immersive games that I own but the difficulty of 
 the controls are quite discouraging. The graphics are breathtaking but I tend to take that for 
 granted in the game since I am lost immediately in the story. I know, I should stop and appreciate 
 all the HD goodness but i'm on a mission always. I simply cannot recommend this game for purchase 
 unless you feel comfortable with glitchy controls. I confess to being seconds away from returning 
 the game on more than one occasion. But then the story captured me again. Sadly, I felt more like 
 watching the game than playing it. It was almost like I wanted to pay someone else to play it for 
 me while I record it. 
  
  If you want a challenge, then rent this. If you can handle the rental after a few hours of playing, 
 then buy it and it will be worth your while. But know, you will have to earn it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  What if historians could use our DNA to uncover the secrets of the past? Well that's the premise 
 of one of 2007's most talked about games, Assassin's Creed. While the game was released a while 
 ago, I only recently managed to play the game and wanted to experience what the hype was all about. 
 
  
  Technically you are Desmond Mason, a bartender who is apparently the descendant of a famous Assassin, 
 Altair. it seems that, the events carried out by our ancestors are embedded in our DNA and are 
 passed from generation to generation. An interesting concept, but definitely restrictive, since 
 the moment of conception, that data is stuck, so anything they do afterwards cannot be transferred. 
 Since Altair is essentially a relative of Desmond, he carries some vital information that certain 
 people need. Desmond is 'kidnapped' and agrees to let a doctor (Dr. Vidic) and his assistant (Lucy) 
 to take a 'look' at this information to try to uncover some secrets from the past.
  
  While you are Desmond, you become Altair when you take control of him during these memory blocks. 
 Your goal as Altair, is to complete tasks given to your by your Assassin's Guild. You begin your 
 memories with an unsuccessful mission where you are punished and you must regain your skills. You 
 proceed to take-out important figures and solve the mystery of your environments. As you complete 
 these Assassinations, you regain your skills (similar to every Metroid game) .
  
  The game takes place during the Crusades and all the missions begin with you traveling to one of 
 three Middle Eastern City: Acre, Damascus or Jerusalem. Upon arrival in the city, you must travel 
 to your Assassin Bureau to get your assignment. Once that is given, you'll need to find certain 
 people through the city to get more information. In some cases, you might need to pick-pocket a 
 person. In others, you will need to over-hear a conversation. Once you have enough information, 
 you return to the Bureau, are given permission to take out your target and you execute your man. 
 It is an interesting method, but pretty mundane and you're essentially doing the same routine over 
 and over again. Of the various investigations you need to do, the easiest ones (Pick-Pocketing 
 and Eavesdropping) are the ones you'll do first and since you only need to do three to have permission 
 to assassinate your target, it can make things a bit easy.
  
  While the game 'can' be easy, it's actually quite not, thanks in part to the horrible controls 
 and auto targeting that hamper a large chunk of the game. If you encounter a problem in the game, 
 it will be because of the extremely sensitive controls. Since you need to do a lot of climbing 
 and jumping, the touchy controls can cause you to miss an easy jump, jump to the wrong ledge or 
 have a problem trying to grab a ledge. The controls also pose a problem when attacking, in particular 
 when you have a lot of characters on the screen. You will often encounter groups of 3, 5 or even 
 more guards and it can be problematic trying to target them thanks to the far from perfect auto 
 targeting. If and when you do 'die' (you technically do not die, but you need to restart the memory: 
 it's the past, so the events have already occurred) it will be because of the controls.
  
  The controls do make the game a pain, but thankfully the game looks great in terms of the environments. 
 All the cities look stunning and sometimes you might just want to admire the architecture. The 
 character graphics are good, but at times seem extremely stiff, especially with Lucy and Dr. Vidic. 
 The cut-scenes are done well and look good, but it's a bit of a disappointment that the movements 
 of NPCs are not fluid and realistic. 
  The sound department is nice and fits the time-frame of the game. While the voice-acting is not 
 bad, it's not that good either. You'll get annoyed after hearing the beggar-woman or the random 
 character repeat the same thing over and over again. 
  
  This is a Good game, but because of those pesky controls, be prepared for some challenges along 
 the way, and may turn off most from this game. The premise of the story original and the sandbox 
 options (climbing ledges to synchronize, saving pedestrians, etc) does give the game a lot of 
 longevity. It will take you a good 15-20 hours to complete the game and if you're playing on the 
 360, you'll want to spend the time to find the flags and completing all the tasks to unlock the 
 achievements. I would also recommend playing this game on the 360 over the PS3 for that reason 
 alone. It looks good on both platforms but the collecting and extra tasks are better suited for 
 those looking to improve their GamerScore on the 360. 
  
  It's almost a certainty that there will be a sequel some-time down the road, and if they can fix 
 the extremely sensitive controls and stiff character animations, the series will be absolutely 
 incredible. Until then, try this one out, have some fun, but keep your voice when you want Altair 
 to climb a wall instead of using it to jump off it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gene_Fox_Leader
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of my top favorite games. The controls take a little time to getting use 
 to. Once you've got it down this game is down right fun. I must say that it does take you some 
 amount of time to get your weapons all back. You can easily get in to the main plot of the story, 
 but running around just killing people is one thing that is very fun to do. Which brings me fo 
 the fact that this free play is one of the best. All the things you can do is just amazing. The 
 graphics exceeds that of alot of the games I've played.
  
  The Good:
  Graphics are amazing, sound is of the best quality, plot just keeps you guessing, wonderful escape 
 methods, the best sword fighting I've seen in a while, free play is really fun, multiple ways to 
 kill enemies and targets, massive amount of space and secrets, and a sense of realism.
  
  The Bad:
  Can get a bit annoying trying to finixh your mission, frustrating when trying to get 
 100% compeletion, the massive enviroment gets in the way of getting to your destination, and finally 
 the ending is a real disappointer.
  
  Please it's my first review so don't be too harsh, sorry for the shortness but my time is limited, 
 next time if you see a review from me expect it to be longer because I'm going to write this before 
 I post it, and also this IS NOT for the reeally hardcore gamers whoes life revolves around games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDieNow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game in many ways. The environment and the people habiting it is 
 extraordinary well illustrated with stunning graphics and a realistic appearance. The emotions 
 you get while freerunning across rooftops, climbing high buildings or silently stalking your ignorant 
 victims are each one of a kind. The combat-system is very well developed and suits perfectly with 
 the PS3 controller, it really feels like you're executing every strike yourself (except maybe from 
 the counter-attacks - where Altair performs a random fierce technique automatically when pressing 
 the counter-button) . The storyline is great and holds many intrigues although the patterns gets 
 kind of repetitive after a while, but this is compensated by a massive change in gameplay during 
 the last mission.
  
  Well, even though Assassin's Creed is such a great, unique game it does have some disappointing 
 and irritating flaws. For instance, though graphics are very nice, there are some minor moments 
 where it seems like they didn't quite go all the way (something I find typical for Ubisoft) . One 
 of these moments is when Altair has climbed a high tower and sits on the edge of the lookout while 
 scanning the beautiful area around him. The camera-view rotates around him, and if it wasn't for 
 his robe melting together with the towers edge, this would have been one of the top highlights 
 among game moments so far. It's just a shame that they didn't correct these minor errors, when 
 the rest of the game is so beautiful.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the story gets kind of repetitive since every mission starts with Altair 
 riding out of his hometown to visit the location of his next victim, proceeds with the same number 
 of methods of gathering information and - after the actual killing - ends with returning to his 
 lair once again. This does not pose as a problem during the first play-through but makes it less 
 encouraging to go at it a second time.
  
  Nonetheless, Assassin's Creed is a excellent game and once you've played it through and put it 
 away for awhile, the urge to live the life of Altair the Assassin will return and compel you to 
 experience it several times over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a new game of stealthing type. It is true that it is different from any other 
 stealth games (MGS / SC / etc) , but the new style is great.
  
  Multiple weapons are used starting from swords to hand compacts. You may see that the character 
 has a small knife hidden behind his hand for killing targets. Different swords are also present 
 in this game. Long sword for difficult compact and short one for close ones. 
  
  The game is different from any other games since you play as an assassin player in ancient history. 
 That is no modern weapons are used only classic ones.
  
  Difficulty is not that much easy and I wondring that it does not have any difficulty selection 
 option. Great tutorials are intoduced in it. This helps the player to quicly identify the controls 
 for the game. Game will not started untill you finish the training phase and this great besides 
 it is not a long one.
  
  Graphics of the game is normal in comparsion with other stealth games like Metal Gear Solid. This 
 is becuase you are playing in old ages not the present and hence you may feel that graphics are 
 not that much great. 
  
  Sound effects are great. You can feel everything in the game, even when you are climbing you may 
 hear the sound of it. Sword clashing is very clear. Also, when you are hitted or you are hitting 
 enemies, you noticed that the sound is very clear. Simply great sound effects are introduced.
 
  
  You may get bored at the beginning, but as the game goes on you will like it more and more.
  
 
  I rated this game to be 9 out of 10 since it introduced a new style of stealth games and great 
 sound effects with moderate graphics for old ages.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcjones1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly eye watering stunning with amazing graphics, amazing action sequence, an enveloping 
 story line, nearly perfect body movement and fight scenes were you almost feel like you are in 
 it yourself, feeling the pain as the assassin inflicts it... but yet somehow i was not satisfied 
 with it. 
  
  When i play this game i look around and see amazing detail to the surroundings, and playing it 
 on a huge screen like my HD projector supplies, it complements the footage to near perfection. 
 The Movement of the Assassin is so smooth that it has only ever faltered with me a few times when 
 i have managed to jump off a building roof into the corner of a high wall and he doesn't know what 
 to grab or do, which is reasonable because i shouldn't do it.
  But one movement issue bothers me and that is the movement of the Horse when running and jumping. 
 It seems the designers of the game focused too much on the Assassin and didn't spend enough time 
 on the minor detail of the horse jumping over a fallen down tree. 
  
  The fight scenes, nearly my favorite part of the game (especially if i have had a bad day and need 
 to relieve stress. This still manages to keep its amazing detail, and with all the action that 
 happens it does not lag with the body movement with any of the characters, the blood seems realistic, 
 but still with the sense of being still CGI as it splatters everywhere. The tiny detail of the 
 Blood being on the sword too influences me to knowing that this is an amazing game. But by far 
 my favorite thing in Assassin's Creed is running around, jumping from building roof top to building 
 roof top, flying off a church and landing in a tiny hay wagon ( even though it defies the laws 
 of the human body, because that would obviously kill any living being with that little padding) . 
 
  
  The first time i played Assassin's Creed i was dumb-struck by the graphics, they were just so beautiful 
 and realistic that i couldn't stay away from this game, until of course i reached the end of this 
 thrilling story line.
  
  When i completed this game i was confused with the ending, i know that there shall be a follow 
 up from this game, and that it is a good cliff hanger to lead you onto the next Assassin's Creed 
 to come out, but to me, it seemed a bit pointless. If i was to ever be asked what the best game 
 was that was produced by Ubisoft i would always say Assassin's Creed which replaced my love for 
 Prince of Persia's series (also made by Ubisoft) . This game amazes me, but after playing it for 
 so long and spending hours on it, these minor faults start to annoy you. That is the only thing 
 that does not satisfy me, even more reason for me to look forward to the release of the next Assassin's 
 Creed, as they already have critics tips and will make a game to go down in history as one of the 
 worlds best Games to be released. 
  
  However Amazing Assassin's Creed maybe, however beautiful the graphics maybe, and however good 
 the movements and fight scenes maybe, the story board is well thought out, until you get into the 
 assassins memories when after the 2nd memory, it just becomes extremely repetitive just in another 
 city. So it can seem a bit boing after some time, but still altogether a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  ahhhh.... i love this game... its so fun.. your like spiderman back in time... so prepare your 
 self here we go!....: P
  
  Assassin's Creed is a third-person stealth game in which the player assumes the role of Altar 
 ibn La-Ahad, a member of the Hashshashin (The Assassin Brotherhood) which is not allied to either 
 the Templars or Saracens during the third crusade. Altar's objective in the game is to assassinate 
 nine historical figures propagating the Crusades in the year 1191. (According to Ubisoft developers, 
 all of the main character's targets are historical figures who died or disappeared in 1191, although 
 not necessarily by assassination.)
  
  The primary goal of the game is to carry out the assassinations ordered by the head of the Brotherhood, 
 Al Mualim. To achieve this goal, the player must use stealth and a variety of intelligence gathering 
 tactics to collect information on their target. These tactics include eavesdropping, forceful interrogation, 
 pickpocketing, and completing tasks for informers, fellow assassins who will give you information 
 in exchange for assassinating targets or collecting flags. Additionally, the player may take part 
 in any number of side objectives, including climbing tall towers to map out the city and saving 
 citizens that are being threatened or harassed by the city guards. There are also various side 
 quests that do not advance the plot such as hunting down and killing Templars and flag collecting.
 
  
  The game takes place primarily in the Holy Land. It consists of four main cities: Jerusalem, Acre, 
 Damascus and Masyaf, the assassins' stronghold; all but Masyaf contain three sections that are 
 unlocked over the course of the game. An approximation of the land lying between these areas is 
 present in the game as "The Kingdom." The game's developers claim the environments are all historically 
 accurate. Each city features a highly detailed environment populated by many people of different 
 types, and as the player interacts with his/her environment, the people around Altar respond in 
 logical and predictable ways. For example, when Altar climbs buildings without the use of a ladder, 
 the local citizens pause, gather round the building he is climbing and comment on his unusual behavior, 
 or how they won't help him if he hurts himself. Certain actions, such as harming an innocent can 
 attract the unwanted attention of nearby guards, who may then choose to attack him. Neither Richard 
 the Lionheart's forces, nor Saladin's forces are particularly friendly towards Altar - If he comes 
 into contact with any guards outside the main cities, he will be chased off, no matter which side.
 
  
  The player is made aware of how noticeable Altar is to enemy guards as well as the current state 
 of alert in the local area. To perform many of the assassinations and other tasks, the player must 
 consider the use of both "low profile" and "high profile" commands. "Low profile" commands allow 
 Altar to blend into nearby crowds, gently pass by other citizens, or other non-threatening tasks 
 that can be used to hide and reduce the alertness level. "High profile" commands are more noticeable, 
 and include running, scaling the sides of buildings to climb to higher vantage points, and attacking 
 foes; performing these actions at certain times may raise the local area's awareness level. Once 
 the area is at high alert, the player must use both low profile commands as well as aiming to climb 
 away from ground level or using hiding spaces, such as benches, rooftop gardens, haystacks or by 
 disgusing himself amongst scholars, to reduce the alertness level. The player, as they complete 
 the assigned assassinations, will gain either new weapons or new combat skills including counter-attacks 
 and attack dodges. Besides his fists, Altar's weapons include an assassin's sword for standard 
 combat, a short blade, and throwing knives which are used in conjunction with the short blade. 
 Altar also starts the main storyline with the use of a hidden retractable blade on his left arm 
 that can be used for killing targets at very close quarters without creating any immediate alerts 
 (although, if others come across the body, the alertness level may be raised) . This is the most 
 noticeable difference between low and high profile. A low profile assassination can be performed 
 within as little as a few feet of other guards or soldiers without attracting attention, whereas 
 a high profile assassination attack will be noticed by everyone within eyesight. This becomes difficult 
 as the game progresses, as guards become more attentive for Altar's presence due to his repeated 
 killings. At the starting movie, Altair is seen using a crossbow to stab and shoot guards, but 
 this weapon is never available in the game.
  
  The player's health is described as the level of synchronization between Desmond and Altar's memories; 
 should Altar take damage, some amount of synchronization is lost, and if all synchronization is 
 lost, the current memory that Desmond is experiencing will be restarted at the last checkpoint. 
 When the synchronization bar is full, the player has the additional option to use "eagle vision" 
 which allows the computer-rendered memory to highlight all visible characters in colors corresponding 
 to whether they are friend or foe or even the target of their assassination. Due to Altar's memories 
 being rendered by the computer of the Animus project, the player may experience "glitches" in the 
 rendering of the historical world, which may help the player to identify targets, or can be used 
 to alter the viewpoint during in-game scripted scenes should the player react fast enough when 
 they appear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Incredible: With only a few minor technical glitches, Assassins Creed is at the top of 
 the list in terms of visuals in the open world experience. Every citizen seems different, with 
 their own personalities and differences in culture as you move across the vast holy lands. You 
 almost feel as if you could reach out and touch the crowds of people walking around you. Water, 
 is given just the right shine, and buildings the right texture. The cities are also some of the 
 biggest you will ever see. Most buildings are unique and there are only a couple of repeated models. 
 This game really comes to life in the fight sequences, where onlooking guards will cower after 
 a successful battle. 
  10/10
  
  Sound: Good. Expansive worlds allow for impressive sound exhibits. Sometimes, though - different 
 people say very different things. For example, a town preacher will say the same things repeated 
 when you walk by him twice, but nonetheless the experience is very impressive. 
  8.5/10
  
  Controls: Sharp, and incorporated into a great fight system that isn't comprised of the expected 
 button mashing. You literally have to time your moves in order to successfully win a fight. Also, 
 jumping across buildings is an absolute thrill. 
  10/10
  
  Gameplay/Missions: though, they can be a bit repetitive, (i. e. "save citizen" missions) , they reveal 
 a great (almost) historically correct story line. 
  9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_octo
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first review, here goes:
  
  Graphics: Okay, so they're quite pretty, but then again, some of the textures looks crazy, and 
 the graphical glitches are just poor- textures disappearing, people phasing through walls, corpses 
 flapping around. The little touches are nice though, like when you smash a pot, or jump through 
 hay etc. Overall, 7.5/10
  
  Music: I didn't really notice the music, but here, I think that's a good thing. Its not to intrusive, 
 and seems up to the job. But, I can't remember notes from any of the tunes at all, so its not particularly 
 brilliant either. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Here's the thing. I like aspects of this game, but others I despise. Lets start with 
 the nice stuff first. The Free running idea is very nice, and I love being able to explore the 
 whole city: it doesn't make going back to the same place 3 times that dull. Planning the assassinations 
 is cool as well, running to the location, finding a place, waiting and then striking. However, 
 the gameplay is so stale by the second time in each city. You pickpocket someone, help a few wimpy 
 citizens, listen to people's conversations and then rub out the big bad. This happens every time, 
 every city, even in the open kingdom. In the latter parts, its spiced up, with a few informers, 
 who just want you to pick up some flags for them really quickly: gah, can no one in the Holy land 
 do anything themselves? The combat, on the other hand, is never similar, as the AI are totally 
 unpredictable. Will they all just line and and take it, or will they hurl themselves off of the 
 building your fighting on. Archers are more useful to you then the guards, as they kill more of 
 the them then you do! The combat is based entirely round the [] button: you can also just wait 
 for them to attack you and parry it away. However, this is where the game revels its true feelings. 
 When you parry, the little video you get is picked by the computer. This means, that during, say 
 a boss battle, you'll get only the non lethal counters, meaning you have to hack them to death 
 while they get up. Better still, The timing is so unpredictable that a parry often just turns into 
 you flailing a blade at the enemy. Oh, and who chose to include the beggar women? They drive me 
 to murder. Gah! The selective nature of the guards, beggars and crazies is brilliant: they home 
 in perfectly on Altair, following you down the street or shoving you. Its like the creators wanted 
 you to go on a murderous rampage. Okay, rant over, overall, I;'d give the gameplay a 6.5/10
  
  Controls: Okay, these are a bit unwieldy. Whoever thought it was a bright idea to have context 
 sensitive buttons that you have to hold, even for basic commands such as run? Simply running requires 
 that you hold R1, X and press L stick. Swinging a sword while riding a galloping horse means you 
 have to hold R1, X, [ ] and Press L3. I'm sure they could have made it easier. Use the analogue 
 sticks more maybe. Gently pressing L3 makes you walk, fully pressed makes you run, or is that too 
 simply? Oh, and less a complaint, more a question: can you control who you lock onto? The game 
 just picks a random dude for you to pick on, making things like throwing knifing guards fraught 
 with danger, as you are more likely to target a civilian with knives than a guard. Again, using 
 the sticks to switch targets, or not having to target someone just to parry would have been fine. 
 I'm giving the controls 6.5/10
  
  Overall, if you can get the game cheap, as in 20 or less go for it. It has beautiful scenery, 
 and the feeling of having the whole city at your feet is amazing. However, at the same time, the 
 game feels shoddy and cheap, as though its trying to make you hate it. Plus, its much more complicated 
 than it needs to be, without adding anything to the gameplay. Overall, I give it a 7/10, just. 
 Thanks for letting me rant a little! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcasanova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  The game is very addictive, appart from finding all your kill targets and achieve the missions 
 to locate them you will be searching for hidden flags and templars.
  
  Finding all the hidden flags was very difficult for me and had to consult the maps at http://www. assassinscreed-maps. com/Maps. htm
 
  
  It would have been easier if the developers had made available an unlockable feature that shows 
 you where the flags are.
  
  Apart from that, the game is amazingly fun and beautifully rendered.
  
  I'm not giving Assassin's 
 Creed a 10 only for the fact that the ending left me with the sensation a sequel is really necessary 
 to finish the story. It feels as if you were just playing the begining of a very long story. Some 
 dialogs tend to be 
  long and tedious apart from confusing for non native-english speakers like myself. That could be 
 corrected with subtitles and the option to skip dialogs you have already seen.
  
  I'll sure be waiting to play more if Ubisoft releases a sequel (hope it takes place in Mayan or 
 Japanese ancient cities) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_rotor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  While theres no denying the first hour or so will blow your mind. Youll quickly discover that youve 
 pretty much figured out everything you need to know about the game. I appreciate the effort in 
 a new and different scenario for the gameplay navigation, but its non linear approach can sometimes 
 be confusing, and the check points and cut scenes during assasinations can downright piss you off.
 
  
  I wont lie, the game is beautiful. Everything from the scenery to the backgrounds, to the cracks 
 in the street. However, the lack of cinematic cutscences makes the briefings not only laborious, 
 but just plain boring. Also, a little diversity among the missions would be nice. It seems like 
 the whole time, you go here, kill this guy, come back. All the while, some odd, separate story 
 line 1000 years in the future is taking place. Lets be honest with ourselves. No one wanting to 
 take out knights during the crusades wants some dumb, sci fi backstory, especially one that seems 
 so poorly thrown together.
  
  Ubisoft, my hat is off to you for trying to be original. But next time, keep the gamer in mind. 
 Im stunned that this game got good reviews, especially that it bested EPIC title Heavenly Sword. 
 Maybe my experience was ruined by playing this after a masterpiece such as MGS4, but I think not.
 
  
  I can only hope that Ubisoft wont flop so bad with Prince of Persia and come up with a decent story 
 line. Gaming isnt all about looking good, its first and foremost gameplay, followed by story, followed 
 by aesthetics. 
  
  Assasin's Creed was truly a masterpiece in the making, but it seems like it was rushed, or that 
 the budget was abruptly cut short. Next time, partner with sony and do an exclusive, im sure the 
 result will be better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Themain fable of Assassin's Creed takes place in early September of 2012; Desmond Miles, a bartender, 
 has been abducted by the imaginary company Abstergo Industries in order to be used as a investigation 
 subject in the "Animus" , a device that can stimulate the recall of ancestral memories buried in 
 the user's DNA. Abstergo has Desmond use the device to recall the role of Altair ibn La-Ahad, one 
 of Desmond's ancestors, in the "Assassin Brotherhood" during 1191 as part of the Third Crusade 
 in the Holy Land. The character and his clan are based on a true military faction, called Hashshashin, 
 the idea for it coming from Bartol's novel Alamut. Desmond at first has trouble adjusting to the 
 device, but eventually is able to relive Altair's exploits over the next several days. Much of 
 the core game is then presented from Altair's point-of-view as seen by Desmond, though at times 
 interrupted by bugs resulting from the Animus.
  
  
  
  Assassin'sCreed is a third-person stealth game developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by 
 Ubisoft in which the player assumes the role of Altair . The main goal of the game is to carry 
 out a series of assassinations ordered by Al Mualim. To accomplish this goal, you must travel from 
 the Brotherhood's headquarters in Masyaf, across the territory of the Holy Land known as the Kingdom 
 to one of three cities, Jerusalem, Acre, or Damascus, to find the Brotherhood agent in that city. 
 There, the agent, in addition to given a safe house, gives the player minimal wisdom about the 
 objective, and requires them to execute supplemental knowledge gathering tasks prior to attempting 
 the assassination. These tasks include pick pocketing, eavesdropping, interrogation, and accomplishing 
 tasks for informers and fellow assassins. Also, you can take part in any number of side objectives, 
 including ascending tall towers to map out the city, and saving citizens who are being intimidated 
 or strained by the city guards. There are also various side investigations that do not advance 
 the plot such as killing Templars and collecting flags. After completing each set of assassinations, 
 you return to the Brotherhood and rewarded with a better weapon and then given another set of targets, 
 being free to select the order of the targets.
  
  
  
  To execute many of the assassinations and other missions, you must ponder the use of commands distinguished 
 by its type of profile. Low profile commands allow Altair to mix into crowds, kindly pass by other 
 citizens, or other non-threatening tasks that can be used to hide and reduce the alertness level; 
 you can also use Altair's retractable blade to attempt low profile assassinations. High profile 
 commands are further noticeable, and include running, climbing the sides of structures to rise 
 to higher advantage points, and attacking enemies; executing these actions at particular times 
 may lift the local area's recognition level. Once the area is at high alert, the crowds will run 
 and spread while guards will attempt to pursuit and bring down Altair; in order to reduce the alert 
 level, you must control Altair as to break the guards' line of vision and then find a cover space 
 such as a rooftop garden or haystack, or mix in with the citizens or scholars.
  
  
  
  The game has grand visuals. The sense of depth is the best I have seen so far in a videogame, with 
 the ever-present feeling that each person has a life of its own reacting in its own way to various 
 actions that are being created by you during the game. Small and occasional bugs and glitches are 
 present in the game, but not in any way affect the gameplay experience. The textures are phenomenal, 
 and the level of detail makes this game really revolutionary. You recognize you're watching at a 
 vastly gifted graphical display when you continually smile in perplexity, regardless of your location 
 in this colossal and global world. Whether you're on the city streets, working your way throughout 
 the multitude or balanced high at a View Point, the majesty of your environment rarely disappoints.
 
  
  
  
  Unluckily, while the graphics set the stage for a truly phenomenal and visceral adventure, the 
 sound doesn't display the same degree of amazing quality. The sound effects are extraordinary throughout; 
 from the hawkers on the streets to the calls of alarmed citizens to the shouts of guards. All of 
 that sounds wonderful, but the balance is a bit off. For example, after saving a citizen from a 
 group of wild guards, you frequently won't be able to hear what he or she says in thanks, primarily 
 because the encircling noise of dying soldiers and freaked-out civilians overrides the speech. 
 Now, this may be practical, but it's still disappointing. The soundtrack works well and is the 
 most coherent aspect of this category, as the music captures Assassins Creed's feel nicely. Perhaps 
 best of all, Ubisoft doesn't make the mistake of giving us an overbearing set of tracks; the music 
 never breaks the tension or stress of the moment, it only increases the atmosphere. It's just too 
 bad the effects lack balance and fine-tuning.
  
  
  
  Assassins Creed is a brilliant game that offers a unique and very rewarding experience. The finale 
 leaves the possibility of a sequel. The game does lack multiplayer, which would have been a great 
 addition to an excellent single player campaign. Longevity is high, but not at the expense of great 
 fun. It is a milestone in videogames, but then lost to a limitation of actions, lack of interactivity 
 in general and problems with artificial intelligence. This game is worth having in the collection, 
 but it could have been better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkhawaji
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  i like this game a lot .. it was one of kind .. but in the middle of the game i start to feel boring 
 because the mission become the same all the way .. maybe the assassination way is different from 
 character to another .. but that's what i felt about it.. it's great game with wonderful view and 
 graphic and the style of the fighting is really good with all the enemies hits you ..
  I think i like the game because it's reminds me about an era i know it form our school books of 
 history about Assassin's Creed and the role of the Cult in the History of Middle East and Islam 
 Religion which it's my Religion .. and my specialist in college study was "Philosophies and Creeds" 
 .. so i see a good background search in the game with some mistake the west study always do when 
 they write something about Ismailia Creed and their warriors The Assassins. 
  in the end the game is really fun with the hook of the second part I'm waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistofreality
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game is filled to the brim with incredible, immersive visuals. The story-line is both unique 
 and compelling. The game play is nothing short of fantasy-realization of a very high caliber.
 
  
  The problem is that this is, after all, a game and not an exercise in interactive artistry.
  
 
  While gallivanting through fantastic city-scapes, engaging in outrageous swordplay, and, yes, killing 
 people in cold blood are a lot of fun, any game holds little worth without challenge, and Assassin's 
 Creed unfortunately delivers little of this critical element after one gets accustomed to the perhaps-too-intuitive 
 control mechanics. I am not, generally speaking, particularly proficient at action-adventure games, 
 but even before unlocking many of the main character's abilities, I found that I was able to fend 
 off hoards of attacking guards, slaughtering anyone and everyone at my whim until whoever was left 
 standing tucked tail and ran away. Even the critical, story-driving kills were mediocre in performance, 
 serving as additional repetition of the same button-presses to deliver death and dismemberment.
 
  
  True, the game offers upgrades and collectibles in a feeble attempt to reward a player for success, 
 but that leaves one with little more than an intensely graphic scavenger hunt for odd flags precariously 
 placed around a city. I'll check out a sequel, for sure, or similarly-themed games from this studio, 
 in the hope that this particular division of Ubisoft comes to understand that a great game is more 
 than just pretty architecture and unbridled blood-lust. In the mean time, I imagine that this game 
 will be collecting dust on the shelves of even its most ardent fans as soon as they realize that 
 the last blade to the skull was just like the countless others: in the end, unsatisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First Of All.. I heard About Assassin's Creed A year before It's Release... I first Thought It was 
 An Online Game: D!! LOL... anyways.. I saw people very Fond Of this Game... And I've Known That It's 
 a Historic Action Adventure Game.. and Of Course Action Games.. IS MY THING!!! and the most kind 
 Of games I'm good at.. and I finished over 70 Action games ALONE... I had the PS1 (Which I had ENDLESS 
 GAMES ON IT!!! Most of em are Action games Generally) .. and The PS2.. But Sadly I dont Have A Ps3.. But 
 My cousin Has One.. And I've Convinced Him To buy the game.. and he did (though He's not an Action 
 game Fan.. he likes.. mostly RPGs and FPS..) .. first Of all.. I was Kinda Shocked That The Game's Storyline.. about 
 being in the future and all.. and using The Animus To go back in time and play As Altair.. I kinda 
 Preferred It like Prince Of Persia.. and no future!!.. also.. I liked The Game's idea.. being Stealthy 
 and all.. and though the combat system Isn't fluid much.. but i liked Altair moves with The Crusade 
 Soldiers... and there was a bit repetitiveness In The missions And all.. that u must do the same 
 thing all over again to know where is ur target.. u have to eavesdrop.. Pickpocket.. and even force 
 a person to speak by punching him and stuff.. But the Environments.. one word.. A-W-E-S-O-M-E!! the 
 environments are increadable.. sharp graphics.. beautiful atmosphere and places.. what can u expect 
 from a company that Created The Prince OF Persia Series.. Tom Clancy.. AND RAINBOW SIX VEGAS!!?!
 
  
  
  Closure: Assassin's Proved To be A Unique Peace Of Art.. with Great storyline.. Atmosphere And engine... It 
 will be an Unforgettable Game For a Long.. LONG TIME.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  The along awaited assassins creed is here and does it live up to the hype? In some ways yes and 
 in some no. It is a beautiful game and the controls are awesome it just feels so smooth. But gameplay 
 gets a little repetitive and can get boring unless you find ways to make it fun. But this game 
 is definitely worth playing.
  
  Graphics: When i put this game in I was blown away. By far some of the best graphics on any console. 
 Buildings look extremely detailed. Huge cities and great views from top of view points. Very beautiful 
 game.
  
  Gameplay: It has the basic mission gameplay, but it is also a free roam game too so you have control 
 on where you go. The sword fighting is very fun and easy to get a hang of. Running and jumping 
 across buildings is very fun and like i said with the controls works very smoothly. But with the 
 missions, it just seems like every mission involves the same things. There is about 3 different 
 things you do before assassinating your target. Things like sitting on a bench and listening to 
 a conversation from a distance. Another is you walk behind someone that has info on the whereabouts 
 of your target and you pickpocket them. Another is you follow a person into a secluded place and 
 beat them into telling you about your target. Then of course last you go and assassinate them. 
 But even though it does get repetitive doing this you can change it up and do it ways that is fun.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is very good in this game. The footsteps sound really good. I know thats a weird 
 thing to say sounds good but, they just sound really good and accurate to real footsteps and the 
 horse's too when it is running and walking. The swords sound really cool when they collide together 
 in battle and just overall the sound of the game is top notch.
  
  Controls: Not much to say. Only that they are Awesome!
  
  Replay value: Moderately High
  
 
  Overall Score: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game wasn't even on my radar when it came out. Sure I had heard a lot 
 about it, but I thought "Hey why should I bother?" As it got closer and closer to release I studied 
 it more and more every day. Then when it release I said "heck I got 59.99 to spend what the hey!" 
 Have not regretted that decision yet. Save for the ending it was a great game, but ill get to that 
 later.
  Let's start with the story: You are a guy who has been trapped by a scientist for some data trapped 
 in your DNA. You ancestor named Altair was an assassin and hold memories to some greater power. 
 Seems funny, but turns out it works well. You play most of the game a s Altair and in between missions 
 you go back to the regular guy whose name I cant remember LOL. There is a few interactions between 
 him , the Doctor studying him, and the Doc's female assistant, but from what I say nothing too 
 significant. 
  
  The Game play: This game shines tremendously in this area to say the least. Although redundant 
 at times it is a great premise to play by. You can scale, scale, jump, climb, and otherwise interact 
 with a lot of the background area. You can move through crowds of people which is fun in its self. 
 The way you move and control you character all become second nature. You can kill with relative 
 ease and I love his hidden arm blade. You can meld in with scholars or priest after you strike 
 making you undetectable to enemies If done right. At times though it works almost well as idiotic 
 guards will over look you or other times wont work at all when you think your clear they still 
 get you. There are those times when you will have to figure out how to lure guards away by killing 
 others or distracting them. There are segments where you horseback ride which are great. Even though 
 my horse riding is limited it really feels as though you are riding a horse in the game. There 
 are also towers spread throughout the country side which you climb to get a view of your surroundings. 
 This is breathtaking to say the least and is never over done and seems to fit in with your purpose. 
 If this game engine was applied to a super hero Say like Bat Man or Spider man that game would 
 sell millions.
  Moving onto sound: The sound is also great and the voices are average except for Altair who sounds 
 so robotic and has no convictions at all. The sword clashes and idol chatter from towns people 
 are welcome. The cut scenes aren't over the top and fit with in context for the most part. This 
 is one of those games where you could use in game music as I don't remember too much music during 
 missions.
  The Graphic are excellent with little to no clipping. The number of people supported on screen 
 never seem to overwhelm things. The fights that take place seem greatly motion captured and believable. 
 The movements of Altair himself are great as he can work his way through a crowd slightly touching 
 people he passes by. Character detail is great in every single person. Although there are tons 
 of townspeople and NPCs that have twins all over. Things like riding a horse, scaling, jumping, 
 and sword play are all well animated. Overall great job in this department.
  This game gas many redeemable qualities and is good for replay ability, but it is missing some 
 things that make it a must own title. The story is a little convoluted and at times makes little 
 sense. You had better be good with directions as when needing to go to another city things are 
 vague at times. The ending lets not talk about that. Things come to an abrupt stop after some confusing 
 story elements too. The game tries to teach a lesson, but waste time to me by trying to do so. 
 If I had to say an overall statement about this game is its worth a play through just for the game 
 play. That's it for me PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodfod12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed puts you in control of Altair, an assassin in the 12th century. The game is enjoyable, 
 although one major drawback is the fact that it's over really soon. The story centres around Desmond, 
 a man who is using a machine called the Animus to explore his ancestors' memories.
  
  Visually, Assassin's Creed is quite good. While not technically the best, they aren't bad graphics, 
 and most of the textures look fine. The character model of Altair is brilliant, although this comes 
 at a cost, as many of the civilian/guard character models are bland, and every now and then you 
 come across someone you're sure you've seen before. 
  
  Assassin's Creed's gameplay is amazing. The controls are easily accessible to beginners, but they 
 don't sacrifice depth either. As you progress through the storyline, you gain more weapons and 
 skills, and until you get these, combat can be quite repetitive and boring - you're doing the same 
 thing over and over again. 
  
  The story is quite good, with a few interesting plot twists, although it is really short. The transition 
 between cutscene and gameplay works amazingly well, and it changes quickly and smoothly into actual 
 gameplay, and while this seems like a good thing at first, it can catch you off guard sometimes 
 - it's best to always be on your toes and ready. 
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a great game that shouldn't be missed by any Action Adventure fans, 
 provided you can look past its pitiful length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed received much hype pending release, many thanks I believe, to the forever smiling 
 producer Jade Raymond.
  
  But is it really all she said it would be?...
  
  Well, yes and no.
  Sure, the game looks stunning to play graphically, and the animations of each 
 character including Altair, the games main character who you spend the majority of the game as.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise however, its quite a shallow pool. Once you've got to grips with the basics; fighting, 
 sneaking, blending, running and climbing, you'll carry out side-missions to obtain information 
 about your next target, of which there are 9 in total. This is where dja v kicks in.
  
  You sit and eavesdrop into conversations to obtain info, move on and beat someone up to get more 
 info, then one more task to get your 3rd piece of information. There on, you return to the Assassins 
 Bureau to tell of your travels within whichever city you happen to be in. Then is off to kill your 
 target... kill him... run away... escape... return to bureau... lather, rinse, repeat.
  
  It's all very much... well, let me rephrase that. It's ALL the same, every assassination. The build 
 up is the same, every side mission is the same.
  
  It's a shame really, since this could really have been better, and potentially amazing.
  
  
 But wait! Do not be down-heartened, all the above said, Assassins Creed is still very enjoyable 
 to play in bursts, just not hours as a time... unless you like completing games in a day!
  
  Overall, the game is a hit and a miss really. I personally enjoyed it, while it lasted. The ending 
 is very odd indeed, and that's all I'm saying about it!
  
  Assassins Creed; you'll either love it, or hate it.
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naz_k
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  it is always refreshing to see new ideas coming up in the gaming world.
  the amazing interest in details all around the "kingdom" and the cities themselves is just astonishing,
 
  
  it was a pure pleasure being able to control "al-taer" all around the city climbing every wall 
 and jumping from rooftop to rooftop and using every detail you could see which is something i havent 
 seen in other games before.
  
  the story line was quite impressive regardless of the political message within.
  
  this game 
 could have been perfect if it wasnt for the boring repitition of the same tasks given for al taer 
 in each city.
  it would have reached the required level if it had some twists and turns in it instead of the routine 
 given!
  
  however it is a fun to play game and i am waiting for the sequel which i hope will be better avoiding 
 the mistakes in this first part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Well Assassin's Creed is a very creative game. You are an in the future and through a special machine 
 you go back and relive your past life to help these people who are holding hostage. Now in this 
 past you go back to your past life where you are an Assassin. You in your past life had to Assassinate 
 9 different people for the leader of your secret clan you are in. The thing I love about the Assassin 
 you are playing in this game (Altair) is how agile he is and how is able to scale ever singe building 
 in the game. That's part of the fun in this game scaling buildings as an Assassin. You have to 
 do this in order further your progress in your way through this game. Scaling buildings unlocks 
 parts of the cities for missions you have to do in order to prepare you to assassinate your targets. 
 You only have to do three missions in order to assassinate each of the bosses in the game but there 
 is a maximum of 6 total missions you can do if you like before you get to the bosses. The only 
 problem with this is the pre missions are basically done in the same way but it's with different 
 people at each pre mission. The boss fights are where the real fun is for me. With each boss fight 
 you have a different way of how the boss fights turn out. Sometimes it will be just one X on the 
 map so it will be easy to identify the boss other times you have to search for the right person 
 to kill. Sometimes the bosses are stationery sometimes they run it really makes things fun when 
 they run. I love how Altair kills the bosses. The combat is pretty good but it could be a little 
 bit better. I loved the story behind: the game until the end anyway. I loved to hear the guys preaching 
 on the streets it really made the game interesting. I recommend that everyone try this game as 
 it is a really entertaining experience. It can be repetitive but hey most games are so no real 
 problem there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  A couple of months before assassins creed was released, i felt like the most excited person on 
 the planet! I was expecting the best game ever. I was wrong. Not completely wrong, but wrong. Its 
 a great game, but it becomes a bit too repetitive. All the missions are the same: go gather info, 
 go find the guy, assassinate him, bring back the feather with the victims blood on it, and repeat. 
 It might sound bad from that alone, but it really isnt. Doing all these things is actually very 
 fun. Running and jumping over rooftops, climbing EVERYTHING, literaly, its great! Also assassinating 
 and stealth assassinating people with your hidden blade a hell of a lot of fun, and never gets 
 old.
  
  The PS3 version though, freezes at times, because the game cannot process the speed of the gameplay 
 when the player is sprinting. It is a really good game, yet repetative, with some bugs, but still 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ah what to say about Assassin's Creed well it is a beautiful experiance that will never be forgotten. But 
 although in my top 5 games ever, it still has some bugs and it gets very repetitive to SOME but 
 to me every kill was unforgettable. It is so satisfying to chop and break somebodys arm then slice 
 there back. And all the boss assassination's are very fun to try and do it like a real assassin 
 although I rarely could do that I just killed everybody but when you assassinate them it makes 
 you go"Wow that freaking ruled!"And with the epic story it just gets better and better. The story 
 sucks you in to the point where you are like what will happen next? And you keep thinking that for 
 a while untill it ends but you are still thinking the same thing and I'm near 100% we'll get a 
 answer. The graphics are superb and as of what I've seen there is no frame rate drops that I've 
 saw. The controls are silky smooth.... well not really because when you are jumping from building 
 to building and so on and so on you will run into moments where you will miss what you are jumping 
 on and it's just extremely frusterating. But my main hate in this game is the drunk hobo people 
 that push you every time you walk by them and when you hit a guard although they should attack 
 the drunks they attack you. Also sometimes I'll just be running and the guards will chase me. One 
 thing people complained about was the realism, the realism is low because you can take on loads 
 and loads of people at once. I said the controls were smooth but that doesn't work when I'm talking 
 about riding the horse'es because you can run into a wall and get off and your horse just sits 
 there making the noice that horse'es make and it is tough to get back on them and if you are being 
 chased by some people in one of the small city's on the way to the bigger city's the horse can 
 get stuck in little areas and your screwed. And also when you are going to the big city's at the 
 begining you can't just skip to the place you have to ride a horse there and that is one of the 
 most frusterating things to do in the game.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:~~None~~
  
  
  
  Re-play Value: I usally bash games that have no multiplayer when it comes to replay value, but I 
 honestly think 5 weeks after you beat Assassin's Creed you'll want to play it again. Not for the 
 great story but to do those greatly satisfying assassinations. And killing people with swords is 
 always fun.:) And maybe you didn't understand something in the story so you might want to re-play 
 it again make a excuse.
  
  
  
  End It!: All in all this game is a buy. From the epic storyline to some amazing kills and I didn't 
 mention this but it has some nice voice actors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is not a game you will see everyday or get every year. It is one-of-a-kind classic. 
 An immersive game never-to-be-missed regardless of the platform. So many things you'll love about 
 it. Yet, to admit, it overdoes redundancy. Every memory block is the same of four things: Pickpocket, 
 eavesdrop, informer, and meeting the head of the Assassination bureau.
  
  To start off, the most impressive part about the game is the epic storyline. (No not the visuals) 
 The story is very well connected and is very very deep. Enjoyable it is. I don't want to mention 
 too much particularly in this section so I wouldn't really bring about any spoilers.
  
  One of the things that really stand out in the game are the visuals. The graphics are very good-looking. 
 It has some of the most amazing and most perfected lighting and shadowing effects. There are details 
 of Arabic engraved on mosques and other landmarks that you'll really find appealing. Yet I have 
 to say, there are some really noticeable blemishes. But, majority wins, and I have to say, the 
 majority here is beautiful.
  
  The gameplay is one that is very immersive and innovate but overly repetitive. At the first three 
 memory blocks and half way into the fourth, every thing looks and feels so amazing and hypnotising. 
 It sucks you in and drags you with it in ways you cannot imagine. Yet, soon, repetitiveness ruins 
 it all. I have to say, that is the only reason I didn't give it a perfect score of 10. Truly disappointing. 
 It could have had a lot more and could have certainly been loads deeper and even more adventurous. 
 Yet, despite this major flaw, I still say the game is 100% worth buying even now. 
  ------------------------------------------------------
  
  GameSpot Score: 9 / 10 (Editor's 
 Choice)
  My score: 9 / 10 (Recommend it for purchase) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartheijt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Gamespotmembers,
  
  First I am going to tell you somthing about the graphics than the gamesplay than the music and 
 than somthing about the game. 
  
  The graphics look really stunning in the game. The openworld is verry detailed. Water looks really 
 nice. the shadows are also nice and sharp. Sometimes there is an cloud for the sun and than everything 
 is darker. Al the buildings are nicely detailed. because you can climb on every building they has 
 to be detailed. The people on the streets look quite real. They are not as detailed as yourself 
 in the game but it is not explicit notable/annoying. It is the land between the city's I dislike. 
 The land is not as detailed as the city's and the don't feel "alive". In the city you get the feeling 
 that it all is real, and that people really could live there. Over all city's there is an filter. 
 One City has a Blue filter so everything looks cold and cheerless. An other city has a red filter 
 so everything looks hot and cheerfull. I liked the red filter the most. But it has been much nicer 
 when they desided to put the filters on depending on the weather. As an example: If it rains there 
 has to be a blue filter, if the sun is shining there has to be a yellow/ red filter. If they did 
 this, the game was more realistic than it is now. there is one thing more: I miss the night. It 
 is always day in this game. Than we have the player movements. They look really stunning. The jumps 
 and the fight moves look really nice. The character is quite nice detailed. 
  
  The gameplay is quite nice. All buttons on your controller feel just right. The fighting is ok, 
 the moves are quite nice, but sometimes they are all the same. But I think the gameplay is a bit 
 easy. As an example the "freerunning/parcour" part: I can perform the nicest freerunning you have 
 ever seen by only holding the X Button down and a steer in the good direction. Everyone can do 
 that. It would have been nicer if it was more interactive. If you want to jump you have to push 
 the X button, and if you want to grab an edge you push the O button as an example. It is than much 
 more dificult to get away if they discover you have killed someone and I think it gives you a much 
 greater kick if you escape and evade the soldiers. 
  
  The Music is not so stunning. don't expect much of it. It does gives that extra tension in a fight 
 but the music is always the same. The sound of the fighting is ok. The sound of the city is Good. 
 With the sound of the city I mean the street noises. You can hear people begging and try to sell 
 items at their shop. This gives you the feeling that the invironment is real as it is a real city. 
 If you are on a building the street noise is much more gentle. really well done!
  
  Now I'm going to tell you somthing about the game. At first the storyline is short. I have beat 
 the game in no time. Than the story. The storyline could be nice, the idea is there, but in my 
 opinion they f*cked it up badly. Sorry for my language but I mean it, really. Every kill assignment 
 is moreover the same: The one you have to kill is in that city, go there, and kill him. There is 
 not much variation in that. I thought Ubisoft, Splintercell --  Assasin's Creed. There will be 
 a fiew stealth missions for example at night, but no just killing people when it is light. than 
 If you have beat the game you can do some small minimisions. Help the citizens and collect the 
 flags, quite boring. In the open world is besides collecting flags nothing to do. For example if 
 you beat GTA you can steal some cars and drive around and make rampages and do some amazing stuntbonus 
 jumps. That is real fun. You can play GTA for ages altough you have beat the game. But in Assasin's 
 Creed you can't steal cars and killing people is also not much fun as in GTA. So.....
  
  It could have been THE game, but it ended up as an midrange JUST game. The game must have it from 
 its graphics. The graphics are really good. storyline is not great and a bit short, the music is 
 average and the gameplay is a bit easy, but the controls feels right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarxPhil
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is visually impressive but lacks in gameplay. When the game was first showed at 
 E3 it looked stunning but when the game came out it got old quick. I think that game looks great 
 but lacks ALOT in gameplay. You pretty much just run around doing the same thing over and over. 
 The games controls need some getting use to, but after a while you will get a hang of it. It's 
 to bad that after you get a hang of it the game just goes down hill from there. Overall i would 
 sell this game if you have bought it, But Assassins creed does make a good rent. But other then 
 that it just shouldn't even be played. overall if you are thinking abut getting this game and want 
 to have fun for a long time. Then i suggest you get a different game like MGS4 or GTA 4. This game 
 is just broken and bland at best. If you are looking for a Assassin game i would say for you to 
 try Hitman. It is a way more satisfying game. Overall i say a big no to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKhan00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  ********************WARNING: SPOILER 
  
  
  I have to say... AC was a good game. A "superb" game, if you will.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Without 
 a doubt, the game has an amazing story that mixes real history, with fiction. (Im sort of a medieval 
 history buff so i understood A LOT) The game takes place in 1191 AD during the Third Crusade and 
 September 2012 (Present day) . The game has you in control of Desmond Miles, an Arabic bartender 
 who is the ancestor of the legendary assassin Altar ibn La-Ahad (rough translation to English="The 
 Flying One, Son of None,   
  ) , a member of the Hashshashin (translation to English="The 
 Assassin Brotherhood") . You serve the Brotherhood's leader Al Mualim. He asks you to kill 9 leading 
 members of the Order of the Knights Templar (in the beginning you have no idea they are member 
 of the order) who all know the location of the Piece of Eden, a powerful weapon that can be used 
 to control the and memories of humans, sort of like mass hypnosis. Al Mualim (who is also a member 
 of the Templars) is using you to find the location so he can use it for himself and conquer the 
 Middle East. When he locates it, he tries to use it to alter Altar's sight 
  
  Desmond Miles is being used by a corporation known as Abstergo, who are using his genetic memory, 
 and a machine known as the Animus, to find the location of the Piece of Eden and the other pieces 
 displayed in Altar's memory. When he is fully synchronized with Altar's memory, he is of no use 
 to Abstergo (the Templars) and is to be killed. A researcher named Lucy Stillman saves you by telling 
 the scientist that gave the order, that Desmond is still of use. (She says this as she makes a 
 signal with her hand to show that she is an Assassin, the closed ring finger as if it were removed) 
 and you are free. You now have the power of Eagle Vision. When using it, you see hidden messages 
 on the floor and on the walls. All of them referencing to cataclysmic-grade events such as December 
 21, 2012 (which is also the date that the Templars plan to launch a satellite that will "end the 
 war forever") , Revelation 22:13 ("I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning 
 and the end.") and other important references to the end of the world in other religions. Also 
 you can read the email of the scientist detailing the failed recovery of one other Piece of Eden 
 and other unnamed artifacts, all resulting in disastrous accidents, including the Philadelphia 
 Experiment and the Tunguska event. There is also one about the Holy Grail. 
  
  Truly a great story with lots of hidden references.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The game looks 
 great. Just great. However, on occasion, there is texture pop-in, not such a great draw distance, 
 and sometimes AI characters get stuck on pathing maps or clip into buildings. That's not a reason 
 to say the graphics are bad though.
  
  Sound: Not too sure, maybe a 9?
  
  Its been a while since i played this, so im not too sure about the soundtrack. Voice acting is 
 good and not too over-dramatic. Characters will have little comments when you do acrobatic feats 
 in public such as "Is he crazy?", or "If he falls, I'm not helping him.". All of the targets are 
 voiced well also. Altar barely speaks, but when he does, his voice is perfect and the mysterious 
 tone fits him well.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  This is where the game tries too hard and somewhat fails. While the game does have good gameplay 
 moments (namely random knife kills, assassinations, running away, performing crazy acrobatics, 
 etc.) However, the combat and mission structure is just too damn repetitive. After the little tutorial-esque 
 beginning, you begin by exploring the Kingdom, the overworld of AC. The Kingdom is definitely the 
 games largest area. The other areas are the cities of Masyaf, Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus. The 
 Kingdom is quite auxiliary though, due to the fact that you can warp directly to the other cities 
 once you've already been there. The only real reason to go back there after the third time is to 
 get the flags, viewpoints and Templar Knights. Then once you are in town after sneaking through 
 the guardhouse as a scholar, you are FORCED to gather information on the target. This involves 
 mini-missions located throughout town. At first, you must scale the View Points (giant buildings) 
 to further detail the map and mission locations. The missions include saving townspeople, interrogation, 
 pick-pocketing, listening in on conversations and other assassin things. The PC version adds new 
 mission types, but you need an uber, god PC to run it so im not sure what the new ones are. The 
 first 3 targets require you to do 3 missions, while everything else requires 4. After you gather 
 info, you go to the Assassin's Bureau to get your target. You locate him, kill him, and run. Then 
 you listen to a speech from Al Mualim, get a new ability, rinse and repeat 9 times.
  
  This isn't so bad until about the 4th time and then you start getting really really bored of it. 
 The combat doesnt help the situation either. At the beginning you are just button-mashing square 
 until they all die. Once you get counters and throw breaks, you just time the buttons and it becomes 
 a "line em' up and knock em' down" game. Way too easy.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  Unfortunately, the game features no endgame bonuses (besides not having to adhere to the traditions 
 of the Creed, i. e. not killing innocents) and no challenge mode. The only thing you can do is look 
 at the little text references and replay old levels.
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  The game looks great, sounds great, and tells an amazing story. But with no replay value, gameplay 
 that is repetitive and lackluster combat, AC is not all it can be.
  
  Final Score: 7.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the brainchild of Montreal Ubisoft, the same team who were responsible for 
 the Prince of Persia games that graced the PS2. The game is set during the Third Crusades amidst 
 a struggle between various religious groups, with the Templars being pitted against the Hasshasins 
 (Assassins) .
  
  It is difficult to go into the plot of the game without actually giving any spoilers since the 
 whole premise of the game is based on a revelation that if done correctly would have been mind-blowing 
 but unfortunately it is revealed so early on in the game that it actually takes out a lot of the 
 intrigue and mystery that the story could have had.
  
  You play the character of Altair, a member of the order of the assassins who is stripped of his 
 ranking and privileges due to deviating from their devout rules with the penalty being expulsion 
 or death. Altair is given an opportunity by the leader of the Assassins, Al Mualim to restore his 
 integrity and position within the order by performing a number of assassinations.
  
  The involves you performing assassinations on designated targets in three cities, Acre, Damascus 
 and Jerusalem. In order to perform the assassins you are required to do some information gathering 
 beforehand in order to embark on the mission and these involve eavesdropping on a nearby conversation, 
 pickpocketing, interrogation or completing a time trial or killing certain targets as a favour 
 to someone to gain information, these get quite old quickly.
  
  The assassination missions themselves are pretty repetitive; they basically follow the same format 
 in that you are introduced to the target via a in-game cut-scene and then as soon as this ends 
 you kill the target which are then followed by a lengthy sermon before you make a quick escape. 
 You would think in a game with 'Assassin' in the title would mean that there is quite a lot of 
 stealth involved, but in fact it is completely opposite. Its rare that you actually have to use 
 stealth and for the actual assassinations themselves it actually really doesn't make any worthwhile 
 difference whether you decide to sneak up from behind and deliver a quick kill discretely or go 
 all gung-ho on the target in full public view because the guards are still automatically placed 
 on full alert whichever tactic you use and you still have to make a very frenetic escape.
  
  As for the cities themselves they are extremely detailed and absolutely huge. You will find 
 yourself probably getting lost at points. The attention to detail in the architecture and the environments 
 and the citizens themselves is something to be applauded. Another aspect that is incredible is 
 the fact that pretty much every building in the game, is scalable, yep you heard right, Altair 
 can climb churches, run up walls, houses etc and jump from rooftop to rooftop very much in the 
 style of French art of free-running. Sometimes traversing building to building can sometimes be 
 a little bit clumsy and frustrating but on the whole it is an absolute marvel to behold. The most 
 thrilling feature is that Altair can climb to the top of high landmarks (viewpoints) which give 
 you a panoramic view of the area and then jump off them gracefully like a swan hurtling at huge 
 velocity towards the earth to be cushioned by a landing in a cart of hay. What makes the game stand 
 out is the free-roam aspect and as others have said it is kind of like GTA but in a medieval environment.
 
  
  Combat is limited at first but Altair gains new skills and abilities throughout the game after 
 successfully completing assassinations. Combat is mostly rhythmic based in which you have to know 
 when to take defensive stances and wait for an opening to attack enemies and interrupting an enemy 
 attack at the correct time can treat you to an impressive counter move involving you slicing and 
 dicing your enemies in a number of stylish ways.
  
  In the cities you have to be mindful of your behaviour. Running at full speed and bumping into 
 people, killing someone outright in public is not considered a socially acceptable action and will 
 lead to guards being suspicious and then attacking you. So in order not to attract attention you 
 have to blend in with socially acceptable actions like gently pushing citizens in order to get 
 through a crowd or blending in with a group monks/scholars to get through heavily patrolled areas. 
 Doing favours for citizens will reward you sometimes either with health or allies that will block 
 guards when you are in the midst of an escape. If you alert the guards, the only way you can shake 
 them off is by escaping their line of sight by hiding in hay or sitting on a bench with citizens.
 
  
  Graphically the game is stunning, with great physics effects and an extremely authentic and detailed 
 environment. The citizens are well animated and respond to your actions but in terms of sound you 
 will hear the same phrases being repeated over and over in the game. The voice-work is great most 
 of time. Sometimes there is some bad graphical slowdown while traversing the cities but this is 
 few and far between.
  
  The game although graphically superb and detailed having some great features such as free-running 
 suffers from a strong bout of repetitiveness. After completing one assassination you have basically 
 seen and done it all as every one proceeding it is basically a carbon copy. What it initially first 
 seems fun get monotonous quickly. The story is the main catalyst for getting through the game is 
 the story although it ends abruptly with no satisfying conclusion leaving it clear there will be 
 a sequel.
  
  Hopefully Montreal Ubisoft will learn from this outing and improve the experience for the sequel. 
 Its a shame because it had the potential to be something great. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraOfKingdom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Ehh, personally I was disappointed on this game for not really having too much to do 'cept solve 
 your investigation, climb rooftops, kill some enemies, etc but that's it.. you cant do more stuff 
 and it gets boring far too quickly when you play it through for the second time. Well the story 
 is about a guy who gets taken away to try out the "Animus" so he can go back to the memories of 
 his ancestors and end the cursade by assassinating certain people, the story has many twists that 
 will keep you going for more and it does good by telling it. The graphics were amazing, if I would 
 pick any game that has stunning design, outstanding textures and nice character design, i'd pick 
 this game, everything in it is very detailed and I must say Ubisoft did a pretty good job making 
 it real. Gameplay was a very good idea to establish, sword fights, climbing rooftops, doing the 
 leap of faith.. it's just simply brilliant. Music goes with the game too but could've been slightly 
 better, still.. it's good. You wont get that much of a value cause the game gets boring fast but 
 if you'd like to play it just for the story then go ahead, buy this game. This game gets 8.5 for 
 the stunning graphics, great gameplay and some of the weirdest music I have ever heard tho still 
 goes well with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poodle_hat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be my favourite PS3 game so far, IMO i'd prefer this over Grand theft auto IV 
 
  
  Graphics : All cities look freaking amazing, just go to any view point and be amazed by how beautiful 
 and real everything looks.
  
  Story : Ok, well i haven't finished the game just yet but its just a little confusing, but you'll 
 still be able understand the main plot and it's enough to make you do more missions ( assassinations) .
 
  
  Gameplay : It can be really fun just jumping from rooftop to rooftop or jumping into haystacks 
 and apart from the main missions there are also alot of side quests to do, whether there to collect 
 Jerusalim Crosses or saving a citizen from guards there is probably always something to do.
  
  Overall : Overall i love this game and Highly reccommend you to try it out. Although if your 
 less than a casual gamer you might get a bit frustrated at it sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamg78
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  very fun game. even though I havent finished it yet, but Im far enough into it to write a review. anyhow 
 the game is good to just pick up for a couple & put down & get back to it later. the challenge in 
 the game isent that hard. because you can do some pretty cool counter attacks which make ya play 
 like God.. I would Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend 
 this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend 
 this gameRecommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend 
 this game, Recommend this gameRecommend this gameRecommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend 
 this gameRecommend this gameRecommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend this game, Recommend 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PStringa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was a game I was waiting for before I even got my PS3. I played it in a games store 
 after reading about it on the internet and I was not let down.
  
  Most reviews run through the story a little but I don't like to do that, I feel that if someone 
 reads a review (I know I do) they want to know more if they should spend their hard earned money 
 on a game if it's going to be poor and if not would enjoy working through the story themselves. 
 So - I'm going to run through the game itself and perform a textual analysis on it, talking about 
 visuals, sounds to game play.
  
  Firstly, the graphics on this game are outstanding, they in my opinion are unbeaten by any other 
 game on the PS3 - some have come close such as Uncharted but never stepped up an over. Everything 
 seems to blend so well and I often got confused with what was game play and what wasn't until I 
 realised the whole damn thing is game play (like most next-gen games) .
  
  The sound is great too, the cities give a feeling of being alive. Beggar's pester you for money, 
 preachers preach and random people just have conversations and it all adds the the authentic feel 
 this game has.
  
  The game play again is excellent. Everything seems to fall into place for example when running 
 across buildings and up walls, there a seem less transition between the different animations which 
 just makes it work. The only downer on the game play is the fact that it can become very repetitive 
 and boring and there's not much skill involved in jumping across buildings - you quite simply just 
 hold the button down and run. Another criticism I have for the game play is the actual assassinations. 
 It is better if you do all perform all research tasks so you can perform the discrete murder but 
 it's not necessary so you often find yourself just slaying every guard in sight with a sequence 
 of reversals.
  
  Overall this game is a must have and one of my favourites. My reasons for not giving it a ten are 
 the criticisms mentioned about the game play as everything else it perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SolidSnake07_
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  A very good game, but a little bit disappointing. After Story Mode completion, there is nothing 
 much left to do except go flag hunting, which is not something I like doing, especially because 
 on the PS3 version, there's nothing to gain from it. The Story Mode is incredible, as is the action 
 and suspense, but the stupid prize hunting after the game completion spoiled its chance of getting 
 a 9/10 from me, so now it's stuck on 8/10. In my opinion, the grand finale against your former 
 master was a bit of a letdown. I expected a lot more from that. The trial-and-error gameplay from 
 the finale can be quite irritating as well for certain people. Following targets, overhearing conversations, 
 helping citizens, stealing documents, flying over rooftops, the brutal combo's, it's all very cool, 
 so, still, a must-buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwidust
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Finally finished this game (which I started long ago) off.
  
  Like the UBISoft classic "The Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" this game works hard to provide 
 compelling narrative explanations for game mechanics. In this case a fairly generic young man, 
 Desmond, has been captured by a mysterious, powerful organization. He's hooked up to a computer 
 system which can replay ancestral memories, in this case those of a 12th century assassin named 
 Altair. Apparently Altair was the last to know the whereabouts of a mysterious religious artifact 
 lost during the Third Crusade that the organization wants. You must control Altair through a period 
 of his life in order to learn the location of this artifact.
  
  If you control Altair well you increase your "sync" (essentially a health bar) with him if you 
 control him badly (by getting discovered, damaged or making poor choices) you lose sync. Losing 
 sync completely resets the memory to a previous point in time (the equivalent of a "death") . Most 
 of the game is played as Altair in the past, but certain segments are played in the present as 
 Desmond where you may talk to your captors, gather information and so forth.
  
  It's these segments in the present that are most disappointing. The characters are larger but less 
 defined and simply don't look anywhere near as good as the characters in the rest of the game. 
 These segments are also almost universally dull... you learn a lot about the organization (mostly 
 innuendo and hints about its participation in nearly every well-known conspiracy theory) but it's 
 mostly through reading emails. Lots and lots of plain-text email.
  
  In the past the game is played across four medieval cities (Jerusalem, Acre, Damascus and Masyaf) 
 and a large connecting "kingdom" of outposts, villages and way stations. Each of the three main 
 cities is split into three unlockable districts and, as luck would have it, you're told at the 
 outset that you have nine assassinations to complete.
  
  Beginning with the best: this game is absolutely stunning. The cities are, we're told, historically 
 accurate and I see no reason to argue the point. The draw distance is impressive and as you'll 
 spend most of your time leaping from rooftop to rooftop you'll continually appreciate it. The attention 
 to detail that went into the design is obvious. While many architectural elements are reused they've 
 been crafted so well that the settings feel organic and realistic.
  
  Unfortunately the populous isn't as lucky in this. You'll find many people to interact with... 
 the trouble is there are really only about 10 or so, copied over and over. You'll meet the same 
 beggar woman over and over, sometimes two or three of these annoying clones in as many feet. The 
 same man carrying box, woman with vase on her head, merchant with hat and so forth. More distressing 
 is that each character has the same spoken lines throughout the game: where they might have easily 
 had at least some variation you'll hear the exact same speeches, comments and remarks over and 
 over (and over) .
  
  This repetitiveness is an unfortunate hallmark of the game. Each assassination takes place in a 
 district and each district has a collection of optional tasks. There are a number of "viewpoints" 
 - special high areas that, once reached, will illuminate areas of the map. You can save citizens 
 (and hear one of a very small handful of thank you speeches) by battling gangs of thugs and earn 
 friends amongst the populace.
  
  Other missions offer up information about your assassination target, but none of them are particularly 
 useful. Instead you're forced to complete a certain number of these before you can be assigned 
 the assassination. You can pick-pocket information from certain people, eavesdrop on others, beat 
 information out of others and prove yourself to informers by either taking out troubling targets 
 or gathering nearby flags within a set time limit.
  
  These missions had essentially no variation from the beginning of the game to the end... and you 
 need to do a LOT of them. If you're bored of that you can also find any of... let's three million 
 special flags strewn hidden throughout the world.
  
  The most exhilarating aspect of the game is the free-running acrobatics. There is the occasional 
 ungainly plummet (which, graciously, is almost never fatal) but for the greater part you'll be 
 easily leaping from rooftop to ledge to post. When the system works (which, to its credit, is more 
 often than not) a maddened rush from a horde of alerted guards is exhilarating and incredibly cinematic. 
 When it doesn't work you'll be treated to frustrating ridiculousness. You may have a split second 
 to reach a hiding spot, leap for it... and end up clinging to the side of it in plain sight and 
 annoyingly vulnerable. These flubs are almost never fatal but can be very irksome as it will take 
 you some time to either fight off the enraged guards or run and hide again.
  
  Combat is visually impressive (except for those, rare, times when the camera gets stuck behind 
 a plant) but minimal. You gain weapons and skills throughout the game so this, at least, is kept 
 somewhat fresh. Quick response combos and positional attacks offer up breathtaking, cinematic finishing 
 moves which surprisingly never really got old to me -there was always a nice visceral thrill when 
 the music trilled and I leapt at the neck of a sentry. The only real complaint in this area is 
 the truly drastic difficultly range exhibited in the last few battles: I nearly abandoned the game 
 at least twice here.
  
  Assassinations themselves are formulaic with a few exceptions. Clear the area of sentries, infiltrate 
 the area, find your mark. They will either fight or run. Once you defeat them a lengthy, incongruous 
 (because you are very likely still be surrounded by numerous guards) private conversation between 
 you and your mark take place. You must then escape the guards and make it back to the assassins 
 bureau to complete the mission.
  
  The large outer "Kingdom" is nearly unused: once you reach a city overland you can warp directly 
 to it from then on. There are viewpoints and flags in the kingdom, but no actual reward for doing 
 so. Some of the areas are interesting, but with no useful treasure, collectables, weapons, etc 
 there's very little motivation to explore.
  
  Exploration is further muddied because, especially near the end of the game, nearly every move 
 you make will annoy any nearby gaurds into attacking you. So unlike, say, "Shadow of the Colossus" 
 where riding across the landscape could be fund and relaxing doing the same in "Assassin's Creed" 
 is an exercise in frustration.
  
  It feels like the game was stretched to meet an arbitrary length limit rather than sized to maintain 
 the interest of its content. This is probably not a game that you will play from beginning to end: 
 the game is simply too repetitive and dull for that. However as a game that you play in stints 
 between other games this might grow on you. The difficultly level is smooth and the controls simple 
 enough to make this a "pick up and play" game (at least if you're generally competent with this 
 kind of game) .
  
  The game is almost worth buying simply as a visual showpiece - it really does look that good. I 
 truly think that if the game, as is, were half the length it would have been much more enjoyable. 
 As is however there's a very strong likelihood that this game will bore you into submission before 
 you finish it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game that has such a great concept that you almost hate to bring it down a 
 couple of pegs in its execution of those idea's, for every great moment the game has, theres an 
 annoying floor to spot just around the corner.
  
  For instance, the game is exactly what it says on the tin, you are an assassin... set in the Crusades 
 and following the wishes of your master in order to gain redemption for a past sin; as cool as 
 it sounds you cant help but feel that a bit more time and effort would have excelled this game 
 from greatness to masterpiece of the next gen gaming world.
  
  The story could have held its own without the ridiculous timewarp sci-fi crap that continuously 
 brings you out of the game and into this tripe of a sub story of a distant descendant of the assassin 
 in question to which always bores and never explains anything in great detail, but still this has 
 got nothing on the repetitious way of the game in general.
  
  You have 7 targets, 7 assassins to carry out and you get a new move/item after every one, but the 
 way you go about it is always the same and eventually you just go through the motions to get to 
 your next target without being shocked by a twist in the AI that you have not come across before. 
 All in all with a bit more time, assassins creed would have been awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlo030
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed for the PS3 is a wonderful game that earns the rating it has recieved. I'll start 
 of with what makes it great. The visuals are stunning and have no flaws. The interaction with the 
 environment is spectacular. You can run up any wall, bump into every person, and truly feel like 
 you're a part of that world. I feel that games will have to try and keep up with games like Assassins 
 Creed and GTA4 from now on. If you can; t make a game as pretty as these, don't even bother trying.
 
  There are some down sides though. The fighting does getting a little boring. But, it also gets 
 a bit more difficult. Once you get the hang of countering and throw some knives every once in a 
 while it doesn't get too bland.
  Overall, the game is almost a must have for PS3 owners. If not a buy, at least a rent. Worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noelcasale
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has gotten so many good reviews that I felt I had to chime in. I really hated this game. 
 
  
  Pick up the game and play it for an hour. You will be duly impressed by the stunning visual, massive, 
 realistic world, depth of the soundscape and all the little touches that make the world seem so 
 real. Beyond that, you will enjoy the game play initially. The first time you climb a huge tower 
 for a 'birds eye view' of the world will take your breath away. Similarly, the first assassination, 
 or eaves dropping, or pick pocketing assignment is pretty cool (on the other hand, the combat was 
 never fun, not even the first time) . So what's my beef? 
  
  Repetition. After you have done each of the above tasks for the 50th time in exactly the same way, 
 and realize that you will have to do each of them about 50 more times to finish the game, any coolness 
 completely wears off. It's like - amidst all the great graphics and sounds production, someone 
 forgot to include an actual game. Doing the same thing, over and over and over with no variance 
 is simply not fun. 
  
  Worse the story is almost non-existent, and when something cool and interesting does finally happen, 
 the game ends two minutes later in a totally annoying 'cliff hanger'. Nothing is resolved, nothing 
 is explained, if fact you only really have an idea of what is going on at the very end of the game. 
 I understand the concept of episodic gaming, but at $60 a game, the game needs to stand on its 
 own as a complete story too. 
  
  This whole game should have been the first act of a game. The ten or so hours of game play should 
 have, and could easily have been, cut down to 3 hours by removing all the mindless repetition of 
 the same assignments. Then there could have been two more acts of different, interesting, creative 
 game play to create a complete stand alone game. 
  
  This game was a rip off. It's not worth $60, it's not even a game, it's one chapter of a game that 
 was artificially lengthened by imposing hours of repetition on the player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  gamespot rated this game a 9/10. are you kidding me. i really can't understand that. when i first 
 started playing assassins creed. i thought it was pretty cool. then after one hour i got bored 
 with this game. you climb more on this game. then spiderman does. all you do is climb buidings 
 so that you can get a eagle View, so that you can do and find the missions. and theres something 
 like 7 in every city. and this gets so annoying really quick. even the missions are boring. the 
 assassination missions are the only decent cool thing this game has to offer. i know thats the 
 whole point of the game, but they still could of put more into it. you get some pretty cool weapons 
 tho. throwing knives, crossbow, daggers. swords. fighting wasnt all that great either. that also 
 got annoying. either way assassins creed is a total letdown. rent this game first, im pretty sure 
 your going to take it back that day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SafetyBoy12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I can easily say that Assassins Creed was one of the best and most innovative games i had ever 
 played. The control scheme was fascinating and combat was so fun and enjoyable to the point were 
 you would play just to kill some guards. The story was great and really fascinated me on so many 
 levels. First of all charcter development was great. And just the concept of being a assassin was 
 really cool. Also the whole philosophical theme really worked well because game usually don't do 
 very well with those kind of things. But i do have to admit once you got to the five Memory Block 
 the game was repatative. But i didn't really cause any signifigant harm to the games overall rating 
 because the story was really starting to pick up and get exciting. I really think Ubisoft did a 
 amazing job and hope it can repeat it again with Assassains Creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  A lively, immense, immersing and exciting world, as you've never seen before. An experience you 
 WILL live and a world you WILL explore! I mean.. you MUST! Assassin's Creed is a game which the 
 visuals are extremely wonderful.. The cities, the sceneries, the landscapes, the people, actually, 
 everything! It is fun and joyful to go WHEREVER place you put your eyes on.. running through rooftops.. 
 everything.. The assassinations and the escapes? And the actual STYLE Altair (the main character) 
 has and transmits? Just makes you feel like a hero, a legend, someone who can't be defeated and 
 overcomes everyone and everything. The fighting and assassinations are also fun and very realistic, 
 and the realistic that involves Assassin's Creed along with its visual beauty are the main subjects 
 that make it a great and worthy game!
  I got to agree, at some point the game turns a little repetitive through missions: spy, gather 
 information, etc etc etc, kill.. But i think there's a different way to look at this game.. Different 
 from the looks we give to other action games.. In my opinion, the experience we live as a person 
 living the game, the age, the cities, the habits of the people, their reactions and the actual 
 "life" in each city and character we see, overruns the repetition problem.. =) .
  Resuming, besides the little repetition problem, everything in this game is fun, beautiful and 
 realistic, making it an awesome addition to your game's shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inchabolas
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The final is a litle bit confused but it leaves a socond part is realy revolutionari game i havent 
 see one like these in my life and i have play a lot but if you look a game that have swords and 
 all those thing these game is the good one and the history of the game is execelent and is very 
 similar to prince of percia in the figth but the good part there only humans to kill no monsters 
 it has exelents grafics exelent sound also you can walk free like in grand theft auto, drive in 
 horse and climb buildigs pickpocking and obusly kill any people in your way afet you pass the game 
 if you kill inocent people your life is dameged somethig bad that is too short i will love it if 
 it will be longer but you enyoy each moment 
  
  
  
  And the playstation 3 is exclusive to hardcoregamers and the wii is for childs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  There are so many reviews out for this game that I will try and expound the one subject that I 
 believe is of most importance when reviewing Assassin's Creed.
  
  But first, I have to rave about how fun this game is. I mean, you can climb ANYTHING. The buildings 
 and environments in AC are nothing short of spectacular. With its semi-open-world climbing and 
 brilliant character animations, the game is fun to play even if you are running around and killing 
 aimlessly. Did I mention how fun it is to kill people? It's almost like you are creating your own 
 personal collection of short assassination movies (except for the collection part... you can't save 
 clips in-game of course) . Also, the combat system is one of the best I've ever witnessed.
  
  The main shortcoming of Assassin's creed is that it has so much potential that the designers 
 left unrealized. Cutting the content short does lead to an anticipation of the sequel, but the 
 very same effect could have been accomplished while expanding the gameplay. Users would have appreciated 
 a larger and freer map, as well as additional mission types. The actual plot-line of the game is 
 fairly one-dimensional, though it does contain some incredible twists and the like. I would very 
 much have liked to see side quests and further interactivity. The game's outstanding graphics and 
 movement engine make just about any humdrum activity fun, but there is still a lot more to be had.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed is definitely a must-have, but there is next to zero replay value. In the end, 
 you'll feel happy to have enjoyed the ride, but at the same time you'll feel incomplete, as though 
 you haven't yet witnessed all there is to discover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  here's a little general idea about the game
  
  Story: you are an assassin named Altair who lives in a town ruled by the assassins named masyaf.
 
  The assassins' master (Almualim) commands you to assassinate 9 targets to regain respect and honor.
 
  
  Graphics: Excellent
  
  Setting: the game is set 4 different cities they are:
  Acre: its the city ruled by the Crusaders
  Masyaf: the city ruled by the assassins Jerusalem: city 
 ruled by muslims
  Arsuf: which the Muslims and Crusaders battle for and it only appears in the last stage of the 
 game.
  
  Weapons:
  1-blade 2-sword
  3-throwing knives
  4-punch
  
  Main Characters:
  Al Mualim
  Altair
  Robert De Sable
  
  Ways of collecting info
  1-pickpocket
 
  2-forced interrogation
  3-eaves dropping
  
  even though its a great game it has technical problems such as freezing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rragnaar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  For every next-gen idea that Assassin's Creed introduces, there is a flaw to counterbalance it. 
 If you can get past some repetitive gameplay, and can get past the fact that this game focuses 
 more on combat and less on stealth, you will find one of the most unique games to have come out 
 in years.
  
  
  Graphics and Performance-
  
  
  Some of the professional reviews for this game touched on some graphical hitches such as frame 
 rate drops and screen tearing, but unless you are really turned off by these things, you won't 
 notice them. I've come to expect a certain amount of instability when I play a sandbox style game, 
 and in my opinion Assassin's Creed actually performs better than most of its competitors. The draw 
 distance in this game is incredible, and there is very little in the way of pop-in.
  
  
  The game has a really great sense of style. Each of the three cities you visit has its own unique 
 color palette. Acre has a blue tint, Jerusalem is green, and Damascus is yellow. They reuse some 
 of the buildings and some of the character models a little too much, but again, if you've played 
 a sandbox game before, it is nothing new, and it doesn't detract from the game visually.
  
  
  The game has some neat graphical effects. For example when you are locked on to a character 
 as you follow them through a crowded street, there is a depth of field effect that makes you focus 
 only on the character you are locked on to.
  
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is one of the more visually impressive games I've played, especially 
 if you are willing to explore the cities and see everything from the tallest buildings.
  
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Assassin's Creed's biggest victories and downfalls lie in its gameplay. The 
 game is repetitive. Each time you are to pursue an Assassination target you travel to the city 
 where he is, and check in with the Assassin's Guild. After you've done that, it is time to investigate 
 your target. Investigations can be as simple as sitting on a bench and eavesdropping. Sometimes 
 you will need to pickpocket someone, and other times you will need to do a favor for a fellow Assassin. 
 There are six investigation missions that you can do for each target, but thankfully you only need 
 to complete three before it is time to take down your target. 
  
  
  Before you do take down your target, it is a good idea to explore the city, there are high points 
 located in each district of every city that you need to scale if you want your city map to be detailed, 
 each time you scale a high point your map gets filled in a little more, and you gain access to 
 the locations of the investigation missions, and of citizens that are being attacked by the city 
 guards. Helping the citizens is not a necessary task, but it is a great way to practice your sword 
 fighting skills, and does make the game easier, because every time you help someone you end up 
 with either a mob of people at that spot that will slow down anyone pursuing you, or you will gain 
 access to a group of scholars who are dressed similarly to you that you can use to blend in with 
 and gain access to areas you wouldn't normally get into.
  
  
  For a game that is centered around assassinating people, the assassinations are, in my opinion, 
 the least enjoyable part of the game. This isn't a stealth game, and for the most part, you aren't 
 going to be able to sneak up on your targets. Most of the missions end up with you sword fighting 
 with your target until you knock him down, and then using your hidden blade to finish him off. 
 After you've assassinated your target, it is time to get the hell out of there and lose your pursuers.
 
  
  
  This is where the game sorta falls apart. The assassinations are almost indistinguishable from 
 one another, with only a few being unique, and the investigations leading up to the assassinations 
 are very repetitive. The game also focuses too much on combat. The combat is good, but it isn't 
 good enough to have it be the thing that you spend most of your time doing. 
  
  
  Where the game truly shines is in its control scheme. While the things that you do in this game 
 can get mundane, the way you control the game is always fresh, and completely unique when compared 
 to any game I've played before it. The controls are similar to controlling a puppet in that each 
 of the face buttons controls a part of Altair's body. This makes traversing the game an absolute 
 joy. You don't have to worry about trial and error gameplay, as Altair more or less always does 
 what you want him to. If done incorrectly this could make the game too easy, but thankfully, it 
 just serves to turn the controller into an extension of your mind instead of being a barrier between 
 you and your character. The swordfighting in the game is very fun, and is focused on countering 
 your opponent's attacks to finish them off quickly.
  
  
  As a side note, it bothers me that Altair can't swim. Making contact with water in this game results 
 in an instant death. This doesn't make sense when you consider how acrobatic and athletic Altair 
 is, and can really make for some frustrating moments in the game later on.
  
  
  Presentation and Sound-
  
  
  Assassin's Creed is a mixed bag when it comes to presentation. 
 The voice acting, and music in the game is fantastic, but it has a clunky menu system, and very 
 long load times at the startup of the game that keep you from jumping into the action. The cutscenes 
 are voiced very well, but they aren't well directed on a motion capture level.
  
  
  They use sound to great effect in this game in that the music, and the voices of people on the 
 street all serve to tell you what is going on in the game. It is very easy to turn off the HUD 
 and navigate by the sounds in the game. You know when you are near citizens in trouble, or when 
 you are near someone to interrogate all from sound cues.
  
  
  Story-
  
  Assassin's Creed has a fantastic story that takes place both in the crusades and in the near future, 
 and it is one that you might not appreciate without exploring a bit. Without giving too much away, 
 it is a good idea to stick around after the credits and do some investigating, you never know what 
 you might find.
  
  
  Overall-
  
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of my favorite games to come out this generation, it is a fun game to explore, 
 and the story in the game is worth playing through to unravel the mysteries contained in it. The 
 game isn't perfect thanks it its long load times and repetitive gameplay, but it's controls are 
 above and beyond anything I've played in a third person action game. If you enjoy stealth games, 
 sandbox games, or action games Assassin's Creed is easy to recommend, even if with its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all. If you only played this game for 5 minutes, you MIGHT think it deserved a high score 
 out of 10. Only because you didn't have time to pick up on the many glitches, and pathetically 
 repetitive gameplay. 
  
  Assassins creed takes place in the future, not back in the time of the crusades. Which makes for 
 a stupid story, about going back into the past to tap into your assassin ancestors memories.
  
  The game might have stood a chance if it were just about the assassins...
  
  As it stands 
 this is one of the most boring games I've ever played. You do the exact same things over, and over 
 again in each city, and while each city does look nice, and very much alive. The exact opposite 
 is true. You can only talk to people who give you a mission, or get the odd reaction by bumping 
 into them. You can't buy anything from the market, or just talk to someone in the street. Which 
 means it's a very flat experience to go through each city, listening to conversations, pickpocketing, 
 intimidating, saving citizens, and climbing high buildings are literally ALL you can do, with the 
 odd flag catching mini-game to spice things up (not) .
  
  by the end of the game you'll be so bored that you'll just want to get it over, and never touch 
 it again. If you're like me you heard so many good things about the game that you didn't think 
 twice before buying it. Well, that'll never happen again. Not only will I rent a game that gets 
 a good review and play it thoroughly before I buy it, I'll look at IGN's score rather than gamespots.
 
  
  I hope they don't make a sequel to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  It was like the first game that I played for PS3 (besides Motorstorm.) You play as an Assassin 
 that works for a secret agency. The game takes place in the Medieval days. I was half way through 
 and I took about ten hours to do so you are looking at 20-30 hours of fun. I had to return the 
 game half way through so I can't say much about the story line except that you are an assassin 
 that has to earn his honor back. You have to earn it by assassinating a few people and doing missions. 
 Eventually you will get some of your weapons back. Besides that I would like to hear how it ends 
 so if anyone reading this could tell me that would be great, thanx. I will be update this when 
 I find out. I'm pretty sure that a lot of people have completed this game but I found the game 
 a little hard. 
  
  
  Verdict: Get it if you are a fan of Action/Adventure. If not, don't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I will stand by my words. Almost everything about this game is great. You're Altair, an assassin 
 in 1191 AD. After some bad events, you're stripped of your rank and have to start over again. To 
 get it back, you've gotta assassinate some people. The plot sets itself up for a truly epic game. 
 
  
  Let me just say, the beginning of the game was tripping me up. If you already knew what era this 
 game mainly takes it place in, you'd be confused. I guess that's why it's so good though. So yeah, 
 the gameplay is awesome, you can run and jump on buildings, but the awesome part is that you can 
 do it from weathering heights and some of the action sequences are amazing. 
  
  The main thing is that you have to kill people: stealthily, which is very awesome. There's like 
 a gauge that determines if you're exposed to the public or under the radar. The developers really 
 thought this out and it works great, and makes a great game. Combat with others is a blast, too. 
 Plus the in game graphics are phenomenal, probably one of the best for the PS3. Everything you 
 see will be acessable at one point or another, and all the action from jumping on rooftops is smooth 
 and precise, mostly. 
  
  Now, everything in this game is fantastic, except things get really repetitive. After a couple 
 hours you'll find yourself doing the same thing, killing people and going back and forth over and 
 over again. It can get boring, you know? And it doesn't help that sometimes the map in the corner 
 can be confusing to you. Final words: Awesome, but try something to make us keep going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flagrant_flow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  this game is simply amazing, even though its too short, its got plenty of replay value, its like 
 GTA B. C. the graphics are awe inspiring, and the gameplay is amazingly fun, the protagonist is 
 always a fun person to control.
  the views from on top of buildings in this game are... wow, jumping from roof top to roof top is 
 amazing.
  the combat is excellent, you can carry different kinds of knives and daggers, the killing part 
 is probably the essential part of the game.
  although the story is kind of a letdown in the end, the gameplay redeems it.
  if your the kind 
 of guy who enjoys trying something new, this is definitely the perfect game for you. 
  this game WILL appeal to the players highest standards, you just cant go 
  wrong with this one.
 
  
  buy it ---  play it -----  jump from roof to roof = enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This was quite the game graphically aswell sound design and the detail of the cities is just unbelievable.
 
  
  At first it really does feal like you can do anything and go anywhere, but soon you will notice 
 your pretty much doing the same thing over and over again.
  
  Although you do aquire some new weaponary which keeps you playing.
  
  But every assassination 
 objective is pretty much the same as before. you always seem to find your target amongst a crowd 
 of people.
  
  There really isn't all that many options to go about taking them out.
  
  all you really end up doing is stabbing them and running away.
  
  It is cool though to have 
 a crowd of people around makes it seem as though anything could happen, you can push people away 
 as you walk past and stuff, which makes for more realizm and more tension towards your objective.
 
  
  I do think that when the next Assassins Creed comes out, Jaws will really begin to drop.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyg619
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  A beautiful game comes to mind as I begin to start this review. Every aspect of this game has been 
 so neatly interwoven with each other wether it be sound, combat etc. What makes this game so great 
 aswell is the amount of times you will be struck with awe at the scenery of the 3 cities, whether 
 it will be perched high above the rooftops looking around or down below amoung the people as they 
 go about their normal day in all of the beautifully created cities, each having a different vibe 
 and feel to them. The graphics are beautiful and are accompanied by sound to help immerse the player 
 even more, wether to create suspense or simply to help increase the awe as soft vocals play as 
 you look out far ahead into the amazing city tht lies ahead.
  Assassins Creed is also has substance to back up the style, the substance being the combat. Nothing 
 has ever been so satisfying as you defeat hordes of enemies with various moves while the camera 
 pans in to admire your handy work. Oh so satisfying and it never gets old. 
  However this game isn't perfect, the story can be confusing if your not paying attention and there 
 are repetitive elements tht must be done in order to progress, although this depends whether u 
 will enjoy these elements to begin with. Finally another bad point is the fact that once you have 
 completed the game, that is it... the journey is over and there really is nothing left to do unless 
 u wanna play some battles again. 
  Besides these bad points it's still a great game while it lasts and at the very least you should 
 rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  It's been a huge year for video games, and we've got more to come. Sadly they can't all be masterpieces, 
 with many coming in under par or simply being good games that don't quite live up to expectations. 
 Assassin's Creed is a good game, a game that I'd recommended everyone with a next-gen console experiences, 
 but it's not the magnificent experience I and many others hoped it would be.
  
  Right up until release the one thing that Ubisoft has been sure not to reveal is the twist in the 
 storyline. This review won't spoil too many aspects of this, meaning you're safe to read on unless 
 you absolutely don't want to know anything about the game prior to release. You play as Altair, 
 an assassin who lived through the Third Crusade in 1191, but you don't exclusively play as him 
 - I'll say no more.
  
  The core goal is to restore your master's faith in you as an assassin by carrying out nine assassinations, 
 which take you across the Holy Land, to Damascus, Acre, Jerusalem and Maysaf - with Maysaf being 
 your initial gateway to the rest of the game world. This is really just a brief outline of the 
 game. The full storyline is far deeper, featuring the expected twists and revelations, plus some 
 infrequent and rather unexpected gameplay that will likely polarize opinion.
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of the game is its size. The three main cities are huge, split 
 into three distinct districts and full of citizens, guards, speakers, thugs, merchant stands, buildings, 
 and just about everything you'd expect to see in a city from that era. The streets are full of 
 people, and by full I mean packed. The first time you see Maysaf your jaw will hit the floor due 
 to the game's beauty, but it's not until you walk the streets of one of the three main cities that 
 you'll see what the game engine is really capable of. We've seen crowds in games before, but in 
 Assassin's Creed it's been taken to a new level.
  
  It's not just cosmetic either, although why that's the case needs a little explanation. When you 
 enter a city you do so in order to find and assassinate a target. The process is practically the 
 same throughout the game. Firstly you go to the Assassins Bureau in order to get some tips on where 
 to look for clues about your target. You then head off into that area, which is usually in an area 
 of the game map that's lacking detail. In order to draw this information onto your in-game map 
 you need to scale numerous view points, which in turn displays the location of investigations.
 
  
  Investigations are essential to your preparation, with each assassination needing a handful of 
 investigations before you can carry out the deed. They can take a number of forms: eves dropping, 
 pick pocketing, carrying out tasks for informants (collecting flags, stealth killing people) and 
 interrogation (beating people up) . I found pickpocketing and eves dropping to be by far the easiest, 
 with both barely requiring more than pressing a button at the right time. The others are more difficult, 
 especially the informant missions that require you to stealth kill people while walking the busy 
 streets.
  
  All the time you have to be aware of the guards and your current social status. Act like a normal 
 citizen and you'll be fine, but act like a crazy man and the guards will get suspicious and start 
 watching you. If your on-screen status starts flashing red it's time to take a low profile, and 
 if that red dot gets bigger it's time to leg it. It's here that the game's huge number of citizens 
 come into play. Imagine running through Oxford Street in London over your lunch hour, and you'll 
 get some idea of what trying to outrun guards in Assassin's Creed is like - except you can take 
 to the roofs.
  
  Altair is highly agile, meaning he can leap from rooftop to rooftop, scale buildings and generally 
 run across anything. When this works Assassin's Creed is at its brilliant best, with the feeling 
 of freedom being unlike anything I've played, but it sadly doesn't always work as you want. Climbing 
 can itself cause problems, with Altair often unwilling to lift himself up to a ledge that is clearly 
 within reach. The guards are also great at throwing things at you, so you'll often be moments from 
 pulling yourself onto a rooftop and then fall off after being hit by a rock or arrow. It might 
 be smart AI, but it makes for highly annoying gameplay.
  
  It doesn't help that the free-running aspect is a little hit and miss. Altair will run and jump 
 in whichever direction you're pointing, so if you accidentally point off a building that has nothing 
 beyond it except for a huge drop, you'll be falling - although it's never to your death - and even 
 when you do die, you usually don't lose too much progress. Part of the problem stems from the way 
 free-running works. You have to hold Right Trigger (Xbox 360) or R1 (PS3) as well as A (Xbox 360) 
 or X (PS3) . This then prevents you from manually controlling the camera with the right analogue 
 stick, which in turn causes a few awkward camera angles and wayward jumps.
  
  Once you've escaped the guards and have the required info on your target you head back to the Bureau 
 and you're given the go-ahead to make the kill. It's here that the game is perhaps the most disappointing, 
 as the assassinations simply aren't as diverse as I hoped they'd be. Once you make it to the sign-posted 
 area an in-game cinematic kicks in, before you are left to take out your target. Try as I might, 
 I simply wasn't able to make stealth kills, resulting in the guards spotting me and being on my 
 case.
  
  Again, once you've completed the kill and watched the target speak about his actions, you must 
 head to the Bureau to confirm the kill - only after you've shaken off the guards and returned your 
 social status to normal. It's then back to Maysaf to speak to your master, who gives you another 
 target and handily upgrades your abilities and/or weapons. To begin with you're rather limited, 
 with little more than a sword and the robe you wear, but by the end you'll be able to grab hold 
 of ledges while falling, throw ninja-like blades and hold your own against a mob of enemies.
  
  Combat in Assassin's Creed is something I have mixed feelings about. It's definitely not going 
 to appeal to everyone, mainly down to the lack of skill required, but it serves its purpose and 
 makes for great looking fights. You essentially have to rely on countering the attacks of your 
 enemies, which when done correctly either knocks them to the ground for an easy kill or performs 
 an instant kill in one of many bloody sequences. When you start your quest to kill the nine targets 
 you'll be worried about taking on guards (especially the harder to kill Templars) but soon you'll 
 be quite happy to face five or more, safe in the knowledge that you'll be able to take them all 
 out without too many problems.
  
  And that is the game. While you get new targets and move to new locations in each city, what you 
 do is essentially the same. Side missions come in the form of collecting hundreds of flags littered 
 throughout the cities and free-roaming kingdom (which you can travel through by horse) , scaling 
 all the view points, and citizens can be helped out which in turn give you allies who will block 
 pursuing guards, to help you escape.
  
  As stunning as the game looks and as enthralled as I was by the story - which really is quite intriguing 
 if you look for all the information - the game's flaws are too hard to ignore. They mostly boil 
 down to how the game seemingly goes out of its way to make things less fun than they should be. 
 Escaping should be something Altair is highly skilled at, but guards are just about as agile, leaping 
 from building to building after you. Time after time I was moments from taking shelter in some 
 hay, in a roof garden or in the safety of a group of scholars, when a guard would spot me, and 
 another lengthy pursuit would ensue - what should have been great fun quickly devolved into a chore.
 
  
  Don't take this to mean that I didn't enjoy the game; it's something that I highly recommend, but 
 it's just not as polished as it should have been. While it looks utterly amazing, the frame rate 
 drops to sluggish levels in both versions of the game - usually while free-running on roof tops 
 - and the PS3 game suffers from a slightly less than great frame rate during most of the game. 
 There's also noticeable tearing in both versions of the game. It's not enough to put you off the 
 game, but a shame nonetheless. If fully polished Assassin's Creed would have hands down been the 
 best looking game of this console generation.
  
  Enemy AI is terribly erratic. They can chase you for minutes, but then you can walk behind one 
 of them in a way so obvious a normal person would be highly suspicious of, and then stealth kill 
 them from behind. Oh, and Altair, a man who is probably one of the most deadly characters ever 
 to appear in a video game, dies when he hits water. I'm sure there's some reason for this, but 
 it's still completely ridiculous.
  
  And don't get me started on the ending. This pretty much nailed the coffin shut on the game's fate 
 as a good but not stunning title. You'll have to experience it for yourself, but it simply didn't 
 deliver what it should have. It left me wanting more, which Ubisoft may well see as job done, but 
 gamers don't buy games with the hope that they're completed within the next few years; they want 
 a conclusion straight away.
  
  As I stated at the beginning of this review, Assassin's Creed should certainly be played by anyone 
 who's taken the jump to the next-generation consoles, but don't expect to be playing something 
 that will go down in history as one of the greatest games of all time. It's ambitious and succeeds 
 more than it fails, giving me hope that one day Ubisoft Montral will deliver the game they originally 
 set out to make.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The Good:
  
  - Stunning visuals.
  - Roaming the cities is great.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
 
  - Very repetitive.
  - Free-running can be awkward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is just so amazing and beautiful and gorgeous, its one of the best next gen games out 
 there right now
  assassin's creed takes innovation and gameplay to the next level of entertainment, assassin's creed 
 has gameplay unlike others 
  it isn't the simple type of game where you go infront of your enemy and mash the X button or something 
 like that
  you feel like a real assassin in the times of the crusades
  u feel like you are part of the game
  everything around you is interactive
  if this game was 
 online, i'd say it will be the best video game ever
  but it is still one of the best games to me at the moment
  the most funnest part of the game 
 is the free will to jump amongst building to building and doing air jumps and all that cool assassin 
 type of stuff
  i have one thing to say
  get this game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a fascinating game. The graphics are awesome and the game play is phenomenal 
 and the story intriguing. Ubisoft did a good job with this and I am not sorry I bought this one.
 
  You are an assassin or were related to one and you are transported back in time to perform assassination. 
 Along the way you have objectives you have to complete in order to progress perform certain assassinations. 
 The game does get a little repetitive, but that to me makes it a little straight forward, following 
 a specific pattern you learn to develop strategies that help you solve your way to a certain task. 
 The only piece of advice I will give you about the game is, save all the citizens, all of them. 
 As the game approaches it end the battle get harder and fiercer, so you better get the countering 
 technique down good. Countering enemy sword attacks and throws will be an essential way to fight 
 off hordes of fighters, you'll see.
  Buy this game you can probably get it less than $59.99 now and the limited edition is only $69.99 
 in some spots, used or new you cannot go wrong with this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fino66
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I loved the controls, the storyline and the graphics. Besides the Metal Gear Seris, this is the 
 only game I look forward to following the character through each game. I like the way the games 
 ending left your curious. The weapons are great. Stealth kills are fun and who doesn't which they 
 could do a swan dive into some hay from the tallest building in their city and live to tell about 
 it. This game is also fun to watch, it's like watching a movie. Hopefully games like Batman are 
 made similar to this game. It would be great to run across roof tops with special gadgets battling 
 The Joker. I'm really impressed with my PS3, if you don't have one go get it today as well as this 
 game and MGS4. I'm hoping the in Assassin's Creed II they include and online version similar to 
 MGS4. I want to shoot bow and arrows and have swords in both hands on the next one as well. I can't 
 wait for part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avenger94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best releases I've seen since the inspiring, action-packed Metal 
 Gear Solid series. The amazing graphic detail and design makes this game a must-play. Though there 
 are a few dissapointers with some fighting detail and the time it takes to beat the game, it's 
 still a great game and storyline while your playing. When I say it's a disssapointer for some fighting 
 details and and the time it takes to beat the game, I mean that the game is too short, yet stilll 
 fun, and sometimes when you finish someone off with your blade it might completely miss It's target, 
 but still kill the guy. All in all though, if you have a PS3 system, I recommend you go out and 
 buy this game, you will love it instantly. Now, about a sequel to this game. I personally think 
 that there will be a sequel to the game, due to the way it ends. I'm also hoping for a sequel, 
 I just liked the game that much. Thats pretty much all I have to say on the topic, thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallofman1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Assasin's creed is a gory, bloody bone breaking experience. With 7 templar bosses to kill in this 
 game, you have to hunt them down and kill them by listening in to conversations, interrogation, 
 and many more methods.
  
  You start out as Altair, a high ranking assasin serving the creed in Massaif. You are set in 11th 
 century A. D. The time of the third crusade. You are to recover what seems to be the ark at a digging 
 sight in Jerusalem held by the christians. Until things go wrong, you are pressured by the mission 
 and break the 3 rules of the creed, you kill a man, you expose yourself and you endangered the 
 creed. Later the village is invaded because of your previous actions. Then you have to save your 
 village you do, you get punished then you have to redeem yourself by killing the 7 templars.
  
  The sound is fine, I could expect better from Ubisoft though. The crowds voices are slightly 
 distorted. To me nothing is wrong with the sound effects, in fact they are quite pleasuring when 
 you kill an enemy.
  
  The graphics are totally next gen, especially on the PS3, the grapics are converted to blue ray 
 quality. So that the gameplay experience is much better than the XBOX 360. You feel like your in 
 Jerusalem while playing this on the PS3.
  
  The price is average, 60$ on the PS3, and the XBOX 360. Although its more worth it on the PS3 because 
 of blue-ray quality. On the PC its 40$ which is a very good deal.
  
  The gameplay is the best, You can climb walls, jump between buildings, and you can even do this 
 special move where you jump from a high place into sanctuary. You can assasinate, use the sword, 
 throw knives and use the crossbow. I suggest you do not do this to civilians, the lose progress 
 if you do that too often. You can also counterattack, dodge tackle and throw.
  
  This game is the true next-gen experience. I hope they make a sequel in the future. I have enjoyed 
 this game. I would even call this game timeless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinxsnipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. Graphics are stunning, fluid game play, (except mine is some what laggy 
 for some reason) , nice plot line. The first few hours are great. Pretty fun going around to explore 
 and killing anyone in your way. However, after your first few missions, you realize its all the 
 same routine as your previous ones. Find view point, get info, go to bureau, assassinate, return, 
 and so on. The way you get your info does not change either. You still either pickpocket, beat 
 the info out of someone, or do some tasks set by an informer. The side missions also do not add 
 much. They are all the same. Honestly, after awhile, it's more fun just to go around on rooftops 
 and jump around. Overall, it is a great game. Just repetitive. Hopefully, they will add more variety 
 in Assassins Creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  It's looking great and it's great fun to play. The city feels alive, even more then it does in 
 for example GTA 4. Hell this game even look better! The graphics in this game is just wow! For 
 me thats just great, I love nice looking games hehe.
  
  The fighting is fun and it's not easy all the time and thats great. Too many games are too easy 
 today. I think this game have a nice mix. Not hard, but ok.
  
  The good: Graphics, fighting, travle, characters, story.
  
  The bad: Little bit slow from time 
 to time. How you move your character can be a little wierd. Limited control over things, would 
 have been fun to take up stuff and use it or talk to people, visit other places etc.
  
  Not much more to say, it's a great game. Buy it now! =)
  
  
  
  When writing your review, 
 remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, 
 you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daHeretic
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft has done a really good job... I Havent played the game to the end though, but from what 
 i have seen and played so far i would say its good enough to keep me coming back to play to the 
 finish. Graphically the game is really awesome, the Villagers AI    "quite intelligent", The story:- 
 not so fascinating as compared to others i have played, the game controls are quite ok, running 
 up on walls and jumping off, jumping across beams etc.. gameplay/fighting style a bit ok (sucks 
 sometimes) , camera controls:- perfect! and the Level detailing is superb. I enjoy climbing to the 
 top of the tallest building in damascus to get a good overview, be4 taking the leap of faith, very 
 very exciting!! 
  Also theres a few other things which I noticed and gave credit to in the game for example when 
 u have to pick a horse to ride into Damascus (in the early stages of the game) then getting off 
 it to join a group of scholars so as to enter a certain area of the village, you would notice if 
 you had left the horse under the sun, by the time to go back to look at it you would realize the 
 horse would have moved away from under the sun to an area shaded from the sun.. This I saw and 
 I was very impressed.. (or was somebody trying to steal the horse?? feeding it straws be4 committing 
 the "unholy" act?? lol)
  This Game is really worth having, playing and keeping for any Rpg/adventure gaming fans.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theWanderer80
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Why would anyone call this highly anticipated, mostly highly regarded game a tech demo? Read on 
 and find out why.
  
  Let's cut straight to the chase: The first couple of hours you spend with Assassin's Creed will 
 undoubtedly raise your hopes in anticipation of a truly epic game. The first time Altair looks 
 down upon one of the huge bustling cities is truly a gaming moment to savor. What mysteries and 
 adventures await you in such a massive ancient metropolis? Who are the interesting characters you 
 might bump into on your journey to uncovering the political conspiracy that threatens to start 
 a war?
  
  The technology developed to build the world of ancient Persia as depicted in Assassin's Creed is 
 truly next-gen. Throughout your travels you'll only see load screens when crossing into a neighboring 
 city otherwise you're free to explore the thousands of cubic meters of space without interruption. 
 Each of the 4-5 cities, depending on what you count as a city, are densely populated with people 
 from all walks of life who'll dynamically react to your actions. These factors alone make the world 
 of Assassin's Creed one of the most authentic and believable open worlds seen in a video game to 
 date, and it did possess that title prior to GTAIVs release. Impressive stuff!
  
  Where the game falls down is the gameplay. The mission structure is just convoluted and the tasks 
 that you are required to complete have no bearing on completing any of the assassinations other 
 than the game forcing you to do it to get access to the target. 
  
  For each of your 12 targets or so the mission structure goes like this: Get access to the area 
 your target occupies by climbing various towers that dot the cityscape. This supposedly refreshes 
 your/your ancestor's memory of the area which allows you then to go gather information about the 
 best way to take out your target by either eavesdropping on strangers whose connection to the plot 
 is never made very clear, pickpocketing letters, maps etc from other insignificant peoples or doing 
 very simple tasks like collecting 20 flags or killing a few guards in the allotted time for a fellow 
 member of your assassin brotherhood. Then you're free to go take out your target. The stupid thing 
 is you don't even have to follow the guidelines set out in the information you gathered so you 
 feel like you did it all for nothing. You can just barge right up to your target and take him out 
 then take out anyone who tries to stop your supposedly high intensity escape.
  
  The game again falls flat with the combat system. The combat system, rather than rewarding skill 
 and speed, depends more on timing and nothing else. And considering the sluggish pace of fights 
 it takes absolutely no skill at all. So fights with the usual 5-8 guys are just plain dull and 
 take ages to finish as only one or two foes attack at any one time while the rest stand around. 
 To further slow the pace of fights down at least 50% of attacks will be blocked. To make matters 
 worse the various weapons and abilities you get as you go along don't alter the way you fight very 
 much at all.
  
  Outside of these mundane activities there is little else to do in the world of Assassin's Creed. 
 There isn't one single supporting character that you get to know well, you don't even know anything 
 about Altair other than he's a stubborn pain the a$$ who asks too many questions for no good reason. 
 You can collect the hundreds of flags dotted around each city but that gets old after the first 
 20, so I don't even know if the reward is worth the trouble. Oh, I lied, there are also 50 Templar 
 Knights you can eliminate using the sluggish combat system the reward for doing which is also unknown 
 to me. 
  
  The only thing that this game does right is the free running and climbing of any structure Altair 
 can touch, however this doesn't require any skill either. All you're required to do is hold the 
 sprint button and push up on the left analog stick and Altair does the rest whether it's running 
 and jumping across rooftops or climbing walls.
  
  It really is a shame that Ubisoft Montreal went to the trouble of building this magnificent enchanting 
 world but don't provide any means to suck you into it by limiting what should have been a hundred 
 different things to do. 
  
  So that is why Assassin's Creed is more a tech demo than a game. For a game to be a good game, 
 or a decent game at least, there has to be a plot that justifies your actions or gameplay that 
 rewards skill or smarts and Assassin's Creed fails to do any of these.
  
  A classic combat system that rewards speed and skill, an in-game economy i. e. the ability to make 
 currency and trade it for items that assist you in your quest, and various side missions given 
 to you by people you meet would have done wonders for this title but as it stands, with Altair's 
 lack of assimilation into the impressive gameworld around him, this title is an amazing technical 
 achievement but a poor excuse for a game.
  
  Oh and the graphics engine is amazing.
  
  **Sighs and shrugs solemnly, "What could have been?" ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmiillee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. I have spent many hours playing this game assassinating many people. It 
 was awesome. The graphics were life like, the gameplay was perfect and the story line!! Oh the 
 story line is sooo exciting.
  
  Although I have a friend (note: that's only one friend!) that doesn't like the game, and thinks 
 it's a waste of money, I reckon the only reason that he doesn't like it is that he is terrible 
 at it. But practise makes perfect.
  
  I loved this game, I hope that you will too. Definately worth the wait.
  
  
 
  
  Graphics -10
  Gameplay -9.5
  Storyline -9
  Controls -9.5
  Overall Enjoyment -9
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  It's not a great game. It's good but not great. The graphics sure are outstanding. But the gameplay 
 is average at best. I don't care about the repetitiveness in the game. I complain about the boring 
 fights with the soldiers or the targets of your investigations. I expected a lot more. But I think 
 that the story and the amazing graphics really are the most satisfying things about Assassin's 
 Creed. The end yeah it's confusing but that is because it's going to be a sequel.
  I'm an open minded gamer who likes a lot of kind of games but in this genre there are so much better 
 games before this one. Try buying GTAIV, Ratchet & Clank Future Tools of Destruction, Devil May 
 Cry 4 for example. This one... skip it until you play those games instead. It's not bad but I'm 
 kinda dissapointed with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  It's funny how much praise this game has gotten. I honestly don't see what is so compelling about 
 it besides the freerunning, big cities, and the decent story.
  
  Gameplay-Assassin's Creed is a action game that mostly revolves around doing assassinations as 
 the name implies. There are three large cities two run around in. That's the best part of the game: 
 running around. You can literally climb any ledge that sticks out more than two inches. There are 
 a ton of tall structures that are a blast to climb, especially the huge cathedral in Acre. The 
 cities are very large, but they aren't very varied in layout; most everything is just a sand tan 
 expanse. The story has you replenishing your rank after making a bad decision that broke the assassin's 
 creed. You have nine assassinations to complete and while they are the best thing to do besides 
 just run and climb, they still aren't very varied and leave you wanting for more. Side missions 
 include collecting flags, killing small targets, and gathering information for your main kill. 
 The story has another deeper twist that I won't tell you about, but i pretty much told you what 
 you do in the game. As you might expect, you get bored pretty quickly. The thing that I don't get 
 is why this game got such good reviews and an extremely similar game in terms of gameplay Spidrman 
 2, got horrible reviews back in the day. I just don't get it. There is no multiplayer as well.
 
  
  Graphics-The graphics are very nice looking, albeit the monotone colors and the major framerate 
 issues. These to things drag this catagory down, and it's a shame since, from a standstill, the 
 game really looks great.
  
  Sound- The sound is pretty good with the exception of the voice acting. It is really overdone actually 
 and altair's voice is too American, despite the story. Overall sound is average.
  
  Value-While the single player will take you a while to complete, it really gets repetitive and 
 the story is the only thing that keeps you going. There isn't much replay value either and there 
 is no multiplayer. i wouldn't buy this game, but definitely give it a rent.
  
  It's a shame that this game's hype has gotten it such good praise when really, it is nothing special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhm36
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  finally after I got my PS3, I played this game and it was really great, fighting style, game play, 
 story line and the graphics all of them great.
  
  I like game like this, I think any one have PS3 he most have this game as well.
  
  you'll not 
 be confuse or miss in the game, all your way is clear and simple, and the game is not extremely 
 hard and it's not so much easy, it's just all right.
  
  there's 4 cites, masayaf, acre, damascus, and jursalim, and all the cites are big, u can go where 
 ever u want to go in thees cites, and population in thees cites are big.
  
  if you play only primary missions you'll find the game is too short, but if the primary and sub 
 missions you'll find the it will take some time with you.
  
  when I played the game I felt like I'm inside the game, because how great it is.
  
  this game 
 should have full mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muff07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Visually this game is a Masterpiece (As of release) , The story confusing but intriging and yet 
 there there is something missing from this game.
  
  First of I will start of with the free roaming. The general free running is more solid than any 
 game that has preceded it with the pyshics making the falls and jumps look extremely realistic 
 with even the clothing moving and wrinkling as would be expected in real life. 
  
  The combat is interesting to begin with yet with any knowledge of the block and counterattack button 
 becomes far to easy as you become able to take down an entire army with no affect on your health, 
 with only a limited amount of both weapons and kill types it soon becomes repetitive and dull.
 
  Even if the guards do make you turn tail and flee it is far to easy to escape than it should be.
 
  
  The actual main mission types lack any really variety with similar types of missions to gain knoledge 
 of the target and a simple kill and run technique will make the game easily completable.
  
  After the main story of the game is finished there is no real incentive to continue with only flags 
 to collect and templars to kill two tasks which are not intresting in the slightest.
  
  There are some major frame rate glitches and screen tearing which athlough not making the game 
 unplayable is a major nuisance and occurs even after the patch (athlough not to the same extent) .
 
  
  The game does however feature a very polished soundtrack which sets a good tone for the game is 
 one of the games major positives.
  
  The story is solid and some aspects of the game with improvement could become very good. Perhaps 
 the Sequel will achieve the hype this game failed to meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmizzle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  At the time of writing, there really isn't anything like Assassin's Creed. 
  
  The promise of a free roaming, play-it-your-own style game set in the medieval kingdom of heaven, 
 is irresistible on it's own, and surely deserves merit just for going out on a limb and not just 
 being another run of the mill action adventure which the xbox 360 and PS3 are seeing in increasing 
 quantities recently.
  
  However, the game falls sharply off the mark, and due to its own repetitive nature becomes everything 
 it was trying NOT to be.
  
  Play Assassin's Creed for 20 minutes, and you'll be happy with the plot, pleased with the game 
 play and ecstatic over the visuals. Play for 3 hours, and you realise that you haven't really progressed 
 in the game at all. All you are doing is further and further sub-missions without any real assassinations 
 at all!
  
  I think maybe if the developers had maybe spent 30 minutes "brain storming" a few extra mission 
 ideas, just to break up the tedium, this would have been a contender for best game ever. 
  
  Assassin's Creed 2? Yeah maybe they will sort out the inherent problems, but the brilliance 
 of the idea, and unique nature of this game will have been lost.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Hello peoples and peeps and sheeps and yada yada yada okay so lets cut to the chase. I have been 
 playing this game for some time now and I must say it has many many good qualities and over all 
 is a superb game. I will start with the negatives. for one it is often at times as people claim 
 repetitive but absolutely loads of fun. That is the only negative for this one.
  
  Now cupcake lets start with the positives. First and foremost the story line was a little sketchy 
 at first but then has you engulfed hungry for more like an angry bear rrrrrrrraaa!!!!!
  anyways i just had a moment so dont worry about it. back to the game shall we. The detail in this 
 game is absolutely amazing. It does not leave one stone unturned and the action is great. The graphics 
 are absolutely razor sharp and will cut you if your not careful. This game all and all is a masterpiece 
 that every gamer should have for his or her collection. It has my stamp of approval and for those 
 that know me know that does not come very often. The only thing stopping this from getting a perfect 
 score is the lack of new mission content such as refering back to the repitition and the other 
 thing is the annoying flags that they want you to find. IT WAS LIKE TRYING TO FIND ALL THE HIDDEN 
 PACKAGES IN GTA! Other then that this is a solid game that offers many hours of fun. Go and get 
 it kiddies. I mean adults and dont let your kids play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamepro0062
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed tells the story of a man, Altair Ibn Al-Ahad, (The Flying One, Son of None) who 
 is stripped of his rank in the brotherhood due to his arrogance and repeatedly putting his "brothers" 
 (teammates) in danger due to his pride. To get back his rank, he has to eliminate 9 dangerous men 
 who are "Templars" , the main antagonists in the story.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay.
  
  You as Altair must repeatedly visit mainly these three cities: 
 Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre, where the main targets of the assassin are located. To actually 
 assassinate them, however, you need to get information, by means of eavesdropping, pickpocketing, 
 and interrogations. You can choose how and when these objectives are completed, and when you're 
 not investigating, you can roam all around the cities. You can make friends, save citizens, etc. 
 But if you're not careful enough, you'll find yourself on bad terms with the soldiers a lot. When 
 you first play the game, you find it's fun, but it only lasts for so long. Unfortunately, the game 
 starts to become tedious, and you'll find that you're doing the same thing, over, and over, and 
 over. 
  
  Graphics and sound:
  
  The graphics are awesome and the game somewhat plays itself out as a movie. The sound effects are 
 also great, and so is the music, which changes depending on what status you are (exposed, hidden, 
 or normal)
  
  AI:
  
  To be honest, the AI can be intelligent, but also pretty dumb. It's very easy to be hidden when 
 they chase you (they can't even find you when your sitting on a bench in the open) . But, on the 
 plus side, the soldiers can put up quite a fight, especially the bosses, which is pretty cool. 
 
  
  Story:
  
  The story is really interesting and keeps you guessing sometimes. There's awesome dialogue and 
 scripting, and the voice acting is awesome, unlike many games, when the characters sound corny 
 and crappy... The end of the game is also awesome, but I won't spoil that for you if you didn't 
 play it yet.
  
  Overall:
  
  For a game that had so much potential, it was a bit dissapointing, especially with the gameplay, 
 which was really boring at times, but, for me, the good outweighed the bad, and it was an overall 
 good experience for me. You may want to rent it first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best adventure games I've ever played. You ply as Altair, a member 
 of an organization of assassins. I won't spoil the storyline but you basically go around and assassinate 
 whoever your master tells you to. The creed you belong to basically keeps order throughout the 
 land. The ones you must assassinate are in 3 cities. The story gets really repetitive at times. 
 You first get the order to kill someone. You then go to the city and get information on the target 
 by doing various missions. These missions are diverse but I found myself doing whatever type of 
 mission I was most comfortable with over and over again. The final step is to actually kill the 
 target and escape to the cities Assassin Bureau. The weapons you use are limited to a sword, dagger, 
 throwing knife, and fist. Besides the main story line, you can do other things like help an innocent 
 civilian who is being harassed by the guards. Doing this will give you rewards that may be helpful 
 when you are being chased by the guards after an assassination. You can also find various flags 
 throughout the land which I believe give you some sort of health bonus. I recommend this game to 
 anyone who doesn't mind repetition. This game is truly a work of art both graphically and with 
 originality of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amkalfus
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game really sucked me in quickly. The only problem is, it really didn't keep me there. The 
 first couple of assassinations... wow... the last couple... nothing. I was fighting sheer boredom 
 and straight anger just wanting to finish this game. I didn't really even get into the story cause 
 for one, I couldn't read any of the text on my tv (why is the next gen of gaming just crappy on 
 older smaller tvs?) , and i just wanted to finish my missions. Then, at the very end, they dump 
 a bunch of story on me! They should just write a book...
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  I have to say this about the gameplay, it is awesome for a little while. The first couple of assassinations 
 you do are breathtaking. It seems like so much fun saving civilians, doing missions to get information, 
 easedropping, pick pocketing, scaling the rooftops to get away from the local law enforcement. 
 It is really awesome... at first. You do the same thing in every town and there are only three 
 towns which you visit multiple times. I was trying to do everything in every town to see what that 
 would do... it in creases your health! Awesome! Until your health maxes out... then it doesn't 
 matter. And, there are the same people in every town. Every civilian you save says one of four 
 things, finding all of the views points is fun but not when you have to do it 8 times per momory 
 per city! It is just so repetitive! I couldn't believe it! This was a major disappointment for 
 me.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics here aren't perfect, but they are pretty damn close! The first time i left the starting 
 city and rode my horse to some cliffs... i stood back in awe. for a video game! now that is impressive. 
 the character models look really good too. the cities are just huge and full of people. i do have 
 to say that this is the games strong point.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The voice-overs are very well done, all of the people chatting throughout the city, the people 
 preaching, all superb. The worst voice acting is you... i didn't even wanna hear myself speak in 
 this game. very drone and dull...
  
  Value: 5/10
  There is no replay value here, once you beat the game, believe me, you won't want to go back.
 
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  You should just got out and rent this game, don't but. You will just end up selling it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The Open World Bit Is Great But its a short game with dumb AI your kid got an hand of it JT will 
 complain of kids being to dumb and walks in to walls for no reason without thinking the gameplay 
 is good the fighting style is great but the AI is dumb the only guy on a wooden thing you kill 
 him but you stay there the guards are like Huh what happened here. secondly the game is a bit short 
 not as short cod4 but the storyline is great the voice acting is great and the wall climbing is 
 good but if your a wall climber gamer buy spider man 3 for ps3 not ps2 the game mite not be short 
 but it may be gta i don't know. ok this stuff dont read cos its just to make more words for 100 
 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 `ugfd hgfds jhgfd hgfd hgf g hghgjg h jhj 
 h jhh k jk j kjjkj jkjkj kk j it is hard to make good reviews big plz giv thumbs up k bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illustrated212
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, this game is Really good and addicting at times! But not always! Sometimes this game 
 can get very boring and sluggish to play through! Maybe this game is a little overrated, maybe 
 it's just me! Either way this is still a good title that should be in your Game Collection, this 
 is why;
  
  Story 8/10 - Decent! If you liked the movie, Kingdom of Heaven, then you'll love this! It has a 
 pretty decent story of how you have to take out 9 Historical Characters, and has some really solid 
 cut scenes! But there is Two major problems with the story! First, you have to play through some 
 sluggish moments in the game just to see the entire story unweave and second once you do get to 
 the end, it leaves you with a really crummy ending! The Story really isn't the strong part of this 
 game!
  
  Gameplay 8/10 - Pretty Solid! The Gameplay and Controls both are very good! It's very addicting 
 and time consuming, Flag hunting and trying to find all the Templar's in the game! It's also really 
 fun to scope out your target and there surrounding area, before you take them out! Saving Citizens 
 in the Cities are also a bonus, but when this is all your doing for about 20 hours, it can really 
 get sluggish and boring at the end! But nonetheless this game still has very strong and really 
 fun Gameplay!
  
  Graphics 9/10 - The Graphics are Gorgeous in this game! There is a lot of cool details that went 
 into doing those little cut-scene finishing moves and Counter Attacks! All the City's and Surrounding 
 areas are amazing to look at, and really helps you feel more into the game, with all the Beauty 
 and Detail that went into it! Citizens and Guards look very well done as well as the Templars, 
 and I really like how just about everything looks so well done graphically in this game, This is 
 without a doubt the strongest part of the game, with it's slick next-gen looking Graphics!
  
  Difficulty 8/10 - At first, this game can be a Struggle! Your weak, you don't have any of your 
 awesome Equipment or Skills, and you can't take on more then 2 Guards at a time! I like every time 
 you assassinate a Target you get a little bit or your Rank restored! I also like how this game 
 slowly progresses you from a weak Nobody into a Natural Born, Butt-Kicking Killer! Only problem 
 is, once you get strong enough, you can take out a Entire Village single handedly, without really 
 breaking much of a Sweat! It just seems after the half way mark of the game, what was a Challenging 
 game turns into more of a walk into the park! I just wished the game could of still gave me a little 
 bit of a challenge towards the end!
  
  Overall 8/10 - This was a great Game! Yeah there is some sluggish and boring moments in the game, 
 and at times a weak story! But this didn't stop me, from thoroughly enjoying the game! It has some 
 really great moments, a lot of thrills, some really amazing Graphics and anybody who loves watching 
 Kingdom of Heaven, like me, this is defiantly a Must for your game collection! Even though the 
 replay value isn't the greatest, and the Campaign is fairly long, This game will keep you entertained 
 for Months if not Years to come and shouldn't be missed!
  
  "As-Salaam-Alaikum!!" -Saladin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaj1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  There was a huge hype when it came out so i thought i had better give it a try. Its started off 
 great and the stelath kills are priceless but every mission was the same always three steps to 
 an asassiantion and then it was over. Too much of the same and even the killing got boring after 
 a while. Great if you like doing the same things agian and again but otherwise i would leave it, promising 
 story set up and intresting idea but it gets lost doing the same missions and same killing. A variety 
 of missions would help to keep me going for longer or maybe customisable stuff. It was intresting 
 how with each kill he got more and more dissalousioned and to be honest a saw the ending from a 
 mile off.
  I would rent it first and if you love it then why not get it but bear in the mind the rest of the 
 game will exactly the same.
  
  +
  intresting concept
  knife kills
  Huge areas to climb
  
  -
  Repitive
  Glitches
  No variety 
  Too much of the same thing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irungxc
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is good but gets repetetive. The story isn't that good and is Da Vinci Code esque. 
 I found myself getting bored with the game and only kept playing to see the end of the story that 
 wasn't very good. The story is weird and confusing. Somehow after you assassinate someone they 
 keep talking to you and there is a lot of really long boring dialogue scenes. The gameplay is good 
 but nothing really changes from one assassination to another there all exactly the same. If your 
 curious about the game its definetley worth a rental but I don't think it's something you'll keep 
 playing after you beat it. If you think you want this because of its great graphics I would get 
 Uncharted Drakes Fortune before I get this Uncharted is best looking game to date. I would reccommend 
 this game for your Gamefly or blockbuster rental account but its not worth owning it has bad replay 
 value. All you do after beating the story is collect flags and kill templars while you actually 
 earn things for doing that in Drakes fortune and other games. In closing don't buy it rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a great game to play, unfortunately there is no live play on this game witch 
 is it's downfall but the storyline is immense are very well thought off how they make a modern 
 story and put an ancestor of an assassin in a machine and look at his memory and it's like a jigsaw 
 puzzle 
  
  the fight simulator on assassins creed is the best i have ever seen on any of the games i have 
 played there are so many moves blocks and dodges that you will gradually learn through playing 
 story mode. you also gain new weapons like more improved throwing knifes and swords
  
  The Graphics on this game a immense you can clearly see the detail on the structures off the scenery 
 and when you preform a move.
  
  In my opinion i think they are gonig to make a Assassin's Creed 2 and continue but in the modern 
 life version. 
  
  I would recomend that you do get this game it is allot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nine-Tialed_Fox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my my opinion one of the finest games in the freaking world! It stretches on a 
 bit but it's still awesome!!!! If you own a PS3, X360 or DS, get this game!!!! I'm telling you 
 it's great! You are a headstrong assassin who is stripped of his high rank due to defiance to the 
 Assassin's Creed. In being stripped of your position, you are forced to start from the very begining 
 of assasin's training. As you complete missions in various places in Israel, such as Damascus and 
 Jerusalem, you earn higher and higher ranks you discover that in reality, you are not assasinating 
 for the sake of peace, as told by the leader of the assassins, but for havoc ( I think... sorry 
 if this isn't accurate! I never listened to many of the video clips) so when the leader finds out 
 you will not be loyal to this, he turns on you. You fight him and defeat him. That's just an extremely 
 small overview of the game. There's a crap-load of stuff i left out! If you want to find out more, 
 e-mail me at: terter210@yahoo. com, or play and find out yourself. Thanks for reading:) 
  
  
  (This is an exact replica of MY review of the computer version, therefore I cannot be held 
 responsible for plagiarism) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam619jones
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Everyone hyped this game up when it first came out, but the end result wasnt to my satisfaction. 
 It was a really good game at first, learning to climb walls, fight off loads of enemys and help 
 out civilians. But after a few days of hardcore gaming it becomes very dull. The civilians all 
 say the same thing once you help them out, which becomes rather annoying. And all the mini missions 
 are the same, kill someone, assassinate them quietly, help a women in needband yes it is rewarding 
 when you get help from passers by. But it isnt fulfilling enough. The missions arent hard enough, 
 and fighting people can become boring because he only has a few moves, and even though at the start 
 the blood and ways he strikes people is pretty neat it just is too repetitive. The AI is pretty 
 smart, as in when you have done something bad gaurds are wary and when you make too much suspicion 
 they will come after you. Which adds depth to the game and more excitment, but then once again 
 it becomes dull. The main missions are always the same, look around the town, kill some people, 
 save some people then assassinate the boss. Yes sometimes it gets hard in some situations but to 
 be honest the game was way to easy. Saying that the story isnt as bad as I had heard. Now the good 
 stuff, the graphics for the size of the game is by far amazing. The citizens act brilliantly in 
 which the walk talk, fight, scarper when scared etc. When you sit back and think how much effort 
 has gone into this game you start to appreciate the good things more then the bad sides. The fight 
 scenes when you first play are amazing, so much blood and types of special attacks, but then too 
 much is boring, and takes some time to unlock more weapos, which keeps you hanging in there, if 
 it wasnt for the new stuff to unlock then I dont think I would of carried on, when you finally 
 get over the repetivness of the game and get near the end it becomes more challenging but not as 
 much as I had hoped. The new fighting styles, weapons and different citys keeps you hanging in 
 there, climbing was pretty call and jumping into hay stacks but then once again starts to get repetitive 
 because it the same heights, sometimes your wishing why cant there by a really high one in which 
 we can fly down really fast. But this only happens occasionally and even then it isnt that great. 
 Altogether I think that the game was not as successful as everyone had hoped and that it was only 
 thanks to the brillaint scenary and unlockables and new citys that kept me hanging in there. If 
 only it wasnt repetitive then it would of been worth a 9 that gamespot had given. But as it was 
 hyped I was sure that it would get a high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  The thing I love most about Assassin's Creed, is that unlike a lot of stealth games on the market, 
 combat flows smoothly and seems to fit into the game astonishingly well. When I've played other 
 stealth games, such as thief for PC, or Splinter Cell, combat on any decent scale seems awkward, 
 and discouraged, but in Creed, you have the ability to stand and fight a decent number of guards 
 or you can run. The fact you have a choice between the two, to me anyway, is somewhat revolutionary. 
 Unlike other stealth games, the gameplay experience of Creed is not always slow, but can be quite 
 fast and exhilarating. 
  
  The story of Assassin's creed is complex and interesting, on one hand, you have Altair, the 12th 
 Century assassin, who you spend most of the game controlling, and the sub-plot of Desmond, a descendant 
 of Altair who accesses his ancestors memories through the Animus, a machine that replays 'DNA memory'. 
 The two plots intertwine in a way that engages the player, and makes the game that much more interesting. 
 
  
  The controls are simple, and the use of a one-button combat system may irritate some people, but 
 personally I like it, as it means that if all you do is button-mash, you'll never be able to defeat 
 more than a few guards. However, the downside of this is if you become too accustomed to the control 
 system (as it is based on your timing) it makes the combat in the game way too easy, and means 
 you are able to fight off a constant stream of guards without a problem. 
  
  The assassinations themselves are interesting, taking place across 3 different cities, and each 
 target is different, and executed for (originally) a different reason.
  
  This game is a must have for anyone that owns a PS3 or Xbox360, simply for the experience and open 
 ended, immersive gameplay Assassin's Creed offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have heard that Assassin's Creed is incredible, you haven't heard wrong. The 
 games controls, graphics, fighting style, and plot were all well constructed.
  
  The game's main theme is that you are an assassin that has begun to live outside of the rules of 
 the creed for whom you work for. Because of this you are stripped of your rank and must "redeem" 
 yourself by eliminating several key targets, thus restoring your rank. To do this you must complete 
 a series of missions which include pickpocketing, interrogation, and even spying in on conversations. 
 All of this leads to you, in your own methods no less, assassinating your preassigned target.
 
  
  The controls are impressive and help the flow of the game. You have two basic sets of controls, 
 your "low profile" controls and your "high profile" controls. Low profile controls are basic actions 
 that you can perform that will not draw attention upon yourself. High profile controls are controls 
 that are used when you need to escape or battle. You switch between fight or flight using the R1 
 button, making it so that you can quickly switch to defense if needed or quickly take to flight 
 if outnumbered.
  
  Assassin's Creed can feel sort of repetitive for the fact that the same things must be done in 
 every city you go to, but I didn't find this tiring for the fact that it allowed you to try different 
 methods and different approaches.
  
  All in all a great game definitely worth owning! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have heard that Assassin's Creed is incredible, you haven't heard wrong. The 
 games controls, graphics, fighting style, and plot were all well constructed.
  
  The game's main theme is that you are an assassin that has begun to live outside of the rules of 
 the creed for whom you work for. Because of this you are stripped of your rank and must "redeem" 
 yourself by eliminating several key targets, thus restoring your rank. To do this you must complete 
 a series of missions which include pickpocketing, interrogation, and even spying in on conversations. 
 All of this leads to you, in your own methods no less, assassinating your preassigned target.
 
  
  The controls are impressive and help the flow of the game. You have two basic sets of controls, 
 your "low profile" controls and your "high profile" controls. Low profile controls are basic actions 
 that you can perform that will not draw attention upon yourself. High profile controls are controls 
 that are used when you need to escape or battle. You switch between fight or flight using the R1 
 button, making it so that you can quickly switch to defense if needed or quickly take to flight 
 if outnumbered.
  
  Assassin's Creed can feel sort of repetitive for the fact that the same things must be done in 
 every city you go to, but I didn't find this tiring for the fact that it allowed you to try different 
 methods and different approaches.
  
  All in all a great game definitely worth owning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed
  
  This game is fairly good, but if I were you, I would just rent this game. Storyline is alright, 
 even though it is pretty much the same thing over and over again. Game takes place in the future, 
 where a scientist finds out that people inherit their previous family member's memories. Game gets 
 pretty intense at the end, making you want to play the game more and more to find out what happens 
 next. But after you beat the game, it gets so old that you won't even want to play it anymore. 
 I recommend just renting the game and if you absolutely love the game, then buy it. But this isn't 
 one of the best games that has come out these days. It was alright overall. If you like the Prince 
 of Persia series and maybe even a little but of Uncharted, this may be the game for you. The gameplay 
 is very similar with the climbing and what not. Only thing that I must pick on is the fighting. 
 It's very boring. But otherwise this is game is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I had to push myself to really finish this game because I bought it when it first came out. I stopped 
 playing it after half way through when I bought it, but I had nothing to play so I decided to just 
 finish this game. The graphics on this game is amazing. Very big world to look at and very detailed. 
 Ubisoft really puts its effort on this game. The music and sound effects are done perfectly, especially 
 the voice overs. I love the voice over on the main character. The game is pretty good, but kinda 
 too repetitive. You go to a city and investigate about your Assassin's target. Go on top of a roof 
 and do eagle vision, which gives you a look at the city. This will update the map with quest that 
 you have to do, like pick pocket, assassin templars, beat up people, and etc. Once you done with 
 the investigation, you can then go for your target. You'll end up doing the same thing over and 
 over and over again on each mission. Don't get me wrong the game is pretty good. I love the sword 
 fights and stuff. I usually don't run away from guards, I just kill them cause it's fun. If you 
 don't mind the repetitive gameplay, this is a good game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meluckycharms12
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the few that had me purchasing it's special edition. As soon as the game loads 
 up, it gives you a cinematic surprise and fills your head with thoughts and questions.
  
  The atmosphere of the game, taking you into the heart of the crusades, is breathtaking and seamless. 
 The presentation of the story is very well executed and immerses you in the world of the "assassin". 
 You go from tracking a high-priced target to having your rank stripped for your harsh actions. 
 After almost destroying the organization you are in, you have to re-prove your worth and work back 
 the trust of your brethren.
  
  The game plays with a lot of fun, free-roaming style. When you are assigned a target, you have 
 to first collect information to properly dispatch the enemy. This involves talking to people, stealing 
 documents, exploring the districts, and saving the townspeople. This may sound very appealing, 
 but sadly all of the aforementioned items are presented in the same way, over and over again, with 
 no real change in game play.
  
  The graphics and sound are great, but the game play becomes stale in between assassinations. If 
 you don't mind doing similar tasks over and over again in order to achieve a fantastic and rich 
 boss fight, then buy this game -- otherwise I would rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Alex
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the the 1st game i got 4 ps3 (along with risistance) . this game does have a 
 few flaws, but those r easily outweighed by the high points the game has. This game has very little 
 replay value but it's stil fun the second time around if u try things differently and do mire side 
 tasks (like help civillians from the gaurds)
  
  The Good:
  great graphics
  good story (complex but good)
  solid controls that r easy 2 use
  different ways of completing 
 certian tasks
  great sound effects
  good flow to the story
  difficulty was good
  
  
  The Bad:
  little replay value
  tasks can be repetative (ie assassination)
  story can 
 be hard 2 follow at times
  ending could hav been a bit better and explain more
  
  overall, i enjoyed this game and recommend it 2 any1 who likes adventure/platforming games or who; s 
 just looking 4 a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitekiller00
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is definitely one of the best games on the PlayStation 3 at the moment. Assassins 
 Creed is a fun game to explore once completed and can take up to two hours to fully explore. The 
 game itself has a unique storyline however people will either love it or hate it. 
  
  Most people might think that the oldern time settings make this game bad however in all respects 
 it is not. The game has no PlayStation 3 Network so once the game is finished you may say that 
 it is not worth playing but it is definitley worth playing once in a while after you complete it. 
 Why? Simply because there is a huge world that can take up to two hours to explore all the world, 
 kill innocent civilians and get guards to hunt you down on a wild goose chase, many secrets to 
 find throughout the world and many side missions to complete if you cannot complete the storyline. 
 This game can easily last up to 100 hours to complete f you are that mad to explore everything 
 however the storyline takes up to 10 hours of that time.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOBingo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first trailer came out I knew i would want this game. Then as i heard some people 
 say the controls were bad and it wasn't a very good game i decided not to buy it. I finally did 
 though and it is one of my favorite games of all time. The graphics are wonderful and the storyline 
 was very cool. I easily became addicted to it. My only complaint is that i would have liked to 
 seen different weapons. Other than that i have to say it is one of my favorite games of all time. 
 the characters in the game were very cool and Altair will go down as one of those video game characters 
 everyone remembers. This game is a must buy. If you do not get this game you will be missing out 
 on one of the greatest video games of all time. Just keep in mind that when you do get this game 
 you might not be leaving your house for a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Now, when i first started playing the graphics seemed great but a clear disaster and its downfalls 
 were the way the civilians moved around the world. They looked extremely glitchy and there was 
 alot of repetitive speech such as from the stupid beggers which follow you round the cities who 
 sound like stacies mum from Eastenders! The story involved alot of cutscenes where you were forced 
 to watch characters endlessly talk on and on. And it also seems you have to by the second installment 
 to truly understand what the hell is going on. I have to say though I love Altairs outfit I wish 
 I could have the chance to wear the clothes of an assassin! The hidden blade is one of the most 
 simple but best weapons Ive seen in a game.
  Its worth a play but does get repetive and slightly boring the second time round... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is beautiful looking. The surrounding, the civilians, the world detail all look stunning! 
 The environment is so great, it makes the player belive that he is actually living in the medieval 
 era! The voices and the different languages spoken by the civilians add to the great environment, 
 and the world design is actually impressive! I went to Damascus a couple of times and am telling 
 you the citadel and Omayyad mosque looks exactly the same! The similarity between the two is unbelievable! 
 Therefore the graphics and the game design deserve a perfect score, but when it comes to game play 
 the score will definitely decrease! The missions and the storyline is very dull and repetitive, 
 and once you beat the game, I don't think that anyone will still want play it again, in other word 
 it has no reply value at all! Because as you are playing throughout the missions, you are already 
 replaying the missions, there are only 4 or 5 types of tasks that repeat with each assassination, 
 only with different words and different characters!!! Other than that, this game is great and it 
 does deserve to be added to anyone's collection... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  the game looks good , really good , but dont let that fool you , the gameplay just isnt that good 
 , if u were hopping for a gta kinda missions then ur off buying gta itself , coz the missions get 
 seriously repetitive , for example , u have to go to jeursalem to assassinate some1 , u have to 
 do some couple of investigations wich include pock picking , ear dropping, or beating some1 for 
 info , then its on for the assassination , and thts it , u do that like 3 times in each town and 
 the game finishes , wich is lame, and about the story , its kinda bad , in a complex way , especially 
 the ending, wich sucked major balls ,and the game isnt that long , especially with its repetitevness, 
 thats about it , but if u really need to play it i suggest a rent , only rental , maybe the next 
 1 will be better , so hold ur buying money for that one......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spore_fanboy343
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  If you hate history, hate muslims, kikes (bad name for jews) , and Templars then this is'nt a game 
 for you. That beeing said, lets look at the other bad things about this game...
  
  1) The game is made by Ubisoft (a bunch of homo frenchies) which tend to make B- or B+ games and 
 make a fortune selling them, while hardly making any innovations.
  
  2) There are annoying beggars that keep asking you for money (On the plus side, you can end there 
 annoyance by hitting them, or killing them with your knife if your like me. There great for letting 
 and building up steam) .
  
  3) The mssions have the repition of an MMO (Like that h=game for Japs, or koreans as I like to call 
 them, World of f****n Warcraft.
  
  This stuff being said, the game does have it's high points, like having to run from like 3 billion 
 guards after assainating one of your targets, hopping of rooftops and then climbing up on a viewpoint 
 and then jumping in a barrel of hay, with those retarded Rag-Heads wondering where the hell you 
 went. That is f****n awesome in my f'in book and I also love the interesting (yet infuriating and 
 crazy) plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSideGirl17
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. I liked this game. I LOVE the graphics and I love the characters and the voice 
 acting is great!
  
  The problem is... the game was too short. I was so confused in the ending. I understand they want 
 to make a sequel but how can you do a second game without fully ending the first game??
  
  The whole "birds-eye" thing got repetitive, a little useless and sometimes boring. Sometimes, I 
 was a little bored in the game. And sometimes the guys we were fighting were a little hard but 
 I do gotta say I loved those damn horses!! They got me everywhere I needed to be. Also, sometimes 
 I was stuck (for long periods of time) but since i'm not the type of girl to go to a walkthrough 
 without beating a game first... I just kept it moving. 
  
  The good thing was... the game kept me wanting to play. I kept wanting to hear the story and know 
 what was going on. 
  
  So these are mixed feelings. I think maybe you should rent it first, try it out a little and then 
 buy it. The thing is though, theres not much to do after you've beaten an area or the whole game. 
 Although, it is fun to go around and collect the flags and stuff. =)
  
  - DarkSideGirl
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyhn
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  assassins is really a great game and if you do not have it you must buy or get it from a friend. outstanding 
 game play and great soundtrack and there is a lot of hidden stuff. game play is really fun and the 
 difficulty is just right but when you get more in the story mode the difficulty will be really 
 hard and will just makes you go CRAZY!!!!!!!! but jumping on rooftops is a lot of fun and and fighting 
 is really fun and the story mode is great but at the end the story is confusing so this game is 
 really fun and it has sharp controls and sucks you right in. but when i bought it there was some 
 bugs that made the game just suddenly freezing and sadly i had to erase everything and start all 
 over again so ill give this game a  
 and i am impressed ubi soft has outdone them selves and i cant wait for assassins CREED 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyugacrysis
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  5 review for Assassins Creed 
  Assassins Creed 
  
  Published by: Ubisoft
  Developed by: Ubisoft Montreal
  Genre: Action
  Number of Players:1
  
  Assassins Creed is 
 set in Israel year 1191 AD. Assassins Creed revolves around the assassinations of nine key targets 
 in the third crusade. Assassins Creed is best described as a mix between Prince of Persia and Hitman 
 except with no guns. You play as an assassin called Altair. Your main purpose of the game is to 
 assassinate the nine key targets. 
  
  One of the best features in the game is free running. Free running is being able to run anywhere 
 including on top of buildings and houses, being able to jump anywhere even if it kills you and 
 the best part of all any features on walls, houses or buildings you can grab onto and climb on 
 them and you can jump from one object to another while still hanging vertically on a wall.
  
  Assassins Creed has great graphics. Everything looks realistic. The people are wearing cloves 
 that suit that time period like rags. The loading screen is also pretty fun because you can do 
 anything while the game is loading.
  
  Assassins Creed isn't as long as a rpg game but it still is a lot of fun. Even when you finish 
 the game you can still do anything you want to like killing anyone or just running around.
  
  Assassins Creed offers a variety of things you can do. You can eavesdrop on people, you can 
 pickpocket people, you can sneak up behind people and kill them, you can follow people without 
 them knowing and beat them up for answers about something, you can ride horses which you can attack. 
 These things are what makes Assassins Creed a better game.
  
  Assassins Creed is a very stealthy type game. If you kill someone in the middle of the street the 
 guards are going to chase after you and try kill you. You have to be stealthy If you want to get 
 away with killing someone and know one knowing. Theirs a picture in the top left hand side of the 
 screen and when you pass people who are suspicious of you the picture will turn into a circle and 
 flash red when the guards are fully aware that you have done something wrong the whole picture 
 will turn red and the guards will chase after you to make it that the picture goes back to normal 
 you have to hide in places like in a trailer of hay or you can disguise yourself as a group of 
 people that are wearing the same clothes as them and walk with them.
  
  In Assassins Creed there are a variety of weapons that you use for different things. There is a 
 weapon for close range which is meant to be used for killing people in one hit, there's a sword 
 for close range combat, there's short swords used for throwing at people or there's old school 
 style just using your fists.
  
  All over Assassins Creed is a one of a kind game with it's awesome graphics and sound and best 
 of all the free running mode. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys fighting and adventure 
 games or anyone 13 and over. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Lifespan: 8/10
  
  
  
  
  A couple of weeks ago I had the pleasure of chatting to Jade 
 Raymond from Ubisoft Montreal bout Assassin's Creed and now I've finally got to play it and just 
 finished it in time for the review.
  
  Now the game's out I'm going to tell you the big secret as you find out at the start of the game 
 anyway. You play a bloke called Desmond who's being held against his will and being regressed to 
 see what memories his DNA holds. When you go back in time you then play as a cloaked ancestor assassin 
 called Altair who, in a nutshell, has to go on 9 missions to kill 9 dudes in their kingdoms.
  
  You get your mission, ride on horseback, sneak through the gates, do some detective work and 
 then make your kill. That's the crux of the game, so let me go into a bit more detail. It's a mix 
 of exploration and combat. When fighting you can use your sword, a stealth blade for sneaky kills, 
 knives, your fists and throw daggers. You can also run away from the guards to find safe zones 
 like hay bails and crowds and with the press of a couple of buttons do some free running, climbing 
 up walls, jumping across rafters and generally acting like that bloke from the opening chase of 
 Casino Royale.
  
  To find your target, you must do three of six tasks which range from pickpocketing information, 
 beating information out of someone, eavesdropping on conversations or doing tasks for fellow assassins. 
 Once you have the knowledge of where to strike, you must kill your target in full view of everyone 
 and escape to a safe place.
  
  There's too much in this game to describe to you in this review but it's fair to say it's an incredibly 
 accomplished game. This game could have felt clunky to play but for the majority of the team Altair 
 moves freely through the cities  and these places are big. When you climb to high points the view's 
 amazing and there's no loss of frame rate which is a feat in itself seeing as the scenery and characters 
 are incredibly well detailed.
  
  Desmond's subplot is also intriguing and I think there may be a sequel on its way set in the modern 
 day  I hope so that would be very cool indeed.
  
  The game can occasionally get repetitive when riding from city to city, although after you've been 
 to a city there is a useful menu shortcut, and sometimes Altair can start running up a wall when 
 you actually mean to run away from combat due to the context-sensitive nature of the controls but 
 these by no means frustrate or take away the joy from the game. Also, you're basically doing the 
 same thing throughout the game so if you want constant variety this may begin to grate on you after 
 the 5th kill.
  
  I completed this game in ten hours but it will last you much longer if you do all the missions 
 and collect all the hidden flags in the game. It's a fantastic single player game with a compelling 
 story which keeps you playing. It's almost perfect in what it attempts so it gets a well deserved 
 8  out of 10
  ASSASSIN'S CREED IS A bit like having a really hot girlfriend: because she's hot, you'll put up 
 with her moods and all the problems she causes. However, unlike the hot girlfriend, Assassin's 
 Creed fortunately isn't a very long relationship threatening to push you to the brink of a breakdown. 
 In reality, if you do everything except find the flags and kill the sixty Templars (AC's two 'find-hidden-stuff' 
 mini-quests) , it shouldn't take you more than ten hours to complete - possibly even less. 
  
  However, AC's a gaming experience you shouldn't rush for any reason. You should savour it: 
 experience the nice city designs, take in the impressive crowd system, enjoy the horse rides. It 
 might seem tedious to travel between cities, but it gives you the chance to enjoy the game by not 
 rushing things. 
  
  Since you can teleport to a city once you've travelled there once, horse riding scarcely features 
 in most of the game. The game seems to follow this trend. It's worthwhile savouring things at the 
 start.
  
  Later in the game there will be no time for such sightseeing, especially once you start scaling 
 some high buildings. When not cat-lining across rooftops or free-climbing towers, castles and cathedrals, 
 the ancient world will witness what a death machine you are. 
  
  Combat is a series of counters, dodges and attacks, punctuated by timing. Since you fight defensively, 
 it's a matter of watching for attacks or guards dropping their attention.
  
  Initially you might need to bash guards  once you have the counter ability, Altair takes full 
 advantage of his enemies' slowness. Subsequent abilities offset more and more moves that guards 
 try using. 
  
  Eventually, you finish a street fight and are surrounded by thirty or more soldiers, dead or groaning 
 their way towards death. And lead protagonist Altair seems superhuman. 
  
  Once all of his abilities are unlocked, there's very little that can go wrong in a fight, and he's 
 the ultimate badass. And what, ladies and gentlemen, is the point of an action game if you're not 
 the guy who pees on John Rambo's picnic?
  
  AC is not a deep game and the plot is, at best, digestible (though it does manage a few nice touches) . 
 The whole task of investigating your target is equally limited and feels more like items on a shopping 
 list than an exercise in mental ability. 
  
  The rest of the tasks just unlock helpful allies like scholars you can blend in with or vigilantes 
 who will grab soldiers or block their path if you're being chased. The real reason for your existence 
 is to run across the rooftops and stab hapless soldiers on their patrols, ultimately stalking your 
 main target and shaking a hornets' nest when you stab him.
  
  The catch is that Assassin's Creed refines running around a city and beating up its security force 
 to a subtle art. If you go in bashing buttons and kicking every citizen who crosses your path, 
 you will hate this game.
  
  However, if you understand the basic nuances of finesse and timing, it's a game superior to anything 
 yet developed in the Crackdown or Prince of Persia mould. 
  
  That, in my opinion, makes it a pretty damn good game - one of the best, providing you want a sandbox 
 action experience.
  Okay so I preordered the game in the limited edition where you get an Altar action figure (YESH 
 IM TURNING INTO THAT KIND OF NERD!) . I've been playing it for some hours now and here's my thoughts 
 on it up untill now.
  
  The game starts out with a long dumb tutorial with really basic stuff that can't be skipped in 
 it. However the way this builds onto the story is pretty awesome and original. You play as Altar 
 an assassin with quite alot of skills, however he finds himself stripped of weapons and rank in 
 the assassins guild after he breaks some important rules. This is where the game starts, you'll 
 have to build up the character Altar by doing assassination jobs. Lots of fun!
  
  Now, the levels are all pretty much built on the same structure of gameplay, but in different towns, 
 so you face new challenges everytime. First, you have to take a horse to wherever you gotta be. 
 This is kind of a bad ripoff from Shadow of the Colossus, they tried bringing in some horseback 
 action but it didn't really work. Now you just sit there and follow a more or less linear path 
 untill you are at your destination.
  
  When you reach the city gates you must find some way to get in. This can be done by blending in 
 with local scholars, free running past the guards, by jumping at objects that are above them, or 
 climbing the walls. Then when you are inside you must find a high tower like structure to spot 
 things that might help you, mostly people carrying information or people in need of help (When 
 you help people they can return the favor by protecting or hiding you later) . Now that you've had 
 a look at the city, you can eavesdrop at local people that might be affiliated with your assassination 
 target. You can also pickpocket information from them or beat them up and interrogate them. In 
 some cases you'll also find informers from your guild who can help you.
  
  When you've gathered enough information you have to visit the local assassin bureau and tell them 
 what your plan is for this mission, if they accept they'll let you rest untill you are ready to 
 execute the plan, but if they don't accept then you'll have to find more information regarding 
 the target.
  
  Assassinating a target can be really annoying since they mostly have lots of soldiers around or 
 lay traps for you. Some of the targets are pretty easy to kill though. Then when you've succesfully 
 killed a target you'll have to lose the guards chasing you. This can be done by blending with scholars 
 (because they look like you) , making a "leap of faith" into alot of hay... Yes, you actually do 
 that and its way cooler than it sounds. You can also hide in box like thingamadings or... Sit on 
 a bench...
  
  Woohoo, mission complete. Onwards to the next one.
  
  In Assassins Creed its possible to freerun, like I said before. This can be done everywhere on 
 any type of object and there are no times where this looks awkward at all. You can also climb almost 
 all walls in the game, which also looks awesome. What annoys me though is how the camera sometimes 
 moves in weird angles so don't be suprised if you miss a leap of faith once in a while and slam 
 into the ground instead.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing, as well as the music. The voices are also done great, but 
 it gets kind of annoying when you've heard the same phrase being said all the time... They could 
 have improved there...
  
  I'll give the game 9/10.
  
  Could have been better on some points, but it could indeed also have been alot worse. This is a 
 game I think everyone should try at least once in their lives because of the awesome GTA/Prince 
 of Persia gameplaymix.
  
  And of course, what would my posts be without a random picture thingie?
  
  
  Whats that? 
 Oh, its a double!
  Assassins Creed is set in the middle east during the third crusade and takes you through the three 
 major cities of the holy land - Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem, where you take on the role of an 
 assassin named Altair. As you explore these cities your main focus is on the nine key targets that 
 await their deaths. Each of the cities are broken into three sections - rich, poor and middle class, 
 this adds up to nine sections for your nine targets
  
  The controls in assassins creed are unique. Running around rooftops and climbing buildings is really 
 fun. Scaling buildings uses the same controls except you are move the thumbstick to adjust your 
 hands. By pressing down the trigger and action button Altair can climb anything.
  Combat in Assassins creed is actually fun and is rhythm based. You have a sword, throwing knives, 
 the assassins blade and even your own fists in your arsenal.
  
  In order to assassinate your targets you must first do some reconnaissance. Your investigation 
 starts by climbing a few view points - the tallest buildings in the various city districts. Each 
 view point you scale opens up a number of mini missions where you can collect the necessary information 
 required about your target in order to earn the permission to confront them. You might have to 
 interrogate someone, pickpocket and even kill a few templars within a time limit. There are also 
 some optional tasks, like rescuing an innocent citizen from the evil guards. The reward for this 
 is that they may help you when needed by either distracting foes chasing after you or by helping 
 you to get past guarded areas without incident. Though these are fun in the beginning, they quickly 
 grow old and start becoming very repetitive and boring.
  
  Graphically Assassins Creed is a beautiful game. The effort put to make the cities as real as possible 
 is really commendable. The animations are top notch. As you explore the cities you will see women 
 carrying jars on their heads moving through the crowds, orators shouting and preaching at people, 
 guards harassing citizens, drunkards and mentally handicapped people trying to push anyone in their 
 way. Watching the citizens do their daily chores as you hunt your target is really really fun.
 
  
  In the end Assassins creed is a fantastic game, and though it gets repetitive at times, the amount 
 of content that ubisoft was able to pack in it is really commendable. A must have in my opinion.
 
  wikipedia wrote: One of the most talked about features of the game is the ability to get around 
 the game world. Influenced by the parkour phenomenon and its freedom of movement, the player will 
 be able to grab onto and climb "any object that sticks out more than 2 inches", which means exploration 
 of the cities, rooftops, etc. will be possible on a greater scale than in any previous game. The 
 game will also be completely free-roaming, which has led to comparisons withGrand Theft Auto, The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Shadow of the Colossus, and other games. 
  
  Assassin's Creed was featured in E3 2006, where a new system of gameplay was revealed. Only four 
 trailers have been released so far. The title's in-game graphics, as exhibited at E3, more closely 
 resemble the quality shown in the few screenshots that have been released, as opposed to what has 
 been shown in trailers. 
  
  (Much of the following is borrowed from the preview of Assassin's Creed in an issue of Game Informer) 
 Another feature is the intuitive control scheme. Assassin's Creed will employ a new idea that can 
 best be compared to playing marionette of puppeteers to Altair's actions. Developer Jade Raymond 
 states, "What I really like about this concept was that once you understand the controls, you know 
 how to play the game. You don't ever have to look at what the button combinations are. You can 
 invent them as you go along." 
  
  On the PS3 controller, the left analog stick will control movement, and the right will control 
 the camera. However the actual buttons are quite different from normal. X will correspond to the 
 feet, Square will dictate arm movement with weapons, Circle will use the character's arms without 
 weapons, and Triangle uses his head. Also, one of the right triggers will act as a shift between 
 violent and gentle intensities. Here are some examples of each: 
  In Game Fighting. 
  In Game Fighting. 
  
  If the player just uses the left analog stick by itself he will run, 
 but if he holds the intensity button with it, he will walk. Also, if there is a person in front 
 of Altar, the player can press the arms without weapons button (Circle) and violently shove them 
 out of the way. Holding the intensity button will gently move them out of the way. While navigating 
 the rooftops and seeing a set of overhanging building struts, the player can hold X and jump from 
 each one to the other. Or he can press Circle and grab one and swing to each. 
  
  When the player approaches a low wall he has many choices on what to do. If the player run towards 
 it and presses the legs button (X) , then he will hurdle it. As an alternative, the player can press 
 the arms without weapons (Circle) , then he will throw his arms down and vault it. When walking 
 around the crowded areas, the player may hear groups speaking the native tongue of the city. The 
 player can press Triangle to hear the conversation translated, as Altair is multilingual. There 
 is also an "intuition" mode that displays Altair's target as surrounded by a bright aura, thus 
 making them easier to single out. 
  
  Combat in Assassin's Creed strives to be somewhat realistic. Unlike most games, Altair cannot take 
 repeated sword blows and neither can his opponents. Rather, whenever Altair or another character 
 would have been hit by a lethal blow, they will clumsily block it, be at a disadvantage, and lose 
 stamina. After enough stamina has been lost, they will no longer be able to block the fatal blow 
 and will be mortally wounded. During the X06 gameplay trailer, a producer from Ubisoft stated that 
 combat would mostly rely on not becoming surrounded, being patient, and waiting for an opening 
 to strike, rather than hacking away offensively. 
  
  Assassin's Creed aims to bring a new kind of gameplay to the next-gen console experience: that 
 of "social stealth". Crowds, as previously mentioned, play a large part in the gameplay of Assassin's 
 Creed. They can be either a help or a hindrance to Altair. In one segment, Altair blended in with 
 a group of priests in order to get closer to his victim. This was possible because Altair looked 
 very similar to the white-robed priests. 
  
  After Altair's target was assassinated in full view of a busy town square, the crowd erupted into 
 chaos. The developer from Ubisoft mentioned that running into a mob could get Altair knocked to 
 the ground, thus allowing his pursuers to catch him. 
  Altar blends right in, thanks to Social Stealth. 
  Altar blends right in, thanks to Social 
 Stealth. 
  
  Ubisoft Montreal did confirm that a demo of the game will be released before the game hits stores. 
 [1] However, they did not state as to what form the demo will come in. 
  
  An article on IGN announced that Assassin's Creed will also be released on the Xbox 360 [1] and 
 PC [2] . Although it was never stated the game would go multiformat at E3, it was generally assumed 
 it would do so. PC and Xbox 360 versions were confirmed in August 2006. 
  
  There is one known difference between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game. The 
 Xbox 360 version includes a feature to "feel" for a grip when climbing. The rumble of the Xbox 
 360 controller will increase as the player is closer to losing the grip on a wall. This won't be 
 available on the PlayStation 3, as the controller does not have rumble. 
  News has also circulated about a 'sci-fi twist', due to information from developer interviews, 
 and some effects visible in trailers of the game. It is theorized that the historical setting may 
 be a simulation, or perhaps some sort of genetic memory, for purposes of training or other gain, 
 being undertaken by an unknown group in the present or near future. During a trailer shown at E3, 
 the screen would glitch and go fuzzy at times, and at one point where Altair is killed, the screen 
 fades to black and then shows a head's up display with the words 'computer offline'. Ubisoft has 
 confirmed that Assassin's Creed will be part of a trilogy, and has also stated that one or both 
 of the sequels may have a futuristic setting. On September 28, 2006, in an interview with IGN, 
 producer Jade Raymond confirmed that Altair is "a medieval hitman with a mysterious past" and that 
 he is not a time traveler [3] . The 'computer offline' message may be a computer that is decoding 
 these memories, and death in the memory is some kind of glitch in the system. 
  
  This is consistent with this particular design team, as in Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, 
 death was interpreted as a mistake in the Prince of Persia's recounting of his story to Farah. 
 In an Xbox 360 gameplay demo at X06, a screen appears with the words 'memories /01' in the center 
 with "hard drive" on the left and "options" on the right after the character dies. Above memories 
 it says "animus", Latin for "soul/life/spirit" (and where the word animate comes from) and under 
 it are the words "access your genetic memory". The word "shutdown" can be seen in the lower right-hand 
 corner, and the outline of a person can be seen past the words, almost as if the person was standing 
 over someone on their back, and the player can also see on the right-hand side a light bulb and 
 a grate on the ceiling. Also, in the upper-left hand corner on the screenshot, it reads "in progress" 
 so this maybe something involved in the development. 
  The enigmatic death screen 
  The enigmatic death screen 
  
  On December 13, 2006, in an interview with IGN, Kristen Bell 
 (who will have her voice and likeness lent to the game) talked about the plot. According to the 
 interview, the plot centers on genetic memory and a corporation looking for descendants of an assassin. [4] 
 
 It's actually really interesting to me. It's sort of based on the research that's sort of happening 
 now, about the fact that your genes might be able to hold memory. And you could argue semantics 
 and say it's instinct, but how does a baby bird know to eat a worm, as opposed to a cockroach, 
 if its parents don't show it? And it's about this science company trying to, Matrix-style, go into 
 peoples brains and find out an ancestor who used to be an assassin, and sort of locate who that 
 person is.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game with great graphics. The fact that you can roam around the streets 
 is great. The fact that you can get more weapons as you progress through the game is something 
 that keeps you going curious to see what you might get after that killing. Stealth is the best 
 way to execute your foes in this game but nothing stops you from just going right out there and 
 attacking the target head on. The controls are a little strange but once you get use to them its 
 just like any other game that you play. Many of critics say the game is repetative but if you look 
 at every game you do the same type of thing so I dont understand why people complain about that. 
 The game is called Assassin's Creed what else would a Assassin do but assasinate public figures. 
 The idea of the aminus is very strange but i found it to be different but a great twist to the 
 game that I had never expected. I would reccomend this game to anyone who loves a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayu13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  
  As assassin extraordinaire Altar, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy Land in the 12th 
 century: Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre. Each city is beautifully rendered from top to bottom and 
 features meticulously crafted towers that reach for the sky, bustling market squares, and quiet 
 corners where citizens converse and drunks lie in wait to accost you. As you wander the streets 
 (and rooftops) , you'll push your way through crowds of women carrying jars on their heads, hear 
 orators shout political and religious wisdom, and watch town guards harass innocent victims. Altar 
 has a profound effect on this world, but the cities are entities all their own, with their own 
 flows and personalities. 
  
  The visual design has a lot to do with how believably organic everything feels. The cities are 
 absolutely huge, and though you don't get full exploration privileges in the first few chapters, 
 they eventually open up to let you travel seamlessly from one side to another. Everything is beautifully 
 lit with just the right amount of bloom effect, and almost everything casts a shadow, from tall 
 pillars to Altar's cloak. In fact, sometimes the shadows get to be a bit much and may make you 
 think for a moment that there is artifacting on your screen, when in fact it's a character's head 
 casting a shadow on his or her own neck. Every object, from scaffolds to pottery, is textured so 
 finely you feel as if you could reach out and touch it. Animations are almost as equally well done. 
 Altar scales walls, leaps majestically from towers, and engages in swashbuckling swordfights that 
 would make Errol Flynn proud. And he does it all with fluid ease, generally moving from one pose 
 to another without a hitch. Minor characters move gracefully as well, though one of the game's 
 few visual drawbacks is the occasional jerky animation on the part of a citizen. However, it's 
 easy to forgive, considering that the cities are populated with thousands and thousands of individuals. 
 In fact, these tiny blemishes are noticeable only because everything else looks so incredible. 
 
  
  This game is awesome game but almost the same thing like the whole way through yet its still fun 
 good graphics and there are a few glitches with the horse but there rare its still fun. You can 
 climb walls and through knifes which you pick pocket from thugs It has a very good end which makes 
 you want more i have beat it 2 times and its still fun try to make the game harder by using less 
 of what your good at it get a bit more challenging but it makes the game last longer i think its 
 a short game its worth the price and it has a nice twist at the end Not enough can be said about 
 the living
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtiaz2k5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Great visuals and almost realistic looking environment. The movements of the the main character 
 is smooth. Game itself is good but it has less combat maneuver and weapons for its main characters. 
 UniSoft's games is known for its great visuals and realistic environment, such as; Hitman, and 
 Prince of Persia, etc. Therefore, it is no wonder that this game follow up the trademarks. As I 
 mention before, the movements of the main characters are almost realistic looking and costumes 
 are great for its period. Story is all right and somehow goes along with the game but could have 
 done better with the game play by adding more combat maneuver. Overall the game is worth playing 
 and if they do make a sequel to this game then I do hope they make it more interesting by adding 
 intense combat maneuver and with an improve story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeymoto
Rating: 3
Date: May 18, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Stealth. It wouldn't be 21st Century gaming without it. Assassin's Creed is supposedly a stealth 
 action game, but why bother sneaking around when you are just about invincible?
  That's one of the main flaws of Assassin's Creed, along with the appallingly bad storyline in which 
 your are playing as a memory. Wow. 
  I know that some people would disagree with me about the story but I personally think this game 
 was made into a series just so they could make more money than they deserve to.
  The graphics however are superb and so are the character animations but there are a few minor glitches 
 but they don't really detract from the already flawed experience. 
  The thing what really annoys me about this game is the GAMEPLAY. I actually thought in all the 
 previews and stuff that this game would have amazing gameplay but unfortunately not. It is really, 
 really repetitive. It is unbelievable to think that after so much hype surrounding the game it 
 turns out to be a failure of a game. Disappointing and over-hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuKkU
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a very original and great game. You play as Desmond and his ancestor Altair. 
 Desmond has been kidnapped by a group of scientists who has found out that hes from a long line 
 of assassins. They have made a machine called Animus that can go into genetic memories. Genetic 
 memories are memories of your ancestors. They are trying to find something in Desmond's ancestor 
 and master assassin Altair. Now you will learn of what this agency wants and who they are. The 
 story is very confusing and has a horrible cliffhanger ending but it is still great.
  
  The gameplay in Assassins Creed is great. Ill start off with your arsenal. You have your hidden 
 blade that is used for assassinations not meant for open combat. Next is your sword, the sword 
 is used for open and combat and is very powerful is you use it correctly. Then there is your fists, 
 they are used for interrogations. Last but not least your throwing knifes. They are used to kill 
 enemies from afar. Now that I have explained the arsenal i will explain the low and high profile 
 commands. The low profile commands keep you from being discovered like blending into the crowd 
 walking while the high profile commands will the guards suspicious of you. The high profile commands 
 make you run and you can tackle people these are used in chases and to get to places faster. This 
 brings me to the platforming element of the game. Your character Altair is very agile and acrobatic. 
 He can jump roof to roof, climb the highest of buildings and run like the wind by using poles and 
 stuff to his advantage. The platforming is great and make the chase sequences so great it feels 
 like one of those action movie chases.
  
  Now onto the Stealth Part of the game. In the upper left on the corner is a type of status meter. 
 If its white it means nobody is suspicious of you if its yellow they are getting real suspicious 
 of you if its red they know its you if its blue they are searching for you if its green it means 
 your completely hidden. If its blinking yellow they have some suspicious if its blinking red they 
 almost know for a fact its you. Overall the stealth part of the game is great and using a bunch 
 of low profile commands will make no one suspicious of you. The combat is very fun and they put 
 a lot of time and effort to make it this way. When the guards find you, you will enter your combat 
 stance. Low Profile commands will make you only attack and you can step back and forth and grab. 
 High Profile attacks will guard and counter and dodge and break grabs. The combat will keep your 
 reflexes great and its very fun. Now onto the objectives. You will do a bunch of things to get 
 info on your target. From Pickpocketing to Eavesdropping to doing errands for your fellow brothers. 
 There are also side objectives from getting to view points to saving citizens to killing templars. 
 Now I will say some bad things about the game. After awhile repetitiveness kicks in. The game gets 
 repetitive because you do some of the same things over and over again. Overall the gameplay is 
 great.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. Every single building looks great every single citizen looks great. 
 Just everything looks amazing. They made this games graphics amazing just simply amazing. Overall 
 the graphics are amazing. The sound in this game are also great. Each voice is different and sounds 
 great for the time line. Also all the sound effects are great. Overall the sound is great. The 
 value is alright. Once you beat the game theres nothing to keep you playing unless you like getting 
 a 100%. Overall the value is alright.
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is a great game. I would buy this game and play it again and again. It 
 will keep you busy till assassins creed 2 comes out. I give Assassins Creed a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostsinner
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 16, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game was talked up greatly from everyone I know who have managed to spend a good five hundred 
 minimum dollar investment just to play. That's why they have such a hard time being disappointed. 
 That fact they spent sixty dollars on this game. Getting into the introduction of learning how 
 the game worked I felt as if it was dragged out and almost pointless. About an hour later having 
 little fun I questioned if it really was only going to be me on a horse running city to city assassinating 
 people. Very slow in pace I ran around hopping roofs. Two hours crept by and I found myself repeating 
 nothing but a few things. Jumping, running, climbing, pick pocketing idiots, and lame fighting. 
 Noticing only a little change in difficulty brought to a few more guards getting richer city to 
 city. Maybe I could step away from the main quest and get some monks on my side by freeing a peasant 
 from their beat down since they owe an butt head money by killing the butt head. Then kill some 
 Templar Knights while collecting flags in-between assassination missions. So to complete the game 
 and be a professional nerd at 100% they give you DNA strands that cleverly show your progress on 
 how many flags, Templar's killed, civilians, interrogations and assassinations you have done. Basically 
 put there to extend the life of the game and make you feel a bit less ripped off. Sounds like a 
 lot maybe but really it isn't. Repetitive... with lots of emphasis.
  
  Starting off as a man in the future held by some merc/assassination corporation. Your plugged into 
 a bed DNA machine that accesses your ancestral memories through your DNA. Sounds crazy and interesting. 
 They never let you in on it though. Eventually you gain your ancestral ability called eagle vision 
 as the man in the future and can see crazy markings all over the walls of where your being held 
 captive. Disappointed from the very first mission. Started to get this weird vibe from my assassination 
 assigner (leader of the assassins) that my life was pointless and I would eventually seek revenge. 
 Most likely considering he was the prick from the get go that stabbed me in the side. Now he is 
 having me do assassinations for the greater good making me stick to a creed as whack as Americas 
 laws. Maybe there is a president that could get scoped for the greater good. This is a game though. 
 Where is the good sportsmanship. At least they did good at giving away the ending of the game. 
 Wonder if the ending will explain itself in the second joke of a GAME or our all these developers 
 gonna keep spitting out showcase products to make a bank and expand upon it with the sequel.
  If you want to know things wrong with the world, this game has it. Religion and violence. Graphics 
 were probably one of the decent things about this game. Except repeating textures, buildings, and 
 people probably helped. Lack of difference between cities as well. Fighting was probably the most 
 pathetic part of it all. After you get the timing which takes two minutes to get down for every 
 new thing you can do It feels like one button the whole way. Not really doing much.
  
  Over all this game was lacking a game. More of a showcase and a money maker for those sequel seekers. 
 Hopefully the excuse that Playstation game developers our using that they are having a hard time 
 adjusting to the new console ends soon. With PC lead game designers always want to release a benchmark 
 game. If they aren't just leading me on in every way the second one better be darn good in that 
 respect. In the introduction video the main dude you play as uses a cross bow to kill some people 
 and never once do you see that in action again. Use your handy dandy throwing daggers. That bow 
 is sick. Why can't I use that... = ( This game was a tease from the get go and I hope by your overview 
 and my review, I'm not the only one who thinks so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkjfk
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The game is a lot of fun. It is very unique with a great storyline and action throughout the game. 
 Assasinations and some small missions are a lot of fun. It is also really fun running on rooftops 
 while saving citizens on the way. The environment is amazing and being able to go anywhere and 
 climb anything makes the game very realistic. There also is not many games out there like this 
 so if you get the chance I would at least try the game. Although this is overall a good game, there 
 are a few dissappointmens. One down side is that after a while it gets very repetive. One nice 
 thing is that you don't have to do a lot of the repetive content but it is very advantageous throughout 
 the game. I also was a little disappointed in the fighting controls. I am sure these are all things 
 that will be improved for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_sith
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  When you begin the game your immersed in this world that really seems huge, it is very visually 
 appealing and gives a nice emotional experience however i found the game play once mastered became 
 very boring and repetitive and you begin to realize the world is actually small. However if your 
 looking for a game with an ok story which you can smash few in a few hours this game is for you.
 
  
  It really feels like your watching it rather than playing it. The story line is very linear you 
 can not change the path or direction just a little of the order. 
  
  Don't expect a game where you can customize your stuck with what you got, you earn some moves and 
 some weapons but it isn't like a RPG where you can totally customize your character your just awarded 
 a gold sword from a silver sword.
  
  The characters where week i felt they where not totally believable and i didn't get attached to 
 them like in say a final fantasy game. 
  
  ||WARNING SPOILER||
  In the end, though the story was a little interesting i began to feel like the world outside this 
 machine was more interesting than the world inside, but at that point the game stops and your just 
 stuck in the building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggamuffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Although it could be longer and although the story could be more compelling assassins creed is 
 not given nearly enough credit for the way it makes everything feel so much like you could touch 
 it and makes everyting feel like you're a part of it with the unbeleivable detail and accuracy 
 of effects. Here let me just rap this up real quick and put it to you this way, you want to understand 
 why you need to play assassins creed? I'll tell you. When you see the tail of your gleaming brown 
 stallion bounch as it trots kicking up dirt and depressing the dry grass, then suddenly he gallops, 
 you swing your sword and with a swish you cut through lines of the fiendish fighters that keep 
 you from completing your god-like work that is when you will understand why this is the most memorable 
 game you will play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shurien
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The game puts you into the shoes of a medieval assassin named Altair, a nimble figure once part 
 of an elite group of assassins. After a disastrous screw-up with an enemy that leaves a fellow 
 Crusader slain, he must earn his leader's trust  by getting thrown into a series of missions to 
 eliminate key targets in several corrupt cities.
  You'll learn the basics of Altair's skills, including identifying and zooming in on assassination 
 targets (with the help of a color-coded body heat system) ; calmly pushing people aside without 
 making them uncomfortable (this is real important, unless you want unruly citizens giving you away) ; 
 attack techniques (I especially love sneaking up behind someone and impaling them in the neck) 
 and stealth skills.
  
  Most of these abilities get regular use as you complete the nine main and various side missions 
 that make up he game. You'll use Altair's observation skills frequently, climbing up high structures 
 to get a lay of the land, pickpocketing for information and listening in on conversations. Along 
 the way, you ascend old buildings and move across loose boards, simply by holding the correct buttons 
 down while moving with the analog stick.
  
  When it comes to the actual assassinating, Assassin's Creed misses the jugular by a bit. While 
 you'll enjoy singling out a target and causing their death in a number of ways, the aftermath somewhat 
 disappoints. That's because the guards don't really have a full quiver of arrows, if you get our 
 meaning. Sure, they'll pay attention to your behavior and watch to see if you act suspiciously, 
 but they don't know how to handle themselves in combat. You could wipe out the target and his entourage 
 with several quick sword swipes just as easily as you could escape from them, leaving very little 
 to risk. In addition, outrunning guards and hiding from them is pointless because, if by chance 
 they do catch up and ambush you, they don't really attack in droves  only two at a time. At least 
 some of the townsfolk know how to play it smart, sometimes requiring a heated pursuit throughout 
 the city
  
  Ubisoft has done an impressive job recreating a medieval landscape. The game moves very fluidly, 
 whether walking through the crowds or riding on horseback into the next town. Also a plus  you 
 rarely have to fight the camera. Climbing up to the top of a tall structure affords an impressive 
 vista  and of course, it's fun to jump off and dive into a haystack several hundred feet below 
 with nary a scratch.
  
  Even with braindead guards and occassionally repetitive gameplay, Assassin's Creed is worth a stab 
 (no pun intended) . Its scenic presentation, teamed with violent gameplay and an involving story, 
 gives you more than enough reason to step into this killer's shoes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokas1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  A next-gen futuristic game that brings you the Animus device wich lets you check your brain cells 
 and understand the present time wich your ancestor was... That's how Assassin's Creed (AC from now 
 on) present's himself. From first look it introduce's beautiful graphics , strong story line and 
 great tutorial. After whew mission's it become's... A job. Well yeah sure you get to be assassin hop 
 around buildings , do monkey tricks , jump from great hights and kill anyone in city. But later 
 on the missions becomes boring , the sub missions are all the time same and never let's you experience 
 difficulty in game. I MEAN I HAVE NEVER FAILED AT ANY TIME. Like you get to assassin Jerusalem ruler 
 and he has like 30 guard's with him... Hard? No! Counter attack all of them and voila , your the new 
 gladiator. That's whole game. Do 5 same missions that mixes around all the time. And you do this for 
 10-20 hours... Well yes , you get to freely explore the holy lands , get a horse and run around 
 the kingdom and experience breath taking landscapes. Well let's talk about AC music and sounds. AC 
 gives you nice music , that changes by the game goes and becomes. Like here we are walking in the 
 city and boom a guard suspects you and remembers your face! The music changes to down sound and 
 all you hear guards shouting and bad mood of music. About the voice acting. It's terrific! This game 
 has the best quality of sounds you need. The accent of every holy knight , templar assassin and 
 merchant is very extra special. To be honest AC is a good game to roam around the holy lands , expreience 
 future&present mix. If you're a fan of stealth and like RP (helps people to do the same missions) 
 then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlthrasher22
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I don't know that I can add much that others haven't already said about this game. I was very skeptical 
 about the concept of an assasin game set in this time period and it being very enjoyable - but 
 this game was extremely enjoyable. Definitely an epic that you can spend 30-40 hours or more playing. 
 I took that long and still didn't complete all the side missions/challenges. The only negative 
 I have to mention about the game is that it can get a bit repetitive after you've been through 
 a few cities/districts. Even so, the game is challenging/enjoyable enough that the repetition won't 
 bother you. The primary reason being that the maps are absolutely HUGE and allow for a lot of interaction 
 (exploring, encounters with people, etc.) The modern day story line (that crops up between missions) 
 is a bit weird and out of place with the rest of the game - but I'm guessing it was created for 
 just that reason, to add a bit of variety. Things I would have like to have seen improved? Better 
 control of throwing knives (it was all too easy to accidentally throw knives, which are hard to 
 come by in the heat of battle) , better control of horses (acceleration/deceleration can sometimes 
 be jumpy) , and more of a purpose behind the flag challenges. All in all those are very minor issues, 
 though. Of particular note to me was the heights to which you can climb (ex. up some of the church 
 spires/lookout points) and the realism of the view that you get over the entire landscape when 
 doing so. I don't like heights in real life and could actually feel the hair raising on the back 
 of my neck when I would climb to some of the highest viewpoints in the cities (and then do the 
 "leap of faith" dive as designed) . Quite a compliment when a game's graphics can give such a physical 
 sensation. Truly awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunao2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a beautiful game full of killing and blood.
  
  You start Assassins Creed in cave with your fellow assassins ready to kill your target. You play 
 a man named Altair in a virtual machine that let's you go back in time and live yours ancestors 
 life, apparently he was an assassin during the third crusade. During the game you will kill many 
 people ordered by your master but as you progress trough the game you will find yourself in a conspiracy 
 and you have to get out of it real fast before is kills you.
  
  The good aspects of Assassins Creed are climbing buildings, stealth kill anybody or have some attention, 
 flee as fast as you can after you kill a target and the hiding system.
  
  In Assassins Creed you can climb pretty much everything which is a good way to get to a place real 
 fast. The AI is great it can climb walls, make big jumps, basically it can do pretty much what 
 you can. But the coolest thing about Assassins Creed isn't the getaway, it's the killing and how 
 you plan it and it's just fantastic to stab a knife in his back or even stab a sword from his stomach 
 to his back. The hiding system is really good you can hide in benches, hay stacks or some weird 
 barracks.
  
  The graphics look stunning the cities and people just look like a real and it's definitely hard 
 to see the same person twice in the same space.
  The only downside of Assassins Creed is the online play because there isn't.
  
  If you like 
 to kill a guy and run away as a coward this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  The first thing that needs to be said about the game is that it is extremely repetitive. When I 
 first heard about how you had to collect information, climb towers etc. to get to your target, 
 I thought you actually had to put some effort into it. Instead, everything you can do is marked 
 on your map and there is not much variation in how it is done. Especially the "save citizen" feature 
 gets on your nerve very early in the game. Some missions are a bit fun though, but the way it is 
 done is not much innovative. After a while, I felt more like I was working than playing a game. 
 Climbing towers, saving citizens (always the same way) , pickpocketing targets (always the same 
 way) , beating information out of public speakers (always the same way) and killing threatening 
 guards (always the same way) . 
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome, but some major (and by that I mean MAJOR) glitches ruins some 
 of the experience. Still, the atmosphere through the whole game is outstanding. The surroundings 
 look a bit the same though (whats so special about making three big cities, if they are all the 
 like?) , but all in all I can't say anything else than it is pretty impressive.
  
  The controls as well are perfect, and it is really fun to move around the surroundings the way 
 you do. Because of this, the flag collection feature is actually one of the most fun things about 
 the game. When I say that the controls are perfect, I mean the way you move around. The fighting, 
 however, are pathetic (really!) . It feels slow and this to isn't very exciting. There are never 
 more than one guard attacking you at a time, and by counterattacking them they all go down very, 
 very easily. When playing an action/adventure game I do, at the very least, expect some exciting 
 battle.
  
  Then there is the targets. I must say that I am a huge fan of hitman, and was hoping that the mission 
 would be something like in the hitman series. Where you had to carefully plan your attack to make 
 it perfect. It isn't. You move to a spot where the target is, listen to some speech by him, and 
 then you just have to go in for the kill. Silent assassinations are rare, since you always get 
 spotted before you can reach him. Either by psychic guards (!) or by the crowd (mental patients 
 and drunken sailors are really annoying when they make push you around like a toy doll, making 
 everything a chaos) .
  
  The biggest weakness of the game is that isn't very innovative. You aren't free to do your own 
 investigations and to plan your own attack. Unfortunately, because it had some potential to be 
 something really outstanding.
  
  I'm sorry to say that I can't recommend anyone to buy this game. It is worth a rent though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibrita
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is surely a game you won't forget. Why? Because it offers some of the best action/adventure 
 experience that you can get from a video game. Big and gorgeous open world, cool fighting system, 
 you can climb almost on everything and in addition to all of this there is a great story. That's 
 far not everything the graphics is 100% next-generation, everything is fully 3D and there are tons 
 of animation for the main character (Altair) . These things will keep Assassin's Creed close to 
 you.
  
  You will meet Altair, an assassin with very important mission - to stop the Crusaders from taking 
 over the Holy land. He must assassinate all people which are helping the Crusaders, this is very 
 interesting because you have the ability to plan all your moves (how to kill your target, from 
 where to strike, how to run from the guards and where to hide) . You may think that there is a road 
 in the game that is meant to be followed, there isn't such a thing you can do whatever you want 
 at any time.
  
  The thing that most impress me about the game is that the three big cities Jerusalem, Damascus, 
 and Acre are looking so alive and real as they were in the 12th century. And there is one more 
 place called the Kingdom, in which you can ride a horse (which is really fun) this allows you to 
 travel faster from one city to another. 
  
  No one is perfect. The bad thing about the game is the repeating missions (pick-pocking, listen 
 to conversations, getting information or just making a challenge and than again and again till 
 you finish the game) . But it's not that bad because running around the city never gets boring (at 
 least for me) .
  
  I recommend this game to everyone. It's something new and interesting that will stay with you for 
 long time. A masterpiece that shouldn't be mist.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This was by far one of my favorite games ever! The graphics were spectacular and the fighting was 
 sweet! Jumping from rooftop to rooftop was so fun, especially when you grab soldiers and toss them 
 off the roof. There are tons of mini-quests, like saving citizens from soldiers, and do other assassins 
 dirty work. The plot was so complex and stunning, you'll be up all night begging to know what happens. 
 The only problem I could find was glitches. For one instance I was walking down a street and the 
 ground disappeared and I fell in water. But as you can see from my grade, the awesomeness of this 
 game makes up for it BIG TIME! The game tells the story of a guy named Dezmen, who is held against 
 his will by a mysterious company. He is forced to go into a machine called the Antimus, which puts 
 him in the shoes of his assassin ancestor, the assassin ancestor's memory was deep within his own. 
 Anyway, the assassin ancestor's name is Altiear, who has to go around and kill evil leaders that 
 are somehow connected in order to reclaim your rank and weapons. The ending was very surprising 
 to me and I'll tell you right now it hinted at another Assassin's Creed game. I can't wait! I recommend 
 this game to anyone that still breathes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Heyz, this is my second favourite game of all time. The crowd control is awesome. Climbing up anything 
 is amazing and there isnt anything quite like running on top of tall buildings to jump off and 
 land in a stack of hay. The ways to hide from the gaurds is cool. you can blend in with monks, 
 hide in hay, sit on a bench or hide in roof gardens but the roof gardens are a bit stupid.
  
  The fighting system is easy but good and has cool action scenes. The talking in between assassinations 
 are long and get annoying becuase you cant skip them.
  
  Its repetive to look for the information before you do the assassination but the assassination 
 is well worth it. The assassinationg can be done in many different ways.
  
  Overall this is a brillent game and i must have or try at least. It has its down falls but still 
 incredibly awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I initially rated this game at a third of the way through and gave it 8.5. However, last week i 
 traded it in without having finished it because I was so bored of the repetitive misisons. I was 
 only two assassinations from the end but couldn't bring myself to go through the same again.
  
  Overall the game was an enjoyable experience in that the character movement and combat was 
 fun. But the designers seemed somehow to think that this would be enough and you are left with 
 quite a dry experience.
  
  Coming back to combat. This was rather one-dimensional. I'm not questioning the realism as in swordfighting 
 a quick first attack or counterattack is normally the only effective way to get a clean hit. Modelling 
 things in this way however does not make for interesting gameplay. In general the square button 
 is the AUTO-WIN button.
  
  Also, I was not impressed by the frame-rate. Particularly once at the top of buildings, there is 
 a lot of tearing and stutter.
  
  It is a large interesting gameplay environment, but it seems like you never really get to do anything 
 with it. Maybe they just tried to do too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was such a step away from the ordinary, it seemed to be praised when it was first 
 released. I too loved the game at first... There is no doubt that the story keeps you interested, 
 and it's a good thing because otherwise this wouldn't be much of a game. For the first while, the 
 game was very engaging and exciting. Partly because it was so different, but also because everything 
 about it was so simple. The combat was easy to get a hold on, as was the climbing and process of 
 getting information. That honeymoon period ends though after the first couple assassinations due 
 to the fact that every assassination seemed to have the same old process and the same old combat. 
 In other words, it got VERY repetitive. The game was very good looking, but the AI was terrible 
 as one soldier would be fighting you as the others stood and waited their turn. In the end, this 
 is a good game to play, if not just to experience something other than FPS but be warned that over 
 time the game will start to feel a little less intriguing and make you want to just get it over 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  At the begging i thought Assassin's Creed was going to be the greatest game of all time i reserved 
 it right away and whent to the midnight realse. But after 5 hours of playing a noticed this game 
 wasnt as good as i though it was going to be.
  
  Presentation 9/10
  The graphics are stunning you can just climb up to one of the top of buildings and look far out 
 and see the stunning graphics. But there are a little glitches every once of a while.
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  I really dont like the gameplay of this game there was a lot stripped from the 
 previews and it was just kinda of slow paced.
  
  How the Game Runs 5/10
  Load times are just really slow even if you install it, it still takes like 5 minutes ti load when 
 you walk into a city.
  
  So there you have it that is why this game gets a 7.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  when i first got assassins creed it was amazing,
  the graphics
  gameplay storyline superb
  i found the controls great and how i would want them,
  everything 
 was great, but then i completed them game and the ending confuzzled me,
  its very repetative always find info, either eavesdrop or what ever then go and kill some 
 
  then start over again.
  i hope there is a sequal and the improve the bad points,
  great sound effects, i like the side things like help citizens etc ......................
  its 
 worth getting dont get me wrong but after you have played it you relise its the same old thing, 
 and the ending like i said earlier is really a ........... WTF moment but hey! just rent it and complete 
 it not worth buying but still very good in some places,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michigan615
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Before you go out and start thinking about buying this game, I would highly reccomend that you 
 rent it first. Assassins Creed had great potential and could have been one of the best games out 
 there for any system but in the end it is just too boring! Anyone that says this game is one of 
 the best of the year or for the system is greatly wrong! It is very repetitive and it's almost 
 like doing the same missions again and again and again! It was just not even worth playing. With 
 that said, it has incredible graphics and the sounds are stellar. The world is just so realistic 
 and everything seems alive, for me that is the only thing that kept me playing. Also they throw 
 in a good mix of stealth moves which makes it fun as well. However just those couple thing alone 
 don't make a game. Stroy line and Game play make a game and this game lacked in both areas greatly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Well assassin's creed is arugeably the best game for years to come. great gameplay great story. 
 it could be a action game or a stealth game, it all depends how you play it. at the start the game 
 seems amazing. huge maps to run around in, great AI, fun side missions but around the middle of 
 the game you realize that going up to the tall towers gets boring and you could just go to the 
 highest tower or go to a tower in a busy part of town and you could find the things you need to 
 complete your missions. but its still pretty fun running around exploring the city more and more 
 as you go back into the town. the problem is that there are only 3 town you go to to do your missions. 
 it gets pretty irritating after a while hearing the people shouting about joining the jew or chirstians 
 and taking up arms. there are a few glitches as well which is pretty surprising when the game has 
 taken so long to come to us. some missions are also badly placed because you have to assassinate 
 a few people who are close to the patroling guards, which makes life a bit hard. also the ending 
 is not exactly the best in the world, making not much senes, a bit like halo 2. but this game a 
 like a building block for the next-gen stealth/acton games. great game, could be worth buying but 
 defintaly worth aleast a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuslas
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Seriously, here is the game. Talk to old dude, get a weapon. Go on quest, climb up watchtower to 
 reveal area, save some people from guards. Do a sidequest of finding someone or something closely 
 related. Climb some more watchtowers to reveal more area, repeat above. Then after clearing required 
 number of watchtowers, fight level boss. Go back to start of paragraph. 
  
  This game does have great graphics that are very pleasing to the eye. However, while constantly 
 replaying the missions that take place in different areas makes it just plain boring. The execution 
 scenes are pretty cool, the weapons are fun to play around with. Although I only needed the blade 
 and my knife, the other weapons seemed pointless.
  
  
  Pros:
  
  Fun at first, great graphics, crowd interaction, story
  
  Cons:
  
  Gets old fast, way to 
 long to be doing the same thing, no replay value
  
  
  
  I gave it a lower rating than what I would to compensate the other overated reviews. My overall 
 is a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassin Creed is about a assassin named Altair who with his arrogance makes him lose all of his 
 ranks in a creed that he must return his status and honor by assassinating all those who oppose 
 the brotherhood of which he serves under. But there is more to this story than this, yes this game 
 does have a si fi element within it, The story also takes place in the future with a descendant 
 of the Assassin Altair named Desmond, he has been taken prisoner by a secret corporation where 
 they need his genetic code to uncover a great secret hidden by his ancestor. While there, Desmond 
 will uncover twist and plots about his past ancestor Altair. The two stories are intertwined and 
 you as the player will jump back and forth between the both of them to truly understand the story. I 
 wont say to much cause i do not want to spoil this game for anyone.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay in this game is quite simple and easy to jump into. the controls scheme 
 is easy to learn, moving and climbing buildings is no trouble at all and Altair connects with his 
 environment well. The fighting system is just as easy and at times make you feel as if maybe it 
 was to easy. You have your counter system which you will use alot in battle, its very responsive 
 and easy to use, you can dodge attacks if you time it right. you have your light attacks or heavy 
 attacks depending on how long you hold down the attack button. You also have 4 weapons to choose 
 from, your basic sword, throwing knives, hidden blade and your fist for combat.
  
  Graphics: What can i say? the Graphics look amazing. all of the terrain, land and buildings are 
 so well generated, it really shows what the PS3 and 360 is capable of. Even the characters are 
 nicely generated within the game, quite impressive.
  
  Sound: The voice acting in this game is really good. and the best part about it is that every scene 
 is voice acted out, no loose text around here, full acting all around. The music soundtracks are 
 pretty good too, no problems here.
  
  Value: the value in this game i cannot say is as high as expected, well the downside of this game 
 is that after awhile you do the same routine for every mission, they say that you can do lots of 
 different things to complete your mission but thats not really true, after awhile you just get 
 tired of it all, nothing ever changes to mix up the gameplay. You receive a target, you get info 
 on that target, you find that target, you kill that target, rinse, wash repeat. This is one of 
 its major flaws, it just feels rather dull at one point. Another problem with this game is the 
 glitches that some people have claimed to get, me, myself have never encountered any major glitches 
 only small stuff like Altair body going slightly into walls or the game forgetting that i have 
 already saved a civilian yet the two bandits are holding then air.........
  
  But besides all of that this game was really good and i really enjoyed playing it. I recommend 
 this game to anyone that has a PS3 or 360. worth the pick up though you may be better off just 
 renting it because how short the game is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry1989
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  When I first got my PS3 this was the first game I wanted to play. I heard a lot of good reviews 
 and some not so good ones (such as IGN's 7.5) , I mean 7.5 is decent but it definately deserved 
 much much better than that.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are stupendous. The cities are superbly done and it feels like a next-gen 
 game even on SDTV's. Many times throughtout the story I had to pause and just admire the scenic 
 beauty, many many times in fact. 
  
  Story- The story is also really well done. Although at times it does get a bit tedious but the 
 story does pull you in and grabs ahold of your attention... especially at the end. I have read many 
 stories and reviews claiming the ending is confusing and bad, but that's simply not the case. It's 
 a great ending full of twists and turns. Another thing, playing through this game brought forth 
 some of my emotions and it really felt like I was in the game, very few games are able to bring 
 forth the emotions of the gamers, and this one just does that. Your emotions change as the characters 
 in the game also "develop" or change as well. I won't mention any spoilers, so you'll just have 
 to take my word for it. 
  
  Sound- This aspect of the game is superb as well. The cities feel like actually cities and you 
 could hear the citizens going on about their daily lives. Very well done. 
  
  In general, this game was the first of its kind and did many things correctly. Its just an epic 
 game and you need to play it to understand. I know some people may not enjoy and its not for everyone, 
 but at least give it a try. If you devout some of your time to the game and start to follow the 
 story closely and think about it a little, then this game suddenly becomes all that much better.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonygamerchick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  I guess this game just isn't for me. The graphics are stunning. But the dialogue is stilted at 
 best and the voice acting is poor.
  
  I bought it used at a gamestop to save a few bucks, but really, I wish I would've just rented it 
 first to see if I like it.
  
  I've tried to play this game several more times to give it a chance, but I just can not get into 
 the storyline or the gameplay (which isn't too difficult, so that's not the problem) . Maybe I should 
 just truck through it and see if the story picks up, etc. But I find myself so bored during the 
 game that I start thinking doing laundry or finishing up washing the dishes would be more fun.
 
  
  For me to really get into the game, whether the graphics are good or not, I have to consumed by 
 the story... and the story here just doesn't pull me in.
  
  I guess I'll just turn it in for a few bucks towards a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is in my oppinion one of the best games when it came out, although it may be repeitive, 
 it certainly looks and sounds good.
  
  The graphics in this game are some of the best you will ever see, the game looks almost photo realistic, 
 as from every crack in the wall, the textures on clothing of NPC's and to the blood effects, this 
 game just seem's so real. You can espesuraly see the maximam draw distance from the top of many 
 veiw points in the game.
  
  It sounds no different either as the sound track realy sets the tone to this game, it is somewhat 
 very unique. When you are wondering around the city, you can here and see so much, such as people 
 in the large crowds, the religous groups gathering and preaching, and the merchants trying to make 
 money by trying to get people to their stores, when on top of a high point, you can here the breeze, 
 people shouting down below, and if you listen closly, you can even hear dogs barking as well.
 
  
  The characters are very well moddled and voiced very well, the character moddles are very detailed 
 and if you look closely, altier has one thinger missing on one of his hands, thats how detailed 
 they are.
  
  The gameplay is very repeitive, at first it seem's quite good but as you play through, the gameplay 
 gets stale and bland, but it is sometimes pretty fun to just skermish with the guards.
  
  Dispite the gameplay, this game is a must have game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caghan06
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  the game gets a little repetitive because all the missions are pretty much the same (pickpocketing, 
 interrogating, eavesdropping) but this can be overlooked seeing as tho the game is so stunning. 
 i love just roaming around in the city jumping off roof tops. its so smooth and it all blends together 
 very nicely. overall i gave this game a 9 out of 10. it didn't get the full 10 because there were 
 some bits in the game which were quiet annoying like guards on rooftops who would spear you as 
 soon as you get up onto the rooftops after about halfway through the game, so it made roof jumping 
 compared to street running rather slow. the game seems to run a little slow on the PS3 but that 
 can also be forgiven seeing as though the cities are humongous. there are quiet a few cities but 
 they are all very similar looking. i bought this game but i don't think i will replay it for a 
 long long time. its a game where you play once then trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most known and waited games of the year 2007 and now that it's finally 
 it's just what anyone expected. You play as Altair a trained assassin who is kicked out of the Assassin's 
 Creed and you have to work yourself up again. The story is quite amazing and very interesting but 
 the lack of subtitle make it a little difficult for the non-English speakers to understand at some 
 times. The graphics are great and the game-play is very simple, mainly using only one button to perform 
 an action and another one to perform an other action. The fighting is also very simple but because 
 of it's cinematic view which appears at some points it makes up for the real simple way of fighting. Even-though 
 there are only 6 weapons in the game you won't get bored of them because of their many functions 
 and combos which are very amazing to watch as they are to perform. The most important aspect of 
 Assassin's Creed is that you will be able to run allover the place, even-though you cannot enter 
 buildings you can climb almost every single one on the map. The missions are very good and well 
 structured but they are to repetitive and you will mainly have to do the same thing for 9 times 
 throughout the game. Overall it is a very interesting game which I would recommend to anyone but 
 for those of you who usually see also the bad things in games and don't just "fall in love" with 
 it becoming blind, I would say that Assassin's Creed is a fair game and it's worth checking out.
 
  
  My Score 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drknessfeeds
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I can't get enough of this game, I can't put it down and it is my second time through. At this 
 point I only have the last 2 assassinations and looking for all the flags and Templars. My only 
 complaints and hopes for part 2.
  
  I hope they keep the time frame, as far as the 2 story lines going on. While cool I would rather 
 it stuck with inside the animus. The climbing needs a tightening where it seems at time he will 
 not climb despite the fact that he can go higher, just need to move over a bit. More phrases for 
 the people you save, it just got tired with the same "thank yous" over and over. I would like to 
 see more additions to the counters (love countering with the assassins blade but very risky) and 
 combo kills. And make the place just a little more believeable. 
  
  They did wonderfully creating a living breathing world but I have spent so much time playing I 
 want more at this point. I would like to actually see someone purchase something from a merchant, 
 someone riding horses besides me. And have more variety in the npcs that just roam around the city. 
 
  
  These are all just hopes and dreams for the next installment, as far as it is though if you don't 
 own this game, GO OUT AND BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mateusprado
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Assassins is a type of game that you play and stay dribbling, dribbling cause the printers, environment 
 and the mecanic of the game. 
  
  Altair is a perfect protagonist and his abilitys are incredible. The virtual citys are wonderfull 
 and so realistics. 
  
  The missions and objectives on the game are good and interesting: Steal, Kill, Run, to Spy, Kill 
 again... indeed are few ones, but goods and amused. Each Boss you should kill in different situations 
 and it ges rich the progress of game. The history have a lot of mysterious and you to want go to 
 the end.
  
  The worse part of this game is the lack of subtitles for the people that no have fluency on idiom. 
 THAT's SO BAD JADE RAMMOND!!!
  
  Finalizing Assassins Creed is a good game that all people should to play!
  
  Im Mateus Prado
 
  
  Im from Minas Gerais province, Brazil . Game Spot is popular here too!!
  
  (Review in Portuguese)
  AC  o tpico game que voc joga e fica babando, babando pelos graficos, 
 ambientalizao e mecanica de jogo! Altair  um protagonista perfeito e suas abilidades so incriveis. 
 As cidades virtuais so impressionantes e ultra realistas.
  
  As misses so jogo so boas e interessantes, Matar, Correr, Espiar, Roubar, Matar de Novo!! So 
 poucas msm, mas muito divertidas de se fazer. Cada chefe voc deve eliminar em diferentes situaes 
 o que enriquece o jogo. O enredo  muito misterioso e voc vai querer chegar no final.
  
  A pior parte do game  a falta de legendas o que atrapalha os que nao tem fluencia no idioma ingles! 
 Que vacilo JADe RAMMOND!!!
  
  Finalizando AC  um timo game que todos devem jogar!
  
  mateus prado, BH-MG Brasil
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronobst
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that makes you feel free, with its beautiful graphics and environments 
 coupled along with top-notch voice acting, sounds and an absolutely engaging and exciting story, 
 Assassin's Creed is a very special treat indeed.
  
  Being one of my first Playstation 3 games the moment I started playing Assassin's Creed my breath 
 was taken away by its visuals in (HDMI) being easily one of (if not the) best-of-the-best graphical 
 achievements ever in gaming.
  The sun shines and is covered with clouds darkening the environments exactly as it would in real 
 life:
  The shadows are beyond extensive from simple running and jumping on rooftops projecting your shadow 
 on the ground to walking beneath tree canopies, verandahs and wooden palisades, The wind blowing 
 the material on your robes, The splash of mud and water puddles when you walk through them, The 
 stained and dripping blood on your sword when you slaughter an enemy, The dust blowing from the 
 ground of your footsteps, The incredible detail in all the citizens, guards and other NPCs even 
 with there being hundreds on screen at any time and each and every thing about Altair is mind-blowing. 
 Not all can be said about the game's visuals in this review simply because I would be dead by the 
 time I'd finished typing, you just have to play Assassin's Creed to understand.
  
  The story is like that book you just cannot put down no matter how hard you try wanting to see 
 it through to the very end Assassin's Creed's storyline was amazing (makes you wonder if the government 
 hasn't already invented devices like the Animus, and if long forgotten memories really are stored 
 on your DNA and genes.)
  
  The gameplay has had some criticism for being repetitive and whilst this may be true the absolute 
 greatness of the game much, much more than makes up for it :
  The fighting mechanic and system is simple-ish yet extremely effective and fun to play, the executing 
 killing blow moves and counter kills are beyond awesome and entertaining but also incredibly realistic 
 with the facial expressions of an enemy having a sword thrusted through his gut or slicing his 
 throat combined with the viscerally realistic sound effects and screams of pain makes slaying an 
 opponent extremely satisfying and very, very fun, and if you fail to kill an enemy instantly hearing 
 him groan in agony whilst on the ground waiting to be finished off is something really special.
 
  As Gamespot mentioned the ability to climb anything whilst still seeming organic and as if it 
 wasn't meant to be climbed is equally stunning to say the least
  Animations are in all honesty revolutionary, setting a new benchmark for games, while playing Assassin's 
 Creed I never experienced a single jitter in the animations' transitions they were 100% smooth 
 and fluid.
  
  If you don't enjoy Assassin's Creed with its literally photo realistic visuals and masterpiece 
 atmosphere you might want to reconsider gaming as a hobby because this game is easily one of the 
 gems of Next-GEN gaming and just gaming in general and an absolute must own for those who want 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazieHuricane0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  i think this game is absolutely fantastic it should be rated 10. it is one of the best games on 
 the next generation consoles. i saw a review on tv and it said assassin's creed was voted the best 
 game of the year. So that means lots of people must have bought it and if you do not have it i 
 think you should get it as soon as possible if you don't have it you are missing out on a lot of 
 fun.
  The buildings in this game are very detailed and the jump Altair makes is very fun it is one of 
 the best parts of the game the fighting is great, the sound of the swords clashing together is 
 just fantastic it gives you the feel that you are really in a historical atmosphere also it gives 
 you the great feeling that you are in the game. 
  
  the story line is really interesting and it captures your attention as soon as you begin to play 
 it. The graphics in this game is very impressive, the killing in the game looks very realistic and 
 brutal this is a very detailed game and the producers must have taken a lot of time and thought 
 to perfect this very legendary game. the cities are very huge and has rich districts and poor districts 
 it is very great. the weapons you get are really realistic and great looking. the characters look 
 exactly like real humans the horses look great and run really fast so you feel the acceleration 
 in your eyes.
  Overall this is a really great game and i think everybody should have a chance to experience it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy playing this game although really wish that there was an on-line option. The graphics are 
 beautiful, and the game play is enjoyable. Although its not really what I had expected fully. It 
 is pretty much the same ol same ol game. Nothing new.
  
  The problem as I see it is that its pretty but game play isn't all that exciting, a lot of running 
 around for a few basic missions. It feels like more a collection of mini games than an actual full 
 fleshed out game.
  
  During game play you aren't suppose to be seen by the guards - which believe it or not is VERY 
 easy. I completed many missions with guards all around and no reaction from them - I'm good but 
 NOT that good. Its the fact that all you have to do is run into a small crowd, go around a corner 
 etc., and they loose you. A little more pusuit would have been nice.
  
  
  I would recommend just renting it before purchasing it to at least see if it will hold your interest. 
 My interest already seems to be waning a bit. It become repetitive but then so do most games after 
 enough time played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  while it's satisfying and worth playing you'll most likely won't finish it.
  I was a little bit disappointed from the low frame rate it delivers caused by the beautiful animations 
 and stunning visuals, this game reminds me MGS in so many ways.... playing this game is definitely 
 considered as playing a prologue of an "ancient" MGS game.
  Assassin's Creed didn't leave a lot of great memories for me hopefully it will for you.
  what 
 else can I say about AC...
  it is definitely worth playing and fun but it's such a shame that there's no online (maybe online 
 could've kept us playing more)
  you'll spend about 18-26 hours of playing which include a sweet take to history.
  
  button 
 line: get this game from a friend if not rent if you're locked on it then buy it and you'll get 
 enough fun from it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Look at this game. Look at its graphics, its gameplay and its story. Dont you think this game deserves 
 being bought or just rented? Most of this year' games are sequels or even prequels. But this game 
 just changed everything and now a new style of gaming has been invented and there will absolutely 
 be sequels to this game. Or maybe games will copy the idea and make a better or worser game than 
 this game. Seriousely, this game needs to be looked at, there are three enormous and gorgeous cities 
 that you can go through when you waant which gives this game a sandbox style. You can go through 
 the city on foot, or on a horse, because cars dont exist (boo-hoo) . The kind of country or province 
 is huge and fluid and just feels right. So in all, this game deserves to get your money and needs 
 to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with some apprehension, it seemed to me that it would probably suck in the first 
 place because the production would have to beat around the bush with the killing of any one religious 
 sect. But luckily they solved this problem quickly and easily by making the main character an atheist. 
 The environments are just beautiful, the interaction is awesome and the story is very catching. 
 For the main part I loved this game through and through. The only real problem that arose when 
 I played this game was that after you beat it the first time that is it, there is no replay value 
 to this game at all. Though the original campaign will tie your time up for a pretty hefty amount 
 of time. After that there is just no point in playing anymore but to complete the tedious tasks 
 of collecting all of the flags which are scattered throughout the environments. So overall even 
 though this game is an excellent game it could have been somewhat better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil80
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
 not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good not very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has seen well over 500 reviews from gamers on GameSpot alone at the time of the 
 writing of my own. While I might not bring any serious differences in opinion to what has already 
 been said by so many of my peers, I feel that the level of excellence this game displays more than 
 warrants the time taken for me to write my own review. If you have not heard of Assassin's Creed 
 or are just now getting an interest in buying it, I can save you time now from reading the whole 
 review and say it is well worth the price of buying and playing. To see why I say this, feel free 
 to take the time and read the following review.
  Gameplay: 9.5
  If the next consoles are setting the bar of what is to come by Assassin's Creed, then gamers are 
 in for one heck of a half decade. The control scheme is easy enough to pick up and while mastering 
 it will take some time the gamer is presented with so many options they can easily choose which 
 weapons and techniques to favor. The controls are quite responsive and allow you to climb even 
 the tallest of structures with just a few simple movements of the left analog stick and rarely 
 a jump or two. The only controls issues I have noticed so far are a slightly annoying camera that 
 repositions itself in awkward angles after large jumps and the tendency for Altair to jump just 
 to the right or left of a post in the water despite careful pre-jump alignment. I have spent a 
 good hour trying to learn how to properly line up jumps over posts in water and still tend to take 
 a bath now and then. In the grand scheme of things, this is a stealth game and while reliance on 
 brute force can get you through parts of the game you can quickly see how using even the basic 
 stealth measures will help tremendously. Combat is still quite enjoyable if you do opt for a more 
 forward approach but nothing gives quite the same satisfaction as stealth killing a usual hard 
 to fall Templar. The world in which you get to explore is quite large and offers literal hours 
 of quality play time if you decide to be a perfectionist and seek out the 400+ flags in the game. 
 The flags themselves serve as an interesting saving feature as each time you pick one up the game 
 automatically saves. There are other instances where the game will save for you, but keep in mind 
 that there are no true "save points" (except perhaps the few Assassin's guilds in cities) in the 
 game that you can always rush to. In fact, leaving the game while in the main Kingdom will simply 
 plop you down in the smack middle of the Kingdom upon reentry. So keep in mind to carefully choose 
 where you exit the game as you may not appear back in the same place when coming back in. Also 
 keep in mind that any guards you kill will return in full force when you return the game after 
 having left the memory, quit the game or turned off the console. So be sure to complete that assassination 
 attempt before quitting for the day if you have diligently cleared guards for your escape. Missions 
 can get difficult with timed operations and performing tasks while staying undetected from your 
 many enemies. The missions are generally quite easy to find on your own but always remember to 
 check every nook and cranny of a city for hidden sources of information. Perhaps the best feature 
 of Assassin's Creed is that even when you do mess up (such as throwing oneself off the story of 
 a large building onto the street as opposed to the preferred bale of straw) , the game will pick 
 up at the closest save point you last triggered and you are free to attempt the same feat of agility, 
 battle or assassination yet again.
  Story: 9.5
  I have found that actions games are rarely sources of great stories. They tend to have decent enough 
 stories to get you through the game, often end well enough to make you feel satisfied for having 
 played it but never quite amount to something worth thinking on to much. Assassin's Creed breaks 
 from this trend by creating likable characters, a mysterious plot and a story line that just keeps 
 the gamer glued to the screen and wanting to know what happens next. While you can easily miss 
 out on hidden pieces of the story, both in Altair and Desmond's story lines, the game does a good 
 job of not leaving out critical story points that are needed to move the game forward. If you are 
 able to find the hidden story points, the game is further enriched by drawing you deeper into the 
 mysteries they continue to answer. If you have not heard the rumors about the ending I won't spoil 
 anything about it here. It is one best left up to each player to surmise for themselves how good 
 it is.
  Graphics: 10
  It is easy to see why Assassin's Creed was nominated for so many graphical awards. From the main 
 characters to the NPCs walking the streets and the foreground all the way to the distant horizon 
 background everything is just stunning. Every now and then you might notice a small graphical glitch 
 and they become more apparent the longer the longer your PS3 has been running (I imagine the heat 
 from hour long gaming runs becomes an issue for the graphics processors) . Be sure to take advantage 
 of the free moving camera and even multiply camera angles (simply hit one of the main four controller 
 buttons in various scenes) in the many movies and panoramic views. As expected, the presentation 
 in hi-definition (1080i for me) is hard to beat as the graphical quality is simply amazing.
  Sound: 10
  An action game with an impressive story is one thing, but one that combines it with 
 great sound effects and a moving musical score is extremely rare. The music makes a profound impact 
 on the locations you are in. Cities tend to have a musical score that reflects the governing body 
 or the district you are in and they flow in and out with varying emphasis. The sound effects are 
 as real as any movie set to the same era of time. The voiceover acting is a great touch and there 
 are rarely any disappointing performances that I have come across. The screams of guards being 
 tossed into bodies of water or over a large tower are the best touch I have heard in a long time. 
 If you can take advantage of a digital surround sound system while playing this than be sure to 
 do so as it only enhances the experience.
  Tilt: 10
  I know many gamers would find the option to turn off blood displayed as a useless feature. For 
 gaming parents like me who have young ones in the house this little feature allows for gaming in 
 a room with the little ones without fear of exposing them to adult content. While there is still 
 a heavy amount of combat and of course violence (in the form of assassinations) the lack of blood 
 significantly tones down the brutality of it all and even the stealth kills look even more subtle. 
 The game is quite easy to get into and you can also walk away from it for a few days (more like 
 force yourself away from it) and still come back days later and pick up from where you were thanks 
 to the in game markers leading you to your next required action. The number of required actions 
 needed to perform to move through the story is actually quite small. So for those who would rather 
 play through fast and ignore lengthier game objectives that option is there. For those who do want 
 a lengthier game, the search for flags alone will keep you playing for hours on end.
  Overall: 9.8 (10)
  The few flaws in this game alone make it a solid buy and I'm not the least 
 bit ashamed to say that it is a 10 overall. I normally only give a 10 to games that provide hours 
 of initial enjoyment and can then bring it back again on later play through. Assassin's Creed can 
 do just that as various story options can be played out in different orders, you can choose to 
 perform various actions differently and the world you are give is just so large and immersive you 
 can spend days just enjoying it alone. If custom content packages were to be released for this 
 game later it could further increase the worth and replay ability of this game, but I doubt if 
 such content has even been considered. Even if you're not a fan of action games, this may be the 
 one game to pick up if only to say you did play it. The ability to play it from many different 
 strategies, take part in an immersive story and be exposed to some of the best graphics to come 
 to the next generation consoles make Assassin's Creed a class-ic in the making.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigglespot
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I'll concede, before I completely tear this apart, that I have as yet been unable to complete this 
 game as it was boring me to tears. How many haystacks does an 11th century city have any way?
 
  
  While Assassin's delivers the free-running experience that we were all hoping for, the gameplay 
 is simply too monotonous for my tastes. Once you've climbed one building you've climbed them all. 
 Holding down a button and pushing up on the stick doesn't really provide much of a challenge. None 
 of the brilliant game-play we've previously seen from this studio seem to have been brought to 
 this title.
  
  The storyline is poorly presented with sparsely populated cut-scenes giving the feeling that the 
 story line was bolted in at the last minute.
  
  The one redeeming feature of Altaire's romp in "haystack land" is the astonishingly cinematic combat 
 system. This glimmer of hope in an otherwise bland offering leaves me with a warm fuzzy feeling. 
 After all, these are the same people that are working on Prince of Persia 4. Hopefully some of 
 this wonderfully conceived element of A. C will make it through with them.
  
  I just hope this game makes other developers realise that no matter how much eye-candy you put 
 into a title, no matter how non-linear you try to make a game, if you don't keep the player stimulated 
 they will evetually switch off or worse yet give it a bad review.
  
  Sorry Ms Raymond, this one just didn't cut the mustard I'm giving it a 6.0 based solely on the 
 combat system and the tasty graphics (yum) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Simply put, Assassin's Creed is a beautifully-crafted, immensely enjoyable game. The visual design 
 is superb, with immersive environments that throw you into fully-realized and realistic ~12th century 
 Middle Eastern cities. The cityscapes are so rich and vast, they are, at times, truly breath-taking. 
 I NEVER got tired of climbing the viewpoints and diving into the "leap of faith." The bustling 
 crowds were realistic (so much so that they were sometimes irritating!) , and the roving guards' 
 alert levels made things interesting. The one thing I thought was really missing, in terms of realism 
 and flavor, were stray animals (like cats and dogs) , and the camels that seem like they should 
 be ubiquitous during this era. Other than that, I have no complaints about the stunning visuals 
 of Assassin's Creed.
  
  The gameplay of Assassin's Creed was similarly interesting, with fantastic parkour/free-running 
 capabilities, and some really well-designed combat engines. I might have liked to have seen a bit 
 more open-ended fluidity and variety to the available combos and dodges, but overall it was very 
 intuitive and dynamic.
  
  The story was maybe a little weaker than some of the other aspects of the game, but most of the 
 voice-acting was great (though the guy playing Altair was a little flat at times) . The game was 
 clearly designed with sequels in mind, not that that's a bad thing. Some of the side-missions got 
 a little repetitive, but were enjoyable nonetheless.
  
  Overall, I loved this game, and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys an immersive environment, 
 beautiful graphics, and great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danish989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to make clear for everyone that thinks that the game gets repetitive:
  
  Yes, it does.
  
  But what made me go on and complete the game? The amazing storyline, and 
 the different ways you have to carry off an assassination.
  
  This game has been labeled a Must Buy for ps3 by almost every gaming magazine and website, and 
 for good reason too. You have to see it in action to believe how well it carries off the wall climbing 
 from Ubisoft's previous Prince of Persia franchise. It takes the mechanics from there, and steps 
 them one up to create the most realistic and fun way you can climb a wall or building in any game. 
 In fact, it's so perfectly done, that Altair can hold on to any ledge, any windowsill or anything 
 else that comes in between the ground and the top of the viewpoint.
  
  The fighting system, and escaping guards is tricky, and that is why the learning curve is a bit 
 steep. It took me a few times to successfully learn how to cut the guards in half and escape, but 
 when I did, it was all uphill from there.
  
  The game is a lot of fun, and the storyline will definitely get you hooked once you get the hang 
 of things.
  
  Bad Points:
  1. Gets repetitive after a while.
  2. Steep learning curve.
  3. Controls can get a bit irritating, when you just start playing.
 
  
  Good Points:
  1. Great storyline.
  2. Wall climbing, free running, fighting and free roaming elements come together to make a great 
 experience.
  3. Graphics are beautiful.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Overall: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHECKTHISTA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Hi @ all!
  
  I guess we've all seen the trailers. Like the rendered intro video. When I saw that one, i thought 
 "damn, that's it! THAT'S the game!"
  
  Than you must decide
  
  New Game
  Continue
  
  After beginning the a new game, you'll find yourself in the role of a bar mixer in the far 
 future who has been kidnapped.
  
  A strange company is trying to find a "cure" to heal the world in his memories... while they bring 
 him back in the memories of one of his ancestor.
  
  While in the Game you play "Altair" which is member of a secret religious order with the mission 
 to free the world of all evil people.
  
  So far to the concept of game.
  
  now some serious stuff:
  
  ~THE GOOD~:
  
  - you can really climb up everywhere you want
 
  - great long sight
  - exciting dialogs
  - good graphics
  
  ~THE BAD~:
  
  - the fighting is boring, just counter attack and BOOM enemy is dead (if you got luck) , otherwise 
 he kicks/punches the enemy and the you slaughter him while he's on the ground
  
  
  to put it simply, game-play is just BORING!
  EVERY mission is like the first one before:
  
 
  1. You get the objective to kill a certain person and why you have to do so
  
  2. You ride over a massive map to get to the city you have to kill your objective
  
  3. You 
 climb up one og the high towers marked on the map
  
  4. Save some civilians, steal a note, "asking" a person out or listen to some conversations underneath 
 some audience
  
  5. Get the permission to kill your target at an office for assassin's
  
  THAT'S IT!
  
  And this is how EVERY mission is like. Although the story goes along all 
 the time. But i guess this concept is much to simple to make this game the best.
  
  
  
  Result:
  
  All i REALLY enjoyed in this game is to run over the houses, streets and jumping 
 through the air, but when it comes to getting your job done, its just a straight line you HAVE 
 to follow to get near you main target.
  
  If these investigations weren't there, you could finish the game underneath 3-4 hours!
  
  I' 
 am pretty sad about how it turned out, THIS could have been WAY BETTER!
  
  Hope i could help you all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  This game was none stop action between standing up for town folk and chopping down my enemies this 
 game had a great feel of control. Riding a horse to town to town stole some of the fire outta the 
 feeling only cause it was boring after i had no reason to be in those particualr areas. But, thats 
 only cause im tryin to find something wrong with it besides the sour ending setting it up for a 
 part 2 movies style, the game was a smash hit with me. Theres nothing i enjoy better then taking 
 out a city full of guards all cause one bumped into my while i was running that will show the town 
 to mess with a assassin. Theres really almost nothing that cant be done. And after you beat the 
 game try getting all the flags you can who knows maybe they will make a accomplishment for it. 
 I suggest making this one of your must buys an dont dare ever trading it in cause this one is too 
 good to let go. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endakol
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  In terms of gameplay, Assassin's Creed really had the mechanics polished down to every minute detail. 
 Traversing through the cities roofs was a smooth process and made it second nature. Just about 
 everything gameplay wise is perfect all that can really be said here is perhaps there could have 
 been more comboes and more variety to weapon actions. Due to a small variety of moves, the fights 
 untimately come down to evading and countering, or in some cases just countering.
  
  The Graphics where great. The cities you go to are fully alive with crowded streets of soldiers 
 and civilians of all sorts, all who you can interact with in various ways and of course kill. The 
 game really flexes its graphic muscles when you scale the many view points in the game that gives 
 you a birds's eye view of the city you are in most of the time. The soundtrack was good, it could 
 have been better there was not much music in the game, mostly sound and that made the game what 
 it was. the sounds of the places you happen to be in.
  
  There are a few side quest in Assassin's Creed, however they aren't rewarding. There are many objects 
 to collect around the world you travel through and forty Templars to slay but there is no reward 
 for these efforts besides a check list that shows what you left to complete. 
  
  As for the story, it is something truely admirable, in outward appearance the game may seem like 
 just another action game, but there is a twist to the story from the very beginning that may shock 
 some. The story is something you will get into and lucky for us all that there is a part 2 in the 
 works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  If you like killing people for no apparant reason or killing imptant people then this is the game 
 for you. Killing everyone who stands in your way, leaving streets of cities full with dead soldiers, 
 free running to points where you can only dream to get to.
  Gameplay:-
  The gameplay in this game is great, running up buildings, jumping from building to building. It's 
 a new era people, get used to it. This game is unique to any other i've played before. I didn't 
 think much of it but wanted to give it a go. By the time I had assassinated my first victim, I 
 couldn't take my eyes off the screen. It's just great to play.
  Controls:-
  At first you won't really be used to the cotrols and it will take a while to get used to them, 
 but once you have this games a blast. 
  Story:-
  Assassins Creed has a great story to go with the gameplay. You are stripped of your abilities and 
 weapons and have to earn them back by carrying out your Masters orders. It isn't until you assassinate 
 your final target until the story changes. You think you are doing good to the community by killing 
 certain people, but it turns out that you are actually killing these people because your master 
 wants no threats to his treasure. Also whne you are back in the lab you find out that you have 
 the vision of assassins and then it leaves you with a cliff-hanger.
  I hope that there is going to be a sequel to this game because I think it's ace. This is a game 
 worth trying and I hope that another of it's kind is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronokilla2004
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun until the end of the first city. After that, the next city is the same thing. 
 The storyline is so DUMB. Why did you have to be someone from the future going into a time machine. 
 Why couldnt it just be a game about an assassin. It is fun jumping around everywhere but thats 
 about it. Graphics are decent. Gameplay is boring. Killing is easy, Hold defend button and you 
 wont die, defend then counter then defend counter. Waste of time.
  If this game had a better storyline, and if there was other things to do than interrogate then 
 kill this game would be alot better. Way too repetitive. I dont recommend anyone to buy this game, 
 if you are desparate and you want to play it, just go rent it. You can beat it in less than 2 days. 
 You have 4 weapons, you dont ever get any better weapons, you never upgrade your armor, you never 
 upgrade any mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Sadly, there isn't enough things to do in the city. All I know I can do is kill people. The missions 
 are always the same- assassinate, loot, etc. I would give it a 9.5 if there were more things to 
 do. The graphics are really good and the hand and foot placements blend with the environment. you 
 can jump across buildings, swing from ledges, with great finesse. The animation is superb, not one 
 finger is out of place. Platforming, is arguably the game's biggest strength. Even if u pull off 
 a perfect stealth kill, the entire town militia is always on your tail, so stealth does not reward 
 u an easy escape. Because of this, the stealth crowd-blending elements are somewhat wasted for the 
 first two-thirds of the game. It's not until the later half when the guards pull their fingers 
 out and actually start directing suspicion at the hooded person with the sword on his back. All 
 in all, pretty awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craftieman05
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game. It has a lot going for it, but there are a few problems with 
 it.
  
  First let's start with the good qualities. The graphics in the game are amazing. I don't think 
 there is a better looking game anywhere that looks better than this game. The music score and other 
 sound stuffs are great as well. The controls for the game are done very nicely. The games combat 
 systems is fairly good as well. It is a pretty fun game.
  
  Now you may be wondering what the problems are. Well it is very repetitve. The first mission you 
 do in the game is probably going to be the funnest one out of the all. After this mission you do 
 the exact thing over and over and over again. There are a few side quests that you can do, but 
 you probably wouldn't want to complete them becuase they just make the game longer, and your not 
 gonna want to play any longer than you have too. That is the only real complaint in the game is 
 it repetiveness. Even though you do the same things over and over again, some things will never 
 get old. Like jumping from a very very high view point and landing safely in the hay below, and 
 sneaking up behind people, or in front, and then assassinating them with you little hand blade 
 thing. The combat at times can be really slow to almost nonexisting. But you can change that by 
 killing EVERYBODY. Also lastly the controls can do weird things on you, but that doesn't happen 
 frequently. It only did that twice to me, and I played it for hours upon hours. The ending wasn't 
 that bad either, not as bad as some people say it is.
  
  In conclusion I would recommend it. Assassin's Creed can be an enjoyable game. I would not recommend 
 it if you are a casual gamer though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiltont
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game I wanted the the secind I saw it, before it was realised. The storyline of this game 
 is interesting, wierd, overal itis something special. I love the free gameplay of this, with the 
 amazingly huge map (unfortunately with loading screens, but nothing to be to upset about) the sceenery, 
 which I cant get enough of, the abiltiy to climb just about everything, and the amazing graphics 
 which realy gets you glued to the game.
  
  When you start playing this you begin to appreciate what it gives and realy be please with hw fun 
 it is. The fight scenes are realy well done as they arnt as easy as just randomly pressing buttons, 
 and actualy pressing buttons a right timing, and changng through your other weapons. The missions 
 are very fun, saving people, assassinating people, attacking, climbing, hiding. This is a realy 
 COOL game that game fans should own and appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piro_Blaster
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, assassin's creed has some amazing graphics that makes the game very realistic expecialy 
 the buildings. The Gameplay is just has good, being one of the most addictive games in the market. 
 The Music is very good for this type of game and the voices of the charecters are also great. The 
 Story is very complex and confusing expecialy in the end of the game and you probably won't understand 
 the story very well.
  The game is bit small and easy, I think that Ubisoft sould have made the game bigger and harder. 
 The game has also big technical problems. But the game is still amazing while you have finished 
 it, after you finish it the game gets a bit ... boring and you woun't like to play the game again 
 but the first experiece will be amazing. So I think that the score sould be an 8 that could be 
 a 10 if it wasn't so small and easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  wow!, i got this game because i heard great reviews from this game and i just have to say that 
 i wasnt disapointed in this game. absolutly amazing. i love it so much, flying off cliffs and fighting 
 with swords and just total chaos. this game rocks , and nobody should think different. im usually 
 not interested in these type of games, kinda on the fantasy side, but i really do enjoy this game, 
 it might be where i bought a 37 in lcd hdtv , but it was just plain awesome. this game is definitly 
 worth buying, or givin a shot at. i mean i cant say the game is worth a 9 because you cant do as 
 many things such as in grand theft auto, because it s just a whole different genreof gaming. but 
 it is awesome in its own right. i just have one problem with the game, it needs to offer a little 
 more than fighting and great graphics, it could of added a little more features, because features 
 and how they are used are key to an awesome game. but this game is worth playing and gamers will 
 never forget this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was among one of the most anticipated titles of 2007. People had an eye on this 
 game for a while and not just some people but alot. So alot of people expected a game just as good 
 as it looked. But it wasn't, a textbook case of a game looking good but not living up to it. But 
 I state otherwise, Assassin's Creed presentation and design doesn't cover up its flawed gameplay 
 but certainly makes the game worth playing. 
  
  
  Gameplay: Assassin's Creed meaning laws and principles of a group of assassins, is actually set 
 in the future. The crusade Jersuleum setting is actually the memories of an ancestor of Altair-the 
 protagonist of the game. And you will occassionally be coming out of the Animus- the machine that 
 goes into the memories of one's ancestors. The scieitists keep Altair's ancestor at there lab and 
 every day making him go further into the story of Altair. Altair is a highly skilled, arrogant, 
 ignorant assassin who loses his rank after he messes up a mission for the organization. He is stripped 
 of his rank and starts of all over again. He is given a chance at redemption as he begins the assassination 
 of nine corrupted people. But overtime Altair starts to feel resentful of his kills and questions 
 the Creed. The historic setting is beautifully conveyed through the atmosphere of different cities 
 including Jerseleum, Damascus and many more. As you walk through the streets of Jerseleum you may 
 hear occassionally people talking to the crowd on how powerful Saladin is and how he is great while 
 bashing Richard, but if you head over to a city where templars rule your going to hear the opposite. 
 The clothing is going to change, how people talk and there religion. Its clear alot of research 
 was done to produce this kind of detail in the game and its setting. I found it very impressive. 
 Overtime you will gain all your weapons, the sword, the hidden knife, the throwing blades and hand 
 to hand combat. You will also gain new skills as you get promoted but they are not deep gameplay 
 mechanics like Ninja Gaidens. Just simple actions, which I found kind of dissapointing. You will 
 be travling to different cities, taking out different bad guys, but thats where the main problem 
 of the game arises. You will perform the same steps over and over again, ride a horse to city, 
 get past the guards, get to bureau, investigate, than go for the assassination. Though the story 
 takes twists and turns but there is seriously a lack of variety which results in reptitivness. 
 But I managed to look over these problems and enjoyed the beauty of the city and engaging story. 
 You can afterall take different scenerios on how to kill people, but there aren't alot of options. 
 Actually only two, take the man down by the hidden blade or just do an all out duel with 5 guards 
 and the target. The battle system is decent but with a little more work it could have been awesome. 
 Basically you have to lock on to a target, from there you can either attack light or heavy, otherwise 
 wait for them to attack so you can counter it with a combo which results in a new camera angle 
 really adding to the excitiement and style. The combos are well implemented but after more than 
 10 hours of gameplay they do get old. AC is basically a stealth game, you are after all an assassin. 
 Similar to MGS3 system where the guards are alerted you have to hide in Assassin's Creed to bring 
 the level of alert down to caution or suspicious to safe. This is one part of the gameplay that 
 I did not find any problem with, but its not great or innovative either, just okay. At times your 
 on a horse and making it run really fast, when you pass by a guard your suppose to slow down so 
 you don't arose any suspicion, but bringing the horse to a stop takes around 3 seconds where it 
 only takes the guard a second to get alerted. To escape this alert mode you have to find either 
 a hay stack or a small boxed room usually on top of buildings. Thats where Prince of Persia comes 
 in, Altair can climb almost anything and this climbing gameplay resembles Prince of Persia, afterall 
 made by Ubisoft. Running on rooftops allows you to avoid the busy street full of people and gets 
 you to View Points. View Points are places where you are required to look over the city, after 
 this camera rotating session your map gets updated. I do complain that at times you have to go 
 to a couple of view points to find out your next objective but its fine if not fun. But running 
 on rooftops has its downside, guards are stationed on top and when they turn around to see a hooded 
 man all in white with a 2 foot dagger, throwing knives and a long sword, there not going to think 
 your out for a stroll. They directly go from suspicion to alert, after thats its chase time. It 
 can be very intense running, climbing and jumping to get to cover because the guards AI is very 
 good, they climb and get to you fast and wont give you time to think. Laslty, is the investigation. 
 During your mission you are required to do some research of your target, target's location and 
 what there sin is. These investigations come in two forms, eavesdrop on a conversation than pickpocket 
 for a map or info. Or eavesdrop than follow the person to some isolated area so you can punch them 
 around and finally kill them. Its again well implemented but alittle variety would have been great. 
 All in all, gameplay is flawed and can get annoying but someone who is willing to appreciate the 
 game's beauty, presentation, design and story can overlook only so they can be wet willies just 
 every other day. 
  
  
  Graphics/Visual Presentation: Assassin's Creed is beautiful period. All the cities have been designed 
 to fit there residents, for example a city held by Saladin's army has a majority in the Muslim 
 population with alot of mosques and middle eastern dialects as opposed to Templar held areas have 
 churches and british accents. The streets are busy with people, merchants, merchandise, guards 
 and great architecture (architecture.... lame) . When you do a view point look out you will get a 
 good glimpse of the beauty of the city and it is impressive. Cut scenes are not frequent, they 
 next to extinct. But in game scenes are just the same as the in game graphics, impressive. All 
 in all Assassin's Creed is impressive when it comes to graphics. 
  
  
  Final Comments: In conclusion, Assassin's Creed was hyped like crazy but ironically it got nominated 
 as one of the most dissapointing games of 2007 by Gametrailers (it lost to Lair) . The game does 
 have its flaws within its gameplay mechanics and gets repetitive. And there is nothing that can 
 make you look over these things, however overtime you can appreciate for what the game is, its 
 setting, visuals and story. I recommend it to only the most patient Prince of Persia fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin creed is a adventure game where you play as an assassin name Altair. His goal is well 
 simple eliminate 9 important figure. Today I'm going talk bout gameplay, story, graphics and the 
 AI. (AI is mix with gameplay)
  
  Storyline:
  The story is just amazing! The only reason why I continue to play this game is for the story, I 
 try not to ruin anything for you but its very nice in my opinion. But the problem is the ending. 
 You know theres gonna be a sequel but dunno what kind of sequel.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its fun to climb buildings, towers, shops, ladders, stairs and jumping from rooftop to rooftop 
 and the most amazing thing is, it all looks natural. Theres two kind of kill, high profile and 
 low profile. High profile is when you press the running button and the hit button. Altair would 
 jump onto the person and stab him or her on the neck I think. Theres also low profile which well 
 kinda low. You could assassinate a person in front of public with every guard looking at him and 
 they wouldn't automatic attack you.
  
  Weapons:
  Theres 4 type of weapons in the game. First weapon is the longsword. Its the first combat weapon 
 you'll receive. Its so-so. Second is the dagger. Quite simple, small sword yet deadly. Third is 
 the throwing knife. My favorite! By equipping your dagger, you'll also automatically equip your 
 throwing knife. In combat, it can be a gift or a curse. Gift = can accidentally kill a person. 
 Curse = you were saving it for a very "special" someone but it was you're last and you wasted it 
 on a guard. Last is the some kind of hidden dagger. Its basicly useless in combat but very useful 
 if you want to kill people undetected like I stated above. I'm not sure bout the hand. Its not 
 really a weapon but it still can kill people if you're in one on one combat.
  
  Graphics:
  Its very nice. When you go to an point and press triangle ( I think) you're camera 
 would rotate and you'll just look at the scenery. Its nice, but if you're planning to make a hasty 
 retreat to the bottom just for fun make sure you check whether theres hay or not.
  
  Pros:
  -Nice graphics
  -Fun to kill random people
  -Nice to jump around the city
  -Great 
 story in my opinion
  -easy to use controls
  -counterkill is cool! (I think its called counterkill)
  
  Cons
  
  - I heard there was freezing 
 problem, but I never experience it
  - You'll be doing the same thing the entire game
  - Killing random people can harm your health until you finish the game when you finish the game 
 you can kill anyone you wish but the problem is that you'll have to listen to that old man for 
 a couple of minute.
  - Can be slightly easy after a while mostly because of counterkill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Assassins's creeds a good game a huge open environment one to contend with gta. Unfortunately the 
 only thing you'll be stealing are horses. At the very begining i didnt really appreciate the fact 
 of what i had to work with (although there werent many oportunities to use my weapons) but as u 
 will be given back weapons health and abilities as u progress it tends to be very rewarding. As 
 the first game in the series ubisoft did a great job and hopefully if they could find a concept 
 for the second one it should be outstanding. I personally dont think it deserves a 9 from game 
 spot and im even doubting the 8.5 i gave it due to its minor glitches and slight shallowness. I 
 say shallowness as in the fact its a sort of 15 hour game and for a single pplayer only game it 
 tends to be acceptable but lack of options puts its score down for me, just look at what R* did 
 with gta putting mulitplayer into i could only imagine how lovely mulitplayer would have been with 
 assassin's creed. Anyhow there is a slight part of your mind pulling u to get to the end and find 
 out what all this was for. A great game maybe to short and personally the replay value isnt that 
 great but the combat will pull you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Everyone's reviewed the game already, so I will not write about beautiful graphics, interactivity 
 and animation (and these are superb and a-must-to-experience!)
  
  Instead I will list some of my thoughts after completing the game:
  
  - In the beginning I 
 was annoyed by that infamous "story twist"- it ruined the atmosphere for me (though it made all 
 the presentation more logical) . In the end that "twist" was more than justified and I became eager 
 for the sequel.
  
  - Well, quests seemed to be a bit repetitive (though I wasn't playing in one sit) , but still very 
 pleasing and enjoyable. It's a shame that I found some of the features only after completing the 
 game- it would make the whole experience much richer.
  
  HINT: Please take your time and browse all the available emails and other acquired items (letters, 
 maps, etc) that you can find as attachments
  
  - The ending wasn't impressive. So it seemed at the first glance. But you are left with option 
 to walk in the laboratory- the emails reveal so much of the story and make a solid foundation for 
 a sequel.
  
  HINT: After completing the game, an additional room is unlocked (the always locked office room 
 that you can see through glass) . And there is one laptop with just 1 email. Read it!
  
  SUMMARY:
  It is a very beautiful, atmospheric and enjoyable game. I didn't play it as a stealth 
 game neither I did find any real challenges, but that didn't make this experience less worth my 
 time. In the end, it felt like I finished a good historical adventure BOOK :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staysick666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  When I got my PS3 in February 2008, I didn't think about buying Assassin's Creed. But then I bought 
 it, because I saw some gameplay videos. Now, I have the game on my hands (well, on my PS3) . And 
 what can I say? Breathtaking.
  I have always liked open world games (apart from FPS) , and that's why I like games like Grand Theft 
 Auto (by the way, I'm planing to buy GTA 4, so expect my review! :P) . When I saw the gameplay videos 
 of Assassin's Creed, I reconigzed this game like an instant classic. And it's because it IS an 
 instant classic.
  First, the graphics are INCREDIBLE. I have never seen graphics like those. Second, gameplay is veru 
 fun. Moreover, the story is very good, and keeps you guessing until the end. Finally, it's the only 
 game that represents that eravand in that way.
  So, if you like open world games, you can't not try Assassin's Creed. It's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandok
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  This game is truly proof of next gen gaming.
  The storyline is strong but confusing, i personally believe that the whole future/past thing was 
 useless it would have been much better if it was just past. But the storyline will keep you guessing 
 the whole way through. 
  Story 8/10
  The graphics are beyond words if you have a LCD with HD you will be astonished even without HD 
 on a normal tv it is still godlike graphics
  Graphic 10/10
  The game play is fantastic, the movement is all realistic, bumping into people, suspicious guards, 
 climbing all of it is realistic, the hiding spots are a bit obvious and the leap of fight look 
 cool but are unrealistic, regardless the leap still looks mad.
  Game play Combat 10/10
  Combat Game play: 
  The combat is intense and true from guards taunting. to showing scared face's 
 when you kill another guard, a great feature is how if your fighting a group of 6 guards and when 
 you kill 5 of them the 6th might just get scared and run off.
  Once you unlock counter in the game the combat system goes from pressing square to pure sword skill, 
 imagine a guard attempting to slash you, you quickly kick him in the stomach he falls down and 
 u finish it off with a stab to the heart. The combat will be one of you most favorite features 
 in the game 
  Combat Game Play: 10/10
  Overall Score 10/10 
  No matter what system you got PS3/ 360/PC this is a must have game.
  Thank you for reading
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heinzsteinhoff
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  At the first time, the game is great. You feel an incredible sense of freedom, jumping roofs and 
 everything. The graphics at a first glance really make a very good first impression. But two or 
 three missions later, you'll have a permanent sense of deja-vu, always doing the same mission: 
 Go to the Bureal, pick informations about the victim, find a way in the place that the victim is, 
 kill the victim, ok, next mission. You'll repeat this all the game. And well, there is a permanent 
 sense that the game was made hurriedly. The only thing really worth of it is the history and the 
 breaks between some missions that explain the main plot.
  Other failure is the difficulty. After some falls from the roofs and get killed three or four times, 
 you'll be an expert in the game. Because of the high "repetitive factor", the battles are piece 
 of cake (just defend and counter attack, defend and counter atack... Quite repetitive since the 
 enemies can't break your defense)
  Thats all, I don't know why everybody loves so much this game, it is quite boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minibelf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This games had amazing grafficts and came out not so recently. The gameplay is highly beleivable 
 with great combat and stealth that you'll be addicted to the end. If you just got a ps3, his should 
 be one of your first buys. A great thing is the ability to do counter attcks. This gives you the 
 ability to qickly kill an enemy and cause the last survivor to run a awy while you trakc him down 
 and stealth assassinate him. Throwing knives are very useful when dealing with enemy guards. They 
 think they'll just take you out with there bow when BAM! You through a knife through there head 
 causing an instant death. The short blade is useful in combat when you knocj an enemy down, insteade 
 of using your sword, you will through one of your knives to instantly kill him. The short blade 
 has a little more flash to the kills which gives it an extra satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakBrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game is very unique, one unique part is that the fun part of it (being an assassin) is set 
 in 1191 AD, the third crusade which is an era not explored by video games regularly. The other part 
 of the game is a strange plot, you are a descendant of an assassin and you've been kidnapped by 
 a drug company. Well the "drug company" is not what it seems, they have got their hands on an animus 
 which is like a giant computer that displays a person's ancestor's memories. The game play is also 
 very unique you use a puppet control system which is head, legs, armed hand and unarmed hand. All 
 weapons are medieval swords, knives, fists and the trademark hidden blade. And if you've been hearing 
 this game is to repetitive, its a lie you can do everything a different way if it doesn't affect 
 the story. And if you've seen the trailer you don't get a crossbow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iornman420
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  if you dont like this game then you suck realy bad because this is the #1 game of my life. it rocks 
 so much!! it is a master pease born by the gods them self, but any way its attacks are awsome and 
 the story is great. i had a little bit of trouble at the end because i cep on geting stuck or it 
 would freeze. but i finaly got the hang of it because i took it to store toget it perfectly cleaned. then 
 i played it for about 14 more hours and finished the game at night. so the whole story was amazeing 
 and  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchSagexXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I heard about AC like a month before it was released and I began checking out trailers and other 
 videos and I was so hyped!
  When this finally was released, I made sure I bought it and began playing it right away.
  The 
 graphics blew me away! I was playing at 1080p and it looked amazing! When I first began playing 
 it though, it lagged like once on the rooftops then it never came back and just to make sure, I 
 downloaded the patch. The story for AC is awesome! I like the whole setting in AC.... the mysteriousness 
 among other things.... Controls are sorta easy to master and once you get the hang of them, this 
 game becomes an instant blast!
  Other people say that this game is repetitive but it's not. It's actually extremely fun and I happened 
 to like it.
  I must say though, when I first started playing it... I did expect a bit more due to all the hype 
 over this game but it still managed to be amazing.....
  This a must-get for PS3 owners out there.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed comes from the makers of the Prince Of Persia series, it's a game that makes everyone 
 who sees it go: wow. It's a game that shows how attention to detail can be done using next generation 
 hardware and it features some new game play ideas.
  
  Assassin's creed is a game that allows you to play as an assassin during the times of the crusades, 
 where you have to assassinate nine leaders in three main cities: Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre. 
 The connection between the nine different assassination targets will eventually start to show and 
 the more you move on in the story the more you become attached to it. But there is more to this 
 story that you might think, you see the real main character is a modern day guy named Desmond Miles, 
 who's been kidnapped by a bunch of scientists forcing him to go through a process of recovering 
 lost genetic memory of his ancestors by means of a machine called the Animus. The scientists are 
 trying to find out about Desmond's ancestors for some reason which will be revealed to you at the 
 end of the game. The end however is not that satisfying and does not give the story a fulfilling 
 closure. But still it's a very engaging story as you go through it. 
  
  The most amazing thing about this game is the deep attention to detail which shows clearly in the 
 way everything looks and moves. The three main cities are highly detailed and beautiful to look 
 at. Each city has high buildings you can scale called view points, climbing these will reveal the 
 marvelous view of the city and make you appreciate all the hard work the programmers had been doing, 
 for every building you see-small or huge- can be reached and the city itself is full of population, 
 people going around the market each one attending to his own business, you'll notice normal people, 
 beggars, merchants guards, women carrying jars above their heads and the retarded individuals who 
 will push you around if you get too close to them. Trust me when I say that the level of detail 
 is very high. And not just the graphics, the way the main character Altair moves and interacts 
 with everything around him is unbelievably realistic, for example when he climbs building he just 
 jumps and grabs every thing that looks like it can be touched whether it be a small crack in the 
 wall or a stone or a piece of wood, absolutely anything, he'll grab it and climb his way to the 
 top. Another amazing detail is the way Altair walks around the city among the people, for there 
 is a social acceptance system that he must act with accordance to, for example simple walking among 
 the crowd while gently pushing people won't cause you any trouble but pushing them around violently 
 will start making the nearby guards to get suspicious, and the people will panic and so on. 
  
  The game does let you just go and kill someone although that's basically what the missions 
 of the game revolve around, you see the missions go basically like this: you are asked to go to 
 a city to assassinate a specific target, you go around town eavesdropping on people, pickpocket 
 some who carry some important items, and beating the information out from some others. When you 
 gather enough information about your target, you can go to his location and take him out and then 
 report to your master to receive your next mission. 
  
  Naturally as an assassin Altair is forced to carry out his missions as discretely as possible, 
 he has a hidden blade he can use as soon as he closes in on his target, he can also blend with 
 his environments easily like hiding in a hay stack, sitting on a bench between other people, or 
 walk between a bunch of scholars which will be available as you rescue a citizen from a gang of 
 guards for he or she will be so grateful they'll call their friends like vigilantes to stop any 
 guards following you and scholars you can blend with -as mentioned before- in order to enter guarded 
 areas. Altair isn't lacking in the resourcefulness department either, if he gets caught he can 
 run to reach a hiding spot or blend with the environment until the guards awareness level- shown 
 by an alarm system- is cooled down again and you are free to walk the streets again. Even if he 
 gets cornered by guards and has to fight his way out he can use his sword to fight using a number 
 of offensive and defensive moves like counter attacks and evasive moves, these abilities will become 
 available as soon the more you progress in the game for at the beginning levels you'll be bashing 
 buttons for the lack of these abilities but later on you'll be using your new acquired abilities 
 in order to survive the later more difficult levels, for at the final stages you'll be forced to 
 fight your way through a considerable number of enemies in order to move on. Rest assured that 
 it's all fun and exciting.
  
  The audio is also another point where the programmers put some effort to, the voices of the different 
 NPC's give out a realistic tone and every character gives it's rightful amount of realism to it, 
 you'll see it as characters will sometimes speak Arabic and sometimes English, and sometimes something 
 else, the crusaders themselves have different European accents and tones, the only weak point is 
 strangely Altair himself, he always speaks in the same tone. And although as I mentioned before 
 although the performance of the different characters in the game is good, it can get a bit repetitive. 
 But considering all the brilliant work done in this game you'll forgive these minor issues.
  
  There are a lot of side missions that add a lot of length to an already long adventure, you 
 can chose not to get into all of them specially the flag optional game were you have to basically 
 collect a number of flags scattered all around the cities and areas in the game, which can be a 
 really tiresome task but as mentioned before, it's optional.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a really special game, you're gonna want to talk about it to your friends and 
 it's gonna be remembered for a long time, the careful attention to detail in the departments of 
 graphics, animation and audio is impressively amazing. It's a shame that the ending isn't very 
 satisfying but it makes us wanna see how the coming sequels are going to be like. The future for 
 next generation gaming is truly beginning to shine indeed. I'm gonna be anticipating the coming 
 sequel for sure, just like many gamers who try this game will.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfouad
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that many people have been waiting on for a long time. This game was 
 originally PS3 exclusive, now multi-plat, is simply jaw dropping. The graphics are amazing, and 
 the game play is really good as well. I really like the sword play and the throwing knives.
  
  Assassin's Creed so far has a good story behind it, with some interesting twists and unexpected 
 happenings, it will surely keep you wanting more. From what I can tell there is no frame rate issue 
 at all, I haven't played in 1080i though, only 720p.
  
  The game should keep you interested until its over, personally I am already ready for a second 
 one and I'm only a couple of hours into it. It's overall a terrific game.
  
   
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with this game instantly. The puppeteering play control works very well. I am sure 
 many games will copy this style. The story is very well done. If found myself becoming very involved 
 with this game losing track of time on the outside world. When I finished it I was disappointed 
 that it had to end. They set you up for a nice sequel. After playing this I was very happy with 
 my decision to purchase a PS3 and Plasma Screen TV. The graphics will blow your mind. Altair is 
 a Bad A$$!!!! The way you can just walk around all casual like and then jab a blade in to some 
 ones ribs is great. Then you run from the authorities or battle it out with them. It never gets 
 old. I can't think of much to complain about this game. I didn't particularly care for the finding 
 the flag feature but who cares about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2926014
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Well fist of all let me just tell you i didn't like this game!! The graphics are all right but am 
 i the only one that is sick of the same thing that this game is???
  You are a dude that it's from the future (how the hell??) this is were the plot sucks and start's 
 to fail. You get on a machine and blam! You are this crazy ass assasin Altair.
  You get your friend's killed boo hoo you doo lot's of crap kill some crusader's and then you get 
 depromoted. (Till here i thought this was the best game "evah")
  And then it comes the repetitive crap!! All you do it's kill people and the mission's are all the 
 same only the assasination mission's are original.
  Well this was my tiny review i didn't like this game so i have little thing's to say.... I mean 
 if i could curse i would as hell!!!
  DONT BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPA-SNAKE-FAN
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  I really do think given a few months longer in development this game would have been so much better!! 
 Rather than Hype up a date of release Just give them the date when you're certain it's going to 
 be released and spend more time ironing out the details because most people i know would rather 
 wait a little longer if it meant a better game!! I really think the game was great but it just 
 didn't FEEL right. The fighting wasn't fluid enough and the only way to make it smoother was with 
 the kill moves which made it easy and not so much fun! And escaping an enemy when low on health 
 really annoyed me because many times a group as large as 20 men surrounded me with there swords 
 coming at me literally ever second!! They really also should have worked more on the research lab 
 too! I hated them parts!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tron
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  My biggest complaint is that there's maybe 5 variations in the missions and you have to do them 
 over and over for about 15-20 hours. I really hope they fix this in AC 2. It also drives me nuts 
 that in what's supposed to be one of the most advanced games to date, you can't swim, I believe 
 this is just the developers being lazy. While the story was a reasonably new idea and overall satisfying, 
 it was fairly short. I believe this is a perfect example of Gamespot shatting the bed and being 
 lazy in their reviews, maybe if they would have played more than 3 hours in this game they would 
 have given it a lower score. Honestly I'm pretty mad that I listened to them and bought this game. 
 Had I known it was going to be such a turd I would have saved the 50 dollars and bought burnout 
 paradise instead. Seriously don't buy this game, at the very most rent it on a weekend where you 
 don't have anything planned, you might even finish it the first night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  I breathe a heavy sigh of relief as the game finally comes to an end..
  
  This has by far been one of the longest games i've played, in a LONG time. it actually got to the 
 stage where i was playing on, and on, and on, just so i could finish the dam game and thankfully 
 say i completed it.
  
  dont get me wrong, this game was awesome, for the most part. the visuals were stunning. the sheer 
 size of the environment was breathtaking enough, but the attention to detail really set it off. 
 you can tell from each individual environment that a lot of passion and emphasis went into the 
 artwork. this is clearly evident when players scale the buildings. each tiny outcropping and crevice 
 or ledge provides interactivity. and once the viewpoints are accessed, the view literally is breathtaking.
 
  
  having said that, i felt the map size was way too large for what the game essentially offered and 
 provided. you were thrown into the Crusader days, so obviously they had to travel by foot/horse 
 etc. That was cool, but when I play a game with a map as large as this, and so many different areas, 
 i really expect much greater rewards for my adventure and discovery.
  
  sure, there are the many flags to collect, and the Templar Knights to hunt down, but they were 
 minimal rewards in terms of character development and progress. not to mention we rarely find a 
 chance to freely roam the countryside before pissing someone off and being forced to evade or duel 
 a large group of enemies. fun at first, but believe me, it gets old fast, where you curse at the 
 dam game to just "leave me alone!"
  
  the fighting in the game is was always brought a smile to my face. i am a big fan of the combat 
 system, although it did get extremely repetetive and quite easy once you suss out the controls 
 and timing. the combat is actually quite dull and slow until you learn the Counter-Attack move, 
 allowing for those awesome kill sequences on enemies. perhaps dismemberment next time, to add to 
 the already present gory detail. i have to give high mention to one of the short blade counters, 
 where Altair drives the blade into the enemies skull. the sound effects clearly indicate that you 
 just cracked open a human skull, bone crunching and all. i love it.
  
  Assassins Creed i felt was a great game, but it lacked in a lot of areas. the tasks set to the 
 player were tedious and highly repetetive, making the game a real loners experience. this game 
 is definitely one that you play on your own, to save being dubbed a very boring person to be with.
 
  
  My biggest gripe with this game, was the actual, well, point of the game. the story seemed to follow 
 a fairly set path, although the hint of a twist and betrayal was always evident. but i felt this 
 game lacked a vital feature, it needed a strong RPG element or something similar, since it closely 
 borders this game type alongside action/adventure. sure you gain a class and a weapon after each 
 assassination, but so what? that was just a natural progression of the game. you are only required 
 to complete 2 or 3 investigations in order to reach the next assasination task, but i, being the 
 explorer type, decided to complete all tasks and side quests before reaching the target. This was 
 probably the cause for this game to drag on for SO long for me, but my hope was to achieve perhaps 
 a hidden unlock, some vital secret, or new weapons and upgrades. all the player is rewarded with, 
 is an extra bar of health.... after every 15 tasks. 15. sure health helps (derr) but so would a 
 new 1 hit kill move or something. the game needed to offer way more achievements to the player 
 for our tedious and time consuming tasks.
  
  overall i was pleased with the game, but unfortunately i was more pleased with it being over. i 
 highly recommend everyone tries this game, however its probably worth borrowing it off a mate, 
 as it takes a good 4-5 hours to get fully set into the environment. hiring it out might not give 
 you enough time to fully appreciate it. and its one game that once bought and completed, its highly 
 unlikely you'd ever want to pick it up again, even the flag hunting, as i previously said, gives 
 you no great reward except self satisfaction that you completed the game 100%, or if you're lucky 
 enough to own the X360 copy, a few points towards your profile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Assassin's Creed, the game starts off in the modern world with a bartender named Desmond 
 Miles who is captured by a scientist and his assistant. Apprently our DNA holds memories of our 
 ansestors and they are trying to unlock that. For most of the game you play as Altair, a member 
 of the Hashshashin (or Assassins) , a real-life group that performed politically-motivated murders 
 between the 11th and 13th centuries. Set in the Middle East during the third crusade, You traval 
 though three huge cities looking for nine main people who are organizing the crusades. There is 
 just so much to do in this game such as saveing people, listen in of people, do small missions, 
 pick pocketing and so on but they do get reapetive. Also the ending of the game is not that good 
 and does not leave you satisfied with the game.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing in this game. Enviroments are beutifally done and everything 
 looks natural and realistic. Movements are really nice and smoothed out. I'm amazed by how detailed 
 the cites are and how thousands of people in the city are indivially doing something, but seem 
 a block and robotic but thats forgivable.
  
  
  Sound: The soundscore is good and well yeah suits the game for the time period it is set in. So 
 is the voice acting all the characters in the game have good voice acting accept Altair, which 
 was not done as well.
  
  
  
  Value: A ok story, repetitive gameplay elements, and ok AI lead to the downfall of one of the more 
 promising games in recent memory. Also this game mixes elements of the games "Prince of Persia" 
 and "Hitman" but with more freedome. Even though I really enjoyed this game, it does have it's 
 issues which prevented this game from being amazing. Assassin's Creed could have been one of the 
 great games of this generation. Instead, it turned into just another action title. I give this 
 game 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a very beautiful and an amazing game, though it soo repettive that it makes it 
 very boring .
  
  Storyline is taken place in the Holy Land, wher you play an Assassin called Altair ,and you travel 
 back in time from the memeory and find all his DNA stuff with Ancestors .So the story is like very 
 Intruging, but the game is more like a film ,not a game.
  
  Action is there too, but since its realeastic ,the combos dont stand very nicely ,but the counter 
 attacks seem too be fun. Though the Graphics are AMAZING ,very nice and realistic, that Ubisoft forgot 
 about making too be more interesting.
  
  Though you can sometimes explore cities and collect some tokens, and kill ppl, its still get really 
 reppetive
  
  In conclusion, Assassiuns creed is very Beautiful game ,but its so reppetive that it made this game 
 really boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a must have game for anybody who likes stealth games mixed with a little action. 
 Assassin's Creed looks very very good, and the sounds are spectacular. The game has a great soundtrack, 
 and magnificent voice acting. If you are familiar with the game play of the Prince Of Persia series, 
 you will love this game. . The story takes place is 1191 A.. D. Altair, a skilled assassin, has 
 been given 9 targets to eliminate in order to gain his rank back. Along the way, he must pickpocket, 
 eavesdrop, stealth assassinate targets, and interrogate people to get information his targets. 
 But he finds out something else along the way... The game has HUGE maps that you can free roam 
 in and there's a lot of flags that you can collect. The game is easy. That's okay, it's still fun, 
 but it's easy for most of the game until you get to the ending then it gets a little hard. The 
 story is really good, but the ending really leaves you hanging. Good news is that they might make 
 Assassin's Creed 2, or so I have heard. I really hope they do make Assassin's Creed 2 because it's 
 a great story to have and I would really like to have them answer questions we don't know from 
 the ending of Assassin's Creed. Overall though, it's a great game if you like stealth games with 
 a little action and I would highly recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a must have game for anybody who likes stealth games mixed with a little action. 
 Assassin's Creed looks very very good, and the sounds are spectacular. The game has a great soundtrack, 
 and magnificent voice acting. Controls in the beginning of the game feel a little weird, but as 
 you play through the game, it feels really good. The game has HUGE maps that you can free roam 
 in and there's a lot of flags that you can collect. The game is easy. That's okay, it's still fun, 
 but it's easy for most of the game until you get to the ending then it gets a little hard. The 
 story is really good, but the ending really leaves you hanging. Good news is that they might make 
 Assassin's Creed 2, or so I have heard. I really hope they do make Assassin's Creed 2 because it's 
 a great story to have and I would really like to have them answer questions we don't know from 
 the ending of Assassin's Creed. Overall though, it's a great game if you like stealth games with 
 a little action and I would highly recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is quite realistic from others. The swordfighting is deadly. 
 While it's simple button mashing at first, you get deadly combos to play with. You can do this 
 by pressing the R1 and square button and you'll either stab the enemy through their stomach or 
 slice their neck (which is really cool from my prospective) .
  PLOT: The plot in this game takes place in four major cities: Masyaf, Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem.
 
  
  STORY: The story in this game is game is there is nine templar leaders that Al Maulim wants you 
 to assasinate. There is also a sci-fi twist which really shouldn't of been added cause it can annoy 
 you sometimes.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in this game are truly amazing! You can scale buildings and even look at 
 the beautiful sight!
  
  CONS: There's not that many cons in this game. There can be some glitches and there is also long 
 and I mean long loading times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_Els
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Game was mediocre to good, but it was lacking something and couldnt make up for the hype the preceded 
 it but i'm looking forward to its sequels, i'd reccomend this game for a second hand purchase price, 
 good ubisoft you better make up for it with number two.
  
  Ok you can jump around just about anything and and climb and fall ect ect. 
  
  The visuals 
 are damn good but way up close they eat poo and grime.
  
  Sound effects will make you wanna stab a man (in game!) and get you feel as if your in year 1000 
 and something in the middle east.
  
  Now i did enjoy the escape parts of the game where you had things like suspicious, seen and calm 
 and those are pretty much the alert phases, BE WARNED this alert phase has been used in all the 
 metal gear solid's far before this was made and the mgs (metal gear solid) alert phase kicks this 
 imatations butt.
  
  The fighting was really , really , really....... really.... boring but ok, and after a while the 
 game got a bit repetative, but I think that this game wasn't great it was... ok but i am expecting 
 alot more out of its sequel or possibly sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Everything good that's been said about this game is right. The graphics, the environment, the amazing 
 production values, the amount of detail etc. But there is one thing that shocks me in Gamespot's 
 review. How come a professional reviewer writes about this game without screaming about its repetitiveness. 
 Seriously this puzzles me. You are doing the exact same thing over and over. I'm lucky that mostly 
 those things are fun but there are some parts that get old very fast, and I can understand people 
 complaining about that. No wonder it got mixed reviews. Unfortunately, for me this review caused 
 GS more damage that the Gerstman fiasco. On the more positive note, the story is pretty solid, 
 I was a bit disappointed by the twist, I wanted to see a medieval-only storyline. All in all it's 
 recommended because the gameworld is amazing, but again I can understand the disappointments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoJaMcco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The Crusades is an era that has too long been overlooked by games. Thanks to Assassin's Creed, 
 it will be more adapted in coming years.
  
  Almost everything about it is credible. The gameplay combines the best aspects of Prince of Persia 
 and GTA to create an experience that will have you hooked. It also benefits from everything being 
 streamlined to one button, making navigation and stunts easy to get the hang of. The combat seems 
 dull from just watching, but playing is a different story. There is definintely intensity when 
 taking on soldiers, especially in large numbers. Counterattacks are satiffying and brutal, which 
 is a good combination.
  
  The visuals are worth commenting as well. The realism is unparalleled and the detail put into every 
 object of the massive cities and country is will blow you away.
  
  The story is definitely one that you will remember. It starts out as a typical assassin story and 
 evolves into a mind-boggling mystery that becomes more engaging as you progress. The ending (don't 
 worry, no spoilers) seems to borrow from the MGS2 mind-warp. On the downside, it has a cliffhanger 
 that is almost too mean.
  
  No game is complete without good characters, and this doesn't dissapoint. Everyone from your allies 
 to your targets have a certain depth to them and you are enticed to ask questions as to why you 
 are helping and/or killing them.
  
  Assassin's Creed is phenomenal and a great start for the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning Graphics, Interesting (But confusing) storyline, Assassinations are fun, The 
 stealth in this game is easy for anyone to pick up and jump right into, Cool custscenes.
  
  The Bad: Beggars annoy you too much, Worst ending known to man, Most missions aren't as fun as 
 the assassinations, Guards are way too intelligent
  
  Assassins Creed makes you take the role of, for the most part, Altair, an Assassins working under 
 the Assassin's Creed. Basically, the game goes Metroid Prime style at the start, and you lose all 
 of your weapons. At least, it isn't a pain in this game, because you still get your hidden blade 
 for assassinating, and that's all you really need. But when it happened to me in Metroid Prime, 
 I tried to assassinate the Gamecube with a butcher knife. But your master, AKA, Big Daddy Assassin, 
 tells you to kill 9 people who are corrupting the world. At the start of every mission, you're 
 forced to walk all the way down from the same freaking hill, down the same freaking road past the 
 same freaking guards, and the first few times you do this, you'll have to make a huge walk through 
 a giant area called "The Kingdom", and it feels similar to Legend of Zelda when riding my horse 
 through here. Now all Altair needed was blonde hair, a Master sword, and a fairy who won't shut 
 up and demand attention at the worst moments possible, and we have Link. When you're in The Kingdom, 
 you have to ride to the town you need to, once in a while hiding or assassinating guards. But once 
 you've visited every town, you get the option to fast travel, which means it just "teleports" you 
 to the town you need to be in. Maybe Altair has an Ocarina of Time with him too. In each town, 
 there is one man you must assassinate, but to find out who he is, you have to visit the Assassins 
 Beaureau, and they'll give you a tiny bit of info, but then you have to go climb towers and large 
 buildings until you find a conviently placed wooden plank you climb on and "synchronize" yourself. 
 Even though you're five gajabillionz feet off the ground, you can somehow tell people are talking 
 about the guy you need to kill, so now its time to jump down and always land in a pile of hay which 
 happens to also be under every single tower.
  
  The guys you need to go after will appear on the mini-map and having a different icon depending 
 on what you need. Altair can zoom in and increase his hearing because he's obviously some sort 
 of demon-spawn, and then hear people talking about the target for the assassination. They'll always 
 say crucial info out loud, which is weird since people walk right next to them and bump into them 
 while they leak out everything reminding each other where the guy lives and what size shoes they 
 wear. The actual assassination is "where it's at", you'll have to sneak around tons of guards and 
 use your hidden blade to silence the guy, but then he starts talking to you before he's dead. They 
 blabber on and on how they were doing good and you're evil, even though a minute ago you saw them 
 kill a guy and walk off with a maliciouslly evil grin  :) ... After this, you returnt o the Assassins 
 Beaureau in the town, tell them you did it, and walk back to the fortress on the hill to get your 
 next mission.
  
  Besides stealthyness, there are swordfights in this game, however they are usually way too easy 
 as you can just hold down block the hold time and press square to counter when they swing at you 
 which can be an instant kill or just knock them down giving you the chance to cut 'em up. For the 
 last hour of the game, there's almost nothing but swordfighting, and it feels rather boring as 
 I could of been watching South Park while holding block and countering the whole time. I guess 
 you can actually swing your sword too, but they block as well...
  
  In the cities, jumping across the roofs is a big part of the game. You'll need to jump around them 
 to get to places fast or escape from guards chasing after you. Unfortunately, there are archers 
 patrolling the roof. They will warn you a few times, and if you don't move or hide, they start 
 shooting you, but a throwing knife will make them drop their bowels and fall off into a crowd of 
 dieseased fat citizens. When you've been caught for killing or harrassing someone, guards will 
 chase you and the only way to lose them is to hide. If they catch up, they'll try to fight you, 
 but you can always run away. You can hide in garden houses, piles of hay, benches (They forget what 
 you look like when you're sitting on a bench for some reason) , and use your magic potion to turn 
 you invisible... Okay, not that last one, but the first three are true. One thing I like about this 
 system is if the guards can see you, you can't jump into a pile of hay because they'll just pull 
 you out. If they can't see you, then you can hide in the pile of hay until the awareness meter 
 on the screen changes back to green. It's a fun system because I've played games where the enemies 
 could reach out and grab your ass and you hide behind a curtain in front of them, then all of a 
 sudden they enter retard mode and have no idea where you disappeared to, until they leave the room 
 scratching thier balls with confusion.
  
  Once you finish the game, you're treated to the ending... The ending that sucks. It's so sudden 
 and weird, it doesn't make any sense whatsoever. You will want to throw your copy of Assassins 
 Creed at little children to vent your rage. I have no idea what Ubisoft thought they were doing 
 when they made this ending! If there isn't a sequel to this game, I will be pissed off. Dis needs 
 sum explainingz.
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed is sort of like a "stealth game for dummies", because it's rather easy, 
 but the ways it's pulled off is very well done. I recommend this to anyone who has a PS3 or 360, 
 but I can't blame you if you enter a deep depression once you watch the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylin05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10 There are a lot of nice looking enviroments that put you there in the action.
  Gameplay: 9 The gameplay is fun, but you will do the same things a lot. It's not a bad repeitive, 
 but it will reach the repeitive point.
  Sound: 9 Music fits each situation.
  Story: 9 A great story witha bunch of twists and turns.
  Replay: 8 The world is fun to explore 
 and there are hundreds of hidden items to find.
  
  
  This game is highly addictive and innovative. The beginning is something you wouldn't expect from 
 this game, and if you don't already know I won't be the one to spoil it for you. There are multiple 
 actions to one button depending on the scenario. It may sound tough to play like that, but Ubisoft 
 implemented it so well you don't even notice. Sword play can be easy against the normal soldiers, 
 but be careful against the higher ranking enemies. The whole story draws you in and keeps you there. 
 Each assasination target is unique and fun to take down. There are also 60 secondary assasinations. 
 They are not as involved. You just find the person and kill them, but your secondary targets are 
 templars and they can be quite good at sword fighting. There are hundreds of hidden flags for you 
 to collect. It doesn't give you anything, but it encourages you to look in every nook and crany. 
 The world of this game is huge with 4 cities to explore with the surrounding country side and villages 
 dotted throughout. 
  
  The only thing I think is holding this game down is that you will end up doing the same type of 
 tasks over and over, but they all offer little tid bits of story to keep you entertained. That's 
 it for my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anihimrox222
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  +Great graphics
  +great gameplay
  +Hidden Blade makes killing more fun
  +Awesome soundtrack
  +good selection of wepons
  +Beautiful shots with eagle vision
  +Great 
 story
  
  Cons:
  +a few minor glitches
  
  If you are fermiliar with the gameplay of the Prince Of Persia series, you will love this game. 
 The story takes place is 1191 A.. D. Altair, a skilled assassin, has been given 9 targets to eliminate 
 in order to gain his rank back. Along the way, he must pickpocket, eavesdrop, stelth assassinate 
 targets, and integorate people to get information his targets. But he finds out something else 
 along the way...
  
  This game is truly amazing. I would recomend this game to everyone. Gamespot says there is a confusing 
 ending... I dont think its confusing. I give this a 10/10 and I can't wait for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_badman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  your an assassin killing different people and in like the 6 century. BUT YOUR IN THE FUTURE AT 
 THE SAME TIME!
  yep, its ubisofts assassins creed and its a fun time. 
  
  you're altair, an assassin, the job says it all. but at the beginning of the game you are sent 
 on a mission and screw it up horribly. so your stripped of your rank and you have to basically 
 work your way up again. 
  as you continue in throughout the game and kill your targets they talk about peace and a great 
 world without freewill. sounds kinda like communisum but thats not the point. its almost eriee 
 and almost like a line out of a m night shamylan movie. the assassins creed itself sounds wierd. 
 "nothing is true, everything is permitted" .
  the graphics look very nice if i do say so is great. textures EVERYWHERE and the game runs fine 
 with it.
  the gameplay doesnt get old very quickly but it does. however the counter kills and the free running 
 is awesome and brings you back to play the game a lot. 
  the ending is trippy and youll see what i mean by m night shamalan (creator of signs and the sixth 
 sense) but all in all its a great game and you shouldnt miss out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: numrab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  So, to my delight (at the time) , this game was finally released, and of course I ran to EB games 
 without hesitation on the day of.
  
  I quickly sat down, installed the update required (already?) and began my journey.
  
  I was 
 instantly taken back by the beautiful visuals, which seem painstakingly rendered to perfection. 
 Every character looks amazing, even the random pedestrians themselves look convincing in their 
 actions and directives. However, like most games, you see a repetition of the people you pass. 
 I know i know, this is rather typical. The problem is, if this game is going for an active 'lifelike' 
 experience within cities etc, than this is something that becomes incredibly noticeable, more than 
 most games at least. With that said, The visual are impressive and in my opinion are some of the 
 best to date on the PS3.
  
  As for the sound, it seamlessly integrates itself into the game-play. You don't so much notice 
 the sound as an individual entity, it more or less is part of the entire organism, flowing in and 
 out, growing in intensity when your noticed and falling calmly down to a nice background rouse 
 while you sneak around. The music is wonderfully placed and organized and each part fits perfectly 
 into the scenario your in, whether your riding a horse, being chased by surprisingly agile guards, 
 or just walking around, doing what assassins do best. All the actions, movements, and soundscapes 
 sound wonderful too, very realistic, so much so that you never even question there presence, you 
 merely accept them as part of the experience. The voice acting is great, accept for (as stated 
 in the gamespot review) the lead character. He sometime sounds out of context, awkward, and a bit 
 unenthusiastic. 
  
  But undoubtedly the best part of this game is the storyline, not only is there a wonderful mix 
 of meta and macro in the storyline (to save from spoilers) , but it is causes the gamer to constantly 
 try and draw connections and search for the little nuances that are constantly being hinted at. 
 I can't say much about it, but it is definitly intrequing. The only criticism I have towards the 
 storyline is the ending. It is not so much bad as it is, well, unfortunate.
  
  damn franchises....
  
  of course, there is something here that doesn't quite sit well with 
 me, that, in my opinion, really brought down the overall experience of the game. That is of course, 
 the game-play. At first, the gameplay is impressive, everything looks cool, you can jump around, 
 climb tall places, jump from these tall places, execute special moves. The problem is, is that 
 you are doing this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over etc etc 
 etc etc...
  
  The missions are always the same, and the game-play remains as easy as it was from the beginning, 
 Once you have mastered the skills, there is nothing to challenge you but your own lack of sleep 
 and/or external obligations (but we all know these are minor inconveniences) . Not to mention, some 
 game-play techniques and mechanics are simply... cheesy. Again I wont reveal anything because well, 
 this is my opinion, and you mite find these game -- play mechanics to be amazing.
  
  So in the end, the game was a good experience, and I would recommend it to those few whom enjoy 
 a strong storyline based game. For me, this was the big motivator that helped me press on through 
 the monotonous game-play... that and of course, the beautiful visuals and brilliant score.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  Storyline - 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay - 6/10
  
 
  Replay Value 3/10
  
  Overall - 37.5/50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koki1212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is by far the greatest game i have ever played. it has one of the best graphics 
 ever with lots and lots of detail in everything. A whole new way of fighting with the blades. the 
 game has excellent sound effects. you can nearly climb any building, tower, or wall that you like. 
 you take all the decisions such as killing guards to pass or blend with some scholars or just climb 
 a building.
  The only thing that i did not like was that when you really get used to the controls such as counter 
 attacks, you can never get hit; for example, after i had played the game more than 10 hours, I 
 could fight or 10 or 12 soldiers without getting hit or killed, and I killed them all using counter 
 attacks. at first i thought it was interesting, then i found that it was a little bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss5vegetunks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Since the day it came out, I have heard alot about Assassin's Creed, and the trailers convinced 
 me to buy it. It was a little boring at first, due to the fact that I was stuck in the kingdom 
 and could; nt go to any of the cities, but after I went to one of the cities, it was fun! the best 
 thing I like is clibling buildings and killing bag guys with the knife thing in his hand, its fun! 
 the graphics are the best I have seen on Playstation 3, until Uncharted came out, anyways, the 
 graphics are really good, although I play it on 720p resoultions, its still great! the combat is 
 just too good, there are 2 ways to fight, you can either just keep on pressing SQUARE and fight 
 like that or you can fight how Altair fights in the trailers, I'd prefer the Trailers fighting 
 though, to do that, first you have to get in a fight, the press L1 to lock on, then just hold down 
 R1 and as soon as a guard attacks press SQUARE and bam, Alatair does a cool counter attack, its 
 just so much fun, and if you are holding a sword, he will do a different attack then when you are 
 holding the knife, its great! as it goes for being boring, I didnt find it that boring, its just 
 that there is no fun in hearing peole talk or anything, it gets boring if you are just playing 
 the game, so I just put on my ipod and listen to that while playing, its much more fun! I think 
 Assassin`s Creed is a great game and Although I am not done the game, it still is grea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamfer3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Well, I've finally gotten Assassin's creed and I'm really impressed by all the level and environmment 
 designs as well as the missions and the gameplay itself.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics- are great, every detail in the environmment is done well; backgrounds are greatly designed 
 and framerates are up to par
  
  Gameplay- is especially fun such as scaling towers, running on rooftops, stealth kills etc. A wide 
 range of abilities and attacks are at your disposal. I especially enjoy escaping guards after an 
 assassination, seems like an ancient prison break xD (minus the guns and cars)
  
  Immersive- makes you feel like a small person in a large environment
  
  Plot- Alot of great 
 twist int his one it keeps you interested
  
  
  Cons:
  Gameplay gets pretty repetitive after around 3 assassinations
  
  Sub-plot set in the future 
 is pretty useless
  
  Some ocassions, the game hangs
  
  The gist:
  GET IT! You can't miss out on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Assassin creed is a adventure game where you play as an assassin name Altair. His goal is well 
 simple eliminate 9 important figure. Today I'm going talk bout gameplay, story, graphics and the 
 AI. (AI is mix with gameplay)
  
  Story: The story is just amazing! The only reason why I continue to play this game is for the story, 
 I try not to ruin anything for you but its very nice in my opinion. But the problem is the ending. 
 You know theres gonna be a sequel but dunno what kind of sequel.
  
  Gameplay: Its fun to climb buildings, towers, shops, ladders, stairs and jumping from rooftop to 
 rooftop and the most amazing thing is, it all looks natural. Theres two kind of kill, high profile 
 and low profile. High profile is when you press the running button and the hit button. Altair would 
 jump onto the person and stab him or her on the neck I think. Theres also low profile which well 
 kinda low. You could assassinate a person in front of public with every guard looking at him and 
 they wouldn't automatic attack you. Imagine this
  
  The only time when they would respond is if they are talking to each other. Theres 1 bad thing 
 bout this game. You'll be doing the same thing over and over again. Its boring but its also fun! 
 By just looking at the graphics you'll drool. I can't really compare this to uncharted because 
 well I didn't play uncharted.
  
  Theres 4 type of weapons in the game. First weapon is the longsword. Its the first combat weapon 
 you'll receive. Its so-so. Second is the dagger. Quite simple, small sword yet deadly. Third is 
 the throwing knife. My favourite! By equiping your dagger, you'll also automaticly equip your throwing 
 knife. In combat, it can be a gift or a curse. Gift = can accidently kill a person. Curse = you 
 were saving it for a very "special" someone but it was you're last and you wasted it on a guard. 
 Last is the somekind of hidden dagger. Its basicly useless in combat but very useful if you want 
 to kill people undetected like I stated above. I'm not sure bout the hand. Its not really a weapon 
 but it still can kill people if you're in one on one combat.
  
  Graphics: Its very nice. When you go to an point and press triangle ( I think) you're camera would 
 rotate and you'll just look at the scenery. Its nice, but if you're planning to make a hasty retreat 
 to the bottom just for fun make sure you check whether theres hay or not.
  
  Anyway the game is fun to play. But it can be boring to people who are not interested in story 
 or graphics and only interested in doing different things. So as long as you can afford it, buy 
 it or rent it.
  
  Pros
  
  -Nice graphics
  -Fun to kill random people
  -Nice to jump around the city
  -Great story in my opinion
  -easy to use controls
  -counterkill 
 is cool! (I think its called counterkill)
  
  Cons
  
  -I heard there was freezing problem, but I never experience it
  -You'll be doing the same thing 
 the entire game
  -killing random people can harm your health until you finish the game when you finish the game 
 you can kill anyone you wish but the problem is that you'll have to listen to that old man for 
 a couple of minute
  -can be slightly easy after a while mostly because of counterkill
  
  Conclusion is that if you have the time or money, rent it first and if you love it buy it. I'm 
 just giving my opinion on this game and the decision is up to you whether you wanna buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfres747
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I have talked to a lot of people about this game and some have said it's amazing while others said 
 its good, but repitative. Well after playing throught out the entire game doing everything there 
 is possible in it, I have decided that it is a great game. Yes it can be repitive at times, but 
 the point of the game is to do your own thing. Your assination targets that are given to you can 
 be completed in a number of different ways. You don't have to do all the things that you can do 
 (although completing them give you more helath) , which will make the game non-reptitive. Although 
 even if you do all the sub-objectives, such as rescueing civilians or finding vantage points, the 
 visuals and gameplay is such a fantastic experience it doesn't even matter that you've done it 
 before like 10 times. The game is wonderful to look at, the storyline is great (although in the 
 beginning it can be confusing) , and it makes you wanting to play more after its done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an Historic Action/Adventure game by Ubisoft Montreal and it was one of the 
 most anticipated games of 2007 that just falls short of what we expected.
  
  Gameplay: Assassin's Creed is quite different from other games. Some people have said it is similar 
 to Prince of Persia and Splinter Cell but with an open sandbox feel like Grand Theft Auto but it 
 really is its own game because of the big open world and unusual controls that are actually very 
 good. You can climb buildings, towers, and more. Most of the time you can just assassinate people 
 in a Splinter Cell fashion but near the end of the game you will be forced to combat as well as 
 when the guards start noticing you. Overall the gameplay is excellent and is quite unique.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing! Locations looks great and so does many of 
 the NPC. Many of the characters textures look great and Altair looks extremly good though you can 
 find better graphic games on the PS3 though you will enjoy the excellent graphics and make the 
 game even more enjoyably..
  
  Story: The story is very interesting and many will enjoy it but dissapointing cliffhanger ending 
 kinda of makes you wish you didn't spend $60 for this game but it is a great story that will make 
 you want more.
  
  Overall an excellent game with great graphics that just gets too repetitive near the last 5 assassinations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btoron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Assasins creed gets the most of the PS3 hardware, on the visual aspect. On the playable aspect 
 things can be improved. Game is a bit repetitive after some hours, and history is a bit awkward... 
 but the sensation of being inmersed in the crusaders world is there! I'm waiting for the next games 
 in thin franchise. This can be like the "Total war" series in PC... first one nice, second one 
 interesting, third one a big hit.
  
  Some small improvements for the next ones:
  - more interaction with objects in the crusaders world
  - more imagination in the story line
 
  
  Probably I'm asking too much, but I would like to have a game with the visuals of the "Creed", 
 the interaction of Grand Theft Auto series and the history of the Godfather :) If this includes 
 as much strategy as the Civilization series that would be a 10 for me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshade536
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a pretty decent game when it comes to next gen design. The graphics hold up 
 amongst other competitors but the originality that was seen in the hype before the game's release 
 was lost when the game was actually released. With no online play or additional anything, there 
 isn't much replay value at all. The game gets repetitive while playing through the story mode let 
 alone doing the game all over. Its sandbox style does offer some random pickup replay value however. 
 The game itself is a little slow. The story line is slow as well but makes up for it by keeping 
 your interest long enough in between missions. I have to give it an 8 because it was innovative 
 and hasn't been done before, but the gameplay didn't back it up well. When it comes down to itRent 
 or Buy?? Definitely rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCraving
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I was a little late in getting this game but I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. I 
 assumed this would be a game that would be handed to us from the game designers bleeding hands, 
 shaking in anticipation at us with their wide bloodshot eyes saying "YOU SEE THE POWER OF NEXT 
 GENERATION NOW!". But now, after taking my time, getting frustrated, confused and amazed I can 
 safely say that this game is worth it.
  
  Set in the brutal times of the Third Crusade (also known as the King's Crusade) when European leaders 
 were attempting to claim the Holy Land as their own, you play the deadly assassin Altair. After 
 a failed mission, your leader strips you of your rank but offers you redemption by giving you list 
 of nine powerful men you eliminate in your belief of peace for the holy land. That is the basis 
 of the storyline and that is all I can say without giving too much away. 
  
  The simplicity of the controls, I felt, worked very well. Triangle is your head, putting you in 
 first person perspective to get gather your surroundings, circle being your right hand which you'd 
 use to gently push people out of your way, square being your left hand which you hold your weapons 
 with and X being your feet. The latter works well since when holding R1 you jog but pressing R1 
 and X together sends you free running at an extremely fast pace. This is to be used wisely though, 
 as free running will alert people to your activities and could cause you to lose control if you 
 happen to run into someone, putting you flat on your back. The climbing is one of the best aspects 
 of the game. Almost any wall in climbable, and it looks brilliant. Simply running into a wall will 
 get you started, and keeping hold of R1 and X is enough to help scale any climbable wall there 
 is in the game. 
  
  Visually the game is stunning. When first playing this, I spent a lot of my time walking through 
 the streets of the cities simply staring in awe at my surroundings. The game doesn't just show 
 you what it can do, it takes you in with it, throwing the atmosphere over you so you feel as though 
 you are actually there. Walking through the streets, you hear people preaching, selling goods, 
 homeless people will run to you and beg for money or simply a crazy person you push you in anger 
 for no apparent reason. Scale a wall and the citizens will stare up at you and question your actions 
 and in some situations will hurl rocks at you to knock you down. Draw your weapon and citizens 
 will become wary of you, backing away in fear. Do this near a guard and he will question you. 
 
  
  Your missions are set out very simply. Visualise, gather, infiltrate, kill and escape. When visualising, 
 you'll climb the highest points in the city and synchronize yourself with it. Gathering these view 
 points opens up you maps. Once you do this, you will then know where to gather your information. 
 There are six pieces of information you need to gather. Many of these will be pick pocketing someone 
 with information regarding your target, eavesdropping on conversations, interrogating someone through 
 force or helping a fellow assassin in exchange for information. Once the information is gathered 
 you then go to your target and infiltrate where he is. This what I found fun about the game. Sizing 
 up your opportunity, observing your target and picking the right moment to strike. The situations 
 you are placed in can be quite interesting and can be quite challenging if you want the 'perfect 
 kill'. 
  Not that you don't have enough weapons at your disposal to kill your target with. You can choose 
 from your hidden blade, your sword, your short sword or your throwing knives. In many assassinations 
 I used my hidden blade to stab them quickly in the neck but you can choose to take them on with 
 your short sword or sword if the situation turns ugly or if you're in the mood for a little action. 
 Then you must escape, either by eliminating any guard that are in your way until you are safe and 
 can blend safely back in with the crowd or by running and hiding until the guards give up looking 
 for you. The chases are quite a thrilling experience, especially on rooftops when being chased 
 by guards and leaping freely from rooftop to rooftop. Just be careful not to miss an important 
 jump because it only takes one mistake for the guards to corner you.
  
  On a rather unimportant note, in some ways the game is historically true. The nine people Altair 
 is to eliminate were actually people that disappeared during the third crusade but whether they 
 were assassinated is unknown. The 'leap of faith' move you will do for the first time from your 
 own fortress in front of the Templers was actually done by a group of assassins in front of the 
 Templers to prove they did not fear death. But rather then landing safely into hay like Altair 
 does, they plummeted to their deaths. If like me you like little pockets of information in your 
 game that makes you look up information yourself then you will definitely enjoy this. 
  
  The only problem I found was the repetition of the game. The game itself can be a refreshing experience 
 but after your sixth or seventh victim I found myself getting bored by doing the same things over 
 and over. This can be cured by simply taking a break, playing something else and you will find 
 yourself wanting to play the game again and wonder what situation your next kill will be like. 
 That and the storyline gets confusing. So very confusing. Overall a great game to lose yourself 
 in. Let down by the repetition and confusing storyline this is a game any Next Generation console 
 owner shouldn't be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardswipe
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I was very pumped up about slicing and slitting and stabbing and of course riding a wicked awesome 
 horse. So i packed my bags and headed over to my friendly neighborhood game shop. spit my 64 bucks 
 and then fed the plastic to my ps3. Oh it was beautiful, the graphics, the sleek movment the peasents, 
 what more could a hoody wearing assassin want? Well perhaps for one thing more ways to kill people. 
 i mean really it is a game about assassins, which that last time i checked were the masters of 
 killing creativly. Well appearently in the middle east during the crusade periods, all you have 
 to do is chase someone down and stab them with a hidden blade, EVERY TIME! No joke, you can kill 
 almost every target with the wrist blade, oh and dont worry about the 40 guards around you, im 
 sure you'll find plenty of walls to climb over to make you escape. 
  
  But, even though you have made your way through the fifth target killing all five reletivly easy, 
 there is something about the game that is addicting. you still crave for more. To know what the 
 hell is going on outside of the machine your actual character is hooked up to. So what do you do? 
 You grind and grind, killing and killing, just to see what is to be of your young hero. and then 
 it happens... What happens? oh yeah thats right... NOTHING. You wake up finding creepy rune like 
 hidden grafitti, which of course you can only see do to the eagle vision. so you take a gander 
 around the lab, and in your room and then credits. hmm... now i usually dont agree with ruining 
 a game's ending, but seeing as this game doesnt have one i dont feel bad at all. i can only hope 
 that the sequal can only kick the story back on track and let us all know what the hell that game 
 was about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canders3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I decided I was tired of shooting people on the PS3 so I decided to stab them with swords and knives 
 on Assassins Creed.
  
  The game is great. The graphics were so good that at the beginning I almost got dizzy from being 
 at a high elevation on the game, I had the sensation I was going to fall! Oh, and I'm not afraid 
 of heights to start with!
  
  The storyline is good as well, the only complaint I had about the game was you had to ride a horse 
 from village to village too many times. You get tired of riding this horse. Also, you had to complete 
 the same task in each village. After you do it a couple of times you just wish there was a new 
 task to complete. There is only so many times you can eavesdrop before you get tired of it. But 
 the throwing knives are alot of fun!
  
  I played the game to beat it, not to discover every hidden secret on the game. There isn't an online 
 version of the game which is a drawback with any game these days.
  
  It is worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selkey
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a major technological achievement undoubtedly, but the gameplay, sound and 
 story all fall below average.
  
  The cities are very detailed as are the character models. In HD the game look beautiful. Sadly 
 that's where the good stops.
  
  The game play is frustrating and boring. You basically have to do the same mission 9 times over. 
 For such a vast virtual playground there isn't much to do. The missions are boring and repetitive. 
 The combat system is frustrating and inconsistent.
  
  The story is also a disappointment. They give away the only twist at the very beginning and the 
 long winded cut scenes are unbearable. You just want to skip them but you can't.
  
  The poor sound is the most amazing thing about AC. With such amazing visuals you would think that 
 great sound would go hand in hand. Untrue in this case as the voice acting is average, the variety 
 of NPC's comments is slim, and the musical score is only slightly pleasant to listen to.
  
  This game typifies rental if a game ever did. You get sick of it after 2-3 hours and if you really 
 want to beat it, it only takes 10 or so. Don't waste your 60 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Fighting, strategy, great story, lots of extras. I recommend this game to 
 any gamer. The only thing I wish they would have done is change up the types of side missions, 
 they get old doing the same thing over and over and over. The combat was a little too easy, even 
 on hard. One guy fighting 7 or 8 guys hand to hand and wins without a scratch is a little much. 
 But it is a video game and Ive seen more unrealistic odds. They should have added a injury aspect, 
 something like if you get stabbed then you limp and are slow, or cant use one of your weapons or 
 something along those lines, but other than the few things ive stated, nearly perfect game. You 
 will get so into this game that you cant stop playing it, the story is so good that it literally 
 sucks you in, and I wont spoil it but the cliffhanger is a killer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nephew62001
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  man, what can i say about this game... first, the graphics is so awesome, but the thing is, everything 
 looks exactly the same. even with the NPCS are so boring to look at because they're exactly the 
 same.
  this game keeps you doing things over and over again, 
  here they are:
  view point
  save villagers
  eavesdrop
  pickpocket
  do some stuff for the informers
  and 
 finally assassinate someone
  you get to do all of that in what, 10 hrs? my GOD its so repetitive..
  hands down the animations 
 are great, the music is great but the in game movie where you talk to someone is so bland. even 
 the story is so WEAK
  man, don't hate me for writing this kind of review, i own the game and i wish things could have 
 been more different, heck, heavenly sword is better for me in my opinion...
  i guess it's hate it or love it for assassin's creed peace :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brievolz84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The story isn't really confusing as some people may have said. I was able to follow it even when 
 I didn't play it for several weeks; I was able to pick it right back up where I left off. 
  
  Here's the synopsis of the overall story. You start out as a normal person in a "research" 
 laboratory when this group of researchers teach and tell you about this machine called the Amibus 
 which maps your genetic history so you can replay what your genes have been through. Throughout 
 the game you go in and out of the Amibus to take 'breaks' but these are just for further plot development 
 for the present time. The ending is fun but it leaves you on a major cliffhanger (kind of like 
 Halo 2 did) .
  
  The maps are fairly big; if I had to compare it to San Andreas then I would say it's relatively 
 the same size. You have three big cities and a nice size map to travel between them. You can walk 
 in the travel map; however, I would ride a horse or transport to the desired city (once you go 
 to all three cities) .
  
  Besides the main missions there isn't really anything else to do except explore but there are some 
 other things you can do which are: search for different types of flags (there are many different 
 flag denominations) in the various cities and the intermittent "travel" map. You can also search 
 for Templars to fight or ride around and see if you find any easter eggs (I haven't yet, although 
 I really haven't taken the time to look for them) . In the cities and in the travel map you scale 
 almost any object which gets really fun! 
  
  The controls are pretty intuitive and easy to follow. You have High Profile actions and Low Profile 
 actions. You can switch between them by just holding down R1. The simple controls are: square-left 
 hand, circle-right, x-jump and triangle-head.
  
  I've beaten the game and I've come to realize that more often then not it's tedious because you 
 have to go to several view points in order to get your missions started. Besides that, it's well 
 worth it because the ending is good except for the cliffhanger
  
  I hope my review told you want you wanted and future ones will be more forthcoming in detail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvorgang
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game day one, and started playing it. Due to work, school, and life in general, I had 
 to put it aside. So, during Spring Break, I picked it up again and decided to finish it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I have a standard definition tv, but it looked really good on it. A friend of 
 mine played his on his high def tv, and it looked amazing on it. The world is richly detailed. 
 The developer team did a great job on the little details.
  
  Graphics: A
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game gets uneven. The overall task of the game is to assassinate 
 9 targets. You have to go out and investigate to find ways to expose each targets' weaknesses are 
 and then kill them. Investigations are repetitive overall in the game. You just pickpocket a person 
 with important information, interrogate, or just listen into a conversation. You do that for EVERY 
 SINGLE target. This gets somewhat boring real quick.
  
  Side quests in the game are mundane. You can collect various flags hidden around each city and 
 in the kingdom connecting them. I never finished this and as far as I am aware, there is no reward 
 to collecting all of them. I would advise doing this just to maximize your experience with the 
 game.
  
  Along with collecting flags, you can save citizens who will aide you if you are being chased by 
 guards. This isn't too bad either, except when you save each person, the same 3 or 4 lines of dialog 
 is spoken each time. The developers either couldn't come up with anything better to say or they 
 didn't have space to put it in (which I find a **** reason) .
  
  Now that I have talked about the boring parts of the gameplay, lets talk about the good parts.
 
  
  Combat:
  
  The combat is overall done pretty well. Some have complained on it, but if you have played Shadow 
 of the Colossus and enjoyed that, then this game is no problem for you. You learn more moves and 
 weapons through the course of the game also. My personal favorite weapon is the throwing knife.
 
  
  Riding on the horse:
  
  Believe it or not, the horse riding sections are fun. Too bad you can't ride the horse in the city. 
 It's fun to just run over people in the kingdom and getting away with it.
  
  Just exploring the city:
  
  The team put in an unknown amount of time in detailing each city 
 and it really shows. Just about everything is climbable and you can always find a hidden place. 
 If you just want to wander around, this game has plenty of space for you to do it in
  
  The Story:
  
  Everyone knows there is a sci-fi element to the story that begins early in the 
 game, but the overall individual story of the assassin in the game and the overall big story are 
 told very well and set up for a great sequel. I don't know why people complained about the ending 
 of it. It didn't end the game abruptly to me. Nothing can top Halo 2's ending, so that's probably 
 why I wasn't too angry with the ending.
  
  Grade-wise for the gameplay
  
  The story, combat, and exploring are real engaging and should keep most people engaged. However 
 the mundane nature of doing assassination investigations and the lack of dialog variety really 
 kill the experience.
  
  Grade: B-
  
  Overall Review Grade: B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  There has been a lot of hype concerning this game, and upon playing it, I'll admit that although 
 the opening was strange, the game truly feels epic and I swore during the first half of the game 
 that this is one of the best that I've ever played.
  
  The story involves you, the character, being contained in a research facility in the not too distant 
 future. This opening was awkward because I was expecting something along the lines of Hitman except 
 medieval style, surprised to find the game as an experiment where you can't really die (since they're 
 all memories of your ancestors) . Between your memories, you can explore the confines of your cell.
 
  
  The animation is great, the NPCs, the music, the vistas and landscapes are breath-taking. The agility 
 of the character is welcome, and it is very satisfying offing someone with your Robocop like steel 
 pick. If you're a history buff, you'll like walking around the streets of Damascus, Jerusalem, 
 and other Crusader-era locales. Also if you're a fan of historic RTS games, you'll like this too. 
 I felt like I was walking around a 3D landscape of a map taken from Age of Empires. There's also 
 an interesting twist in the end when it comes to the 'memories', although you may pick up on it 
 rather quickly. I think the best twist is when you're awake and finally see the signs... safe to 
 say that there's definitely a sequel!
  
  Here are my 'beef' with the game. First, the male researcher who constantly yells at you to hurry 
 up gets old real fast. Second, I wish there was more you can do in the 'real' world, besides walking 
 around, accessing the rare email, and then going to sleep. I think the game is under-developed, 
 it could've been so much better. Sure, it was mind-blowing the first half, but then it got repetitive. 
 Travel around, do the same intel-collecting, kill the guy, next please. It becomes old. If only 
 there was more, such as visiting a blacksmith with the money you stole to upgrade weapons, side 
 missions to help citizens, ability to join guilds and whatnot... kind of like an Elder Scrolls game 
 which is very immersive.
  
  In the end, if you want a game that plays like a movie with a remarkable experience that is over 
 as soon as you're done with the game, you can't go wrong here. If you are an avid RPG fan or if 
 you're looking for replay value, visit the local video store and it'll make a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I have bought for my PS3 and I am totally happy in having done so. This 
 game truly shows the PS3's power and it has a great story.
  
  I'd rate the game as follows:
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9.5
  Story 10
  Replay Value: 8.5
 
  
  Truly the graphics of this game are out of this world. If you have an HD TV like I do then this 
 game will really show you what 3rd-gen gaming is all about. Sound's great too. The only thing that 
 may annoy you in this game is the fact that certain missions are very similar, and playing them 
 may seem repetitive. But still this does not hinder the game's beauty.
  
  If you're in Templars' stuff then the story will keep you hooked up till the end. It's truly an 
 unforgettable experience that will stay in your mind for all your gaming life (and maybe more :) 
 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SIMPLY OF THE HOOK!!!!! SPECTACULAR... JUST AUSUMN.... THE EXPERIENCE I GOT FROM THIS 
 GAME IS SOMETHING I WILL REMEMBER FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE... FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE GAME U'LL 
 FIND IT SO EXCITING.... BETTER THAN ANY POP GAME OR GOD OF WAR... THIS IS THE TRUE EXPERIENCE OF 
 THE NEXT GENERATION EVER... THIS GAME HAS SHOWED WHAT THE PS3 IS CAPABLE OF AND THIS IS JUST THE 
 BEGINNING... THE CITY IS AUSUMN WITH SO MUCH TO EXPLORE AND RIDING THE HOUSE THROUGHOUT IS LOTS 
 OF FUN... THE GRAPHICS R SERIOUSLY OUT OF THIS WORLD...... THE 7-8 MAIN STORY LINE IS A FLAW ... BUT 
 U HAVE NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT... THERE ARE A LOT OF SIDE MISSIONS WHICH U'LL NEVER GET BORED PLAYING.... EVEN 
 THOUGH SOME ARE REPEATATIVE U WILL ACTUALLY LOVE IT BECAUSE IT IS REPEATATIVE ...!!! AND IF U REALLY 
 WANNA COMPLETE THE GAME AND GET ITS FULL EXPERIENCE IT WILL ALMOST TAKE MORE THAN 200 HOURS!!! 
 THIS IS A GAME WORTH PLAYING
  
  GRAPHICS-
  100
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  100
  
  SOUND-
  100
  
  INTERFACE-
  100
  
  STORY-
  
  99 (CAUSE THE STORY DOESN'T ACTUALLY END)
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visceral_01
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  I picked up AC as my first PS3 game when I bought the console. I was expecting that as an assassin, 
 I would be sneaking around, trying to slit my targets' throats and slip away without being seen 
 nor heard, and that the novel ability to climb around on virtually everything would have many different 
 uses. Unfortunately I was wrong on all counts. The game actually encourages you to not be stealthy 
 at all, or to bother hiding out from the guards. There are sidequests to rescue citizen being roughed 
 up by the guards, requiring you to start a fight in the city streets. This isn't too big a deal, 
 but the game goes one step further in making its stealth mechanics like Blending utterly pointless: 
 the combat system makes every fight trivial. Once you get the counter-attack ability, you can win 
 literally ANY FIGHT with zero effort. Hypothetically if you aggroed a hundred guards, you would 
 win. All you have to do is spam counter-attack (R1 + square on the PS3) as fast as you can, and 
 as enemies swing at you you will parry them and one-shot them one by one until they're all down, 
 taking only a few hits yourself in the meanwhile (and you regenerate HP in combat, so no worries 
 about that) . The gameplay involves A) mashing R1+square until you get carpal tunnel; B) climbing 
 tall spires and towers to reveal more of the map, which is cool the first few times but gets old 
 after you've done it 50 times especially considering that most of the spires/towers are the same 
 few models copied/pasted in different locations; C) the odd pickpocket or interrogation mission, 
 which are trivially simple; D) timed stealth assassination missions where you have to eliminate 
 multiple targets in the city streets within a time limit without aggroing guards, which is easy 
 unless you randomly fail it, or if you've done a Save Citizen in the area, in which case the place 
 is swarmed with guards who will aggro unless you Blend (causing you to walk far too slowly to finish 
 in time) .
  
  The story is a whole other issue. There are segments of it that take place in modern times, and 
 they are maddening. Why they felt it necessary to force the player as Desmond, modern-day descendant 
 of the Assassin, to walk from a machine to his bed, listen to a dude in a lab coat ramble on and 
 on with lousy dialogue, then walk from the bed back to the machine at several points during the 
 game rather than handle those parts entirely as cut-scenes is beyond me. Giving you control of 
 Desmond during those parts and not giving him the full range of actions available to his ancient 
 counterpart is just infuriating, because all you want to do is punch that prick doctor in his face, 
 but you can't. More frustrating is Desmond's nonsensical actions. An older man (the doctor) and 
 a young woman, who clearly have ill intent (and indeed, it's revealed that the scheme threatens 
 the entire world) , ask Desmond to lay down on the machine that takes you back to ancient times, 
 and he just basically shrugs and says "OK!" Why doesn't he resist? You think an old doctor and 
 some chick can physically force this guy onto the machine if he didn't want to? I doubt it. And 
 story they weave between ancient and modern times is trite and oh-so-predictable - from early on 
 you will be able to guess exactly what will happen.
  
  In brief, the game has a weak story, is not challenging in the slightest, offers little incentive 
 to actually behave like a sneaky assassin, and gets very repetitive until you really just can't 
 wait for the last boss fight for the game to be over with already. Quite a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chenvandam
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Only from the first look you can see that this game is definitely a one of a kind, and I personally 
 think that you don't need to read any reviews and just buy the game. :) (but hear is one anyway)
 
  
  The looks: From the surprisingly accurate cities and landmarks to the people walking on the streets 
 beside you and reacting to every thing you do, to the main character Altair, the hole game looks 
 and acts amazingly realistic and beautiful.
  
  The story: One of the best. The story really sucks you in and holds you in until the end. The editor 
 of the game made sure that the games story will slowly reveal itself with every assassination you 
 make.
  
  The character: You only get to play one character called Altair, which is the main assassin in 
 a cult with a purpose to kill all of the main leaders in the holy land in that particular time. 
 In the beginning his personality seems quite disturbing and heartless. but as you go on in the 
 story you will relate too him more and more.
  
  Gameplay: The controls of the game are very comfortable and user friendly. The switch between the 
 weapons is smooth and it is just a real blast to quietly assassinate people and climbing huge and 
 beautiful landmarks.
  
  This game is a really special experience that all species of gamers will love!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_well_cook
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Like i said this game was amazing and brilliant. The graphics were outstanding and the story was 
 very captivating. I usually play games with great stories, and assassins creed is definitely one 
 of those games. If your into a great story line game, then get this one. I absolutely loved it. 
 But a couple of poor things are that it really didnt take that long to pass. Like you could easily 
 go and rent the game for a week, play it for that week and complete the game. But i bought it anyway. 
 I have to buy the greatest game ever lol. The one other bad note, but not horrible, was that in 
 the game the missions are kinda of the same, a little repetitious. What i mean is you go to a city 
 find infor on your assassination target and then try and kill him, but you do this many times. 
 When and if you play the game you will see what i mean. 
  But Overall this game was simply amazing!! i loved it and i would strongly recommend it to everyone 
 and anyone!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer0914
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is the best game I have ever played. A superb game. The person who says otherwise 
 hasn't played it yet. The whole system of free roaming striked me as nothing I've ever seen before. 
 Every thing is so detailed. Even when you jump off a roof as Altair you can see his shadow behind 
 him and it looks like a bird of prey. The AI system is awesome too, because when you've killed a 
 dude and his corpse is laying on the ground and another gaurd comes the other gaurd bends down 
 on his knees and checks the body out. Then he pulls out his sword and goes looking for you. I highly 
 approve of this game. The only thing I don't like about this this game is the language. Almost 
 every word is the eff word. Other than that it is an awesome game. That is why I give it a 10 out 
 of 10. Keep on doing good Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  
  I don't know how this game got great reviews I think thats all a bunch of crock. 
  Underneath the beautiful presentation and graphics there are glitches, very repetitive game play 
 and uninteresting story. If you want to be bored to tears then go play the game. The first hour 
 of play is alright, but then you get to do it again and again till the end! There is no evolution 
 within the game you get different cities to explore but all the missions are the same, gather information 
 kill, gather information, kill. 
  The controls are not good. It does not feel natural and it takes a lot of time to get used to sometimes 
 it makes actions too simple to do and it feels it lacks depth. 
  After seeing the review for this game, I can't trust the review of GameSpot as much as I used to 
 do. This is a poor game indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnash972
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I have no idea why so many people love this game. Yes, the graphics are outstanding, but with 
 the PS3 maturing new games need more than cool graphics. It's fun to assassinate people at first. 
 Some great looking animations. But after the first 30 minutes to an hour you've maxed out. Nothing 
 new really happens and the game gets VERY tiresome. Its becomes the EXACT same thing over, and 
 over, and over, and over, and over again.
  
  The story line was a good concept, but WAY too boring and drawn out. I got very tired of all of 
 the talk and downtime between the mundane action. I desperately wanted a skip button to bypass 
 the LONG rambling stories.
  
  The end is a cliff hanger, I would love to know how the story ends, but don't know if I could fight 
 through a second version of this snoozer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_b52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  this game was my christmas present, a excellent christmas present, this game got an 9.0 but i give 
 it a 9.5 it has a very good story, but sum things are confusing, the cities are very well detailed 
 and its really big, the platforming part is simple and excellent with some simple controls and 
 responsive controls that suits perfect the game, there are many secrets that make this game very 
 lenghty and its an excellent option for action/ adventure and even platforming fans, in a few words: 
 GET THI GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!!!!!!!!!! and feels like a old GTA!!!! an amazing game in all specs
 
  thi game as gamespot sayed; will be remembered for years to come,
  is way too cool being an assassin killing ppl, throwing knifes, fighting with swors throwing people 
 to rivers, gettin' chased by the guards, an other things are priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyunjoon123
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth this game was the best thing that ever happened to me for about a month and 
 then I started to notice the repetitiveness of the game. I often found myself wondering what the 
 storyline was even truly about. BUT the graphics are stunning the game play is wonderful and the 
 game is truly fun but should be rented first. Playing the game for about a week to gauge it is 
 a good idea either borrow it from a friend or rent it. Its an innovative game and I personally 
 haven't seen a game like it. Its almost like playing a game in a movie because the graphics are 
 so stunning. Had the game been less repetitive and the storyline less confusing, then this game 
 would've been perfect and would've been a must buy. This game is full of could've, would've, and 
 should haves, I expect that if there is a sequel the game will be worth buying and worth playing. 
 All in all Assassin's Creed is a good game to play when bored or just because but could have been 
 much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch127
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  As a gamer I usually look at it to see if there is any replay value... Spoiler... Once you beat 
 the game there is nothing left to do... except to collect flags and kill templars... BORING!!! 
 You think that you can start the game over with all the skills that you had to recover by doing 
 missions.. First of all this game has GREAT and I mean GREAT GRAPHIC Visuals... But the game is 
 too repetitive. Imagine you are in one town completing you missions and then you have to go on 
 the next town to do the same exact thing you just did in the previous town... The Replay Value 
 Blows... I recommend renting the game... I beat the game and was disappointed at the end.. its 
 open ended so.. guess what there is going to be a sequel... I would recommend they revamp it or 
 YOU GOT RENT THE GAME!!! This game has no place next to your games... They give it a 9 but the 
 game SUCKS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thessassin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with high hopes, i thought it would be an amazing game and I was right, for 
 the most part. 
  
  The game does have it's strong points and its weak points, one of the best things about this game 
 was the story, although fairly predictable near the end it was nice and twisted constantly changing 
 the way you thought about your targets. Another good thing about the game were the graphics few 
 clipping problems with Altair's outfit when perched but that aside, the graphics were amazing. 
 The last very strong point about the game was the freedom and interaction, the game did a very 
 good job with environmental interaction. The game does also have some amazing voice acting and 
 the only downside to that is it shows how weak Altair's voice acting is in comparison.
  
  But always you take the good with the bad, the main killer of this game has to be its repetitiveness, 
 finding information about your target before the assassination is basically doing three (or more 
 if you want to) of the following: Pickpocketing, Interrogation, Eavesdropping, or finishing someone 
 a fellow assassin couldn't finish. The Combat in this game consists of R1 and waiting for a counter, 
 or the occasional Double tap of the square button for a quick kill (animations are gorgeous) . 
 
  
  In the end the game is best played completely undetected as it provides a degree of challenge to 
 this rather easy game and allows you to avoid the horrible combat at any cost. This game would 
 best be a rental because the only thing keeping you going has to be the involving story and once 
 thats done what reason to you have to revisit this game? The incredible combat? Don't think so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tramua03
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  
  As the game begins, u play as a cocky, ill kill everyone who gets in my way type of guy, assasin 
 who wants to kill everyone who gets in his way ( as the my awesome description had been previously 
 stated) . But the real story to this game is about you (sorry forgot the characters name, and yes 
 i am a noob) where you take part of a scientific association that experiments on its "test subjects". 
 The way they do this is that they put you in this machine that basically lets you re-anact your 
 ancestors memories. the reason why they're experimenting on YOU is because they are trying to get 
 information that your ancestors had had, and so, the story begins where you start to play to that 
 part. HINT ( there is more gameplay after that part where you face the boss..... IM GONNA RUIN IT 
 FOR ALL YOU FACE!!!!!...... na im not tht mean.) But basically you get set out in missions where 
 you have to assasinate 9 people. (HINT : THERES MORE THAN 9 PPL TO KILL) .
  
  Okay enough with my noob writing about the story, lets get fown with the gameplay. All in all the 
 game is based on things : pick pocketing, mini assasination missions, eaves dropping on others, 
 running, climbing, hiding, blending in and the, which i like to call (come on you know that sounds 
 cool) , major assasinations (boss assasinations and battles) . In all of these missions, you have 
 to repeatedly do all of these things, but in mission wise, you have to pick pocket, eaves drop, 
 and do mini assasinations. 
  
  Basically all of these missions are really easy, and as what these kids would say these days, "are 
 real soft" (and i am a teenager, i am not a 65 year old man who likes writing noob type reviews 
 of games) . Nhooooooo, for the pickpocket missions, all u have to do is target the person who u 
 are targetting and then in a very sneaky way, press the button while the target is moving. Out 
 of the three, the easiest mission is eavedropping, where it only requires you to sit down on a 
 bench with others (this also makes u invisible to the authorities when the radar is yellow, dont 
 ask me about it im too lazy to write the rest) , and then listen. The hardest mission out of the 
 three is probably the mini assasinations , where u have to locate ur target and kill ur target 
 stealthly (srry if tht isnt really a word -think it as a metal gear solid kill) . 
  
  
  
  well i would write some more, but im too lazy, go read the professionals review. well thts 
 it, if u want some more plz respond back, until then, youre favourite noob writer is gone , peace!!! 
 
  
  and o yea, its still a kick ass game though!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnrcrazy19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is a good game even though some minor flaws. The graphics are top notch, might 
 be the best the ps3 has to offer. The storyline is a decent one which revolves around the crusades. 
 In order to get to the assassinations you have to investigate the leader that you are going to 
 be killing. This is the part of the game that is flawed. I dont know about you but listening into 
 conversations and pick pocketing seven or eight times throughout the game gets a little boring. 
 The assassinations in my opinion make up for it. I really enjoy getting to the leaders and the 
 intense escape, which is one of the high points in the game. Getting away from the soldiers requires 
 you to take to the roof tops jumping from building to building and hiding. Not getting this game 
 would be a big mistake for any ps3/xbox owner because you will be missing out on one hell of an 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23a9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, but the only problem with it is that there is way to many videos and movie 
 parts, plus the game isn't that long because you spend a bit of time playing as Desmond. Otherwise 
 this is a new year game to definetly buy and definetly if you like a little bit of adventure, roaming 
 cities for days on end, finding all sorts of different side missions and a fighting sort of game. 
 If anyone who hasn't played the game or completed it then look away now.
  
  The next game in the series has got to be a lot better, less movie parts and more of an area to 
 roam about in. The way the game ends with desmond getting the eagle vision and finding a whole 
 lot of freaky writing all over the place, then the sequal has got to be a lot better.
  
  A must buy game for any console, obviosly tere isn't any multiplayer but the game is good enougth, 
 with a few flaws but otherwise great, a must have especially for the sequal that will be coming 
 out in late 2008 (apparently) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  If there was a Best Dressed video game category AC might win hands down. The visual are something 
 to behold and the way you can move across everything in the world is just plain FUN! Hard to say 
 anything bad about a game that you can have fun just moving around but if there was one thing to 
 say bad about AC it would be the fact that you do the same thing Over and Over and Over again. And 
 this is what brought this game to a 7.5 rating. The missions are based on Pick Pocketing, eavesdropping, 
 and Assasinations. And you go place to place doing these same missions repeatedly. There are side 
 missions, such as saving citizens and challanges but those get old quick. The story itself is interesting 
 but a bit disappointing when its all said and done.
  Regardless of the repeative nature of the game it is still a good one. Like I said this is definatly 
 the best dressed for 2007. I hope that Ubisoft Montreal takes the "LOOK" of this one and gives 
 us a little more game play substance in the future. All in All its one to check out, but plenty 
 left to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circlework
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  All u seem to do is ride on horse back to each city which takes enough time in itself, sneak in 
 with the worshippers, than get your view point and start the process of saving innocents (easy, 
 repetitive) , unlocking more view points (only so many times u can climb a building) listening to 
 people (look and hold triangle) and pickpocketing (walk behind for 2 seconds and hit circle) . It 
 doesnt change it up at all so far, really boring the crap out of me. the scenery is amazing graphically 
 but that too gets boring even on 1080. Tell me it gets better!!!! Im seriously considering selling 
 this on ebay. And the hud shows u where everything is way too easily, its pretty much turn and 
 run than hit button. The bosses arent to hard either, if u want a stealth kill just time it right, 
 but you can basically just walk straight up to them have a quick fight and than run off into the 
 crowd as the alarms go off. Pretty much just run, climb and hide for a minute than its back to 
 normal. Sorry but its bloody boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolo7070gs
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  While the display and gameplay is amazing the game can be a bit repetitive. I have played through 
 it and have done everything a person can possibly do in the game and I have to say that the game 
 left me wanting more. I was also confused by the story. Who was I really? the guy on the table 
 of the guy in the old cities? Why was I only able to walk and barely talk in the real life and 
 able to do all kinds of things in the Memories? Great cenematics and tutorials. I played the game 
 and felt that the assassinations could have been a bit more complex and interesting. I was expecting 
 a sort of mission type game where is you were spotted of slipped and didn't assasinat the target 
 in the proper location and circumstance you would fail. But everyone and anyone could be stabbed 
 and then you have to fight a group of guards that are all the same. A set of combos would have 
 been great for the fighting scenes and perhaps a bow to pluck targets from roof tops and hidden 
 spots. As stated earlier, great gameplay, amazing visuals, incredible detail... poor poor story 
 and progression of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clominon
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed! How cool was that game! I mean walking on buildings and like killing who ever 
 you like is so much fun. Well anyways I just finished playing the game yesterday. It was awesome 
 I really kind of liked it. There were parts that I didn't like (like always) .
  Okey first thing I didn't like was the languages they used. Not that it's a bad thing. But come 
 on not everyone is stupid! I don't know if it was on purpose or Ubisoft is just that "smart". Cause 
 in the game you can hear (in the same city) Persian, Arabic, Turkish, I think Hebrew AND gibberish. 
 What's gibberish you ask? Is it a new and amazing language I haven't heard of you ask? No my friend 
 it is not. I think they ran of languages to use so they made up stuff. No Mr. Ubisoft just no 
 what the hell is the deal with that? I mean you don't know the difference between those languages 
 or you do and you just like to make fun? Anyways that's not all. Even in the English speaking city 
 (don't remember the name) they spoke French, Germen, English! And some other language that I don't 
 remember all mixed... lucky me I understand what they were saying. But dude Ubisoft  
  ouch man.
  Anyways I bet they don't know they did that little boo boo cause playing Prince of 
 Persia made me think how smart these guys really are. If you don't know something you use: Google, 
 Wikipedia or go to a library! anyways.. I will stop the whole thing right here before this review 
 gets deleted. 
  The game! I really did like the game. You are an Assassin. Stealth is your friend and walking in 
 shadows your best friend...-_-"
  So the game is about this guy that is the best of the best in killing people and he is reckless. 
 So he screws up a mission and immediately he gets executed. Well not executed exactly. He just 
 gets stabbed in the stomach with a knife. ouch! He survives it and now he has lost his ranks and 
 some weapons. He must do missions for his master to get back up again. Well this part wasn't that 
 good. Because I didn't get the feeling that I was like a nobody in the game! Like they could have 
 done way more with the idea. Anyways so there are 4 or 5 cities. And you have to go there all 
 stealthy and assassinate the guy in charge. And you have side missions like find the viewpoints, 
 save some civilians from bad guys or find the flags. And its always the same. Kill the boss, find 
 flags, find viewpoints and save people. After the second city I got really annoyed/bored is this 
 all? 
  The graphics! Wow! I mean WOW. And not that game wow I mean amazing wow. The graphics where so 
 beautiful. I don't have a HDTV so I couldn't enjoy the thing at its full potential but still... 
 so amazing. If we have games like these now! Just imagine what we will have like one year from 
 now, two years from now! 10 years from now! Could it get even more shiny than now? Of course it 
 can. 
  
  So the game! The were some glitches while I was playing so it wasn't perfect. Like when I was on 
 a roof and there was this soldier there. I threw a knife at him and like he died but when he fell 
 down his arrow got stuck midair! Haha that was really funny. Or sometimes you see people just walking 
 in to walls and like continue walking like some idiots. I guess they A. I. needs some tweaking. 
 
  The camera thing. It was okey I guess. But it wasn't great some points where so annoying while 
 I was fighting soldiers and annoying stuff like that. Sometimes I would like scream at the screen! 
 Like COME ON!!! And throw the joystick. Last time I did this was when I was like 10 or 12, playing 
 on my ps1. haha thanks Ubisof for making a game so annoying that brings out the 12 year old in 
 me.
  
  Oh yeah.. the story! 
  So I forgot to tell you the game isn't in the past like you would think. Its in the future and 
 there are some people that need something and they send you back. Not back in time but like in 
 your genes there is your ancestors memories. So you go back in memory or something like that. I 
 still don't get why they needed to do that. Once in a while when you finish a memory block you 
 come back. I don't know why they did that because its pretty pointless. You come back you go to 
 bed then you wake up and go back in time again. Like what's the point in that? They could have 
 just made a little cut scenes. All you can do is walk 
  so at the end of the game it gets weird. Your boss. Your assassin boss turns out to be the bad 
 guy. No surprise there. You can see that one coming like from gazillion miles away. So the bad 
 guy gets what he wanted. That's a little orange / glowing ball that you can use to mind control 
 people with. Really? Mind control? Plasma bursting, orange glowing, super high tech little ball 
 in the dark ages? Alien? I don't know. The ball doesn't get explained. Where it came from, what 
 it is, who made it nope no one knows. Even the ending was weird. So you kill your assassin bad 
 boss and you come back to your time. And the doctor that made you go back in time/memory has found 
 what he wanted (I guess the little orange ball) and tells you he is going to get it and when he 
 comes back he would kill you. What do you do? Nothing all you can do is walk! And oh yeah now you 
 can use the eagle eye! What the hell is the eagle eye? Doesn't make sense. When you use it you 
 can see with colours who is a bad guy and who is good. Do eagles really see that way?
  Anyways. The game ends with the doctor going away and you going back to your room and using the 
 eagle eye on the wall and see some weird glowing stuff. The end.
  
  I'm so happy the game is finished. But I heard they are going to make more assassin's creeds. Like 
 in different times or something? Donno don care! 
  Anyways the game is defiantly a must play if you don't mind the language problem and the annoying 
 parts. And oh yeah I didn't say anything about the game being a medieval GTA rip-off because .. 
 well I'm a good guy and everything is like GTA these days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOXracing416
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  when this game first came out i wanted it so bad but my mom wouldnt let me get it.... i always 
 manage to play it anyways somewhere. so i went to my friends house and played this game..... i used 
 to be so hyped up about this then when i played it i was like..... this sucks bad..... this is the 
 most repeditive game i have played in my life.... no joke.... you do the same exact thing for every 
 assassination. i played it for about an hour and i got so bored with it. you jump off of a building 
 into some hay woohoo!! not... rly... then he kills people THE SAME WAY EVERY SINGLE F'IN TIME..... u 
 stab in the head or the gut.... but wait you can jump on them then stab them in the head to..... i 
 know most people reading this that havent played this yet are thinking ''omfg are you serious.... your 
 stupid'' go play it you'll know exactly what im talking about because i used to think the same 
 thing.... the only reason i have it a 7 is because the graphics are the greatest ive almost ever 
 seen... almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 7
  the good: huge world, nice combat system with combos and all, the horse exprerience is nice too, 
 the landing from high edifications
  
  the bad: Repetitive missions, the same in every town, short amount of weapons, poor variety
  
 
  RICHNESS, COMPLEXITY AND DETAILS 7
  This is a western product made in canada, that's fine, but i was especting a great true HD complex 
 rich experience, they sayd: the first true HD experience on some of his promotionals, but the reality 
 is just about an average rushed game feeling
  
  GRAPHICS / CHARACTERS 7
  The graphics in the main character are very good, but in the rest of the crew well.... lets say 
 just average....
  
  NATURAL FLUID CHARACTER MOVEMENTS 9
  The movements of the main character are great, no mateer if its climbing, runing, ataking or mounthing 
 the horse, feels fluid, natural and great
  
  FACE DETAILS AND MOVEMENTS 8
  The gesticulation on the face looks good and detailed
  
  
  GRAPHICS / AMBIENTATION 8
  The 
 Old cityes like Damascus, Jerusalem and the rest are very good, the huge land of the kingdom is 
 great released too, the photography is amazing, and plants water and heart looks great too
  
  INTERACTIVITY AND MOVEMENT OF THINGS 8
  In this sector the interactivity with things its 
 average, but the fact of explore almost every place on the map is fantastic, you can jump over 
 almost every construction, climb, land etc..
  
  GRAPHICS / CINEMATICS 8
  Nice maded, the diference between the gameplay and the cinematic is minimal, you can even interact 
 with the cinema by moving the angle and making some things to watch it on a diferent perspective
 
  
  SOUND / GAMEPLAY 7
  the sound efects are nice, but the voices are the same on all the towns
  
  SOUND / MUSIC 8
 
  The music have a great atmosphere of midle age, in batle or persecution situations brings a great 
 feeling of rush and emotion
  
  CAMERA / GAMEPLAY 6
  daze feeling and stuck in batle and thats a problem cause you dont see the full combat and may 
 got kill or injuried
  
  HD / NEXT-GEN FEELING 9
  16:9 aspect ratio is great, use all the screen, and the details on general are nice
  
  BONUS 
 MATERIAL 6
  the extra material, specialy on the LE version is poor and boring
  
  PRICE AND DISPONIBILITY 7
  not worth of $70 for a 7.5 average game
  
  BUGS / CINEMATICS 10
 
  No bugs presents
  
  BUGS / SOUND 7
  sometimes the sound crash
  
  BUGS / GAMEPLAY 6
  sometimes the game laks, got frozen, and the walking by the stairs and the 
 fact of traspase the walls with the arm or the legs just made this game an average quallity programed.....
 
  
  GAMEPLAY CAMERA DIZZY FEELING 6
  The camera make me dazed sometimes, like a FPS, and that's not good
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I caught a sale on this game. The discount was $20. If not for the discount, I would never buy 
 it. But I am so glad that it landed in my hands.
  Just wandering around the city and eliminate guards, help people, and climbing view points is AWESOME.
 
  
  After you explored the city, you start realizing that you have a mission to do.
  I am excited all the time when I play the game. It actually feels like you are a warrior for the 
 good and that you can make the world a better place. 
  
  Of course, when you exit the game, you realise that the world is as stupid as it was a couple of 
 hours ago, you are not an assassin, you don't have hidden blade, and you can't climb the walls 
 of the city hall... dohhhhh...... Well, that just makes you come back faster from school, do your 
 f..... g homework and put it on. And dive into that world once again. Isn't that a huge succes for 
 the developers??? This is definetily the second-best RPG I have ever played, right after Diablo 
 II. But in feeling the game world it is definetely BEST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  So? Just go buy it, play it. Or did I give to little reasons for it?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow1787
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very good game. Not only is it beautiful, the story is very unique. But still... my 
 god is it beautiful. The graphics are very impressive in this game. From the detail in the characters 
 (main and NPCs) , to the lighting, to the depth of field, to the animations... it's all very well 
 done. 
  
  The game play is quite exciting as well. Being able to climb, jump, and leap anywhere is very cool. 
 Though, the missions do get repetitive if you go for every single side/small mission, but it always 
 seems different. 
  
  The game does glitch out some times, which I heard was a problem for the PS3 version... it'll lock 
 up and the PS3 restarts... but the game auto saves and all you have to do is load it back up and 
 you're good to go.
  
  Still by far one of the best PS3 games I've played and one of the most fun games I've played in 
 a while. And that's all it is, it's a beautiful game that's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SJJS
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  March 3: Casimir Pulaski Day in Illinois (2008) ; Liberation Day in Bulgaria (1878) ; Hinamatsuri 
 in Japan.
  
  
  1585  The Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza, Italy, a theatre designed by the Renaissance architect Andrea 
 Palladio, was inaugurated. 
  1776  American Revolutionary War: Samuel Nicholas (pictured) and the Continental Marines successfully 
 landed on New Providence and captured Nassau in the Bahamas. 
  1878  The signing of the Treaty of San Stefano established Bulgaria as an autonomous principality 
 in the Ottoman Empire. 
  1931  "The Star-Spangled Banner", originally a poem written by American author Francis Scott Key 
 after watching the Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812, officially became the national anthem 
 of the United States. 
  1958  Nuri as-Said became the Prime Minister of Iraq for the 14th time. 
  1997  The Sky Tower 
 in Auckland, the tallest free-standing structure in the Southern Hemisphere at 328 metres (1,080 
 ft) , opened 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Assassins need to kill.
  Apparently.
  
  They have the ability and the tools. 
  
  The story is neat because it deals with genetic memory. And while not at all true to actual history... 
 it's probably as close as you're going to get with a game of this nature. Which is really pretty 
 impressive. I mean, everything about the look of the game is period and beautiful. The graphics 
 aren't the problem.
  
  The Game's innovation: Traveling freely through sandy cities from days long since passed. And then 
 killing people.
  
  The problem with the game is that every area, while different geographically, is exactly the same 
 mission-wise. Basically All you do:
  
  `Climb Stuff.
  `Jump on stuff.
  `Jump off stuff.
  `Fall off stuff.
  `Jump off stuff to kill some dude.
  `Rescue some civilian 
 being bothered by guards.
  `Question some guy with your fists.
  `Kill some dudes because the assassin asking you to is lazy.
  `Grab some flags!
  `Get on top 
 of a really high spot.
  `Hide
  `Listen to people conspire. Then follow one of them, question them, and usually kill them afterward.
 
  `Melee!
  `Pickpocket Knives.
  `Ride a horse... for maybe a minute.
  `Drop 7000 feet into a 3 foot tall stack of hay and survive. All day long.
  
  and eventually:
 
  `kill anything that moves. Because you're bored.
  
  
  Seriously. Before the end of the game I found myself walking through the streets, killing everyone 
 left and right with my hand dagger thing. You just walk up to anyone in plain daylight, and push 
 a button. Oops! They died. You can be right next to a guard. Nobody knows.
  
  Basically the game should be called 'Shiv' and take place in a crowded prison. Because you can 
 easily kill anyone you walk into without notice. Even when they're surrounded by other people.
 
  
  And sure, you get punished for killing civilians... but that only lasts for a few moments. Then 
 you can kill another one and nobody will tell.
  
  Basically, it'a a great game. It's like tony hawk with a sword... and no points to get for doing 
 something nifty. The animations are smooth and awesomely presented. The Level detail is phenomenal. 
 The sound is wonderful. 
  
  But it's really not very deep. Locomotion is only one part of a game like this. And while the game 
 is about assassination... it's not even really a stealth game. Sure, the crowd reacts to you and 
 often you might hear, 'Why is he doing that?' Or 'He's going to hurt himself!' ... but uhh... there's 
 no memory. Leave the area, come back, and it's like you were never there.
  
  And while each city has its own theme and build, they pretty much look... very similar. And i was 
 expecting more... hidden passage kinda stuff.
  
  I was just expecting more from it. 
  I respect it for its innovation. I love the direction it's taking the industry. But let's hope 
 there's more to the sequel if they get to make one.
  
  I give it an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjakjak323
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  like the grafix r almost perfact like some times it look so real until some glich come to ruin 
 it like some time thay look like real ppl but some times thay look alittl messed up and more like 
 some times the ground dosint evan show up now gameplay like i was having a great time as soon i 
 got to the first town its fun to clime bilgdings run from roof to roof and kill some gardes whin 
 i get bored its fun now sound the music sound great for this kinda game and the sound fx match 
 every thing like swinging your sowrd to voice ackting and now the bad stuf like if the ground disapiers 
 u cant see whar your going but it suldint happen if u have your disk perfakly clean and i mean 
 nothing on the disk and like some time the gards do some things i cant say in this review and sometimes 
 the horses legs get like all twisted up like what the heck is wrong with it and gards like to chase 
 u whin u run into a begger but not them or regular ppl idk if its just me or the game but over 
 all its a grat game but just one thing bothers me rated M i played thoug the hole game and all 
 i notist is the swaring like the f word h word and d word like no gore no sexual themes hardly 
 any blood and i like how its to easy (sarcasim) and some missons can be so anoying to pull off like 
 assanation like say if thay r right infront of u then some 1 walk right infront of u and ruins 
 the hole thing or say if u keep having to fight gards and thars like 100 dead gards in 1 aria and 
 u have to keep looking like your praying or thay will start chasing u right as soon as u let go 
 of the x boton so overall its a great game it has its flaws but what great game dosint oh and after 
 u beat the game all thar is left to do is eather start over or just redo missons and kill ppl some 
 more and its still fun but then it just gets boring ps sry for all the bad speling i never was 
 good at speling so i think u kuld figer out the words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandro27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing and repetive too. i don't care about its repetive. it is a very good game , 
 i like it very much ,sometimes i am boring with it but i will never forget this game, i'll keep 
 it in my mind .Great action ,good combat ,the bird's eye are my favourite about this game, i like 
 it when i jump to horse food (i don't know how they are called, cause i'm not american or british.) in 
 general it is very very good .graphics are great and the story is amazing .my favourite weapon 
 is hiden blade ,i like its combat, you shouldn't miss this game, you will be pleased.! ! ! ! !! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ~! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !@ ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 ! 1 1 1 1 ! ! ! 11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtheman4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  lets just say it. this game is great!!!!! the missions (to me) do not get verry reppetitive, u 
 just need to go thorugh with is in other ways. I will break this down into catagories
  
  Graphics: the games graphics are awsome there are shadows for EVERYTHING in the game. The only 
 reson i did not give this a 10 is because your robes seem to go through everything u sit on on 
 rooftops. Gameplay: Good but it could have been better. the missions you have to finnish do get 
 a litle repetitive. but if you go around killing people youll be fine. the "free climb" is great! 
 The people in the game are stupid as heck though. only good thing about that is that its funny 
 as hell :)
  
  This game is a great game but has a little more to disire. But the ending screams there will be 
 a assassins creed 2 so they hopfully wil fix them in that one
  
  Basicly you would love this game (i think) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck02623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I am very glad I bought this game, and I fully anticipate listing this down the road as one of 
 my favorites of all time. The graphics are amazing, the environment is immersive, and the story-telling 
 is full of enough twists and turns to make the entire experience simply superb.
  
  A lot of people say they were disappointed by the fact that you don't HAVE to do all of the investigations 
 before the assassination, you don't HAVE to discreetly kill your targets, and you don't HAVE to 
 follow the creed. The fact that you don't have to do all of these things to complete the game was 
 geared toward casual gamers who like to play every now and then in short spurts.
  
  In order to get the full experience of the game, you really should do all of the assassinations 
 silently, following the creed, and do each of the investigations, paying enough attention to the 
 point that you really don't need the mini-map, or most of the HUD for that matter. To get the full 
 experience of this game, follow the creed. It's a matter of discipline in the game in the same 
 way that it would have been for Altair himself. Could he have ran out in the middle of things and 
 jumped his target in front of everyone? Probably, but it doesn't follow the creed.
  
  The only complaint I have with this game is the fact that once you complete it there isn't really 
 any incentive to play through it again, other than the sheer desire to play it again, which for 
 me was enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game, but it doesn't have sixty dollar legs. The game has amazing graphics 
 and it's very fun... for the first half hour. The game is extremely repetitive, you have to complete 
 a set of amusing objectives before being able to assassinate one of the many totalitarious leaders 
 trying to take over the Holy Land. These tasks are fun for a while but get old fairly quickly, 
 it's not that annoying if you don't mind repetitiveness but the game lacks variety. The combat 
 is basic but fun and killing the evil leaders gives you a nice sense of satisfaction but once you 
 complete the game it might not be worth playing through the main story again, although you may 
 want to go back to free-roam and harass civilians, that never gets old. The story is pretty cool 
 and I suggest playing this game just for that, it's an original concept and a refreshingly creative 
 idea that should keep you interested if the gameplay fails to do so. Assassin's Creed is a fun 
 game overall but I was slightly disappointing in it's lack of variety in the objectives and quests, 
 but it's worth a play at least once, but I wouldn't suggest buying it, a rent would be more appropriate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well you may have heard the reviews giving this game a 9.0 but the game is as repetitive as watching 
 a bee fly around in circles. let me explain...
  
  the story is unlike any other you may have heard, a bar tender while walking home from work is 
 kidnapped (sounds like max payne) and is put on a machine that can allow him to syncronize (or 
 one of those big words) with his great great great great great great great great great great grandfather, 
 turns out to be an assassin and is assigned to whack 9 people but first he needs to get information 
 to do it by pickpocketing people eaves dropping and beating them into a sorry mess. when he has 
 what he needs he goes and kills the bloke responsible.
  
  it may sound like fun but it is acctualy boring as Rita Rugner doing standup.
  It is worth renting 
 but i wouldn't say buying it is a good idea because it is over in a few hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the LOOKS. The actual in game visuals are truly stunning and incredibly cineamtic. 
 The cities you play within have the hustle and bustle of their real counterparts and the rooftop 
 vistas and the climbing sequences deliver jaw-dropping horizons and camera work. The main character 
 design is exceptional, with his movement being incredibly smooth and intuitive; climbing never 
 feels unnatural, with handholds seamlessly blended into the city architecture. As a result you 
 will genuinely want this to become the experience the PS3 so richly deserved. 
  
  Herein lies the problem - beautiful scenery and characters do NOT make up for underdeveloped GAMEPLAY. 
 What this game does, it does with definite finesse, however ultimately the experience lacks involvement 
 and therefore a real sense of achievement. Firstly, CLIMBING and ROOF-RUNNING (great fun for a 
 couple of days) are almost too straight forward; the over-simplicity of the controls means there 
 is a distinct absence of interaction and danger. Secondly, the game is ultimately repetitive - 
 go to city, visit the assassins bureau, find a view point, get information, assassinate victim. 
 This is not helped as "climbing", getting information via "eavesdropping" and "pickpocketing", 
 are essentially skill-less activities. The fighting control system has also been over-simplified 
 to incorporate impressive fighting moves. This means that once your character's abilities develop 
 you can fight off hordes of soldiers by a few simple well timed button presses; once again you'll 
 start to wonder where the edge of your seat action is. The stealth element of the game actually 
 works superbly well, largely because you will have to plan your strategy and execute it well to 
 meet your objective. Once you become accustomed to the fact that guarding soldiers will start to 
 get twitchy once you are in their "line of sight", hanging off buildings and carefully picking 
 them off one by one becomes very rewarding. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlr82nsanity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is truly a masterpiece. This game convinced me to buy a PS3 instead of a stinky wii . 
 I Love Assassins Creed !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! phew!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! ! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !! !! 
 !!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhogins
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Hardly played any better games! The missions get a bit repetitive, but still I almost never felt 
 like putting the controller down. The sound, the graphics, WOW! Even the storyline was unique and 
 great. The game-play was fantastic, you have to have this game!! I loved jumping on buildings, 
 climbing rooftops, running away from guards! The combat is also pretty great but could have been 
 better. The combat is all about timing everything just right. Less experienced players who just 
 counter-attacked the whole game may find the game harder at the end because the counters hardly 
 become lethal just knocking the person out, but still the game wasn't that hard but wasn't tremendously 
 easy either. Getting the information about your assassination targets did get a bit boring after 
 a little bit but I guess it was ok. Once again this game is just awesome! And I liked the twist 
 at the end ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodges_3_5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Wow, where to start for my first review. This game was really good and really mean at the same 
 time. The graphics were a perfect 10! EASILY! The world was very open and interactive. You could 
 go anywhere. If you were being chased, you could sit on a bench between 2 people, you could kill 
 them, or you could hop on buildings and hide in a garden. The weapons were fun, stealth or openly 
 attack. The only really bad thing about this game, was about in the 3rd-8th missions, they were 
 ALL the same. It was very repetitive. The course of action was the same. That was the only downfall. 
 This was a great game, but could've been the BEST out there. Also, I would've liked to see side 
 missions kind of like GTA series. I dont know, maybe for the sequel of it, maybe they could do 
 something like that. I will definetly by the second of Assassins Creed. Small changes and the next 
 one will be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok games poters these is my review of the game assassins creed of ps3.
  ok for the first the game play is so free complity liverty for an accion game and ubisoft game 
 and i cant wait for the other assassins creed ok come back to the review the history and the final 
 are incredibles especialy for you can get out for the animus and play with mails and fo nathing 
 XD .The only thing brong is it is sooooo easy these game and the missions are exactly the same 
 but the missions are still cool and all these game is ever the same and the presonaje 
  altair is so awesom and atletic the sistem for encober you is very incredible and extranje and 
 when you apart the people of you is so incredibles and the move and when you climb are very cool 
 and when you scape from the guardians is so exiring and the wepons in these game are sooo awesom 
 and when you asasin some person with the "cuchillo escondido (i say in spanish because i play 
 in spanish) is so awesom OK gamespot the is my review of the game assassins creed for ps3 bye bye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monk0072008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games i'v ever played the hype was right it's deffanetly a beautaful kill 
 if you have a ps3 this is a must have game. it's a little cofusing at first but once you play it 
 for a while you'll get use to the story you might not get the ending but thats normal but i deffanetly 
 gunna get the second one thats for sure but the hidden blade has got to be the best weapon the 
 worst weapon has got to be your fists. im gunna say it again this is a must have game for any ps3, xbox360 
 or pc/mac owener. the best thing about this game is the weapons and the missions just the side 
 misions are kinda lame but it's awsome. i also like the parts after you beat the game like when 
 you don't lose health when you kill peds it's kinda lik grand theft auto in a way. so even if your 
 a gta fan you'll like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has a unique gameplay but that comes with a cost. The game is very repetitive.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay is unique and fun. You can roam free through most of the map, there are 
 some proxies that block you till you complete more of the game. There are many ways to take down 
 your target. The combat style is smooth and challenging. It teaches you to not back yourself into 
 a corner.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics are great. They are next gen graphics with more interactive enviroments. The game 
 looks like your living real life in the middle ages.
  
  Difficulty-
  The difficulty is fairly easy and just get easier with the new moves you unlock as you progress 
 through the game.
  
  Storyline-
  The storyline is about you being part of a futuristic program that allows you to go back and figure 
 out things about your ancestors. The storyline gets very repetitive though as you do the same things 
 throughout the game. You pickpocket and eavesdrop to gain info on your targets. Then you can choose 
 to save civilians that are being harassed by guards. After a certian info level is reached you 
 can go to a Assassins Creed post and get the ok to kill your target.
  
  Overall-
  Gameplay is fun at first but gets boring later on as you do the same things all the time. I advise 
 you to rent it first to see what it is like cause chances are you wont want to buy it after you 
 finish renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirbrandon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed left me speechless This game is what drove me to buy the PS3, and it has definitely 
 reached over my expectations. The graphics, game-play, story, and reality of this game are amazing. 
 The environment and characters are realistic and believable. The different objectives, such as 
 climbing buildings, fighting numerous guards, assassinating, pickpocket, and so much more, make 
 this game as impressive as it is. I'd also have to admit, killing innocent citizens and throwing 
 them off cliffs can be quite entertaining.
  
  Stealth is one of my favorite genres, and this game felt so real. Either when running across the 
 rooftops, alleyways, or on horseback, Assassin's Creed is an excellent experience that will keep 
 you playing for hours upon hours, and re-playing it won't be disappointing. 
  
  There are a few flaws, for example, the "retarded" citizens of each city can become quite a nuisance, 
 and guards will get angry and YOU when the citizen is pushing you around. Another related issue 
 is that whenever you walk by a thug or guard, they tell you to "go away" when you are just walking 
 by, which can get annoying. It is repetitive, I will admit, but this is no disappointment to me; 
 the game-play makes up for it. Something that should've been thought over by the creators is that 
 when a level is replayed, you must listen to your leader speak to you for several minutes before 
 playing every time, which can get annoying. Another con would be the lack of citizen variety; there 
 are too many identical-looking citizens and voices. Even so, it exceeded my expectations for a 
 first try. 
  Besides all of this, Assassin's Creed is a magnificent game that put me into the screen; this is 
 what a next-gen game should really look like. The leap of faith is also awesome, and is something 
 I enjoy doing over and over. It just feels good playing this game -- the controls are perfect, the 
 story is perfect, and the game is Almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the game's strong points is the graphics; the cities are huge, looked great and very lively 
 with people. It's definitely one of the best looking games available on the PS3. Exploring the 
 city is half the fun, but roaming the streets isn't nearly as fun as jumping from rooftop and climbing 
 tall buildings.
  mission objectives are fun to do at first, that range from getting a birds eye view from of the 
 city to committing small assassinations in exchange for information, all to accomplish the game's 
 goal of assassinating 9 people (which are supposedly based in historical assassinations) . Unfortunately, 
 these missions tend to get a bit repetitive since there the same no matter who do you have to kill 
 next, the 9 unique kills give a little variety since there all different but are still the same 
 "kill and hide" tactics you'll use many times throughout the game. 
  Fortunately, the story is good enough to keep you entertained, in fact, I don't think there's even 
 been one quite like it.
  In short, if you liked games like Hitman where you can achieve your goals through multiple means 
 and free exploration, then you'll definitely liked Assassin's Creed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikeyness_909
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  ... but after that then you're just asking for boredom. I picked this up really looking forward 
 to it, and that lasted for around 10 minutes into the game. The control system is fairly basic 
 and nothing too complicated and the graphics are stunning, especially the first time you climb 
 up to the top of some building and scan the area.
  
  But that's where it ends, essentially it's just the same thing over and over again 8 or 9 times 
 until you complete the game. I stuck with it to complete it but I really wish I hadn't bothered, 
 sure repetitive play is present in almost every game but when there's not much else to do then 
 it becomes a bigger flaw. If you can live with that, then by all means it has the potential to 
 be a great game for those who can deal with the same thing over and over.
  
  It's not a game I'll be buying again, traded it in after completing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ok assassins creed is one a game which will be remembered for a long time.
  Firsly the graphics are amazing, I think its the best graphical game to date, everything from Altair 
 to the massive environment with leaves growing from trees tall buildings which dont lose texture 
 and the many people populating the holy land not many of them copies of each other.
  
  The sound in assassins creed is excellent. great voice acting by all the characters, sword fights 
 sound great and realistic, and one cool feature of the game is ramdom people say stuff when they 
 see you running and climbling.
  
  Storyline wise is awsome. You actually play as two people, the game is actually set in the future 
 and you are Desmond who is really an assassin 9he doesnt know it) and the main doctor who is experimentinng 
 on him is a templer (the assassins arch rivels) . Desmond can go back to his ancester memories which 
 is where most of the game takes place.
  
  Gameplay of assassins creed is good. Basically you undergo a mission which turns out badly and 
 you get stripped of your rank and all throughtout the game you are trying to restore it by doing 
 other assassinations throught 3 cities in the holy land. Right the bit why people dont like this 
 game is they say it is repetitive. well it is to some extend but you will want to play the game 
 anyway to see how all the story pans out.
  
  The map is HUGE on assassins creed which provides awsome free roming experience where you can just 
 kill guards for fun (which is one of the best features of the game) .
  
  It doesnt really have any reply value but there is a ton of flags (420) to collect and templers 
 to kill (60) .
  
  Control wise is does it good job. you can easily climb any climbable surface at will just by holding 
 down one button and the controls used for combat worked well too.
  
  Overall assassins creed is the best graphical game to date and it just proves how good next gen 
 consoles are. I would recommand it to anyone. Seriously get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fayttt
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  this is game is fun with capital F ,sit around with your friends one night and just run through 
 the crowds hilarious and i swear we were'nt on anything :)
  The game is cool in my ways just wlking along aimlessly stab your dead oh dear what happenin this 
 poor fellow never saw it coming ,so on and so on. lots of fun to just mess around with but i have 
 to say by the time i got to the end of it i was kinda bored cause you were just climbing the towers 
 mugging people and protecting them. a bit tidious and i dont mind that but i just wanted more greedy 
 f-ing me .but then it ended and i was like what the beep is going on you mean im going to have 
 to wait a year or 2 to found out whats going on its lord of the rings all over again, at least 
 i could pick up the book with this im snookered. BOO................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a very good looking game. The story is what the producers wanted to work alot, 
 so expect alot of blah blah, even though the story is pretty original and well written, so as the 
 dialogues, etc.
  
  The game as awesome graphics with great animations, models and objects; enourmous citys, wich happen 
 to be all possible to climb, and i mean, everything, from windows, to poles, and merchant huts, 
 giant walls and much more; the sound effects are all amazing, with the swords clashes and piercing 
 throung bodies all sounding extremely realistic, just a shame that the blood effects are a bit 
 rusty.
  
  The gameplay is a plus, Ubisoft had the great idea of lock-on, so you don't wave your sword / dagger 
 around carelessly. What happens is that you press a button to lock your target ( L1 ) , attack in 
 a good timing, or you will forever hit the enemy's sword instead of him ( timing is crucial in 
 AC ) , and defend yourself, and grab an enemy to throw him against a wall or from a roof top. As 
 you raise your ranks in the Creed, you will learn how to counter-attack, make your enemy's defense 
 break, and much more. Its funny though, this seems hard, but the game is just right for everyone!
 
  
  The missions in wich you participate all involve some kind of sub-missions, wich are a shame to 
 be only 4 :
  Pickpocket - Follow a NPC to steal something from him
  Eavesdrop - Sit on a bench to listen some interesting conversations
  Mano-a-Mano - Listen to 
 a town crier and beat him up to get some information ( beware of the thugs, they have fat fists...)
 
  Informers - Either collect a number of flags or assassinate someone to get information from a 
 Creed member
  
  And after doing that ( for each major assassination, 9 in total ) you will have authorisation to 
 kill your target.
  __________
  
  Assassins Creed is full of details, either poor people asking for money, town criers complaining 
 about the crusades, or drunk/handicaped guys messing with you. Just a shame that they all seem 
 attracted to you, and not to every thousands of NPC's that roam the towns of Jerusalem, Acre and 
 Damascus, the major citys of the game. Of course there are other towns, but it would be spoiling 
 the game for the players that haven't bought it yet ^^.
  
  There is so much to say about Assassins Creed that it would be boring even to me, a fan of this 
 game. Just read the other reviews and Gamespot's one and you decide. I loved this game, too bad 
 there's no multiplayer, the campaing is short, and you have to listen to all the dialogues if you 
 want to play another mission again. Also, the climbing, one of the game's part that i absolutely 
 loved, sometimes will irritate you until you drive mad, but just practice and you wont destroy 
 your console.
  
  Well, overall, Assassins Creed is a great game, brings alot new stuff to the games community and 
 is very well made. If you haven't got any action game at the moment, buy this. Its Worth It . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Let's start by saying this -- there has never been a game that is more original than Assassin's 
 Creed. Every expectation I had for this game was either exceeded or thrown in the garbage. I dare 
 you to try and find any game out there and say "oh, it's kinda like Assassin's Creed." No. It is 
 not.
  
  Graphically, AC is pretty impressive. Climbing a viewpoint is a joy, as everything you see -- you 
 can get to. Everything you can see can be reached. It's truly fascinating, and fun to explore. 
 Meanwhile, though, the framerate of the game is terrible. I'd love to see how amazing the game 
 would look with a normal framerate. At certain points in the game, the picture became extremely 
 jagged and was a nuisance. Other than that, it's a pretty game.
  
  Gameplay-wise, I'm hot and cold. The first time you assassinate a person is an amazing thrill. 
 But, take this cycle, and repeat it 8 times, and you basically have the gameplay of Assassin's 
 Creed. Go to a city, meet the local Bureau leader, investigate, go back to the Bureau, get permission, 
 carry out your mission, run away and hide, return to the Bureau, return to Al Mualim. Still, it 
 is kind of fun to do each time, but it is a bit repetitive.
  
  Storyline-wise, Assassin's Creed is in a class of its own. A convoluted, deep storyline that is 
 two storylines at once -- don't ask, just play the game.
  
  The ending... wow. The trippiest, most  ending 
 I've ever been a part of. 
  
  Overall, AC is an amazing experience. Play it to get ready for the sequel, because I know a few 
 things after playing this game -- it's great, and we have not seen the last of Desmond Miles (and 
 in turn, Altair) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnFangs_Endes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game hyped-up, expecting an exhilarating adventure; I got it, but I also came 
 out of it a bit bitter.
  
  -=-
  
  
  Assassin's Creed is based during the Third Crusades, where you play as implied by the title, an 
 Assassin. Your job is to basically take orders on who to kill, gather information on said mark, 
 and assassinate them. The game also makes heavy use of Free-Running and Parkour.
  
  In it you play as the Nine-Fingered Assassin: Altar. The finger was removed to increase the efficiency 
 of the Hidden Blade. It may explain his inability to swim..
  
  -=-
  
  
  Merits:
  +Fun gameplay
  +You see it? You can probably climb it too!
  +Large environments to play in
 
  +Responsive controls
  
  Demerits:
  -It's sometimes frustrating climbing
  -After playing for a while, things will become familiar and ho hum
  -Roofs are littered with 
 over-abundant Hide Spots
  -Glitches
  -More Glitches
  -and more..
  
  -=-
  
  
  The Gameplay is great, that is, when the game isn't virtually attacking you with it's glitches:
 
  
  
  You have Low-Profile mode, which is essentially your all-purpose stealth mode. It's what's best 
 recommended for taking out your target without being discovered.
  Then you have High-Profile, which is most easily explained as 'Combat-Mode'; in it you can run, 
 sprint, tackle, attack, grab your enemies, and defend. 
  
  In Low-Profile, you can do such things as Pick-Pocket Letters, and Thugs for extra Throwing Knives. 
 You can also Eavesdrop to gather information.
  
  With High-Profile, you can use your Hidden Blade to pull-off fast assassinations on foes who have 
 either been knocked down, or are speedily approached while not being entirely sure of your intentions; 
 it's probably not widely known, but you can infact use the Hidden-Blade in combat. 
  However you can only use it when you've either knocked an opponent down; they've momentarily stopped 
 paying attention to the battle, or by using counter-attacks. The downside is that you cannot block 
 attacks with it.
  
  You also have the Short Blade which is better than your Sword when you're fighting in tighter spaces 
 like an alley where there's less room to move.
  
  Then you have your Sword, which is your common-use weapon. It's got good defensive capabilities, 
 decent strength, and plenty of attack combinations. My main disappointment with it is that the 
 counter-attacks aren't always lethal.
  
  Then there's a very fun weapon: the Throwing Knives. They're your only long-range weapons, and 
 can be depleted fairly quickly. Though it's usually pretty fun to find yourself a little perch 
 to seat yourself on, and pick-off any guards that come along.
  
  Lastly we have your Fists. You'll likely use these a lot less than the rest of your arsenal, but 
 they are useful. You can attack someone if you're using you fists without having the Guards going 
 into a piranha-like frenzy. You use them to Interrogate people, fend-off the Drunkards, Crazed, 
 and Beggars; though you had best be careful when punching the Beggars as the Guards will occasionally 
 attack you.
  
  The combat is brilliant, and fun, but when it decides to give you a more 'cinematic' view of your 
 kill, it can often kill it's flow. A similar effect can be achieved by simply killing a Templar 
 or touching a Flag; which will then have the game proceed to use one of the blinding graphical 
 'glitches' which often results in you getting damaged..
  
  -
  
  You can go almost anywhere in the game, since almost every surface is scalable, and you can traverse 
 just about every flat surface. This is usually pretty fun, especially when you're cruising atop 
 the roof-tops in search or your destination, or just plain goofing-off.
  
  -=-
  
  
  The Graphics are striking. While they might not be quite on par as recent graphical-benchmarks 
 such as Crysis, they're still good enough to get the job done.
  
  -
  
  Whether the it's spores, leafs, or the smoke billowing from chimneys, they add to the overall atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  The large environments and draw-range also add to the feeling of Epicness when moving about.
 
  
  The characters, and even the animals often have great detail, but it seems that the same character-models 
 have been used nigh too frequently.
  
  -=-
  
  
  The Sound is where this game both shines, and is dulled.
  
  -
  
  The Music is great, and 
 sets an appropriate mood for the situation.
  
  Then there's the white-noise which gives a better feeling of being in the country-side, or in a 
 bustling city, and again, sets a better atmosphere.
  
  To the scripted dialog that sounds quite natural.
  
  -
  
  But then, there's those lines 
 that are repeatedly spewed forth from the citizens of the Holy Land.
  
  They use the same lines in every single place; usually the only difference being a change in accent. 
 There are of course lines not spoken in English, and while they're not as easily recognizable, 
 they still get tired all the same.
  
  -=-
  
  
  The Story is definitely unique; or stories I should say.
  
  -
  
  First and foremost is 
 who the majority of the game follows: Altar.
  
  His story starts as he screws up a mission to retrieve a treasured Templar artifact. After some 
 events which I'm not going to take the liberty to tell, he sets out to Assassinate the nine names 
 on a list his master Al Mualim holds.
  
  -
  
  Then, there's the secondary, but seemingly more important story-line of Desmond. Let's just say 
 that Desmond has been taken against his will and is being forced to remember his past so that his 
 captors can obtain one of the treasured Artifacts that Altar failed to obtain.
  
  -
  
  Either way, the ending is fairly awkward, but it does give nice head-room for a sequel.
  
  
 -=-
  
  
  Overall, it's a remarkable game, but some unerring flaws keep it from being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  At first you may think you popped the wrong disc in, God knows i did.
  I'm really surprised at how much bad rep this game got.
  Granted some aspects of the game could've 
 used more polish, and more than a few things about it seemed rushed. The combat for one (hidden 
 blade owns all) gets stale pretty quick, and the assassinations get alittle repetitive as well. and 
 with such a powerful engine running this game i would've like'd to see it put to use alittle more. Anyway 
 with all my nit-picks aside, This is still a very solid game. It's biggest strength is with it's 
 story.
  Which i was again surpised with all the gripes of it being "confusing".
  It was'nt that bad though i did have to go back and replay a couple parts.
  that's what set this 
 game apart, It gave information in small doses.
  and had a killer cliffhanger ending. which of course sets up for a sequel.
  and leaves ALOT of 
 questions unanswered, But all great movies (and games) have been that way (matrix anyone?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (7/10) : Frustrating controls and terrible aim. You'll be finding yourself getting chased 
 by guards time and time again because of such weak gameplay mechanics. Roof jumping is fun and 
 it will eventually become an art. Though, there is only so much fun that one can attain from jumping 
 roof to roof. Which brings me to my next point. This game is repetitive, in every aspect. You'll 
 find that these main missions feel incomplete and would be treated as side quests in other games. 
 Sword play, which is fun at first, also becomes tiredly repetitive. Here's the steps: 1.) Block. 
 2.) Counter-attack (x) 3.) Watch the pretty visual of Altair slashing the guard's leg for the 100th 
 time. I think my eyes are bleeding.
  
  Sound (8/10) : It's ok. Nothing special here. Sound effects are nice and people have authentic voices. 
 It's on the bar in terms of sound go. The only critique that every reviewer sees is Altair's voice. 
 I ask, "Why does he sound American?"
  
  Graphics (10/10) : This is what a recognize Assassin's Creed for. It's flawless in every way. Shadows 
 work naturally and the detail is just ineffable. Solid frame rate. I only wish reality was this 
 pretty.
  
  Story (7/10) : Ubisoft tries to make this story unique, but there is a such as being too unique. 
 How many games actually take place in 1100 AD that uses an assassin? Not many on my count. I don't 
 know why Ubisoft put in the "twist". It makes no sense. It would have been better off with just 
 Altair and his personal story. They could have also made a better gameplay mechanic off of a better 
 story-line as well.
  
  Final Opinion (7/10) : I can't say that I didn't enjoy the game. Killing people with a small blade 
 is fun and all, but I can only do it for so long. I would like to see another Ubisoft attempt at 
 assassin games. I'm sure they could have learned valuable lessons from this one. I would definitely 
 sell this game back to GameStop. It's a sell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatsun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game with lots of freedom.
  
  I wasnt expected the fight system is so easy and good to use after watching those gameplay clips 
 long time ago. The control is great on PS3. 
  
  The area of the game that u can explore is unbelieveablely huge, u could spend days just walking 
 around, climbing buildings or running around killing people. The game Graphic is stunning. 
  
  One part i am not so sure is how easy is it to kill a target you suppose to kill. They will 
 try to defend themself for a little while, but u can kill them like how you kill those innocent 
 citizens. 
  
  i still havent finished the game because i was spending all my team just killing ramdom guards 
 and people. haha. Its a good game, the storyline isnt as important to me because all i need to 
 do is killing, right?
  
  Story: 7/10
  Control: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Replay value: 9/10 (only if u like killing innocent people) or else is 4/10
  
  
  Its a game 
 worth buying for its graphics, and if u like GTA's style of game, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid-Torch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  every one need to bye this game fore sure it's so dam freak en good o loved the game it was dam 
 fun all tho when it was done it was just to do the same and the ending well WHAT i didn't get it 
 tho it was relley fun game o thought that the jumping down from building was lame in some straw's 
 WHAT
  great great gereat great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game is suffering in two of the most critical mechanics, the gameplay and the story. The gameplay 
 is repetitive and gets old very fast, and I mean very fast. The story is just lacking, period, 
 nothing more to be said about that, This game was hyped as something that was going to change the 
 way we played action games, and all we got was something that was disguised and then revealed as 
 something we have already seen and done before. The graphics are great and the living and breathing 
 environment is nice. There are too many A. I. problems with this game that don't make any sense. 
 You can kill a guard and wait a few seconds and then life goes on no matter how many people saw 
 it. I made a mistake purchasing this game, then after playing it realized that I would have only 
 rented it. It was a very ambitous project and it showed. thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackfridayrule
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  While it is extremely fun running around stabbing people in the back the old hack and slash feeling 
 of th game gets to be monotonous. The missions and side missions in every city are basically the 
 exact same thing. There really isnt much diversity of action in the game. Stab someone here, rouse 
 the gaurds and have a 20 person battle here, pick pocket that guy there, you can only do so much 
 of this before the game gets boring. The sequel is really going to have to kick it up a notch to 
 keep players interested. Fortunately it looks as if there wiill be a completely different setting 
 and plot so this will likely happen. But in saying i have to admit that i belive that is is a really 
 good game and its something different in and of itself. The afore mentioned flaw is really the 
 only flaw i find with the game. One other small problem is that although there are more move kills 
 than in most other games it still gets repetitive, i would like to see more variation in that, 
 perhaps something along the lines of independant limb moving allowing you to be completely in charge 
 of the combos? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzombie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I've been tracking this game for a while now, and I managed to buy it with my PS3. I've managed 
 to finish it, for once, and all i have to say, is that it may not appeal to some, but it totally 
 rocked for me! 
  First of all, the graphics look amazing, there's nothing more fun than finding the tallest structure 
 in one of the cities, and just drool over the landscape.
  Combat seems a bit robotic at times, especially when there's a lot of enemies to fight off, like, 
 they attack one at a time, but I think that's a good thing, because if they all attacked randomly, 
 it'd make the game so much harder.
  Running across rooftops and jumping from wall to wall is probably the most fun you could have. 
 I mean, the cities are HUGE and feel so real. You could easily get lost in them. The missions may 
 be repetetive at times, especially when you have to assasinate many people in that certain "chapter". 
 It does have a confusing ending, but it just means we'll have to wait for the next game to find 
 out what happens next. 
  Overall, this is well worth a play, and if not, a definite must-own for any PS3 or 360 owner.
 
  The only cons I think are that once you finish the game, there is really no reason to go back 
 and play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlitim
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Was so looking forward to this game, looked like it had everything, but within an hour I just couldn't 
 bring myself to play anymore. First things first the good points; graphically its incredible the 
 way the character moves, jumps climbs is like nothing you have seen before. The cities are beautiful 
 and big enough to get lost in, and you feel like you are there with so much going on around you. 
 Unfortunatly thats it on the plus points. 
  
  On the bad there are 3 big issues with the game that really made me call it a day.
  
  1. Having 
 to ride between the cities. Dull time consuming and very annoying
  
  2. Cut scenes in the present which seem to go on for ever and ever and ever. aghhhhhhhh even thinking 
 about them annoys me.
  
  3. The repetative nature of the missions. Each following the same pattern, which for the first 
 mission is quite exciting but which soon becomes tired and uninteresting. Collect all the info 
 to help you assisinate someone. Why bother it makes no difference. Be careful and sneak up to you 
 victim. Why bother what ever you do the guards are alerted and a full scale chase ensues.
  
  This all leads to situations where you can turn your PS3 on and actually not do anything of 
 any interest for about 30 mins, at which point you couldn't care less who you are meant to be killing 
 or whatever.....
  
  All in all this is a game that tries to be different, new and exciting but it just doesn't really 
 pull any of them off. There is potential for a follow up but there is just too much that seems 
 to have been thrown in at the last minute. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blademaster2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  the game assassins creed has a couple very crucial elements:
  
  1) it has great graphics
  
  2) great controls that don't involve you pushing a hundred buttons for altair to do something
 
  
  3) it has a great fighting system
  
  4) it has a great storyline
  
  in this game you don't just go headfirst into battle you gotta wait and watch and strike at the 
 right moment and get your target, wither that be given to you by game or because you wanna kill 
 a guard you need to wait and watch then strike
  
  another good part of this game is that you don't have to stick to the streets you can go by rooftops 
 to thats always fun. This game is hard but not to hard, meaning that you need to think to win but 
 not to the point that you get a headache or want to stop playing
  
  in a nutshell this game has a cornucopia (loads of) great features that make you go wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro_Fayad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  6.0-6.5: Fair Games that earn 6-range ratings have certain good qualities but significant problems 
 as well. These games may well be worth playing, but you should approach them with caution.
  
  That's the gamespot Ratings
  
  Many can disagree with me, but its an opinion, and just 
 because it goes against your beliefs, that doesn't mean that you can't read another side of the 
 storie...
  many people think this game isn't that great... 
  so if you don't have this game i say:
  -don't believe the GAMESPOT HYPE
  
  I live in Brazil 
 and i just can't return the game and get my money back (if I've could rent this game before)
  
  I've bought it cause i've watched the previews and etc...
  it had a lot of moves and interaction 
 that looked great, beautiful graphics, and it HAS!
  
  everything is new on the first two hours of game... lots of things to do, but when you do realize 
 that this game is the same thing on the next 10 hours... maaan 
  the whole game is just the same stuff, 
  the same things to do
  getting information is the 
 same thing
  helping other people is the same thing
  even entering other cities is the same thing... not even destroying some walls?? or like... climbing 
 the city walls on another side killing guards sthealthily??
  the same easy repetitive enemies
  You don't get rewards for getting 100 scatered flags
  missions 
 that play like GTA.... (get all the checkpoints in the time being)
  
  And what's with that "BLEND"... you raise your hands with a sword on your back and blood on your 
 knees and the guards still think that you are a peaceful priest??
  It doesn't compare to metal gear solid when the guards search you
  
  AFF... this game just isn't 
 broken because it has a lot of beautiful stuff that dazzles you... 
  and interesting story (even though I didn't finish the game) , but still weak on the whole plot
 
  
  Thanks for reading, and it was great to let these thoughts go away...
  great talking to you guys... 
  now I can try to sell this game and get half of the money back 
 or just finish it to see how is the ending scene and put on my collection list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was one of the more anticipated and hyped games of this young generation, and for 
 most people it didn't live up to the hype. But the reality is it's a great game hidden behind numerous 
 flaws. But you can have as much fun with Assassins Creed as you want to. The story is immersive 
 and incredibly deep. The game could get repetative, but you can take the game at whatever pace 
 you like, and the huge open world that allows you to do whatever you want, however you want, gives 
 incentive to do so. At first it is easy to be confined by the guidelines given by the game, these 
 being that you shouldn't run or climb buildings in order to not draw attention yourself. However 
 this is the way the game is meant to be played, climbing and getting through areas is the best 
 and funnest way to play the game. Combat is somewhat linear, but is very cinematic. Unleashing 
 certain combos and mastering tactics like counter attacks makes for very fun and visually pleasing 
 combat. After completing missions you are rewarded with new weapons and fighting techniques. So 
 the combat improves as the game goes on. In my opinion the game is very comparable to Metal Gear 
 Solid. In that it's a stealth based game where you can sneak through un-noticed, or you can run 
 through it and kill every sentry that you see. And either way works.
  
  The major drawbacks in the game are the length, which lasts about 12 hours, and the lack of or 
 difficulty to use the replay value. Once you finish the game you can go back to any previous level 
 to collect any missed items, complete any mini quests, kill any templars. But the fact that you 
 can not skip through any cutscenes makes it extremely annoying, and not worth it. But the game 
 itself is very much worth a play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infidexus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game has great gameplay, it does get a little repetitive after a while, but it's tolerable. 
 This is a steal with most stores like BB having it for 20 off these days. You can make this game 
 end in about 15 hours if you rush it, or get 30-40 hours if you collect all the extras. Warning 
 to parents, there is very minor language, but that doesn't compare to the violence of stabbing 
 someone in the face or neck, let alone shoving your sword through a man's chest and watching the 
 blood spray everywhere! The ending of the game wasn't what I expected, but it leaves it open for 
 a sequal! This game is made by people of various beliefs and backgrounds, so it does a great job 
 of intertwining some history into the game. The game will seem teadious at first, but once you've 
 ventured to other towns, you get the option to skip there without having to travel across great 
 lands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATSIMUS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is first in the franchise of the same name. Set in crusades you take on the role 
 of Altair a high ranking member of a secret organization of assasins. Its your job to go and kill 
 no questions asked, and despite this brutality you are constantly told you are doing this for peace 
 not war so you are reassured if you enjoy slicing up middle-eastern peasants. The game is spread 
 out over 6 areas, Masyaf (your headquarters no real missions here you just collect them here.) , 
 Damascus, Acre, Jerusalem, Kingdom (countryside between each city) and Arsuf (Not accesible really 
 just setting for one mission) . In the first mission you disobey the creed and are demoted to a 
 novice with no weapons except the basic sword and hidden blade. Your overall mission is to kill 
 9 men (3 in each city) earning your weapons and skills back as you go.
  
  The settings are done beautifully you really get the feel of a vast anient civilization, each city 
 has its own feel to it damascus is very sunny and warm where as newly conquered Acre is dark and 
 gloomy also each city has unique features like the minarets in Damascus, the docks in Acre and 
 even the Dome of rock in Jerusalem. You also get amazing panoramic views when you climb a viewpoint 
 which is proof of how powerful the ps3 really is.
  
  The most unique feature really is the free-running allowing you to climb any surface that could 
 be climbed, seriously any jutting edge can be grabbed with ease and its really fun to just run 
 around the city on the rooftops. But eventually you get bored of this and you have to attempt the 
 missions. The basic structure is to research your target, get permission, then to strike. You can 
 research through a variety of methods, eavesdropping, pickpocketing and interrorgation. but first 
 you have to find them using viewpoints (highpoints in the game like a minaret or spire) these give 
 you panoramic views of the area and also updates your radar with objecvtives and even guard locations. 
 Then you complerte each objective gathering info on the target, you need 3 but 6 are available 
 so you can rush in and kill or find the best method of killing your target. You then take out your 
 target with a hidden blade and run away.
  
  Another feature is the button and combat system which uses a puppet format where the main buttons 
 take the roll of body parts, head, armed hand, unarmed hand and legs and r1 switches between high 
 profile and low profile modes. However it becomes boring early on as you unlock counter by simply 
 pushing r1 and square when attacked you can easily dispatch an enemy and most of his friends so 
 the challenge is lost.
  
  Also the missions get so repetitive each msiion is practically the smae just different trget and 
 different loaction, you research and then strike and then run off boring.
  
  But my biggest problem is cut-scenes between every assasination and during each assassination you 
 have to sit through a 10 minute conversation about philosophy that has no relevance to the game, 
 sure its nice to see how voice acting has developed, but you don't have to over do it Ubisoft i 
 don't care about peace and war i just want to fight middle-eastern soldiers.
  
  It maybe short and repetitive but its fantastic scenery and free-playing style means this game 
 is well worth a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was built up to be the best game to hit the PS3. It was said to give you the freedom 
 to anything you want, how you want and when you want. So has it delivered? Yes and no.
  
  You play as Altair whilst you explore locations from the 12th century in the holy land. As you 
 go along you must complete assassinations on 9 important members. They all know the secrets of 
 the Templars' treasure. The big twist is that you are really a guy in the modern world and a company 
 are using a machine called the animus to access your ancestor's memory. The story is complicated 
 to get to grips with at first, but you should get the hang of it after a while. It's such a shame 
 though that it has one of the most confusing and, well, stupid endings I have ever seen. But at 
 least it leaves room for a sequel.
  
  Before you go to complete these assassinations, you must gather information from the various people 
 around the city. You must pickpocket, interrogate, scale view points to find mission objectives, 
 carry out stealth assassinations in a certain amount of time, and find flags in a certain amount 
 of time. Theses are fun to begin with but because you have to do them before every assassination, 
 it does get very repetitive. After completing these, you must do the big assassination on one of 
 your targets. A sort of cut scene will take place as you approach your target, after that you must 
 find your target and kill him. But beware; the bells will star ringing after you start to attack 
 your target. You must then flee from the scene and hide somewhere when the guards aren't looking. 
 It is all fun and enjoyable but, as I said, it does get repetitive. 
  
  The locations are very vibrant and are filled with people. The scenery is stunning and truly breathtaking 
 sometimes. There are a couple of technical glitches though, for instance, whilst you are talking 
 to the guy at the assassin's bureau, Altair suddenly starts to bob up and down for some reason. 
 And, on one mission there are scholars picking up books and throwing them onto a fire. Once one 
 of them picks up one pile of books and chucks that pile in, for some reason another pile of books 
 appear at the same place and he chucks those in. The voice acting through the game is well done 
 and very believable as well making for a pleasing experience.
  
  Aside from a terrible and confusing ending and repetitive missions, this is a game that any PS3 
 owner must have in their next-gen collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpleiguanaz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Ok, assassin's creed may not have lived up 2 the hype, but it was oh so close. The graphics in 
 this game is simply sensational. Climbing is just exciting, climbing!!! The gurads may not be the 
 smartest of the lot, but they still get the job done. The twist to the plot was given out a bit 
 2 early 4 my taste, but still held on, to make it really interesting, and make ppl wait, and wait 
 for the sequel. The atmosphere really makes this game great, voices are s0o0o relistic, and every1 
 reacts differently, imagine 10,000 ppl, all with their own personality. The lighting is great, 
 giving it a mideval effectthat in my opinion makes the game look and feel oh s0o0o real. MANY PEOPLE 
 HAVE BEEN SAYING, REPETITI0N, REPETITION, REPETITION. Well, if ur a gamer who buys a game and finsih 
 it by the next day, or as fast as possible, then dis is not the game for you, but if you're the 
 kind of layed back gamer, who plays abit, chills abit, den get this, an absolute stunner!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocoAsce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Personally i did not finish this game because i couldn't deal with all the playing attention and 
 instruction following in the game, but the game still astonished me on the way it looked and the 
 battle system, the few missions i did complete were actually fun, i sometimes had to look up for 
 a strategy guide on the internet to get through some parts because i didn't quite get the instructions 
 giving but thats just me, the most gratifying moments of the game was climbing on top of a huge 
 tower and looking down on the scenery which was very well done, also when you get fed up with not 
 being able to do something u have to, you can always take your anger out on just killing every 
 person in sight which is very fun! overall this game was great and id recommend it to anyone who 
 has the time and attention for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyblaz314
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  in the begining of the game it's very interesting and got me hooked real quick. The graphics and 
 even music of the game are superb. Cities like Acre almost look too real and the climbing makes 
 it so much better. the fighting system was ok too, but makes you learn to be very patient.
  
  
  The only bad part was that towards the middle it did get very repetitive and i even had 
 to take a break from playin for about a week. once i got to the last 3 assassinations though things 
 got fun again. The final parts of the story were pretty intense and i was getting hooked again..
 
  
  another problem was how the saving system worked and i didnt like how you would have to start a 
 whole memory part over if you wanted to do a past assassination. i was hoping it would let me go 
 straight to the killing but i was wrong. Good thing about it though i can go on killing sprees 
 and waste hours of time.
  
  Overall it was an awesome game and you needed an open mind to understand the story. i still think 
 it was great and can't wait till the second one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevCubsOr21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  These are just a few words to describe Ubisoft's Assassins Creed. This is one of my all-time favorite 
 games already. Although we had to wait a very long time for this game, it was most definitely worth 
 it! The map is gargantuious. The storyline is remarkable. The grapics are simply amazing. Sound 
 effects are top notch. I really dont have anything negative at all to say about this game. Its 
 just perfect. The map is not only one of the biggest ever to hit platform systems, its also the 
 most detailed! I whipped through the game in just a few days simply because I could not put the 
 controller down once I started playing. The game is basically never ending, because even though 
 you may have gotten through the storyline, it is doubtful that you can quickly do the bonus missions. 
 These include climbing up the tallest buildings in the game to catch a "'view point", or saving 
 all the citizens that have been bugged by guards. The hardest side missions are collecting all 
 the flags and kill all 60 of the knights templars. You just cannot go wrong with this game. This 
 is a game you can never forget after you play it. Assassins Creed is sure to increase your level 
 of expectation in games for the next-gen consoles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DravenLaVitt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, the scenery is nothing short of beautiful in this game. It's obvious that the creators must've 
 spent tons of time on the backgrounds, because the cities are fantastic, with LOADS of detail. 
 I'll admit, I was slightly bored to TEARS when I fist popped assassins creed into my ps3, but believe 
 me, it gets better and as you progress. You actually become involved in the story instead of just 
 skipping the cut scenes (which you cant skip anyway  :0 ) . Altair's moments are very realistic 
 and it's always good and fun just to walk around the city killing any guard you come across, or 
 pushing the ANNOYING beggars into walls. I must say, this game probably isn't for people who lack 
 patience, because a huge part of it is strategy and WAITING for the right time to strike. And if 
 you DO lack the patience, well, it's always fun to kill a guard and run away from the others as 
 they chase you. If that's what floats your boat, then go all out. Jumping around like a monkey 
 is quite interesting anyway. 
  
  The good thing about this game is that it inst entirely one of those "glue yourself to your seat" 
 type of games. When you pass a mission, you can take a break for quite awhile, see the sun, pop 
 in a different game or whatever you fancy. But in the end, you'll come back to it and slowly, will 
 finish it.
  
  The graphics and sound are very well defined, even I stopped to admire the eagle in the very first 
 cut-scene. W-O-W.
  pretty good, pretty good. 
  $60 ehh? Yeah, it's kind of worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzzzza
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Overall I think assassin's creed is a great game graphics rule and melee is also pretti good . 
 I do think that it is a bit samey samey though i have completed it and cant say i really want to 
 go back on and capture all the flags kill all the templars and climb all view points but when you 
 first get it you wont be able to put it down and you will say just one more investigation . i think 
 the game could of really done with some online play but i dont no were abouts in the game it needs 
 it i think it would mke it more of an interesting game . the game does get a bit boring when you 
 have done the 4th assassination when you just no what happens next unlike in uncharted drake's 
 fortune - review coming soon Thanks for reading to sum it up a buy must buy but lack replay value 
 ruins the game the weapons are quite fun and the rewards are good when you complete an assassination 
 you get some sort of armour or weapon back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattinc2k6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Written by: Matt Waldman
  
  Note: Some possible spoilers! 
  
  Also note: I beat this game back in December of '07, so my memory of this game may not be as clear 
 as it was. Please keep in mind that I may accidentally leave out some details.
  
  Okay, okay, after a wealth of information of this game was revealed at E3 a while back, I shifted 
 my eyes over to it and promised myself that I would buy it shortly after its release. One thing 
 that really intrigued me about this title was its climbing mechanics that took Prince of Persia 
 up a notch, allowing you to freely navigate your way pretty much anywhere and climb pretty much 
 anything. After the unnerving traffic of the holidays, I headed over to Best Buy to pick up a copy 
 of this game. I played and finished it in about a week, coming out slightly impressed, and wanting 
 more.
  
  So, here's a brief overview of the story. The main storyline takes place in the near future, and 
 involves a man known as Desmond Miles who gets kidnapped by a well-known research corporation and 
 is forced into a machine that lets him relive the memories of his ancestors. He is then taken to 
 the time of the Third Crusade, where he assumes the role of Altair, a member of an honorable group 
 of assassins in conflict with the Templars. Your mission is to take down the nine Templar leaders 
 and pave the way for true peace. As the story progresses, you will come across many twists and 
 turns that build up and add onto the enjoyment of the game. However, I will not say anything about 
 the ending. It is something that must never be discussed in this review.
  
  All righty, first things first: the presentation. Assassin's Creed is a beautiful game that is 
 definitely a sight to see for the eyes. The buildings are well-modeled, highly detailed, and resemble 
 the actual buildings of that time period quite well. As you climb these buildings, you will notice 
 minor details that stand out and really make you appreciate the work that was put into the modeling 
 of these buildings (courtesy of lovely bump maps) . It is even more amazing to look at the cities 
 themselves and notice the amount of detail in them as well. Everything -- I repeat, EVERYTHING -- 
 casts a shadow in this game, whether it's a huge monastery or a puny flag.
  Character models are equally impressive, showing off high polygon counts and superb animation. 
 It's always impressive to see the main character run, jump, and climb at anything while looking 
 completely natural.
  As for the audio, it gets the job done nicely. I don't own a surround system of any sort, so I 
 can't review on that. The voice acting is superb all-around. Altair is given a really tough American 
 voice that, while it fits him very well (and I personally like it) , seems out of place considering 
 the game's Middle-Eastern setting. I'm guessing that this was done in order to keep Altair's voice 
 consistent with his present-day counterpart. The music is quite good, presenting a blend of ambience 
 and middle-eastern-inspired melodies.
  
  Anyways, I think I've covered that enough. Let's get to the part that really matters: Gameplay. 
 Despite what the title, "Assassin's Creed" suggests, I feel the area in which this game really 
 excels at the most is the climbing. In this game, if you can see something, you can probably climb 
 it. It's that simple. Climbing is nifty, fast, fun, and feels very natural. As for what the mainstream 
 audience is probably more interested in, the combat is merely okay. It does nothing more than get 
 the job done. The key to combat success in this game is to hold down the block button and perform 
 counterattacks over and over. Using this ingenious combat strategy, you can take down entire armies! 
 Ahem, anyways. 
  This game also emphasizes a little bit on stealth sort-of. If you do something that's unacceptable, 
 the whole town chases after you. Now you have two options: take down every single guard by using 
 blocks and counterattacks, which may take a while, or run away as fast as you can, climbing up 
 any buildings you see, and jumping into the nearest hiding spot, which may also take a while, especially 
 since guards can climb buildings nearly as well as you can.
  Overall, the core gameplay comes off as being very repetitive. For each and every assassination 
 mission, you have to collect information of your target throughout the city in various ways. Next, 
 you locate your target, take him down, listen to his death speech, get a weapon/health upgrade, 
 and then head to your next target. The game is centered around doing this for about nine missions, 
 so I suggest you play the game in short bursts for better enjoyment.
  
  After beating the game, there are very few extras that add on to the replay value. If you're a 
 perfectionist, and are up to the challenge, you may have a bit of fun collecting every flag in 
 this game and killing every Templar you see. Otherwise, there isn't much else.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a very unique game that takes the Prince of Persia formula to the 
 extreme and produces some satisfying results. If you're into action/adventure games, I suggest 
 you pick this one up, even after taking the somewhat repetitive gameplay into consideration.
  
  
  8.4/10 (8.5 here due to strange scoring scale) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game is different than any other game you'll ever play. The immense 
 amount of freedom and fighting styles make this game a must have. I finished this game today after 
 around 50 hours of playing. Not bad. If you like games like spider man 2/3 (the whole free roaming 
 thing) , you'll love this game. The cities and scenery are just incredible. Climbing to the top 
 of a tower and looking over the entire city is beautiful. Also, the game has a kind of dual storyline 
 going on. One that takes place in the present in some experimental lab building, and the other 
 that takes place in the past. So the game has a lot of depth. It's not just senseless killing like 
 it may appear. If you're reading this review wondering "should i buy this game?" Wonder no more. 
 GO BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HFViking55
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Having played this game a little for the Xbox 360, I knew what to expect when I bought it for the 
 PS3. Overall, the game is an amazing way to waste a couple of hours here and there. With that being 
 said, if you're looking for a game that will hold you from start to finish without ever wanting 
 to put the controller down and go outside and see some sunshine, this is not the game for you. 
 The mission structure is very redundant, with only minor tweaks as you progress (addition of archers, 
 less cover in the immediate vicinity, etc.) . If your a completionist like I am, this rinse and 
 repeat gameplay will get old fast. This is easily remedied by playing in short sessions. However, 
 the work you put into the redundant missions will help immensely when you get to the real meat 
 of the game, the assassinations. 
  This is truly where the game shines and feels genuinely unique. As you complete the investigations, 
 you unlock clues, maps, etc about your target. When you've gathered the minimal amount of info, 
 the game allows you to begin your "Memory: Assassination." The underlying mechanics for the assassinations 
 are the same, but it has a very open ended feel to how you can carry out your plan. Even if you 
 botch your initial attempt, you can still recover, it's not game over, reload checkpoint. 
  Which brings me to the controls. The control scheme is very simple with a slight learning curve. 
 The four main buttons each have two functions assigned to them, corresponding to the body region 
 (x = lower body, legs... Sprint, walk; Square/Circle = arms... fighting; Triangle = head... eagle 
 vision, etc.) . Toggle between low and high profile maneuvers by simply holding down the R1 button. 
 Very simple. It allows even newcomers to action titles to pick up and play. And as I said, when 
 you botch an assassination or a mission (unless it requires a stealth kill) , you can recover by 
 simply engaging the enemies in hand-to-hand combat. As you progress you'll relearn the "powers" 
 you had in the games tutorial, increasing your arsenal, essentially allowing you to take on hordes 
 of guards. My only quarrel with the controls comes as a PS3 specific gripe. Having first played 
 the game on X360, I felt like Altair's high-profile controls didn't feel as tight as on the 360. 
 For instance, it seemed that occasionally, I'd find myself jumping from a viewpoint in the general 
 direction of a haystack, but the leap-of-faith didn't trigger, killing me on impact. 
  As for the story, it is truly unique. Loosely based on historical factions and events (i. e. the 
 crusades are mentioned in street rants) , you alternate between the present and past as you try 
 to recall the events of assassin Altair's life. Withholding any spoilers, this is the most info 
 I can give you about the storyline. But as I've stated earlier, it will hold you enough to keep 
 coming back and pressing through the redundancy. Graphically, this game looks as good as the trailers 
 make it out to be. I've read reports of screen tearing, but I've yet to come across it (play in 
 720p/1080p settings on a 42" plasma via HDMI) . The background ambiance is appropriate but, like 
 the missions, can get redundant fast. Overall, this is a must-rent at the very least. If you can 
 find it on sale (which over the past couple of weeks seems very likely) I'd recommend picking it 
 up. It's one of the games that I feel truly belongs on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AHaliassos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  At the start of the game probably you will love the way you assassinate but then you will soon 
 realize that the game is repetitive. It may be repetitive but it's still very fun. The end is very 
 confusing because it's like it never ended. You are stuck in the lab and you dont know what to 
 do. In the city you can climb wherever you want and maybe that's the coolest thing in the whole 
 game.
  
  The most of the game is that you need to assassinate some important people, but you first need 
 to learn about them. So you will pickpocket people, you will interrogate them and you will do some 
 eavesdropping (Whatever this is) . The start and the end of the game will be the most fun of the 
 game because it's quite different than the rest of the game and that makes it fun.
  
  I think this game is for people that like the style of just doing whatever they want and climb 
 wherever they want and kill whoever they want.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed takes place in four different cities including Jerusalem where you're an assassin 
 named Altiar who's on a mission to kill those appointed by your leader. In this game your able 
 to do parkour which is a sport kinda like freerunning. You're given a variety of weapons such as 
 a sword to a hidden blade that enables you to stealth assassinate people without getting caught. 
 What stands out in this game is that everything can be reacted to and at the same time still able 
 to make the surrounding area unbelieveably real. Throughout the story you unlock new weapons and 
 moves that can be really helpful throughout the game. As you progress through the storyline you 
 begin to question of what you are doing and the reasoning for it only to find out what is really 
 happening. The time of the place actually takes in the future where you're abducted and given orders 
 to do a series of missions in order to unlock a memory that your abductors want, but in order to 
 do this you have to relive the events of your ancestors memory in order to unlock this memory block. 
 There isn't much to unlock when you go scouting for flags around the city once you finish the game 
 but you can replay the missions. There are downsides to it including some graphical glitches that 
 can be fixed with an upgrade. It may be a great game but there's no online play and tends to get 
 a but repetetive. Overall, its a buyer if you're into those games that has that splinter cell feeling 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtShade
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Assassin Creed is definitely a brilliant game from the beautiful graphics, and wonderful game play, 
 but after 5 or so assassinations you'll find yourself begging for new content. The worst thing 
 about AC is that all your missions consist of the same goal and concept. not much changes from 
 the first time you close your targets eyes till the last time you face your biggest challenge. 
 The story however is so what interesting and you'll enjoy the interesting twist that awaits you 
 come the final hour in the game. Scaling the Buildings Kind of reminds you of being Spiderman With 
 the small exception of no web slinging. The steal kills and group fights is enough to keep you 
 interested. All in all Assassins Creed is a game worth buying. Sadly with no multiplayer this game 
 can get old. The level of difficult is right with it comes to fighting but after a short while 
 you'll realize that the game is not very hard and kinda dull. if you enjoy being a vigilante and 
 slicing and dicing AC is a game that should be added to the collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TodoBond7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is probably the most beautiful game I have ever played in terms of graphics, realism and movement 
 freedom. You actually believe you are there for the scenarios are so realistic and the people in 
 the cities so well fitted for the setting. The game itself is very good but it isnt perfect.. 
 From what I could understand you are supposed to be an assassin not a Warlord which is what it 
 seems since you can kill almost any number of foes surrounding you without breaking a sweat... 
 The game is also short and, I finished it in 3 days playing about 3h a day and completing all investigations 
 but not collecting the flags which is for me too boring to complete. A lot of people say the game 
 is repetitive, I disagree, its too short to even begin to get repetitive!! 
  Most Importantly is the fact that the game is a simulation and could very well not be any simulation 
 for the story outside de Animus is incomplete and stupid at best!! The ending of the game is horrible, 
 very boring and inconclusive. I was expecting the assassins coming into the building and you would 
 get to control the real guy as you controlled Altair but no... you just see some strange things 
 in the walls, complete gibberish!
  Well, its a game you play once and only once for there is nothing else to do unless you like catching 
 flags with an assassin!! (sounds weird right?!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  -STORY-
  The story is very weird! you some how with the help of this technology called the 'animus' go back 
 in time where your ancestors were. You are ordered to do these killings. I wont say anymore.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  Yeah its fun to play but you can just wait for the enemies to attack you and 
 counter attack. you can dodge the swings they give , you can counter throw them. you can grab your 
 enemy. You can assassinate people. also you will carry out missions like to pick pocket, listen 
 in to conversation, save citizens, assassinate certain targets or beat up someone to give you information.
 
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  Arguably one of the best to date. its absolutely amazing. i love climbing view points and seeing 
 the surroundings. not much to criticize here.
  
  -MUSIC-
  Not much music in this game caught my attention. they were no means bad. 
  
  -REPLAY VALUE-
 
  I suppose it is ok. collecting all the flags in certain areas and carrying out every sub mission.
 
  
  -OVERALL-
  I enjoyed the game but at times got abit too repetitive. The ending was rubbish and i intend to 
 get AC2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Last-Child
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Possibly one of the most beautiful games to date but becomes very repetitive and ending is extremely 
 confusing. The presentation and especially the sound effects in this game are masterful but it 
 suffers from a lack of variety as you continually go back and forth between cities repeating the 
 same tasks to ultimately fight dead people. Very bizarre. However the sound and visual effects 
 really bring this game to life and makes it one of the best assassin games ever especially with 
 the many maneouvres and stunts that can be performed just to brutally slay someone. Lovely stuff. 
 Also the killing never gets boring which is a real up, whether it is just silently taking out an 
 archer or attacking a whole squad of crusaders, the fighting in this game is a beautiful thing 
 to watch and to do. All in all a brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt incredible , I had already decided on buying this game and Gamespots 
 review without a doubt helped my "want" to buy it. I got home inserted the disk and started playing, 
 it was a complete new experience , a new style of gameplay and the enviroment within the game was 
 truly "Incredible" but it began to get quite repetitive. Without a doubt it is extremly fun to stealth 
 kill guys and fight agaisnt 20 and win but it got so repetitive that I loss my wanting to play 
 early on. The story for some reason did not pull me in, to me an essential part in a game is story 
 and my wanting to know the ending just wasnt enough. After you finish the game its highly unlikely 
 you would want to go threw the repetitivness all over but that is just my opinion. It is a brilliant 
 game but not one you buy in my opinion, go to blockbuster or ask a friend to loan it to you, that 
 way you atleast save some money on a game you might not even finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, created by Ubisoft is an Assassin game, (obviously... hence the name) Where you 
 play Altair, a descendent of the main character in the game, Desmond Miles. Desmond is taken to 
 a research facility, and gets into a machine called the Animus, which retraces his ancestor's memories 
 through his DNA. Desmond then plays out these memories in order for the researchers to find out 
 certain information about him.
  
  The game can be very fun, because of the huge towns you can explore, and the many different ways 
 to kill people. The game is based around nine assassinations, which Altair must perform in order 
 to re-gain his ranks in the Creed.
  
  As time goes on you find out a lot of interesting information, and the story is actually quite 
 good, but the gameplay can become very repetitive. In order to do these assassinations, you have 
 to collect information, and there are only a couple ways to do this that the game has set. Many 
 of them you'll do over and over, just different people, but same situations.
  
  Overall the game was great, but I couldn't sit down and play it the whole way through without getting 
 bored. The ending was well worth it, and I cannot wait for the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj4gogetarocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is surprisingly good. I didnt expect to be as enthused about this game as I am. 
 I didnt go into this game with high hopes. I just beat this game a while back and I must say that 
 it just had me excited at the end, also puzzled but that is another story. Well i must say that 
 this first installment was great, i cant wait to play the next one. 
  
  The gameplay was a little repetative, but it is to be expected, i mean there are only so many ways 
 you can interrogate and eavesdrop or pickpocket someone. Now the combat system is not that spectatcular 
 or anything, basically you swing and dodge and counter or grab. I love the stealth kills where 
 you use your short blade. Graphics are awesome, and the ai is pretty easy. The sound quality was 
 a bit low quality in some parts.
  
  The story is basically about an assassin named Altair who gets too cocky for his own good, and 
 basically gets demoted and he has to do these missions in order to get his rank back and his weapons 
 back. Now on top of all this, it seems things ar enot as they seem. Altair is really a guy named 
 Desmond who is reliving his ancestors memories through this machine called the animus. Not to give 
 anything away, but as you go through your missions you routed back to present time and figure out 
 that you are part of some plot by the templars and well at the end of this tale, you will be thoroughly 
 confused until the next game comes out. 
  
  Well that is all i have to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is just so amazing it would be a shame not to play the game.
  The lighting in the game is perfect you can see the character at all times.
  The Visuals are 
 amazing everything is so detailed it looks like were there.
  
  The Story is pretty good to follow, there 9 bad guys that need to be killed, while at a certain 
 place, there's little side missions as well, like save the citizen, or ease drop on someone, or 
 find out more info on someone.
  
  The Soundtrack to game is truly one of a kind, makes the game even better.
  
  I love the combo's 
 you can do u kill an enemy, i love using the hidden blade, when theres an enemy near buy.
  
  The Fact that you can go anywhere you want, kill whoever you want however you want, this game 
 gives you so much freedom, its awesome.
  
  Jumping from rooftop to rooftop is my favorite way to get around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This was with no doubt one of the most hyped games of 2007, as such it was guaranteed to fail (to 
 some extent) :
  
  The story is excceent, I won't go into details because every detail can possibly be considered 
 a spoiler, the core of it is simply that the player controls Altair, a member of the famous Hashshin 
 on a quest to reclaim his honour by killing nine important historical figures during the third 
 crusade.
  A great series of mysteries and twists are revaled as the game progresses, players should see for 
 themselves.
  
  Graphics are beautifull whit lots of detail and nice looking effects, and the animations, particullarly 
 Altair's are near perfect. Unfortunately, on some of the final levels there are some noticeable 
 frame rate drops, and in case of one particualr fight it's enough to hinder gameplay, but in most 
 cases are minor and unimportant. 
  
  Sound is profficient but its the sountrack that really stands out aurally.
  
  The gameplay 
 is preety fun, with a nice combination of acrobatics, managed in an unique way, great combat, with 
 different weapons and spectacular counter-moves, and a nicely implemented (most of the time) crowd 
 stealth system.
  
  So, if everything is so great, why did I say it failed?
  
  Because all these exccelent production values are wrapped around a core of gameplay that is repetitive 
 to the extreme. The beggining of the game is nice, but then you'll spend the rest of the game essentially 
 doing the same thing nine times (for each of the targets) and only the final levels actually bring 
 some variety. It's like Ubisoft developed this great game mechanic and engine and then couldn't 
 figure out what to do with it!
  
  This bore factor and the stability issues before the patch was released keep the score down for 
 this otherwise brilliant game and let us hope that at least the sequel will diversify the gameplay 
 and make Assassin's Creed what it was supposed to be since the beggining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  this is the first game i had ever played and i have to admit that there is alot of thought to make 
 it look realistic with realistic movements, nultiple ways ways of hiding yourself and wise strategies 
 not to attract attention,,,, but it was rushed apparently for the only difference in story from 
 the third victim onwords is the different victims and the ending,,,,, heyy it would have been a 
 great game but i only enjoyed it for the first few levels.. altair is cool and all especially when 
 he hides his face in his hood after putting the knife from his sleeve to a guard's neck without 
 nobody noticing or when he runs away from guards from one stick hanging out of a building to another 
 eventually landing in a carriage of hay when he is out of his followers' sight but coolest of all 
 are the fighting,,,, by waiting for them to attack with L2 and pressing square as soon as the blades 
 make contact, you would unleash a deadly attack like punching him in the face and put ur sword 
 through him as he is on the ground ,, and others... all the marks this game earns is from the strategy 
 and originality 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9
  Graphics:9
  Sound:9
  Value:9
  Tilt:9
  
  Assassin's Creed is the first game set in Palestine during the 3rd Crusade, and is the first game 
 of the trilogy. In the game, you play in a memory of your ancestor Altair. You don't know much 
 about him, the game doesn't tell you if he is Christan or Muslim, what language he speaks, or anything 
 much other than the fact he works for the Assassins Brotherhood, however his name Altair means 
 flying in Arabic. 
  BEWARE! BEGGINING VIDEO SPOILED IN FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH.
  
  In the beggining Altair along with two other members of the brotherhood are sent to Solomon's Temple 
 to retreive his treasure, but in the way is a enemy of the brotherhood, Robert, whom Altair tries 
 to kill, his attempt is foiled, but Altair escapes, but in the battle, one member of the brotherhood 
 gets killed. Your punishment by your master is to kill 9 enemies of the brotherhood, one who is 
 Robert. For this mission you will travel 3 major cities of Medieval Palestine, Damascus, Acre, 
 and Jerusalem. 
  
  To successfully assassinate your target, you will need information. To get information you can 
 either interrogate people, pickpocket important documents, eavesdrop, or do missions for another 
 brotherhood member in exchange for information. Wen you have enough information you can make your 
 strike, and each level ends when the target as been successfully assassinated. There are 6 memory 
 blocks, but each lasts a signigicant amount of time.
  
  Overall Assassins Creed is a amazing, and wonderful experience that you will remember for years 
 to come (until Assassins Creed 2 comes out, then you'll remember that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Remember back in the day where almost every avid gamer across the country couldnt wait for Assassins 
 Creed? We all expected it to be the perfect introduction into the world of next-gen gaming. 
  But you would have to be frank that it may not of came up to scratch, based on how hyped the game 
 was. We can all agree that it was over-hyped to an extent, but all the same, its still good fun. 
 
  The over-hypness of Assassins Creed prior to its international release may not of being the only 
 mistake however. There has being alot of common criticisms about the gameplay too. In particular, 
 that its very repetitive. 
  The aim of the game is that you must take out key figures behind the crusade whos tearing apart 
 the holy land, after you were disgraced by your Brotherhood for neglegance and failure. So you 
 must go back up the ranks to redeem yourself. You reclaim a rank, and a new ability/weapon after 
 every assassination. However thats all there is to do, ride from city to city, get intel about 
 your target and then kill him. This is the same over and over again. You can quite honestly say 
 that its irrelevant who these targets are, because their pretty damn easy to take down. 
  Cut-scenes are pointless, because either; 1) you can barely understand what their saying, or, 2) 
 the voice acting annoys you.
  
  Anyway, I wanted to get all the criticisms out of the way because I have to honestly say that regardless 
 of its unapologetic repetiteness and lack of challenging enemies, its still an enjoyable game. 
 
  The free running is awsome, and this just emphasizes how easy your enemies are, because you can 
 get away from them just like that. 
  Sword fighting can be straight forward, but easy to accomplish. The counter attacks are my personal 
 favourites; press square button at the right time and thats it, enemy gone.
  
  No-one can ever disagree that the carefull look of detail in the 'mise-en-scene' of Assassins Creed 
 is rediculously sharp. Even if the gameplay just get on your nerves now and again... you can always 
 do abit of free running and enjoy the scenery, quite breath-taking.
  
  The whole sci-fi aspect of the game has many pros and cons: Its good because it bring more depth 
 and twists to the games narrative. However alot of people could say that it was never needed, and 
 should of being a straight-forward, 11th century, sword wielding adventure.
  
  We can conclude that Assassins Creed has alot of good things about it, and alot of bad things. 
 We just gonna have to see how the sequel looks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artemios
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  An ambitious effort was made to create a game with a unique plot. Everything was dealt with perfection, 
 as we can see, ranging from the voice acting, and the visual effects (in general) . If we look closely 
 to every location we go through in order to complete an objective, we can see that each of these 
 areas has a different style in architecture, as well in the color schemes. By doing this, the game 
 does not tend to get dull. The voice animation is fantastic, however, the only weakness exists 
 in Altair's performance, he tends to be not as persuasive as the characters you eavesdrop for instance. 
 The graphics are as good as the voice animation, only that there are a few bugs here and there, 
 for instance when Altair is bending on his knees, they tend to go through his cloak. The plot is 
 rather complex, it's confusing at first however, as we progress through the game it becomes clearer 
 and more exciting. I believe, with the cliffhanging ending of the game supporting my hypothesis, 
 that there will be a sequel to this rather interesting game. I would recommend everyone to play 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  You could go on for days talking about the graphics and lighting, I wont do that cause im sure 
 youre all sick of hearing it by now. What I will talk about is the fun factor!
  
  
  
  Once you gotten your basic controls down its time for an adventure! You can climb almost anything 
 and can approach objectives from many different angles. You can also just run around and explore 
 the huge living cities or countryside... Which to me is pretty fun sometimes, just to see the environments 
 and how the people react around you.
  
  
  
  
  The story unfolds at a pretty well paced level and you regain your stuff after losing everything 
 in the begining (ala metroidish) but this also does give you time to learn how to use all your 
 goodies. You basically do some research before your assasinations which helps you in some ways 
 to pull it off.
  
  
  
  The controls are pretty fluid once you get them down but the fighting can be a pain to get used 
 to at first... that is until you unlock new abilities to use while swashbuckling.
  
  
  
  Remarkably I found this game used right after it just got released... Ive gotta say so far that 
 this is the best purchase Ive made with my Ps3. If you liked Prince of persia or loved it the way 
 I did than this is definately right up your alley... In fact I thought the big secret before its 
 release was that it was an undercover P. o. p. game, because they never really showed his face. I 
 wont spoil it but I will tell you this isnt the big secret.
  
  
  
  It does become a bit repetitive but not so bad that you ever just wanna toss the game, If youre 
 lookin for a drop dead gorgeous game that plays well and has a solid story than you need to look 
 into this title for sure. And trust me theyre gonna keep runnin with this series for a long time... its 
 that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hush404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  An astounding achievement in every sense of the word, Assassin's Creed will please just about any 
 gamer with it's massive open worlds, almost seemingly open gameplay within those worlds and a real 
 sense that you are taking part of something bigger than yourself. Right from the get go, players 
 will realize that this is a different type of game from just about anything they've ever played. 
 However, Assassin's Creed does have a share of small problems that, while not crippling the game 
 do cause it to drop points and prevent it from being that much better.
  
  The first of many great points is contained in the story of it all. The game (without spoiling 
 the story line) has you taking the role of Altair, an assassin in the year 1191 ad - who must take 
 part in righting some wrongs in the cities of Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre during the times of 
 the crusades. Taking out these "evil do-ers" as well as uncover a plot as thick as blood are Altair's 
 main goals. As a nice twist to the usual straight forward story, you will also spend some time 
 in the more recent times as Desmond - a simple man who makes his way through life as a bartender, 
 and who also just happens to be a descendant of Altair. The uniqueness of this plot, jumping back 
 and forth between modern times and the crusades really opens up your mind with questions and possibilities 
 which are thankfully fleshed out more and more as the game goes on.
  
  It doesn't really matter if you play in the crusades with Altair or the modern setting with Desmond, 
 it all looks mighty astounding, graphically. Lighting especially is something that the team must 
 of spent a great deal of time concentrating on and getting right. It's hard to believe that lighting 
 can make such a difference, but it really does. The lighting really only compliments the entire 
 engine tho, because everything looks spectacular. From the city buildings to its citizens, your 
 main character (s) , animals such as horses and birds as well as growth like bushes, trees and so 
 on all look phenomenal and error free. It really gives your a sense that you're in that world.
 
  
  That world is also brought to life with spectacular audio design. Soft to outright adrenalin pumping 
 action tunes -composed by Jyspar Kyd - are playing in the background almost everywhere you go which 
 does nicely with whatever theme you seem to be caught up in at that particular moment. Hundreds 
 of NPCs are chattering away in their own world which adds really integrity to the cities as you 
 pass through them and their hundreds of citizens. Your main character (s) and the ones who surround 
 him are well voiced and none seem out or place or cheap.
  
  Generally all of the production values of the game seem to have top notch care put into them. Graphics, 
 audio, menus, presentation, it's all fleshed out to resemble a blockbuster hit. Very good job, 
 Ubisoft.
  
  Where, this reviewer believes, the game has some faults is in it's gameplay. The gameplay that 
 is there is spot on, as it's a ton of fun roaming these cities, going about your duties. However, 
 after completing the main quests that get you from one assassination to another you're left with 
 nothing more than fetch quests. There are a good few hundred of flags spread over the entire game 
 to find as well as 100 templars to kill, but at the end of the day you don't have a large enuff 
 variety of side missions and other things to keep you playing.
  
  That said, the action you do get is intense. Whether you're taking on 12+ guards in a fight, or 
 saving a citizen from corrupt guards, or doing a timed collection or killing mission or running 
 from guards after an assassination or even just exploring the world and p***ing off the locals, 
 you should have a great time and a smile on your face. 
  
  Controls are streamlined and after you get to play with it you should have no problem whipping 
 Altair around rooftops, through alley ways or in a fight to the death. Actions are mapped to the 
 face buttons with such commands as blend (lets you look less obvious) and push gently (pushes people 
 gently out of your way) , their use changing if you decide to hold in a top button (R1 on the PS3) 
 which puts you into more of a "rush stance" which allows you to do more stuff such as free running, 
 jumping and tackling. All of which will be used in gameplay for various situations.
  
  At the end of the day however, you will get use to the controls, tired of the endless missions 
 that are all the same and getting basically no rewards for doing so. There's really no unlockables 
 to speak of, except for more/better weapons and moves through out the game and without a multiplayer 
 component you may be able to finish the game's main story in a few sittings and not want to play 
 much more.
  
  If it wasn't for the shear beauty, great story and over finesse of most of it's parts Assassin's 
 Creed would be left a failed game because it's gameplay only goes so far and has trouble holding 
 your interest. Thus a game that could of been an amazing great... still gets a good score but one 
 can only wonder what could of been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  No! I had so high hopes for this game and when I got it, It was good but then maybe 45 minutes 
 in the game, and I turn it off and take it back! 
  
  - The graphics- They are blocky and at times very glitchy.
  -Gameplay- It gets quite repetitive 
 and kinda easy.
  
  I really feel like I wasted my money, and I dont recommend this to anyone! They really had the 
 greatest idea and let it slip right under them! Plus, the PS3 version (which I had) froze very 
 often and you would have to shut down the whole system! It got out of hand! And those beggars are 
 so annoying, they get in your way and it makes you want to pull out your beautiful hair! The only 
 thing good about the game is its beautiful worlds and past the frozen screen the world you get 
 to explore is quite beautiful! But thats really nothing special, me personally I dont buy a game 
 for the worlds! Dont buy, rent, borrow, or look at! Again this is in my opinion and your best interest!
 
  And it was pretty darn easy and I love difficult games and this one was basicly not for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basem_fisher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  hi my name is basem im from egypt i bought it i played it i loved it it's the game that every body 
 should play and enjoy.
  since it is free gameplay its hard to make this kind of games since every part of the game is opened 
 to explore and there is alot of things that u will enjoy in this game i numbered them in list here 
 it is :
  
  the 1st thing is : the thing abought just jumping over buildings and exploring the city .
  
 
  the 2nd thing is : the incredible details of the buildings espicialy the huge ones like churches 
 and mosques they are incredibley detailed in a beautiful way and if u live in one of the places 
 that the game took part in or in egypt [ where i live ] you will find that the buildings are in 
 the real look that they were in that age they look the same so for me its really great to just 
 keep walking around the cities and just admiring the beauty of the buildings .
  
  the 3rd thing is : fighting system it is great since it was nominated for the best action game 
 and i think it won the fighting system is the best i have ever seen. there is a lot of combos for 
 every each weapon .
  
  the 4th thing is : the control scheme since it won the prize for the best control scheme in 2007 
 it is great its a joy to just switch betwen profiles adapting to your situation according to your 
 needs.
  
  the 5th thing its not a special thing that uniqes the game its about the story of the game they 
 say its a confusable story at the end .
  
  the 6th thing that i think its really really good is : the fact that they used real arabic in the 
 language they talk i find that really amusing because some games use forigeners to talk arabic 
 but in assassin's creed they used real arabians {it's obvious from the sound } and through the 
 game its a real fun to hear them talk arabic .
  
  the 7th is : the variety of the missions its real fun to pickpocket a guy or evasedrop or stealth 
 assassinate him and specialy stealth assassinating i loved it since im a big fan of splinter cell.
 
  
  the 8th and last thing seeing that the studios of prince of persia [ i love the game ] and splinter 
 cell teaming up and making a game that great is fascinating .
  
  
  
  that is what i thought of AC i hpe u like the review and 
  i hope you nuy the game.
  thanks 
 for the readers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  AC is a game which requires repetition. It's basically go here and do that, then come back and 
 go here and do the same thing with a little twist. Starting out with all the weapons and perks 
 and then loosing them in one fail swoop is an interesting ga, eplay choice, but ubisoft made it 
 work. The more weapons you acquire and the more health bars you gain by competing menial tasks 
 tend to have you want to try out new combos and see how many guards you can kill. For someone who 
 needs to have a new adventure every step of the way, this is not your game. You will be bored and 
 might not even finish the game. If you are someone who pops the game in for 1-2 hours here and 
 there and wants to kick some butt in style, this is the game for you. The plot slowly grows on 
 you as new info is revealed and the characters become believable. Overall a great game that may 
 not be worth the whole $60 to some, but thats what sales are for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  First thing I'd like to say is I think this is one of the best games out on the Playstation 3. 
 Unfortunately, that's not saying much. I think it may be a little overrated because there is a 
 lack of good games for this console and a bunch of marketing types decided the PS3 needed a savior.
 
  
  That said I liked the game and I will most likely buy the sequel. I won't be waiting for the sequel 
 the way I'm waiting for FFXIII or KOTOR 3 but I would probably buy it if they make one which it 
 looks like they will.
  
  I thought the strengths for this game were its amazing graphics and fun and intuitive gameplay. 
 
  
  As for it's weaknesses, I felt it got a little repetitive after a while and there was nothing really 
 motivating me to complete more than the bare minimum number of quests it took to get to the main 
 assassination memory for each of the guys you murder. I also thought the whole modern day story 
 line was terse and they should have elaborated on it further or just made the game set in the 1200s 
 instead of the whole animus thing. Finally I think they could have added about twice as many main 
 quests to put the amount of time it takes to beat this game where it should be.
  
  But overall as I previously said I think this is a good game and I'd recommend it. I hope my review 
 doesn't sound harsh or make it seem like I didn't enjoy it I just think it could use a little more 
 work for the amount of praise it has gotten.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al3x_n90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  So this is the great Assassin's Creed.
  First of all it's something out of the box, i've always liked games that stand out from the others. The 
 cities are great, they're very detailed, and very well done, congratulation ubisoft for the cities. In 
 terms of graphics the game doesn't quite stand out of the crowd but they're great, anyway when 
 you have such large cities, full of people, you don't really care anymore about graphics. Another 
 great thing is that Altair can climb on almost everything, and jumping from building to building 
 is lots of fun. But the game has some bugs, like the clipping, but this is such a small, and practically 
 insignificant thing, you just tend to forget about it, then again considering how much the game 
 was hyped, it is a big mistake. Also the game tended to freeze on the ps3, but ubisoft released 
 a patch that fixed that problem.
  Now the story, well the story is something new, and pretty nicely tied, but here's the big problem 
 with the game, it's so repetitive!! the beginning and the end of the game are interesting, the 
 rest... they're so many assassinations, after 4 i was like, Oh COME ON!!! if it was another game 
 i would have abandoned it, but this was AC, and i wanted to see all of it, anyway leaving the VERY 
 repetitive part behind, the end was really cool, and i was like: MOOOOOORE!!! so i'll buy the next 
 AC, if its not so repetitive. To bad, it could have been a much better game, i'll give it a 8.5, 
 it doesn't deserve a 9 because ti disappointed so many people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revan_14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  -Revan_14's Review on Assassin's Creed-
  
  Don't let any one fool you, Assassin's Creed is a great game. Did it live up to the hype? "Ehhh". 
 
  
  Graphics - (8) The graphics are gorgeous and defiantly Next-Gen quality.
  
  Game play - (9) Its awesome and smooth from Altair swinging his sword around, to him grabbing a 
 hold of a ledge.. it's a little glitchy here and there and the A. I. can be dumb at times and not 
 move but lets get realistic here if you were a soldier and you just seen your buddy get owned by 
 a hidden blade to the face would you really be eager to try to fight the guy? probably not, and 
 the glitches are something you can defiantly forgive.
  
  Story wise - (9) If you're not a big Sci-Fi History fan this game might not be for you, but if 
 you are.. this game is perfect. Not to spoil too much for the people who still haven't played this 
 game, but you play as an 1191 A. D. bad ass who looks pretty sweet while stabbing people in the 
 neck. =)
  
  Fun & Repetitiveness - (7) This game is fun climbing up walls and stabbing people in the neck trust 
 me and the story is fun to follow and learn about, but it defiantly gets dull after about the 3rd 
 assassination and when i go back to the game i can only kill one or maybe even two more of the 
 targets.. after that, i'm bored and tired.. and after you finish the game you probably wont go 
 back to it for awhile.
  
  Conclusion - If you like action, adventure and a good story, get this game. If you don't, then 
 you should at least rent this and try it out, because this game defiantly deserves it. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildact
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Alright im just going to make it into pros and cons and make it a short review on my point.
  
  Pros: the Assassinations look cool
  good graphics
  good music
  the controls are easy
 
  
  Cons:
  can get very boring so fast
  way to repetitive
  the story is not good
  gets annoying
  
  there is many more that im sure you can think of, although i found the game 
 got boring pretty fast. mainly just jumping on top of towers and the fighting system isn't that 
 great.
  
  i went all the way to memory 4 and got extremely disappointed because i got told this game is good 
 just my opinion.
  
  although in the beging your going to like it mainly because of the way he assassinates the targets 
 and the graphics but for me a game with no story and to repetitive equals a failed game that shouldnt 
 be released.
  
  assassins creed is a if you like it or you dont type of game and for me its a no no.
  i think 
 i would get it under 20 bucks but nothing over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquetobias
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Really if you want to buy this game dont do it, rent it first, i have been playing games since 
 i was five and with the years you need more that just graphics, sound or controls. You need the 
 juice the spark that some games give, that some incredible people can do. 
  But you see this game and it does not gives me the satisfaction of playing it. IM NOT SAYING ITs 
 BAD or horrible like superman 64 but it is not that good, it does not have the heart to bee a great 
 game, its only an almost good game not worth more than 2 hrs of play.
  
  
  If you need to kill people like the assassins did it a think they must copy the way metal gear 
 has the stealth system. It just get borring to sneak around with the monks or to be jumping around 
 the city.
  It feels like more like a knight in shining armor with his big sword that can kill over a dozen 
 mobs and get with it, that does not sound like an a stealth game....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcorekiller8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed doesn't have words to describe it. its Amazing and fun to play its realistic in 
 some forms like investigating and getting info on how to kill your target which is what you would 
 have to do in real life. I have a theory that if you complete all the additional memories then 
 you will be able to access the computer in the conference room and use the doctor's laptop but 
 its just a theory. but all i can say about Assassin's Creed is that it is great and fun to play 
 and i cant wait for the next one. the graphics is amazing on the PS3 and there are very little 
 glitchs and i just love climbing the towers and jumping of into a stack of hay. the story is interesting 
 and has a good twist the ending is a strange cliffhanger but it works i would recommend this game 
 to all my friends!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talicie
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Loved the first few hours, until I realized that the next 20 hours consists of *exactly* the same 
 thing: climb 12 towers, save 8 citizens, fistfight, eavesdrop, pickpocket, stealth kill, then repeat 
 9 times. I can't remember the last time I was this bored with a game.
  
  Consider the citizen saving: 9 missions with an average of 8 citizens per mission = 72 saved citizens, 
 and each time, it is *exactly* the same. Playing this game makes me feel like I'm back in detention 
 writing "I will not play games in class" 1000 times.
  
  With such an awesome and detailed world, couldn't they think of some more things to do?
  
  
 Also, for such a detailed and highly believable world, to missions are so fake and artificial that 
 it is stupid. For example, just because you punch a guy four times, he suddenly decides to give 
 in and tell you everything? Each and every time? What about the stupid flag-collecting informant 
 missions? "Oh, by the way, I decided to put these 20 flags up to see if you can get them in 3 minutes." 
 How stupid. Or the timed stealth-kill missions: "Yeah, my job is to kill these two guys by noon, 
 but how about you do it instead, in 3 minutes?" Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzoku
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because the review in our beloved Gamespot, but after a very short playtime 
 I realized this game is not was promised.
  
  Starting with the good, the game has a impressive visual presentation, from an artistic and technical 
 viewpoint; the detail in the cities is high and the effects, like the shadow casting or the "animus" 
 fog are very nice. The only gripe about the graphics is the sometimes erratic framerates, but you 
 get used to it.
  
  The most impressive part of the game are its controls. You can easily roam through roofs and climb 
 walls and towers and seems like the game knows what do you want to do. For example, there are missions 
 where you have to collect some flags to gain some information from a member of your clan, and the 
 flags are positioned in very narrow spaces, like wooden beams. Collecting these flags against the 
 clock is not a problem at all once you now where they are, since you can move really freely.
  
  And now going to the sound section, the voice acting -at least in spanish- is decent, but even 
 in my native language is sometimes difficult to understand the dialogs... definitively we miss 
 a subtitles option in the game. 
  
  The music: I can't really remember any tune.
  
  Now going to the problems of the game. It's way too repetitive. You are commissioned to commit 
 the assasination of 9 big fishes of the middle age, and in the end no mission is different from 
 the other.
  
  The usual sequence is the following:
  Climb tower/Go to Assassins Hideout/Rescue some citizens/Interrogate some people/Kill the man.
 
  
  As a novelty it works, but some time after you get borede of it. (exactly, I got to the 5th assasination 
 and finally sold the game) .
  
  Another serious problem is the lack of interaction with the elements in the world. All the action 
 is developed in the streets, you can't enter the building nor can talk to any citizen, nor can 
 read any sign... it can ve very tedious to add dialogues to every citizen in the game since THERE 
 ARE A LOT! But an approach like FFXII, where you could talk to a reduced number of persons could 
 be nice.
  
  In the end, Assassins Creed has potential, but the game ends being bored after a short span of 
 time. It's really a pity, because the visuals and controlls are terrific, but the most important 
 part is not that good: The gameplay.
  
  Maybe for next time (Assassin's Creed 2 anyone?) , Ubisoft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiKeD88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  It's not easy to criticize Assassin's Creed because it does so many things the right way. The reason 
 I give it an 8.5 is because of it's unique setting, it's full-realized world, nice graphics, good 
 music and controls. 
  
  What's bad about this game is that it's rather repetitive because the only things you get to do 
 are 4 different types of missions before you actually get to assassinate your target. You have 
 to complete a few "investigation" missions around the city to gather information. They start out 
 incredibly easy, and get a tiny bit more difficult as the game goes on. They include interrogation, 
 where you kick a guys ass for information. Pickpocket, where you try stealing from someone without 
 them noticing. Eavesdrop, pretty straightforward, and informant, where a guy gives you information 
 if you go do something for him.
  When you actually get to the assassination part, you are usually surrounded by a bunch of guards 
 who cant really fight. You kill your target, and you're done.
  Once you do what i wrote above about 10 times, kill some more bad guys, fight the last boss, you 
 get one of the most horrible endings ever made. The end.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The highly anticipated Assassin's Creed has enjoyed massive sales but mixed reviews amongst critics 
 and consumers alike. While my score implies the following review will be positive, let me start 
 by saying many of the negative reviews are justifiable. However, I have found that the positive 
 qualities of Assassin's Creed do much to compensate for the obvious flaws. Overall, I found Assassin's 
 Creed to be a wonderful and innovative game which, for several unfortunate reasons, fell just short 
 of the "epic masterpiece" status Ubisoft Montreal promised.
  
  For those familiar with the story, please skip this paragraph to get to my review. In a sincere 
 effort to avoid spoilers of any kind, I will be as vaguely specific as possible, if that makes 
 any sense. The main character in AC is Altair, a 12th century member of the Assassin brotherhood 
 who has been charged by the master of the assassins to eliminate specific targets in an effort 
 to halt the Third Crusade. As your body count increases, so does the mystery surrounding the intentions 
 of, both, your targets and your master. You will spend the majority of your time in three ancient 
 Middle Eastern cities: Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. You begin the game in your home city of Masyaf, 
 to which you will return after each assassination. These cities are linked by a large grouping 
 of thoroughfares and villages referred to as the Kingdom, which you can choose to traverse at speed 
 on horseback. I found the story to be somewhat predictable after the rather major twist, which 
 happens to come at the very beginning of the game, but the premise was interesting enough to help 
 keep my sixaxis embedded in my palms until it was over.
  
  The gameplay is a wildly entertaining and intuitive fusion of platforming, creative problem solving, 
 stealth, and tactical, timing-based sword play. Controlling Altair may seem complicated at first 
 glance, but the system is effective and easy to learn. Basically, the face buttons are assigned 
 to four parts of Altair's body: triangle (/\) for his head; square ( [ ] ) for his weapon hand; circle 
 (O) for his empty hand; X (uh, X) for his feet. For example, hit /\ to go into a first person viewpoint 
 to scan your surroundings for enemies or targets. Hit [ ] to attack. If you're on the verge of 
 having your cover blown (as indicated by a flashing red symbol and a persistent beep) hold down 
 X to slow your pace and blend in with the crowd. Hold O to use your open hand to gently push your 
 way through crowded areas.
  
  Altair defaults to a low profile action set, which is basically a very deliberate lurch, as you 
 move him around the city with the left analog stick. However, to perform the much touted "free 
 running" (also known as parkour, an alternative sport which basically originated in France several 
 years ago) you must hold down R1 to go into high profile mode. This makes Altair much more noticeable, 
 but lets him run faster and clear smaller obstacles such as crates and low walls. The really cool 
 stuff requires that you also hold X while in high profile. This causes Altair to sprint on straight 
 paths, and automatically leap across gaps in the rooftops, hop from rafter to rafter, climb walls, 
 etc. Much ado has been made of the free running aspect of the game, and for good reason. In an 
 effort to keep you immersed in the game world, much of the specific control of Altair has been 
 taken out of your hands to achieve a fluidity of motion that would otherwise have been impossible 
 to attain. The cities are very vertical in construction, with posts, bricks, windows, ledges, and 
 more protruding from nearly every surface, just begging you to climb, and it would have been frustrating 
 to have to control every hand and foot movement to scale a wall. While simple in control, you will 
 quickly fall in love with the incredible animations as his hands and feet realistically reach for 
 every protrusion, or as he soars off of a roof and grasps onto a ledge across a 20ft gap, swaying 
 from his momentum. It's all thrilling stuff, and it honestly never got old over my estimated 20 
 hours of play time.
  
  What will get old after about four hours of play time is the repetitive nature of the mission structure. 
 Every one of your missions must be approached in the same way. Before you perform an assassination, 
 you must gather information on your targets' location, habits, schedule, etc. by utilizing informants, 
 eavesdropping, interrogating, and pick pocketing. Once you have enough information to plan your 
 assassination, you report to the city's Assassin's Bureau for approval to carry out your mission. 
 Few of these information gathering sub-missions are very fun, and by the last few assassinations, 
 they all seem like a boring chore. Yes, eavesdropping is as boring as it sounds, but after a few 
 missions, you're happy to see that little symbol because you know it takes little work to accomplish 
 and you can go grab a beer while the dialogue drones on. Luckily, you only have to complete a couple 
 of these before unlocking the assassination missions most of the time.
  
  The actual assassinations are great. I loved sneaking around the guards (or silently killing most 
 of them) and slowly creeping into position for my final strike. Sometimes you can use the crowd 
 to get close; other times the rooftops might be the best option; there may also be the occasional 
 target you just have to hunt down the old fashioned way. The beauty of this game is that they are 
 all viable methods in almost every case. It really depends on you. As long as your target expires 
 after you've taken flight and buried that blade in his neck, there's no wrong answer.
  
  Many have taken umbrage with the "simplistic" and "unrealistic" sword fighting element in AC as 
 well, which is something I have had difficulty understanding. Yes, you will often be surrounded 
 by ten or more guards who seem to attack far less often then you would expect, but in response 
 to that I have a couple of points. 1) If you're part of a large group surrounding one guy, would 
 you want to all go in swinging at once, possibly hacking off a friend's arm or getting your own 
 lopped off in the process? I don't think so. 2) If you're standing in front of a guy who's only 
 job in this life is to kill people, and almost everyone who attempts to attack him ends up with 
 a slit throat, a blade in the gut, or a couple of broken legs, would you want to be the next one 
 to take a crack at him? I don't think so. I found the swordplay to be immensely satisfying. I really 
 like the counter-attack aspect of it as a change of pace from the more prominent "hack-n-slash" 
 techniques most games employ. Plus, the instant kill animations for each weapon are un. be. lievable 
 (when you're down to one enemy, go for a counter with your hidden blade equipped; if you succeed? 
 OMFG it's badass) . Just be aware that the counter-attack ability is not granted until after you've 
 completed your first mission, so if you get frustrated with your limited arsenal at the beginning, 
 please give it time.
  
  If you've made it this far, I congratulate you. I tried to tackle all relevant aspects of this 
 game to potential buyers, but please bear in mind this is an opinion, and not the most popular 
 one from what I've seen. Assassin's Creed does a lot of things right, and a few things very, very 
 wrong. In the end, you could love it or you could hate it. While obviously flawed, I found it to 
 be one of the most engrossing games I've ever played. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futur3
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Im probably am one the million that waited impatiently for assasin`s creed.
  I bought the game for ps3 and played over 20hours the days following the release and this game 
 is a real joke. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
  
  Graphics are amazing but the gameplay, story ,diversity in quest are pretty bad. Don`t get me wrong 
 this game is fun, ,,, for about 1hour.
  
  Were are the customizable weapons skills trainers, and where are the 
  peasants and guards BRAINS.. 
 This game should not even talk about the stealth action cause its ridicoulusly gimp. Killing guards 
 5 feet next to another guard and praying so they dont see you.. This game is a Movie were you play 
 the main character and you kill guards that don`t have any skills witouth needing you to have any 
 coordination or skills with the controlle just press X and sometimes L1 + X . 
  
  The fighting animations are awesome but the overall game is crap im my opinion. I have more fun 
 playing Virtua tennis even tho theres only 1 button to press to play.
  
  Sadly i bought a ps3 yes a ps3 . reasons .. MGS4 DMC4 RE5 and GTA4
  so each game that looks good 
 i get them and hope they are and now i am regreting every game ibought except NHL 08 !! And even 
 more now that asssasin creed is far under my expectations.. i guess ill wait another month till 
 HAZE gets released or reported again... Damn Ubisoft you guys are starting to ****, Thank god they 
 have rainbowsix vegas 2 coming soon.
  
  I give this game a 6/10 cause of the graphics. it would be 2/10 if not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Cadbury_
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first put the disc in I was fairly excited after reading the reviews, but was slightly disappointed 
 with it. The game really seem to be a series of ups and downs. the general gameplay was good, but 
 missions became quite tedious. I figured in the start there were only 9 people to assassinate, 
 but as more kept joining the list I found myself, in the end, just playing so I could finally finish 
 the game. Altairs voice acting was very monotonous, which made the already long cut scenes that 
 you cant skip, seem even more dull and uninteresting. The symbols at the end were fairly exciting, 
 but playing levels again feels pointless and boring. Overall, I think this game is slightly overrated. 
 Its fun at first to jump around the cities but it gets old fast. I dont think ill bother with AC2 
 whenever it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P08C
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of any of the GTA series you'll probably have some respect for this game and probably 
 enjoy quite a bit. All the blood and all the awesome ways to kill guards and such make playing 
 this game a remarkable experience. The graphics are absolutely breathtaking and the life that the 
 developers were able to put in the cities make Assassin's creed a fun game. Whether you want to 
 do missions, save citizens, climb to the top of towers, or kill beggars and drunkards there's something 
 for everyone in Assassin's creed. Although the story line is a bit interesting the missions you 
 must complete to reach the nextlevel of the actual story become extremely tedious and you'll find 
 yourself completing missions only to get that next bit of storyline info. The game tends to drag 
 on and on once you're about halfway through but the developers managed to spread enough butter 
 on the bread to keep my interest the whole way through. Overall this is a great game for your collection 
 not a must own but a great game to own.......... when you get around to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahriman2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Now before any complaning Assasin's Creed is an amazing game, no doubt.
  This game has a very good story and amazing voice acting, almost as if you where actually talking 
 to the people in the game, it's so good.
  The graphics, those graphics... They rock they are amazing, it's a photorealistic game, lighting 
 is amazing, i loved the shadows, for some odd reason, one thing i found bad in the graphics, is 
 that the red cloth hanging behind Altair, goes through his legs and through the wodden poles he 
 sits, or stands, or crouches, or whatever he does.
  The game is great while it lasts and does have replay value, but halfway through playing it a second 
 time you get bored, since it's exatly the same friggin thing.
  Also the climbing is pretty bland, yes the animation is great and the fact that you can scale pretty 
 much anything is cool, but i just think the scaling is lifeless, i would have liked a little variation 
 or a bit more immersion into the act, instead of just holding down a button and puching forward 
 on the left analog.
  But overall, the game is great and most definitly worth the buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say I realize some people love this game. I'm not one of them. I'd certainly like 
 to be one of them, but it ultimately depends on what you personally think is "fun".
  
  Is "fun" gazing at lushly drawn and animated medieval figures in jammed cities with roughly the 
 same amount of personality as a Ken & Barbie playset? Then you will have fun here. Is your idea 
 of "fun" being railroaded from one mini-game objective to another with absolutely no chance to 
 veer off-course? Then you, too, may find some fun here. Or perhaps your idea of "fun" is participating 
 in clunky combat, button mashing with bad controller feedback, trying to follow a convoluted, boring 
 plotline developed by entirely bland NPCs devoid of personality. Then perhaps Assassin's Creed 
 is your game.
  
  I get no pleasure out of hating well-received games, but I really can't pinpoint what it is about 
 this game that makes it so popular.
  
  Obviously, there's the graphics. It's a beautiful console game with a fresh artistic direction. 
 Looks alone, Assassin's Creed can easily transport your eyeballs to another era. The animation 
 is also incredilby well executed.
  
  But the beauty is so plainly skin-deep. You play in these large Medieval cities but interact with 
 hardly anyone except specific targets for the varied mini-games (Eavesdropping, Pickpocketing, 
 Defend Citizen) . You see hundreds of people pass you by, but they are nothing but human salad dressing 
 -- robotic garnish devoid of humanity or speech, designedly solely to make cities look full of 
 "life" and mask how completely empty and soulless they actually are.
  
  I think I've realized what really is the most fun about Assassin's Creed, and that is the architecture. 
 Climbing over it, looking at it, running over it, jumping over it, escaping from guards, running 
 down alleyways, making daring rooftop leaps across markets below ... these are the moments when 
 Assassin's Creed stops feeling like some developer's cool design document and actually achieves 
 some adrenaline and whimsy and fun and interactivity. And how sad is that, for a game so lavishly 
 praised and wonderfully marketed, all it really amounts to is jumping around a bunch of pretty 
 buildings.
  
  Well, at least I can trade this game away, hopefully to someone who can enjoy it more than I did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - Huge, gorgeous world that feels wholly alive.
  - The historical setting is brilliantly recreated. The story is slow-paced and has some uninspired 
 elements.
  - Its ambitious design, stunning visuals and truly unique setting make for an experience unlike 
 any other.
  - The menus are a little tricky to navigate and the map system isn't super-precise, but the game 
 nails the look and feel of the era.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - The word is beautiful except for the pop-in and troublesome framerate issues. The animations 
 are top-notch, but tough to enjoy with slowdown.
  - Despite minor tearing and frame rate hiccups, its detailed, endless sweeping vistas are staggeringly 
 beatiful. Sci-fi stuff, supporting character animations and models let the side down though.
  - Experienced some screen tearing. Otherwise, the game is utterly gorgeous and convincingly animated.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  - Every voice actor is fantastic save one -- the lead actor. The ambient noise could have been 
 a lot stronger.
  - Music is suitably evocative and effects work really brings the world to life. Voice acting ranges 
 from the sturdy to the utterly awful, however.
  - Voice-acting is mostly very solid, but we're not sold on the lead. The music is almost non-existant, 
 replaced by ambient sounds that really bring out the bustle of the streets and whistle of wind.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - Fluid controls make it fun to run across city rooftops.
  - Joyous mix of stealth, action, and platforming.
  - Go anywhere and kill anyone. These are Creed's 
 strong points. The game gets bogged down in repetitive tasks too often.
  - Beyond the genuinely exhilirating free-running, dull, tedious challenges, rigid structure and 
 overall shallowness rob the game of fun.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  - It could take anywhere from 10-15 hours to complete depending on how thoroughly you explore the 
 world. There's no reason to come back for seconds.
  - Tedious design and lack of impetus to explore might cut even that short.
  - Most side-quests 
 tackled, the game isn't huge. However, there are plenty of vistas to explore and some tricky flags 
 to hunt down.
  
  ----------
  
  OVERALL: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I was pretty hyped for this game because of all the praise it got not only from 
 reviewers, but many other gamers. After having finally beat the game though I have to say I'm pretty 
 disappointed.
  
  The story takes place in the Holy Land during the Crusades in the past through the memories of 
 a man named Desmond, held by some mysterious organization who wants him to relive the moments of 
 a master assassin called Altair. 
  
  In terms of graphics this game has some of the best I've ever seen. Cities, landscapes, and the 
 characters all look remarkable. Combined with impressive sound, voice acting, and music it makes 
 you believe you are in a living and breathing world. The animations are top notch and for the most 
 part incredibly fluid. So in that aspect I salute the developers for making a beautifully captivating 
 game.
  
  Unfortunately once the graphics lose their novel appearance, you realize the game is nothing more 
 than just doing the same type of missions over and over again until the end. Basically for each 
 mission you have to assassinate a specified person in one of the 3 main cities (Jerusalem, Acre, 
 and Damascus) . Each mission requires you to get information about your target in only 4 types of 
 missions (interrogation, pick pocket, eavesdropping, and helping out a fellow assassin member collect 
 flags or kill other targets because his back hurts) . Then you go and kill your mark in what manner 
 you see fit whether killing him when he least expects it or fighting him openly with all his men. 
 Being able to kill your marks without attracting attention is pretty much impossible as I've tried 
 stealth killing without anyone around, yet once the deed is done everyone knows your the assassin. 
 
  
  As far as side quests you have a 2 options. You can go around the city and help innocent people 
 being bullied by the local garrison, which makes you escaping guards a whole lot easier after assassinating 
 a target or causing trouble in general. Or you can climb high buildings and scout the city at different 
 points, which will make it easier to find missions and innocent people in trouble. Doing these 
 "side quests" enough times will also increase your health to help you survive in combat. Unfortunately 
 the game has a cap on how much health you can get, which is basically 2 full bars. So after that 
 point the side quests have a bit less meaning. You can also collect flags or kill Templars in each 
 city or outside in the kingdom (Area that connects all 3 cities and the assassin's fortress) , but 
 there really is no point to them as they don't give you anything as a reward for getting them all 
 except satisfaction of having completed them.
  
  The combat is pretty fun, there are plenty of animation kills that your character can perform based 
 on the weapon he has equipped (sword, assassin blade, or throwing knives) . Unfortunately it's also 
 incredibly easy as all you need is just hit the counter button at the appropriate time and you're 
 very hard to beat. Of course I have to admit nothing is more fun than being surrounded by 15-30 
 guards (3-4 who only attack you at one time) and come out victorious.
  
  The story is interesting and original and it lasts for a good 10+ hours however the ending will 
 you leave you with plenty of unanswered questions. As far as content after the main story is finished, 
 pretty much you have a few options. You can replay previous assassin missions, collect flags and 
 kill Templars, complete any of the remaining scout/save innocents quest you didn't complete during 
 the game, or just go GTA and massacre everyone in the cities and kingdom. 
  
  Overall I was expecting a bit more from this game. Graphically it is impressive, but the gameplay 
 is very tedious and will surely cause many people to quit playing before they even reach the end. 
 It's by no means a bad game. It's definitely worth a rental, but I wouldn't pay full price for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed. People have been raving about it ever since it was first announced. The first 
 trailer implied that you would be able to kill anybody, and disappear into a random crowd as one 
 of them. Showcasing some top notch AI, and amazing crowd gameplay mechanics, Assassin's Creed was 
 prone to become one of gaming's best. Although, that's not particularly true, Assassin's Creed 
 is still a refreshing, crisp, beautiful next gen experience, and is one of the best action games 
 of 2007.
  
  You play as Altair, a 12th century assassin. The holy land is being ravaged by war during the third 
 crusade, and is being torn apart by corruption. As Altair, you are given a list of nine men, who 
 really are a bad influence on the world, and you need to pick them all off one by one. That may 
 sound totally shallow, but actually the story is very deep, as each man you kill just furthers 
 your curiosity on just who to trust. Is your leader really the man who should be leading? Or are 
 the scum of the earth lying to you? The story in Assassin's Creed is really well told, at a pretty 
 good pace.
  
  Ubisoft Montreal decided to unload a big twist in the first five minutes of the game, but for those 
 of you who don't know yet, we won't spoil anything for you. -SPOLIERS AHEAD- Just kidding.
  
  The game kicks off with Altair not following the rules of the assassin's creed, so he is punished, 
 and is stripped of all his rankings and equipment, and basically has to start of as a noob all 
 over again. The assassin town of Masyaf, is attacked by Robert de Sable and his army. Afterwards, 
 there are rumours of a traitor within the city, and without anything, Altair has to go and scope 
 this guy out, and bring him to Al Mualim, the assassin leader. This is a tutorial mission, and 
 shows you the basics of everything.
  
  The controls in Creed are really inventive, as each face button is used to control Altair tediously. 
 One button is used for looking around, and the two side face buttons are used to control Altair's 
 hands. One controls his armed hand, and one controls his unarmed hand, which is used for gently 
 pushing civilians out of the way. The bottom face button is used to control the speed of Altair's 
 walking. When not holding down the right trigger, Altair is in low profile mode. This means that 
 he'll walk at a normal pace, and not bump into anybody, and this is good for when you are trying 
 to remain anonymous. When the right trigger is held down, Altair will start running, bump into 
 people, but he will be the dangerous badass he's supposed to be. This is great when you are running 
 from pursuers, attacking, or chasing down a target. There is a pretty good learning curve, but 
 you should figure out how to kill pretty early in the game.
  
  Each city in AC is huge, and full of life. Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem are where you'll be doing 
 all of your assassination missions. Each mission starts off with you speaking to the assassin bureau 
 leader of that city about your target, and he'll tell you everything he knows about your target. 
 He'll tell you stuff on where you can find witnesses, and where he thinks the target should be. 
 He'll then give you leave to go, and find out when and where to strike. Climbing all the tallest 
 areas is the best way to start, as it points out where witnesses will be. The mini missions are 
 necessary in completing the mission, and these include pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and intimidating 
 witnesses so they'll spill some juicy info. Pickpocketing has you following a guy for a little 
 while, and pickpocketing at the right moment when he isn't looking. Eavesdropping has you sitting 
 on a bench and listening to some guys talk it out, while intimidating has you best the living hell 
 out of a guy. None of the three are particularly game sellers, but they get the job done by setting 
 the mood and realism of the situations.
  
  After doing two or three of those tasks, you may return to the bureau and let the dude know you 
 know when and where and who to strike. Among arrival at the target, you'll witness some events 
 that highlight just how twisted they are, and let you know that they need to die. After the cutscene, 
 there'll be a few ways to kill your target, and the fun is picking which one to take. Either running 
 through the crowd, or going around the side, or leaping on him from above, the choice is yours.
 
  
  After you do your biz, you'll need to run from anybody who opposes you. The best way is booking 
 it to the roofs, and then hiding in a roof garden. However, if you choose to take the streets, 
 and get caught, Altair can really hold his own. The combat system is by far the best part of Assassin's 
 Creed. When you have all your abilities, you'll be able to dodge attacks, break grabs, and counter 
 moves defensively. The animations are super slick during the fighting, and Altair looks like he's 
 been trained by the choreographer for the Matrix. Instead of explaining, just take a look.
  
  Graphically, Assassin's Creed is really, really, really hot. The cities look absolutely phenomenal, 
 the water is good, the character models are great, and the animations in climbing, fighting, and 
 just plain moving are some of the best ever. Unfortunately, the frame rate in Creed is really sub 
 par. When running from rooftop to rooftop, sometimes it will drop into the single digits. This 
 is a little frustrating, since you are trying to be quick and smooth, and here, your character 
 on screen is warping across the city. This only lasts a few seconds, and luckily, the framerate 
 is silky smooth during the fight sequences, which is the best part of the game. Climbing is also 
 unplagued by this issue. It's a real shame, though, that such a pretty game is f**ked up by a stuttering 
 framerate.
  
  Assassin's Creed sounds just as great as it looks, with some great voice acting from the smallest 
 parts. Each line is hit perfectly, and people will talk about their daily lives to each other, 
 and will say things like "What the hell is he doing?" as you bump into people, and climb up walls. 
 The instrumental score is mostly original, and has a unique tone to it. It's orchestral, as well 
 as digital.
  
  There's really nothing else to say about Assassin's Creed, other than it's a great game with a 
 few nagging flaws keeping it from perfection. After beating the 12 hour game, you'll stay away 
 from it for awhile, and then come back when you're in the mood for killing. It's ideas are fresh, 
 and are pulled off pretty well. There is really nothing else like Creed, so really give it a buy. 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w1lk1nson
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I know everyone keeps on going on about how good assassin's creed is and how amazing the graphics 
 are but it's not. Sure, the graphics are awesome but after a few hours of playing you begin to 
 get bored and realise that it is all the same. I killed about 3 of the 9 people and traded it in. 
 The first few hours you play you think t is the best game for a while but then the boredom begins. 
 throughout the game all you do is, 1. talk to the main guy. 2. go to a city and do some pickpocketing 
 and eavesdropping. 3. kill a guy. and it jus goes on and on like that. Also, the fighting is okay 
 but running away is better. oh yeah, on roofs when people are chasing after you you can hide in 
 roof gardens and the guards just walk past!!! i mean, where else would he be!!! if you have to get 
 it rent it 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdastampede
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Put on your white hoodies and break out the angst because it's finally here. After many anticipated 
 months of Ubisoft keeping there game under lock and key and showing the public gameplay footage 
 carefully picked out so as to not give away too much, the stealth/action/adventure game called 
 Assassin's Creed has finally hit store shelves. Has it delivered on its promise as a next generation 
 video game for the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3? Or have we been lied to about the Middle East 
 again.
  
  Let's start off with the story. At first glance, it all seems pretty simple, but the many twists 
 and turns Ubisoft mentioned are present although it's best not to spoil any of it. Assassins Creed 
 is in a world that seems to take place in the year 1161 in the Middle East during the time of the 
 Third Crusade. You play as Altar for most of the game, an assassin who is stripped from his rank 
 after failing miserably at an assassination attempt. Your goal is to earn your honor back by performing 
 nine assassinations of various leaders in several nearby cities.
  
  However, you can't simply knock on your targets door, shove a dagger in his mouth and call it a 
 day. Performing an assassination requires you to gain information about your target by doing various 
 tasks in the city such as pick pocketing, achieving tasks for a fellow comrade, or getting a little 
 rough with some locals to acquire information. Gaining information can be fun at first, but after 
 a while you realize it's not very varied and it can get pretty uninteresting pretty fast.
  
  And then there are the assassinations themselves. Ubisoft mentioned that there would be many 
 options to choose from when you want to perform an assassination, but usually there are only two: 
 fight your way through or use stealth and each of these options requires a decent amount of skill 
 to pull off successfully. And it's always fun to chase down your opponent by climbing the buildings 
 and posts of the city.
  
  That brings up another element of the game. The platforming is so well done and beautiful it's 
 enough to put Mario to shame. Jumping and climbing across buildings is easy to control but requires 
 skill to master. What is really so brilliant about the platforming and navigation is that all the 
 details in the environment look exactly how they should in an actual environment. Nothing pokes 
 out or seems to be designed in a way for you to know you can climb on it. It's all just beautiful 
 environments you are able to climb. There are also no animations that make Altar look unnatural 
 or awkward while he is climbing. He looks exactly as he should if he was actually climbing a church 
 tower and as a result he always looks 100% badass.
  
  However, this does bring up one of the lowest points in the game: combat. The combat in Assassin's 
 Creed is shallower than Paris Hilton at a two-digit IQ convention. There is almost no skill involved 
 except for the timing yourself by pressing the attack button over and over and over and over in 
 order to perform counter attacks. While these attacks look really cool, it doesn't require much 
 to pull them off and since it's almost always an instant kill, it doesn't add much challenge. The 
 enemy AI isn't any better either. No matter how many enemies you are fighting, they will always 
 take the same strategy of surrounding Altar and waiting around dumbly until you are finished the 
 enemy you are working on. It's kind of like the suicide booths in Futurama: they're just waiting 
 in a long line to die. Trying to be stealthy doesn't make the game any more difficult either. There 
 is a button to press in order to make Altar go into a low-profile mode, however it's almost like 
 turning invisible. Unless an enemy is directly next to you or looking directly at you, you can 
 get away with any stealth kill. The only good thing about the enemies is they know how to give 
 Altar a good chase. You can't lose your enemies by just climbing buildings and jumping in a haystack. 
 Enemies are agile and will jump on buildings after you and will even use rocks and arrows to force 
 you to fall. If you want to shake off the guards, it's going to take a bit of effort on your part.
 
  
  But what lacks in combat, Ubisoft makes up for in pure presentation. All three cities are beautiful 
 and contain living breathing people, as the crowd AI is wonderful. Everyone has something to say 
 and do and will react to everything Altar does. Each city is enormous in size and every building 
 in the background is reachable with nothing back dropped. It is definitely a step forward in game 
 developing.
  
  Although Assassin's Creed isn't quite the gaming experience everyone thought it would be, it definitely 
 isn't a game that should be overlooked. The presentation and design of the cities is more then 
 enough to forgive some the games minor flaws and jumping across rooftop to rooftop is an experience 
 everyone should enjoy. If you're looking to play Assassin's Creed, you can expect to beat it in 
 around 15 hours, although complete-ists can expect many more with hundreds of flags to collect 
 and many civilians to save (although to be honest, the payout isn't quite worth it) . It probably 
 isn't worth the $60 price tag, but it isn't a bad addition to the gaming library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Back to 1191, the age of the crusaders, you will be controlling a high skilled assassin called 
 Altair the ancestor of a bartender from the current time named Desmond whose abducted by Abstergo, 
 a company which seeks the remaining assassins in modern time and try to access their ancestor's 
 memories using their brain via a high tech machine known as the Animus which is developed by Dr. Warren 
 Vidic and his assistant Lucy Stillman in an attempt to relocate the hidden treasure or the piece 
 of Eden which is powerful enough to control human minds and behaviours. The game is set in three 
 main locations, Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre. There is also Masyaf, the assassins own city in which 
 your brotherhood live. The assassin's are seeking a world free from corruption, madmen and any 
 other thing that will threat the peace, so your master (Al mualim) the leader of the assassins will 
 give you a hit list containing nine names. Your main role is to assassinate those nine men in the 
 middle of a war between Salah Aldin and King Richard who are trying to dominate the holy land, 
 you will travel through the kingdom a vast land full of view points and soldiers, and you'll need 
 a horse to reach the destined city. Each city got target which you have to eliminated first you 
 have to walk among the people to learn about your target. At this point you will see the high detailed 
 surroundings, many people are displayed on the screen at the same time, walking, shopping carrying 
 jars and boxes in vivid graphics. You'll also have three weapons, the long blade, short blade and 
 a hidden one, drawing one of the short or long blade will scare the crowded people pushing them 
 to run in all directions which will draw the soldier's attention so they will chase you and hunt 
 you down. You can climb most of the buildings and high viewpoints like mosques and rooftops which 
 contain hiding spots that you will need when discovered. The climbing system is unique, realistic 
 and far better than Prince Of Persia games. As for the game play Assassin's creed is based on stealth 
 so don't expect something like Devil May Cry or Ninja Gaiden but it is still cool to play. The one 
 thing that made Assassin's Creed a special game is the storyline which will keep you playing on 
 and on until the end. Altair's adventure will be hard to forget, or at least until Assassins Creed 
 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed set it self up high, maybe a little too high. While there is deffinantly some fun 
 things about this game, there is also a lot of really annoying and stupid things too. This review 
 may be a bit long, and sorry if it sounds like Im nit-picking. But, hey this is a complex game 
 and therefore needs a complex review, right?
  
  THE GOOD
  
  *Running and jumping from bulding to bulding with the grace and ease that Altier has, never gets 
 old. This is deffinantley one of the best and most innovative things about this game.
  
  *While the fighting syestem may feel a bit clumbsy and/or boring at first, once you get the hang 
 of it, it's really fun. You can never get tired of kicking a guy in the nuts, then jabbing your 
 sword into his neck, ahhh satisfying.
  
  *A vast world that never seems to end is always a good thing. One can surley travel the wolrd of 
 Assasin's Creed for hours without even playing the main storyline.
  
  THE BAD
  
  *Ok, Im sorry but the whole sci-fi ascpect of the game just didn't work for me. I can appreciate 
 that the Ubisoft guys were trying to do something with a bit of a twist but, come on. Whenever 
 I was in between missions in the "real world" I was always annoyed and bored. C'mon, let me play 
 as the assasin Im suppose to be, not some stupid douch in the future who doesn't do a damn thing 
 but whine all the time, sheesh!
  
  *The guards A. I. deffinantley needed some tweeking as well. Why is it when I trott next to the 
 guards on my horse Im ok? But, once I start moving in a slow gallop Im an assassin? The same thing 
 goes for the guards in the city too. It seems like the simpliest thing will set them off in a frenzy 
 to catch me. Other times however, I can stab a person right next to one and he does nothing at 
 all. Their just really inconsistent.
  
  *The other strange aspect of the game is the side missions. Such as, collecting flags, killing 
 templars and etc.. You can spend hours and hours trying to find all the hidden treasures in this 
 game and for what? Not a damn thing. No new missions, costumes, pics, heck not even any "making 
 of" videos to unlock. While Im sure in the 360 version of the game you get achivements for these 
 deeds, there really is no reason to do so in the PS3 version. Really not too sure what they were 
 thinking with that one.
  
  THE UGLY
  
  *Altier is a white guy? 
  
  *The worst part of this game (and anyone who has played it can agree I'm sure) . Is the fact that 
 you have to do so many of the same things again and again. Save citizens, pick-pocket, ease dropping, 
 and climb towers to scoope out parts of the city, and thats pretty much it aside from killing your 
 main target . While these task are fun and intresting for the frist few hours of gameplay, it's 
 gets really tired by the end. Heck, they don't even change the things the citzens say when you 
 rescue them. They have about 3 or 4 phares they use everytime. Strange I thought this was suppose 
 to be the "next-generation"? Can we at least give the NPC's a few more lines of dialouge.
  
  So, that's it. While this game did set some good standards, there was deffinantly room for 
 improvment. I could of waited a few more months for this one to come out while they fixed some 
 of it's more gameplay aspects. Just think what this game could of been.... sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most unique and revolutionary games I've ever played. There has 
 never been another game like this. Everything is original, from the story, to the graphics, to 
 the plot, to the controls. This game has one very cool character too, Altair. There are a lot of 
 options of how you can assassinate someone too. You can either do it silently by taking out gaurds 
 one by one and then striking your target. Or you can just go in there and take out your sword and 
 fight everyone off at the same time. Another thing that is fun is just running around the cities, 
 wether your running across rooftops, blending in with scholars, or climbing up tall buildings to 
 get a viewpoint. However, the downside of this game is that it does get boring once you beat it. 
 There isn't really a replay value to this game at all. I kind of regret buying this because it 
 probably took 10 hours to beat it and I could've done it if I just rented it. Don't buy it, just 
 rent it. Unless you just collect your games, which I do, then buy it, otherwise, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeStrike1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I completed this memorable game a few weeks ago, and it left it's mark 
 on me... in a good way!
  
  Right, well, as I said it was memorable, very memorable for me. It had an incredible story to it, 
 that never fully showed you what was really going on from start to finish, which dragged you in. 
 Most games, by the time you are at the end, you will have found out nearly everything. Which is 
 great, don't get me wrong, but it is nice to have something different.
  
  Aside from the incredible and interesting storyline, I'll get into gameplay and locations. Gameplay..... well, 
 it takes a bit of getting used to even after the tutorials, as in, how to effectively fight in 
 "real" combat, which weapons are best here, yadda yadda. Don't worry though, you unlock new weapons, 
 moves and extra damage as you progress, not much will change mind you.
  
  The graphics will awe you from the get go, and once you set off for the first major city things 
 only get better and better... looking. The 3 HUGE cities in the game are very different in many 
 ways especially the English settlement which was my favourite for being so unique. (But my god, 
 are the beggars there the most annoying....!) In each of the 3 Cities are 3 "districts", different 
 areas. Basically there will be an assassination target in each, which means 3 targets per city. 
 As you'll notice, only ONE of the 3 areas of each city will be unlocked at the start, with more 
 becoming available after 1 assassination per city.
  
  Oh yes, all the different personalities walking around each city are amusing, irritating (Those 
 annoying beggars) , and some damn right aggressive (Mentally handicapped citizens don't like YOU 
 for some reason) .
  
  THE BAD
  
  The game can become very repetitive sadly. In each city you visit on your assassination quests, 
 you do the same things over and over again. You need to climb at least one of the many high buildings 
 and get it's birds eye view. Only certain buildings have these, but it's easy to spot after a while. 
 This unlocks missions around the birds eye view area. You then gather a certain amount of information 
 on your target so you can get to him. Getting information involves eavesdropping, pickpocketing, 
 beating information from people, collecting flags (oh my...) for informants, or killing your informants 
 enemies within a set time-limit. Each city has the same missions as the last, some things vary, 
 like number of flags needed, shorter time-limit, more enemies need eliminating for informants, 
 but thats basically all that's different. The people involved are obviously different though.
 
  
  Aside from the information gathering missions, there are voluntary missions. They basically can 
 make things easier if completed. Around the city you can choose to save a citizen from abusive 
 guards. It will either be a priest or a woman. For saving a priest you unlock a group of scholars 
 in the area that you can blend in with and hide if needed. If you save a woman, her husband and 
 his friends will stand around the area and block any guards that may be pursuing you. The biggest 
 help I ever got from the group of men was during an assassination. They grabbed and held my target 
 (who was running from me) , and I easily came up beside him and ended things. So very helpful and 
 worth unlocking.
  
  ----------
  
  Other than the repetitive missions this game can be very fun to place. This game is about the actually 
 assassinations though, which are all different and vary in difficulty. Planning (if needed) is 
 fun. And believe me, your blood will boil during assassination attempts. The music and atmosphere 
 is perfect. It's a "rush" in many ways ;) Definitely worth a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_light91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype, I expected Assassin's Creed to be outstanding, and it wasfor a while.
  
  First of all, Ubisoft really outdid themselves with the graphics on this game. The graphics 
 are amazing and all of the cities are beautiful. The textures actually look real and everything 
 is incredibly detailed. 
  
  The controls are also great. I learned them in almost no time at all, and they're so fluid that 
 climbing a building, running over rooftops, or fighting guards all look smooth and convincing. 
 All of the counter kills are awesome and you have a nice selection of weapons.
  
  I also thought the storyline was really interesting. Basically, the idea is that memories from 
 your ancestors are encoded into your genes, and that, in present-day, a corporation is holding 
 a man named Desmond Miles hostage to access the memories of his ancestor, Altair, through a device 
 called the animus. Altair is an assassin in the Holy Land during the Crusades era and is given 
 the task of assassinating nine targets. And, while it was nice playing in the Holy Land, I actually 
 wanted to finish the memory blocks just so I could investigate more about my kidnappers, their 
 company, and more importantly, their motives.
  
  In each city, you need to find information about your target, and you do this by pickpocketing 
 letters, interrogating civilians, carrying out jobs for fellow assassins, and eavesdropping. At 
 first all of these were very fun. I eagerly performed each of these  but after a while, it got 
 really old, really fast. You only journey to three cities, and you keep returning to these same 
 cities to  once again  interrogate, pickpocket, etc. This game is extremely repetitive, and halfway 
 through Assassin's Creed I saw the game as more of a chore. I wanted to finish it just for the 
 sake of finishing it. Because of this, the game really has no replay value.
  
  The end of the story was also very frustrating. Right at the climax of the game, it suddenly stopsthe 
 end. Credits roll, and all Assassin's Creed gamers are officially pissed off. Thankfully, they 
 are making a sequel so we can find out what happens.
  
  Overall, the game is, for the most part, enjoyable. The graphics are incredible, and the storyline 
 is interesting and original, but repetitive gameplay sets it back. For these reasons, I give Assassin's 
 Creed an 8.5 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I'd like to note that the visuals in Assassin's Creed are stunning, especially when observing 
 the cities from one of the many View Points in the game. The gameplay experience is also greatly 
 aided by an innovative control system, which works surprisingly well.
  
  However, the main drawback with this title is the repetitive missions you're asked to complete. 
 Once you have gone through the first couple of cities and completed your first few assassinations, 
 it all begins to feel slightly tedious.
  
  The battle system suffers the same drawback. The ability to perform small combos and one-hit counters 
 are fun for a while and look awesome when executed, but as the game progresses, the battles tend 
 to involve more people and the one-hit counter approach quickly becomes the only way to fight if 
 you intend to survive, making each battle feel the same.
  
  Fighting aside, the other aspects of the gameplay are really good. The climbing, running and jumping 
 mechanisms within the game run very smoothly and feel rewarding to perform. Without delving into 
 it, the story element within the game seems quite deep, especially when looking at clues as to 
 how the sequel will start. It's just a shame the ending became a little confused - it even required 
 an article in a magazine to answer many of the questions raised by fans who'd completed it!
  
  Another little problem is that Assassin's offers little in the way of re-playability as well. 
 I mean, sure you can go through all the cities again searching each nook and cranny for every last 
 flag/Templar, but for what in return? Nothing! However, this is a small blemish and can be forgiven.
 
  
  Assassin's is by no means a must own game, but it's certainly worth a try to those who enjoy the 
 Action-adventure genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everfan21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This is the First game I bought for my PS3 and I have to say, I'm not in the least disappointed. 
 This games visuals are enough to draw you into the game and keep you glued to the TV for quite 
 some time. Every time you enter a new city, you must find view points in order to help find your 
 Assassination target. This is where the game excells, climbing arround on the roof tops is the 
 most fun Ive had in a game since Flying the Hydra in GTA: San Andreas. The Controls in this area 
 are surprisingly simple and fun to use.
  
  That being said, there are a few major flaws with this title. First, After the 4th mission the 
 game becomes very repetitive. You'll find yourself doing the same things to conduct your investigations. 
 While these remain somewhat fun throughout the game, the thrill of conducting them wane. Second, 
 The controls in parts seem sluggish. Lastly this game has a bad habit of randomly freezing or taking 
 too long to load.
  
  If you can get past all of these things, This game is a rewarding and fun gaming experience that 
 at the very least will leave you in Awe with its stunning visual effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Ever since i put it in i just was amazed by how smooth the climbing/jumping is. 
 virtually flawless how he can clear those distances and hop around. the gameplay is solid, with 
 easily learnable controls. you can master his techniques in about an hour/ or until they give them 
 back..
  
  the only disappointing thing about this game is how at the beginning they tell you how awesome 
 you are and then take everything away (punishment) . i thoroughly enjoy the side quests of rescues 
 and view points and hunting templars. the kingdom (world) is beautifully done with plenty of running 
 room.
  
  the load times are barable and the city scapes are to die for. the detail in this game is amazing. 
 
  
  the storyline has an interesting concept, but i do not enjoy how it flip flops back and forth, 
 between dreams and reality, i would have preferred this knowledge (reality) as being a surprise. 
 
  
  stealth is the key for nearly ever mission and daiy walk, but i do enjoy starting ruckus and getting 
 into sword fights with 10 guards in the street. the fighting mechanics are simple but spiced up 
 with counters and a variety of weapons (short sword, throwing knives, dagger, blade) 
  
  highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolcarl
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is well a good game to play on the PS3, the graphics on the game look so real is 
 well, an for some reason it reminds me of Prince of Persia games i don't know why maybe because 
 the way he climbs the buildings.
  
  I Read Other Peoples reviews and most of them say its a good game (YES IT IS A GOOD GAME) . But 
 other people say that it is two repetitive that you talk to somone then they tell you two assassin 
 somone. COME ON That's the hole point of the game thats why its called Assassins Creed Cos hes 
 an assassin. I Think That the story line were there are science People experimenting on him making 
 him go to his ancestor's past works well to make it such a good game
  
  Overall Assassins Creed Is One Of The best game two come out, and it is worth getting, So If you 
 are thinking about getting this game you will be pleased with the game if you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarge2130
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome, and all of the people who say that the people have all the same basic 
 look are stupid because they do but if they made the game, would they go in and create a million 
 different looking people. if you look at any game, the missions are usually going to be the same 
 with a little variation but in assassin's creed, it gets harder each time. the graphics are some 
 of the best I've seen. and the cliffhanger ending is there for a reason... THERE IS GOING TO BE 
 A SECOND ONE!!!!! I am glad they are because it is going to be better than the first, along with 
 there is going to be another after the next one. it can get boring after a while but that's when 
 I go kill a guard and run through the city, just to fight about 30 to 50 guards. overall I would 
 say it is a lot of fun and people should try to just have fun in it instead of just focusing on 
 the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulshot147
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I have had the game for around 1 week now. I've completed the game once and found by the 5th and 
 6th kill you have to complete, the game gets way to repetitive. I mean, 3 different places, 15 
 people. You do the math.
  
  ==========================================================
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The game runs as smooth as you would expect. There is at times when your character 
 may glitch up a bit but it's rarely noticeable. I think this game adds a whole new affect on the 
 open-world genre. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Simply amazing. Your character looks amazing, the background looks amazing. Not much more too say. 
 Slight problem with AI bot graphics. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The music in Assassin's creed sound just as you would expect. When you get seen, it gets more "action" 
 and "calm" when you are a low-profile. However, it's always the same music, same song, etc. I have 
 to give it a bit lower for this. I think it would have been better if the music differs from location 
 to location. 
  
  Extra Content: 5/10
  Not much to talk about. Not a lot of unlockables and extras. Just some flags and civilians to be 
 saved. 
  
  Price: 10/10
  Cost exactly what a game like this should. In fact, it should cost more. The detail, the effort 
 is really shown with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychadelichaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  first off, i thought this game was great and people dissing it need to lay off a bit and not be 
 so harsh. 
  
  imo everything was nicely done but not perfect. the enviroment could use some more difference, 
 but of course it probably was boring looking in real life. the combat system was awesome but gets 
 a little bit repetitive. i think if they just added like 1 more button to do a counter attack that 
 induced a different type of attack that it would perfect. the missions are the same about the entire 
 game, you do some mini missions to gain knowledge for your big mission ( not gonna give anything 
 away ) . but the big mission is never the same and is always fun to do, the mini missions are also 
 very fun but after awhile into it they get a little blah. the cities are truly huge and are jam 
 packed with people and details. there wasnt alot of replay value for me but so after i beat it 
 i was done. pretty cool storyline, the ending was a ghastly cliffhanger that leaves you saying 
whaaaatttttt", you dont really get any closure it just ends right where you think some bigger 
 ending is coming. but bottom line, its a great game that if followed up by a good sequel will make 
 the series must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KS_Oblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  One way to put this game, Pure Fun. This game was absolutly awsome, it could allow you to be sneaky 
 or in later levels pure juggernaut. Either way you look at it the story could be a bit better but 
 it was still great and indepth. Because there isn't much to spoil in the case of two related "universes", 
 for lack of wording. There is a here and now part where you play as Desmond. A person captured 
 and being used by a company. While you play as the anscestor of Desmond, Altair, who is a master 
 assassin in the times of the Third Crusades. As Altair you have to assassinate key people in the 
 games universe. As the game evolves you get constantly more enveloped in the story and gameplay. 
 To sum it all up, the graphics are great, the assassinations can get repetitive but the characters 
 are all different so it makes it fresh. And most importantly it has great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daphenom901
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is set in 1191 AD when the third crusade is tearing the holy land apart. You play 
 as an assassin called Altair, who has to complete a series of assassinations, 9 to be exact, on 
 both sides of the war. 3 on the side of the catholic crusaders, 3 on the side on the other side 
 of the war, and 3 men who are part of your arch nemesis, the Templars.
  
  The bulk of this game is Altair going from cities such as Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus, gathering 
 information on specific targets, and of course, assassinating them. When gathering information 
 on your targets there are 6 missions (3 of which you'll need to complete; the other three being 
 optional) that will become very repetitive as the game goes on. These include: pickpocketing, interrogations, 
 eaves droppings, collecting flags, and stealth assassinations of less important targets. One, or 
 more, of these is repeated twice, totaling 6 missions.
  
  After you gather the information, your next objective is to gain the Beurea Master of the city's 
 blessing, and then assassinate your given target. As the master of the assassins is always so eager 
 to tell us; "Nothing is true. All is permitted." The meaning of this statement becomes more and 
 more clearer as you have conversations with each of the men you kill. All of them believe what 
 they are doing is right, coming up with reasons of how mass-murdering hundreds, or blockading ports 
 will create a better tomorrow. 
  
  Little known, however, is the second storyline in the game. You play as a bartender named Desmond, 
 who is held captive by an organization forcing him to go into the Animus, a machine that unlocks 
 memories of a person's ancestors. As Desmond, you witness the unfolding plot line of the organization 
 and attempt to figure out what its plans are.
  
  As you progress through these story lines, you truly witness the genius of Ubisoft. From references 
 to historical events, such as the Philadelphia Experiment, questioning religious beliefs, and even 
 secret codes in emails, theres something to learn at every turn. 
  
  Something I haven't mentioned yet is the stunning visual design of the game. From the believable 
 movements of Altair and other people, to the attention to detail in every corner of the city, Assassins 
 Creed presents an amazing atmosphere that all gamers should be able to enjoy.
  
  Finally, I've mentioned Ubisoft's genius once, and I'm going to have to again. In an effort to 
 reveal as little as possible, the ending is incredible. Confusing, yes, but unbelievable. Once 
 again, the attention to detail in the game, especially at the ending, leads you to clues that could 
 solve the mystery. Also, clues, that could lead you to the location (s) of the sequel.
  
  In summary, Assassins Creed is a great game. Although it gets slightly repetitive at parts, it 
 makes up for it with the storyline, gameplay, and visual design. Assassins Creed is a game that 
 can be enjoyed by all, but it offers more to those with a trained eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - Stunning graphics throughout the game. Surface detailing is incredible. Ambient effects such 
 as fog, "floaties" in the air, etc. are well done. The characters are also well detailed and light/shadow 
 effects are excellent.
  
  - Totally interactive, free roaming world immerses you in the game. The citizens interact with 
 your every move.
  
  - The map/city design is well thought out. Each city has a wealth of building styles: churches, 
 palaces, docks, markets, stables, etc. You can tell special attention was paid to the architectural 
 accuracy of the buildings. This rivals Grand Theft Auto as the best free roaming world ever designed.
 
  
  - Fighting is fun, unless there are a bunch of guards to fend off. Exploring/roaming is also cool.
 
  
  - Climbing/jumping on buildings is very fun and easy to control.
  
  - Finding the various hidden flags is a nice touch, but there are so many!
  
  - Climbing the 
 viewpoints is always fun and the views on top are incredible. I also like the swan dive you take 
 off the top of the viewpoint.
  
  - Good sound effects and a decent musical score.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Mission design is very repetitive. You essentially do the same thing for each 
 mission... a little investigation, then an assassination. It gets old.
  
  - Guard/alert system is tedious. It is very frustrated to "blend in" every time you walk past a 
 guard.
  
  - Controls are overly confusing. Try holding "blend in" while walking and trying to look up at 
 a guard on a building. I don't have three hands, so why do I need that many to perform this simple 
 task. Perhaps "blend" shouldn't be a push and hold control. The fighting controls also get tiresome. 
 The climbing controls, while easy, don't always work as anticipated. Sometimes instead of scaling 
 a wall, you bounce backwards right into the guards you're trying to escape.
  
  - Stealth aspect of the game is underdeveloped. You can't hide behind objects, peak around walls 
 or even crouch down. But, you can jump in a bail of hay, and that loses the guards... right. You 
 can also sneak up on guards, but again it just feels underdeveloped. Perhaps they should have referenced 
 Metal Gear Solid if they wanted to do stealth right.
  
  - The cut scenes after an assassination are silly, and they are all so similar. The cut scenes 
 with the head assassin (old guy in robe) are also silly and much too wordy.
  
  - After picking up a flag, the screen twinkles with DNA effects, which is pretty, but it essentially 
 makes you blind for 2-3 seconds... not good when escaping guards.
  
  - I have gotten an error "Disk is scratched or dirty" a few times when trying to leave the assassin's 
 bureau. The disk is perfect... it's a glitch.
  
  - Some graphical "pop in", especially when running or riding horse. Entire crowds of people just 
 pop into the screen. Unacceptable for a PS3 game.
  
  - Weapon choices are limited. A sword, some throwing knifes, and a smaller sword, that's about 
 it.
  
  Overall this game is a cool concept, but it falls short in the key areas of gameplay, control layout 
 and mission design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed you play as both an assassin from the medieval ages and a man from modern times. 
 This man is captured and forced to use a machine that allows you to relive past experiences of 
 your ancestors. Through this machine you experience the events of your ancestor an assassin accomplished 
 in his life. You play most of the game as this assassin trying to take down an evil organization.
 
  
  You are a high ranked assassin in your brotherhood who is devoted to creating a peaceful world 
 by the path of their creed. Being cocky and ignorant due to your skill and rank you ignore the 
 creed and end up failing a vital mission to capture an important treasure. Lucky for the brotherhood 
 a fellow assassin claimed the treasure but at the cost of his arm and his brother.
  
  Due to your failure and disrespect of the creed in which your brotherhood lives by you are stripped 
 of your rank and your weapons and sentenced to death. Before you are killed you are given a second 
 chance to prove yourself and to regain you honor. You are sent out on a secret mission to assassinate 
 a member of a evil secret society of The Templars this is where your adventure truly begins.
  
  The story of Assassin's Creed is somewhat predictable you will see almost all of the events 
 coming a mile away. In my eyes the game is not centered around a storyline but instead centered 
 around gameplay. It uses a great system where you can traverse several huge towns completely being 
 able to scale every wall and building and kill any person from civilians to guards. This system 
 not only increases the fun of the game exponentially but it makes the game how great it is.
  
  The combat is fairly simple you have multiple weapons your assassination tool, your blade, 
 and also throwing daggers. You use these for various situations in combat from stealth kills, groups 
 of enemies, and ranged opponents. Through this combat system you enjoy endless fun of going through 
 missions, assassinations, and other side quests as you play through the games storyline. Although 
 fairly simple the combat is fun allowing you to counter, dodge, and grab your opponents depending 
 on the situation.
  
  There are many things to do in the various towns that you visit on your missions first to scope 
 out the towers there are vantage points. Finding these allows you to fill in your map and also 
 see where the other missions are. Also there are mini missions you can do for information such 
 as interrogation, pick pocketing, spying, and other missions for informants. Helping out picked 
 on citizens you find also proves useful spreading out vigilantes who help you get away or hide 
 when you are in trouble.
  
  To put it fast and simply Assassin's Creed looks amazing and flawless. This is the best looking 
 game I have seen of 2007 and it shows that the cool new Next-Gen graphics aren't pointless. I am 
 not a big fan of graphics I even somewhat prefer the age of SNES and Playstation but games like 
 these make me realize why we want newer graphics. Standing above the town looking over it's entirety 
 leaves you in nothing but a state of awe of how real and crisp it looks.
  
  The music of Assassin's Creed is fairly good yet nothing extraordinary. There is a variety of music 
 you hear as you traverse the world of Assassin's Creed including the action music you will get 
 used to everytime you get caught. Due to great gameplay and fun action like no other I am very 
 impressed with Assassin's Creed which is why I would rate it a 9.4 out of 10 for being an amazing 
 07' title. This is the type of game that everyone would enjoy I would suggest if you have a PS3 
 or Xbox 360 to pick this game up and try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepangel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is just a best game created ever talking about interactivity, it is very revolutionary 
 in this part, but yes, is very repetitive, the same objectives and things to do, this bored part 
 end only when you have to kill your objective, if you want to enjoy this game you must play it 
 listening all the story, the dialogues, and the progression of the story is very well done, just 
 take your time, to go here and there, complete your tasks with no hurry and you will enjoy it a 
 lot, the story is very well done i loved it. and theres nothing more to say, try it, and remember 
 try to enjoy it all. Do not play with hurry.
  
  graphically speaking the game is gorgeous. great graphics, and the down in framerate is just noticeable, 
 nothing to worry, crash already fixed with patch.
  
  The future inteervals are boring, and out of place, but at the end the mixed of this two times 
 are very interesting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdadragan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game rules, no doubt about it. One of the best games of 2007. Hands down, the MF'in' truth. 
 No other way to say it. Assassin's Creed makes it fun to climb across rooftops. Jumping around 
 like a monkey is a lot of fun. The way everything is put together makes this game just amazing. 
 It looks amazing, it is amazing. No other way to say it & that is the truth. Fun until the end. 
 Then the end gets confusing and the beginning is a little bit on the confusing side as well. It 
 has some difficult parts but not to difficult. Just right. Just the way I like my games to be. 
 Challenging but not so hard I get so upset I throw the controller. Assassin's Creed defiantly rocks 
 and deserves a 10/10. Go out and buy the game from your local gaming store now! Don't worry about 
 renting it because you know you F'in' like it. Do you think I am joking? No I am not. So when you 
 buy it and you will want to skip work or skip school to just play it. It's that good.
  
  
  Matt The Dragan
  
  Kick @$$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  WOW... assassins creed is one of the best games i have EVER played. the graphics are intense and 
 just the look of every thing is amazing! The story is nice and easy to understand once u played 
 it for awhile. The main guy in the game looks so realistic that if u zoom in on his face it almost 
 looks like a real person. the reason i gave it a 9.5 and not a perfect 10 was because in about 
 2 parts of the game i really got stuck.... but once i found out what to do it turned out to be the 
 best game. I got this game for christmas and i started to play it c-mas day and it took me about 
 5 days to beat it because i played almost 4 hours every day. I really hope they make a number 2 
 because this one was so good that they need to come out with another. I dont think assassins creed 
 for DS will be as good as this amazing one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tixilix72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I can understand the hype, graphics are superb, movements are great, settings are imaginative 
 but what can I say about the missions? Well, I found them repetitive and becoming tiring at some 
 point: Climbing viewpoints, picpocket missions, saving citizens, all great at first, but when you 
 discover that you need to do the same things in every city you encounter, it becomes a bit boring. 
 What Assassin's Creed lack has being such a beautiful game is maybe the lack of creativity in the 
 missions. Take a game like Tenchu, although very inferior graphically, the variety of missions 
 and storyline, made it more an exciting gaming experience when it was launched than this game for 
 me. I also remember the greatness of the first Tomb Raider on the first playstation and was really 
 excited when I got my hands on the copy of Assassin's Creed for the new PS3. Although it is a very 
 well designed game and beautiful in its graphics and creative in the character's movements, I still 
 feel it lacks creativity in the missions and excitement. For me the complete package has always 
 been delivered by Hideo Kojima and the Metal Gear Solid series and can't wait to see if Master 
 Kojima has delivered again when the game comes out. Overall, Assassin's creed is a very pleasant 
 and impressive discovery with terrific graphics but lacks the best grade due to too much repetition 
 in the various missions you need to accomplish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a graphical masterpiece. I find this game amazing because of its amazing variety somewhat 
 free roaming experience. You play as the expert assassin Altair who breaches the Assassins Creed 
 hence the name. The Master Assassin; Al Mualim takes away all your weapons and abilities. The aim 
 of the game is to assassinate whoever Al Mualim tells you to and earn your weapons and abilities 
 back. This game has amazing visuals, very realistic graphics but not very good gameplay... 
  
  But like nearly every game this game has some bad points here they are: There are a few; no 
 not a few quite ALOT of glitches. Its very annoying when your in the middle of an Assassination 
 Mission and suddenly the game just crashes and freezes and then you have to restart the whole console. 
 The game gets really repetitive at the end of an Assassination. But other than other this game 
 is GOOD. Overall i give it; 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litchfieldbears
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most well designed games ever. This is the Davinci of all games. 
 so much detail and thought has been put into this game, you can see birds flying past, people eating 
 and bargaining. The only flore in this game is it confusing ending. Any way. Assasins creed controls 
 beautifully when jumping up wall, jumping into hay, knifing and pushing people. it feels like a 
 living breathing world. Everything you do feels so natural. climbing running jumping is done so 
 smoothly. Fighting is a lot better then i expected to. it looked quite sluggish in the videos, 
 but flows very well with everything else in the game. 
  The story is pretty good i think. on one side you are a man trying to find out a bit more about 
 his past, and on the other your a kick @5$ robin hood assassin guy. all your objectives are well 
 done and placed. the AI is no disappointment either as townspeople wonder around and react to situations. 
 Nun type people will let you use them as cover if you help them out. its just amazing.
  On the side of design, every thing is beautiful. water looks brilliant, and the clay and brick 
 houses look almost real. the lighting effects are excellent with shadow effects working as a real 
 shadow should. The models of every body in the world are incredible setting a new benchmark. 
 
  The sounds are great from the screams of innocent towns people to the whistle of air when diving 
 to the ground. Every thing sounds as it should. Even the sound track it well thought of and flows 
 with each situation, mood and area.
  This is a marvel in all aspects. and is an instant classic in my books. 
  This is one of the 
 few games that deserve a perfect 10 score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  As die hard video gamer since NES era, now a ps3 owner, I am dissappointed so far of the games 
 that are coming out of the "new gen" consoles. I own COD4, Oblivion IV, Resistance, etc.
  
  1st, the game of the year 2006 was Oblivion, This was chosen game of the year for the only reason 
 that it has a huge map. But, honestly, as a RPG fan since the original Final Fantasy, this is the 
 most boring FPS that I played. I stopped playing in the middle because of the pointless so called 
 "missions". What makes this game different? Only the graphics.
  
  2nd, game of the year 2007 is COD4. Why this was chosen game of the year? Because of the graphics.. and 
 that's it. COD 2 has a far more better gameplay and action than this one.
  
  Thank God. Assassins Creed came out. At first I was skeptical because of the repetetive issues 
 that the reviewers say, but the moment I walked through the beautiful ancient holy cities... I was 
 blown away. The gameplay is so original and unique, the last time I experienced this kind of "newness" 
 in a game is when I played GTA3 in the ps2, I also thought that there are still game developers 
 out there who makes games because of their creativity, not just putting good graphics because of 
 the tech advancement and selling out.
  
  This game is repetitive? Blowing aliens (halo) , shooting germans and terrorists (COD) or galloping 
 in a horse (oblivion) for countless hours is not??
  
  No debate, assassins creed is original, and a must have for gamers who are thirsty for a new gameplay. 
 If you are a newbie in the gaming world, buy COD4 or Resistance, if you are a veteran, this is 
 the game that you are looking for in a looooonnnng while.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewrxman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this out in the open...... assassins creed was great. I loved playing the game. It was 
 a whole new experience and it felt very real. There were minor issues that i had with the game, 
 but nothing that bothered me too much.
  
  The story was good, it kept me intrigued and wanting more. BUT one major issue i had was the cliff 
 hanger ending! I really don't know why it pissed me off so much but it did! (okay i think my mini 
 rant is done...) The combat was okay, nothing really great about it, but it was kinda easy..... once 
 you learned how to dodge and counter attacks you had it kinda easy throughout most of the game.
 
  
  One thing that stuck out the most was how the character moved and climbed buildings. It was amazing, 
 it felt so real, the people who made the game did a very good job. I also liked how you could go 
 about your assassinations any way you want.
  
  Overall, the game was great. It felt different from most games, but the only reason i didn't give 
 the game a 10 was because of the easyness, if thats a word, and mostly because of the ending. It 
 pissed me of that i just spent 60 dollars on a game that never really ended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game, by all means. You will have a lot of fun playing this game. You will 
 not be too far into the game though, before you find that you have done everything there is to 
 do. And the rest of the game follows suit with slight variation. 
  
  I had some fun turning the hud off and things like that trying to complete the missons for a change 
 of pace, and you can just endlessly run through the streets and pick fights and you're so near 
 invincible with the counter attack that it never gets old. 
  
  But once you've run the few variety of missions in each city, that's basically it. Rinse, repeat. 
 
  
  All in all, I loved it, great game, it did a great job of establishing some really fun, intuitive 
 gameplay, but I can't wait for the sequel to maybe show off a little more variety, a little bit 
 more to do in these huge open cities.
  
  Oh, I will the say that the problems with the game freezing before the patch came out were a real 
 bummer too. I wasn't too happy to have it crashing on me almost every time I would play it for 
 the first couple weeks, but at least they fixed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  If you read my reviews (or at least the last one) you will know that my reviews are split into 
 sections - Story, Gameplay, Charecters, Problems, Multiplayer (if any) and a summary. So here it 
 is my review for-
  Assassin's Creed (PS3)
  
  Story
  When this was announced i was reallyexcited as apart from Oblivion there were not many games that 
 used swords. Of course RPG's have used them for years as have MMO's but i mean as a weapon that 
 you control and you decide what you do as well as doing it. In addition to this i am a history 
 buff so the fact it was set during the third crusade AND had figures who disappered in mysterious 
 circumstances was making me go berserk. Then the sci-fi element came into the mainstream of the 
 media. I was crushed, its not that i mind sci-fi as i love it but it seems that we will never have 
 a game that has a story set in those times with no present day content. Still onto the actual story. 
 You play modern day assassin, Desmond Miles, well he dosen't want to be an Assassin. He is kidnapped 
 by a doctor working for a company who believe that your DNA holds your ancestors memories and the 
 doctor's company is searching for something held within your ancestor, Altair, memories. It is 
 later revealed that the assassins arch rivals - The Templars (Any idea why my user is Templar94?) 
 are still active and the doctor is working for them. As it plays out you discover that they are 
 looking for a treasure which was found in solomons temple. This is really how deep the story goes 
 and each assassination is just building up to find out where that treasure is. It is in fact a 
 globe that holds a map, what it leads to is never revealed. The ending is utter rubish, although 
 it makes it clear that there will be an Assassin's Creed 2 it really makes you think - WTF i played 
 all this time for this?. It is not even made clear that you have to walk into a certain area and 
 press a certain button to seed some disturbing images and ancient writing on the wall along with 
 desmond saying, "What were they keeping here before me?". Credits roll game over. Not quite. i 
 won't tell you what happens now but i will in the Problems section, spoiler free though. Overall 
 the story is best when you are playing through it but sucks when it is completed.
  Story- 5/10
  
  Gameplay
  Wow. This is where AC really makes up for the annoying story line. 
 Last year the game free running was released, although it was rubbish the free running aspect was 
 why it was played by many. What is embarissing is that a game about killing has a much more fluent, 
 natural and overall better free running system. What makes it so good is that you can climb anything 
 and not one thing looks like it was designed pacificly for you to climb on. Yes there are those 
 conviently placed obsticles but that fit in with the cities nicley. The fight mechanics are basic 
 but the animations are realistic and seem as if they could be done by almost anyone. The one fault 
 is that when you learn the counter kill move your enemies stand no chance which kind of take the 
 challenge out of the game and with only one difficulty level it has little or no replayability 
 unless you want to do the "additional memories". These are little challenges these are - Collect 
 all King Richard Flags from Kingdom, Scale all the viewpoints within Kingdom, Eliminate all Templars, 
 Collect all hospitalier flags from Acre, Collect all templar flags from Acre, Collect all Jeruseulem 
 Crosses from Jeruseulem, collect all sacracens flags from Damascus, collect all assassins flags 
 from maysaf. In fact these are not worth your time or effort but if your like me and have to dominate 
 a game before reviewing it you may want to do it. I have done everything - all save citensens, 
 all flags collected, all view points scaled, all templars eliminated and so forth. Overall the 
 gameplay is one of the strongpoints of AC.
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Charecters
  This section will be short as although there are alot of charecters i can some all of these up 
 in one word - Unrealistic. Yes they move like real people do, yes they look real but they don't 
 feel real. You have no attatchment to them you can't relate and they feel static. The only charecter 
 who feels remotley reel is the lab assistant because she shows compassion, she basicly saves your 
 life, because she is on a computer all the time. This is a real lowfor Ubisoft as even the Rainbow 
 Six Team feels more real than this.
  Charecters - 2/10
  
  Problems
  Problem 1 - whenever you feel like a real assassin you are brought back to desmonds world. 2 - 
 Charecters are unrealistic. 3 - the conversations with the rafik's and your leader are extremley 
 long. 4- stupid hiding places, the guards cant see you if you sit on a bench. 5 - when you get 
 demoted you loose the ability to grab ledges. But the biggest problem is the ending after the credits 
 roll you are still there and can go on the animus (how you switch between desmond and altair) and 
 explore but it makes you feel a lack of closure, i spent 2 hours walking around untill looking 
 online and finding out that was it. It is so supid. 7 - Some English guards speak French. 8 - sometimes 
 the climbing controls just don't work. 9- that demo level never actually happens 10 - each time 
 you load up the game you have to go through the animus selection menu. Overall this ruined the 
 experince for me it went to my most anticipated game ever to just some game i completed. Now for 
 every problem i take off 0.1 of a point so this game has lost a full point.
  Problems - 10
  
  Multiplayer - N/A
  
  Summary 
  It is a solid game but loads of problems and annoying 
 instances really bring this down from an epic and creative game to a creative but rather annoying 
 game. I would reccomend it to those with patience but for people who like games such as Hitman 
 where each level is a hit steer cleer. I mean although each memory/level is a hit it takes around 
 40 minutes to get to do the hit or 1hr30mins if you want to do all the things in that area. I would 
 probably say rent it first and if you enjoy it go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelMac
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  First impression - Precious diamond ring.
  
  When I started playing Assassin's Creed I was truly amazed. I really liked Animus thing idea. It's 
 like some live action role playing performed by Desmond. Thanks to Animus machine his senses are 
 cut off from real world and he becomes Altair. Assassin's health (synchronisation) bar, locks on 
 targets, status indicator, map and so on are Animus creations making a game design very real for 
 me. It resembles me a HUD on hazard suit in Half Life or helmet view in Republic Commando. We don't 
 see Desmond having Sixaxis in hands (like in upcoming MGS4 or ship controls in Little Big Planet) 
 but maybe he virtually "feels it"? He must somehow push this buttons. So I say again - Animus is 
 a nice thing to me.
  I am finishing tutorial, taking first assassination, raiding horse, climbing, taking first fights. 
 Collecting flag have a sense to me too. They are virtual animus flags the places where they have 
 been placed are a fragments of Desmond DNA memories. By picking them they help you to better synchronise 
 with Animus. I just explain to myself flag presence in the game as places where real Altair have 
 been. Nice explanation to me. And I am amazed. Amazed by graphics, animation, controls, even story. 
 I am really glad. An then the horror starts...
  
  Second impression - This ring (really diamond?) has a major flaws.
  
  I am making progress 
 in the game it's maybe third assassination and I am tired. Really tired. I have to do all the things 
 the same? Climb? And climb? By taking leap of faith I can save time for climbing down at least... And 
 pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogations are all the same? No new environment? No. Maybe eavesdropping 
 by following someone? No. Maybe some pursuit after person to interrogate? No. All the same. Maybe 
 some story events? Some big city fire for example? Maybe some night assassination? No. Informers? 
 They are loosing virtual flags? Animus virtual flags have been lost from informer's bag? What's 
 going on? Some guys chasing informer and I have to assassinate them. But how Animus know which 
 ones? 
  And I have a counterattack now. Things are getting worse. Now I am half-god. Kratos. I can slaughter 
 all Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus. All Templars. By holding R1 and pressing square button in counterattack. 
 Yes, it is just so easy. And boring. I am invincible. And for God's sake learn counterattack dear 
 informers. They will be no more bandits harassing you.
  I am rescuing citizens. Only for synchronization. There is no point in using scholars or Vigilantes 
 help. They were helpful once. When they stopped running archer assassination target. 
  When I know counterattack I am no more bothered by stealth attempts. I am running wildly through 
 the city and killing every single guard who wants to stop me. I am saving time because I know that 
 i will be forced to do a climbing once more. And other boring, repeating stuff. I am very disappointed.
 
  Questions arise in my head. Why I can do assassination attempt after two or three investigations? 
 Game creators knew that doing all the same over and over will be boring?
  Acrobatics are really that easy? Only pushing analog stick forward for climbing? And when I sprint 
 and jump from pillars to pillars or from wooden pole to pole I just hold R1 and X?
  Why I have to zoom in the map every single time I press select? Why investigation discoveries (guards 
 positions, escape routs) are not on the map? I want know where are guard standing I must take out 
 A4 sheet of paper and manually draw their positions. We have XXI century - It's not "Eye Of Beholder 
 drawing maps era"!
  
  Final conclusion - It is some second hand copper ring and not even fits on my finger.
  
  I 
 am bored by this easy and repetitive game. And present (or near future) time when you play Desmond 
 is messed up too. I can only read e-mails. Steal some pen. Or go to sleep. Desmond even doesn't 
 take a shower. And is sleeping in clothes? And he is not hungry? 
  Now I am taking leap of faith. I have faith in Ubisoft. I have faith that in this haystack I will 
 find better PS3 games.
  
  White Eagle Down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simmo007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  My review title basically encapsulates it all. This game encompasses a story line that is just 
 brilliant, a control scheme that plain and simply - Just Works! - and a main character that is 
 highly memorable. The story is everlasting and the fact that it is based on a time period that 
 reflects a historical period (the Crusades) makes the game incredibly immersive.
  The main reason this game is not a perfect 10/10 is only because it was - in my humble opinion 
 :P - too short (took me around 25 hours to beat) and the ending left something to be desired (reminded 
 me of the weak endings that are produced by a Spider Man film) - pardon the pun there - considering 
 you can climb on absolutely everything that stands in your way. The environment looks beautiful 
 and if you have the game running on 720p you will not believe what your eye's are seeing. It is 
 truly amazing the progression in graphics and all around gaming that we have experienced in 2007 
 and Assassins Creed is a testament to that.
  All in all this game is worth the AU$110.00 that you pay to play it, don't hesitate to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Do you like the blood pumping through your veins as you find and kill your foes? Do you enough 
 sneaking around, killing your target then disappearing like a shadow in the night? Do you enjoy 
 scaling the tallest of buildings and taking in the brilliant views, the immensely detailed, jam-packed 
 cities?
  
  Yes to any of the above? Then this game is at least a rent. You are a master assassin stripped 
 of his rank as you bring dishonour to your masters. You are assassinating 9 people to regain your 
 high place in your organization.
  
  You start with a rather long tutorial, but never mind - after that you are plunged straight into 
 the action. You are Altair, the ancestor of one Desmond Miles. Why does this matter? You'll find 
 out when you play this game. To cut it short and spoiler-free, you are part of an experiment which 
 will apparently "make the world a better place". Scientists are exploring your DNA and unlocking 
 the memories of Desmond's ancestor. You will constantly be switching from the characters, resulting 
 in a pretty damn good storyline. However, the majority of your playtime will be as the master Assassin 
 Altair.
  
  One thing that will simply amaze you about this game - the graphics. With the ability to climb 
 onto anything sticking out further than 2 inches, this game will have you exploring for hours. 
 Everything is beautifully crafted, thought there are a few hardly noticeable frame-rate drops.
 
  
  
  The control scheme is extremely simple when such complex actions can be performed. You control 
 your character like a puppeteer, X being your legs, [] and O being each arm and /\ being your head. 
 L1 is lock-on and R1 completely changes your control scheme. The controls are easy to pick up, 
 so many people will be able to grab the controller and start playing - a friend came in just a 
 few hours ago and asked what I was playing. I handed him the controller and he was off, with hardly 
 any problems.
  
  The combat is pretty neat as well. Sometimes you'll find yourself getting into fights just for 
 the hell of it. Just after the beginning of the game when you are demoted, all you can do is hit 
 Square to slash at someone and Circle to grab. However, as you progress you learn new things to 
 use in combat. There is a counter attack that you learn after assassinating a few main enemies, 
 where holding R1 and tapping [] when the enemy attacks starts an animation which either gets the 
 enemy away from you, allowing you to escape, or performing a gruesome kill. You will not be disappointed 
 with the blood, I might add.
  
  
  
  Now, the name of the game - Assassination. By using a hidden blade where Altair's "ring finger" 
 would be you can simply hit [] to shove the blade into a foe's throat or stomach. Holding R1 and 
 then using [] to assassinate someone will perform a much more visible kill which may involve you 
 leaping onto someone and jamming the knife right into their throat. However, if you think you'll 
 be having to run away to escape guards think again. The AI can be quite dumb at time, so by simply 
 holding the "blend" button after a non-visible kill will not result in your capture. The nearest 
 guard will simply walk over to the body and shout something like "Who is responsible for this?". 
 Even in direct sight of the guard, and being the only person with him, you will not get caught.
 
  
  However, an assassination is only a small part of the gameplay. Your escape is the biggest part. 
 To escape from guards you will have to break the line of sight and then hide. There are multiple 
 ways to break the line of sight; climbing buildings, doing "Leaps of Faith" or making sharp corners 
 are just a few ways to do that. After you've got away from the guards you have to hide before more 
 come. You can hide in piles of hay, sit on benches, jump into roof gardens or blend in with a group 
 of Scholars. After a while the guards will get bored and leave you alone.
  
  
  
  There are also flags to collect. These are simply like gang tags or oysters in Grand Theft Auto: 
 San Andreas, except you don't unlock anything. Along with flags there are "view points", "Saving 
 a Civilian", "Pickpocketing" and "Interrogation" if you don't feel in the assassination mood. However, 
 unless you are doing one of the latter for the story, they have no benefit apart from bragging 
 rights.
  
  Now, what stops this game getting an even better score than it's already got? One word - repetition. 
 Track, Kill then Escape. You will be doing this for the whole of the storyline. Unless you really 
 enjoy doing that repeatedly, might not want to repeat the story. However, a 10-12 hour story will 
 keep you quite busy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deformer2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I've heard both sides of the story for Assassin's Creed. Those who loved it and those who thought 
 it wasn't all that it was hyped up to be. Upon acquiring my PS3 I purchased AC that same day. 
 
  
  First impressions of the game for me, were amazing. The graphical intensity and the intricacy of 
 the AI and world design do a great amount of bonus to the game. Rarely during gameplay did I curse 
 annoying camera angles or difficult level design if not at all. Launching yourself of 50' buildings 
 or tackling ten or more elite soldiers armed with blades was definitely an adrenaline rush. The 
 plotting and planning, environment observation required to take out your target also added to the 
 Assassin effect of the game. This game stands out with its name and genre. It isn't GTA 1012.
 
  
  You'll find a large part of Assassin's Creed are cut scenes. Ubi-soft identified this and allowed 
 the user to view the cut scene differently each time with "glitches." Glitches gives you the ability 
 to view the scene from a different memory point. 
  
  For the first few sections of the game I did not really rush through it. Making sure I discovered 
 all the secondary objectives but then I was under the impression you could go back into a "sandbox" 
 mode upon completing the story line. I finished the storyline in a day and a half, this may seem 
 short but I played it a fair amount all day. Without giving away any spoilers, I was a bit disappointed 
 with the ending and the gameplay mechanics in the last memory block. Maybe I'm doing something 
 wrong but every time I load the game I have to sit through the credits again, which, might i add, 
 you can't skip after the first time.
  The storyline is definitely re-playable at the end of the story but the way the developers have 
 designer it makes it very difficult and frustrating.
  
  Overall, still and excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game itself looks stupendous, you can see every crevasse of every building, the buildings 
 and people look real, and the fighting looks swell as well. I personally found the story line compelling, 
 and outlandish, with the whole DNA thing. The voice acting is good in the normal world, but when 
 you're in the Animus, the accents are overdone. The music, as scarce as it is, isn't too bad. But 
 all this stuff doesn't really matter, what does matter is the game-play. The fighting and stealth 
 killing doesn't get old, with a number of different combos, and screaming bleeding people on the 
 ground. But what does get repetitive is saving the same citizens that say the same things, climbing 
 similar looking buildings, to watch a circular camera motion, and doing the same info gathering 
 stuff; eavesdropping, pick-pocketing, informing, and interrogation. Overall the good outdoes the 
 bad and im looking forward to the next one. What a boring review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daraghp
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is a beautiful game. Ubisoft have done an absolutely fantastic job, in creating 
 a living, breathing city in which the player can make his playground. It's stunning! 
  It's obvious to me that Ubisoft put in a lot of work into making Assassins creed look shiny. Unfortunately 
 they seemed to put a bit to much work into that, and not enough work in the actual game. 
  Seriously, Assassins creed is barely even a game! It's missions are tedious, as is it's story. 
 It forces you to sit through ten minute rants about virtually nothing before and after every mission, 
 and when you do finally get to play, it's not all that special.
  
  Every time you arrive in a new city, you first have to obtain information on your assassination 
 target. This is far and away the worst and most lackluster part of the game. You obtain information 
 by, eavesdropping, pickpocketing and interrogating. None of these are enjoyable, and there is absolutely 
 no challenge in doing them. 
  Eavesdropping: You sit on a near by bench, lock on to your targets and press the triangle button. 
 
  Pickpocketing: You slowly approach somebody, and hold circle.
  Interrogating: You follow somebody for ages, and beat them do a bloody pulp.
  Assassins creed 
 is in general just far to easy. The actual assassination's aren't bad. The first few are great, 
 but they soon become boring, as repetition kicks in. 
  
  The story's really not all that interesting. And the whole Sci f twist, thing turned out to be 
 a huge disappointment. The whole experience is for the most part. Is there anything good about 
 Assassins creed? Yes, there is. Jumping around the city is a blast, and as i already mentioned 
 it looks great.
  
  
  Is Assassins creed a bad game? No, but it's not a particularly good one either. It's certainly 
 not the holy grail of gaming that so many thought it might be. It's undeniable potential hasn't 
 been completely wasted, but instead of the stunning game that was promised, Ubisoft have us a decent 
 one. And, unfortunately that's all Assassins creed will ever be. A decent game, with good graphics. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markymark4691
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game a few weeks back when it was on sale at best buy. It has major hardware issues 
 that ubi is aware of. wait until they fix them or it will freeze up atleast once during each time 
 you play the game. This is incredibly frustrating as you can be deep into a level and the only 
 way to resolve this issue when it freezes is to reboot your ps3. Ubi is aware of the issue and 
 released a patch amidst all of the complaints. You can read all of them by going to http://forums. ubi. com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/4721051016/m/5191065806. 
 Unfortunately, ubi thought they had fixed the problem but they didn't. hey simply, in my honest 
 opinion, need to do a recall and send out replacement disks once the freezing issues have been 
 resolved. This would solve all of the freezing issues and keep all of us loyal customers happy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3zoozM
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  it gets very repetitive very fast.
  
  You start the game as Altair, a 12th century assassin. As an assassin, Altair has many awesome 
 skill and weapons such as his spider like climbing skills and his hidden blade that retracts into 
 his sleeve. Almoalim (translation: the teacher) is the leader of the creed in which Altair is in, 
 and he orders him to assassinate 9 authority figures, but he doesn't explain why until later on. 
 there is a beautiful move by the devs where they made the story as a memory of present time bartender 
 who Altair is his ancestor, they discovered that memories are passed down through DNA, and made 
 a machine to view these memories.
  
  The gameplay is wonderful. When you climb walls (which you will be doing A LOT) you can see Altair 
 put his hands and feet on the right place, and you can climb almost anything that Altair can grab 
 hold on. Moving at street level is much different than other games. you can see Altair move to 
 avoid bumping into people. And there are some people who you really want to stay away from like 
 beggars who follow you around and grab you and ask for money (if only you could just give them 
 some money) . But the most annoying people has got to be nutbags and drunks who shove you around 
 when they see you (a good punch will send them running in tears) .
  
  But sadly, this game-like any other) has some noticeable downsides. For example, you have to kill 
 9 persons. And for each one, you have to get to the city, find the informers, do what they want 
 you to do (collect flags/kill people) and then you have to interrogate some one (kick his @ss) 
 and pickpocket another and eavesdrop on some fool. then you get back to the bearu, get the feather, 
 and go kill you target.
  
  The combat system is also boring, because once you get the counter attack, you just stand there 
 and wait for them to attack, and bam... hes dead.
  
  In the end, the game is cool, i love jumping around rooftops. It's got a great story, and amazing 
 graphics. Sadly, you get bored with it, and i honestly didnt get hooked to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed delivers what it should in most parts, most of it's major glitches were fixed 
 with the patch that came a few months ago
  
  Graphics: Stunning...... The Holy land is probably better looking then it did back then, and the 
 characters..... the stunning textures of Altair will make your jaw touch the floor........
  
  Sound: Good soundtrack, the voices are great, "Heretic" and "Infidel" will often be screamed 
 at you as you run past a squadron of guards with their swords drawn
  
  Gameplay: Can get repetitive, but most often gets back on it's feet after some time, jumping on 
 buildings and sneaking up on people and stabbing them is fun......
  
  Story: Starts off fairly interesting and then drops to the point of boring as hell, but no worries, 
 soon it will improve and you will be dancing at the end of the game, now understanding why it was 
 so boring for some time
  
  Great game, most things about it are great, but a master assassin that can't swim..... doesn't 
 sound like such a great idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krinxstound
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game was a great disappointment to me. I thought it seemed unavoidably thrilling and most 
 likely a game that will go down in gaming history, but was extremely let-down while playing it. 
 Basically, there was a lack of creativity for this great potential game. It was the same mission 
 over and over again. You enter a city unnoticed by blending in with the scholars, then you go to 
 the bureau and receive your assignment, after that you climb on a high building where there will 
 conveniently be a small wooden platform from which you can perch yourself on. Then, after you are 
 done looking around the city with the eagle's vision, you jump off where there will be, ironically 
 enough, a pile of hay for you to comfortably fall upon. Afterwards, you help citizens, steal, and 
 spy on people until you've supposedly received enough information to complete your mission of.... 
 (drum roll please) .... you've guessed it! Killing someone again! The game offers not great challenge 
 since it's basically, doing the same thing over and over again. The graphics are good but I have 
 seen far better. And the end *SPOILER ALERT* is filled with random demonic markings written in 
 blood. Which I frankly don't get and think is unnecessary. 
  I really wish that I had something positive to say about this game. All I can say is that the idea 
 was excellent, near perfection, but the way it was expressed is terribly uncreative. Honestly, 
 I am just put in awe because it's received such good ratings. If the people rating this game are 
 gaming beginners then okay, I understand, but I'm sure they're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack141
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  This was a very anticipated game for me and it reached my expectations easily. I loved it and i 
 will definitely get all of the achievements.
  
  Assassins creed tells a great story of revenge, power and honor which is great for a game story 
 but at the end it kind of winds off track and gets confusing and honestly weird. The sci-fi twist 
 is great with altiars future Relative which looks exactly like him.
  
  The Game play can get very repetitive as each mission is Basically the same thing. First find view 
 point, Do 3 side missions, Locate, Kill, Run and hide. It is good that you get weapons and new 
 skills after every assassination. And also the horse missions are pretty awesome.
  
  The Graphics are awesome and very pleasing too the eye with the 4 cities in the game.
  
  This 
 game will give you lot of game which you can play and feel that you didn't waste your money. Cant 
 wait for AC2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheeseez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics -
  Assassin's Creed overall has great graphics. There are a few graphical glitches here and there 
 as well as some slowdowns, especially when the camera pans out at viewpoints, but they are hardly 
 noticeable and do not affect gameplay. Assassin's Creed has plenty of graphical detail in everything 
 and the draw distance in the game is very impressive.
  
  Audio  
  The music and sound effects in Assassin's Creed are average. Voice acting in Assassin's Creed is 
 where they do a really great job. Besides the fact that 99% of the people in the game speak English, 
 it is believable that you are going through cities during the time period of the Crusades. The 
 dialog and the accents of each character fit nicely. The only thing I don't understand is how badly 
 they messed up on Altair's voice acting. Since everyone else's voice acting is so great, Altair's 
 plain American English sounds terrible. It stopped me from being truly engaged in the dialog at 
 times. Overall, it wasn't that big of a deal to me, but it may truly annoy others.
  
  Gameplay 
  Even though AC is considered a "sandbox" game, there aren't that many objectives 
 once you're inside a city. You can 1) Climb buildings and reach view points, 2) Rescue a citizen, 
 3) Beat someone for information (or just for fun) , 4) Eavesdrop, 5) Pickpocket, 6) Collect Flags, 
 7) ASSASSINATE! Everything feels really repetitive, including fighting. Still, each individual 
 part is very well done. Climbing buildings feels very natural and fluid. The player can easily 
 recognize what can and can't be climbed, and nothing looks out of place. Controls can feel a bit 
 non-respondent at times when climbing (especially when you are in a rush trying to escape from 
 guards!) , but if you are patient, Altair will climb it. I really enjoyed scoping out the layout 
 of the buildings/rooftops to find the best route from point A to point B, and then executing the 
 route as quickly as possible. Fight sequences were very fun as well. You can just button mash the 
 square button to have Altair attack whatever he's targeting, but later in the game you will see 
 that enemies will guard and counter more often. As you progress through the game, you obtain new 
 weapons and abilities to aid you in fights. The abilities are used by timing attacks and parries, 
 resulting in some very SWEET action kills that feel very rewarding. Assassinations can be executed 
 in several different ways, so it's always good to plan the assassination as well as think of an 
 escape route. Assassinations are always very dramatic and feels rewarding as well, especially when 
 you kill your mark without alerting any guards.
  
  Conclusion  
  I had read reviews about the game and had been warned about the repetition. After the first two 
 assassinations, I wondered how much longer it would be before I got bored from the repetition, 
 but to my surprise I never got bored and had a lot of fun finishing the game. There are some parts 
 that are bad/annoying (e. g. Altair's voice acting, can't skip mission briefings after you fail, 
 Altair can't swim so if you fall in water you die, poor AI sometimes) , but nothing really I couldn't 
 get past. This game may not be for everyone, but I really recommend that if you are interesting 
 in the game then rent/borrow it, play the first 2-3 missions, and if you're still interesting then 
 buy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendetta58
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed by Ubisoft Montreal is what will be the first megahit of this franchise. I bought 
 this game at Best Buy for $37.99 new so I couldn't turn that down. The combat system is repetitve 
 but fun, as is most of the game play. The monotony is not much of a problem because the story line 
 is so good and walking up to your enimies and piercing them with a blade in their throat just never 
 gets old. I'd say it's work the sixty bucks if you have a PS3 or XBox, but you could probably find 
 it on sale if you want this game.
  
  Many plot twists, many more tales of deciption make you unable to put this game because you want 
 to know how the game ends. Doing the tasks like eavesdropping on conversations, climbing up to 
 viewpoints, and pickpocketing citizens is repetitive (much like this review) but I'll say again, 
 it doesn't get boring. It might on the replay though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoyGar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed brings you things that few games can give you. And it is a very unique game. The 
 game is about this assassin that takes place in 3 old cities. You will climb view points in the 
 city to unlock some of the missions. The missions is kind of like the same after another but you 
 just cant help to get amazed buy the incredible design of the cities and some really fun bits in 
 the game. The world is really huge and the streets are crowded with people. From that view makes 
 you laugh at games like Gta 3 and even Gta sanandreas. The climbing ability in the game is almost 
 a masterpiece. The way you will climb on buildings looks so incredible and it also looks so natural. 
 It is like freerunning and parkour. There is no part of the climbing in the game that makes it 
 look bad or unreal. The climbing in the game is something no game before had to offer and makes 
 this game a big step forward in the game industry. However the fighting in the game is not as impressive. 
 Sometimes the control really screws up. But the way the assassin fight makes the assassin look 
 like a bad ass. The missions are kind of like the same all the time. But the good news is that 
 the missions are so fun so you do not really mind if you play missions that looks kind of like 
 the same all over again. The game is pretty short and you can expect to finish the story mode in 
 like 10 hours. Plus there are some extra things in the game like climbing all view points and collect 
 all flags and also some side missions as well. It is also pretty bad that the ending is a bit confusing. 
 But otherwise you can expect some really nice swordbattles with some really awsome gameplay that 
 will make this game be in your memory for a very longtime. And it is without no doubt a must have 
 game in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a551n5_cr33d
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game i got with my PS3 and it is the best game i have ever played. It never gets 
 old picking fights with guards and there are many quests to choose from.
  
  Graphics-9: The graphics are very realistic. Im sure if you have an HDTV it would look even bettter.
 
  
  Gameplay-9.5: Funnest game i have ever played and its my most favorite game. Im sure the replay 
 value is good too, but i havent beaten it yet.
  
  Sound-9: Sounds are all very real sounding and there are no glitchy voices.
  
  Value-9: For 
 60$ this is a must buy game. If you like any action/adventure games this will be your lover.
  
  If you have a PS3 or XBOX 360, then you should check this game out. It is very fun and long.
 
  
  Final Score: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jflomario
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  hey don't get me wrong but its missing something.
  Assassins Creed is a great game but they could've done better 
  at first it was hot but...
 
  after playing Uncharted this felt 5 minutes ago
  missions are repetative: kill, get some info, save someone, then do final kill
  repeat about 
 9 times and thats it
  but fun, controls are easy, tons and tons of freedom ,there are a wide range of movements, some 
 like over 500 character animations, even when you finish the game you can still have fun wreaking 
 havoc
  you can even steal knives wtf!?!?!
  highly original except Prince of Persia
  can't wait till AC#2
  the ending was soooo wack: letters on a wall and blank 
  story is good 
 though and thats original ,close to perfection 
  this should set the standard for next-gen games to come
  graphics, sound, cpu all that stuff 
 
  i give it a 9 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The easy part first. Graphics are awesome, really good. Climbing a tower and viewing the surroundings 
 is one of the best parts of the game. The cities far down below you and the hills in the distance 
 is great. They have paid so much attention to details and it shows. 
  
  The climbing part and running over the rooftops are fun as well. The climbing controls are easy 
 and intuitive. The action sequences are good. This is the part that people find repetitive. The 
 variation in missions are not big but the good part is that these are optional objectives so if 
 you don't want to play through them you don't have to. A little more variety in optional missions 
 would have given the game that little extra though. There are also the collecting flag missions. 
 They are quite hard to find so if want them all you have to look real hard. I think this is actually 
 one of the most fun parts of the game. Climbing buildings, walking the streets and alleys to find 
 flags are fun. You get to see a lot of the cities and there are just so much to explore. 
  
  The loading times are a little too long I think but the upside is that once a city is loaded 
 you can access the entire city without another load. 
  
  The sound is great. There are a lot of different sounds and conversations you can hear while walking 
 the streets. If you climb a high tower all you will hear is the wind whispering. 
  
  The story is good. Not what I expected but good all the same. I think I would have preferred a 
 story taking place only in the 11th century holy land but this one will do. The finish is quite 
 strange actually and a real cliffhanger. 
  
  So now I just will have to wait for AC part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  I expected a lot from this game according to the publicity and reviews. Graphics is the part that 
 amazes the most; top nutch!! You have the feeling being right in the Middle Age. The story itself 
 is also very interesting. However, what reduces the quality of the game is that it is very repetitive. 
 We can resume the game to these events : Kill easily, climb walls to see the area, meet women asking 
 for money, hide and walk; no surprise or evolution when playing. After a few hours, we begin to 
 feel bored about it, even if we continue to play it. Also, controls are confused sometimes for 
 the task we want to execute. I found myself jumping a few times downward when I expected to climb 
 a wall. For those 2 negatives points, I cannot go further than 8.5/10 for this game. One must understand 
 that it is a very good game even though, but this game doesn't compete at all with Resistance, 
 Ratchet and Clank or Call of Duty that remain my best games so far on my PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an exciting game! You play as Altair, an assassin that lived during the Crusades. 
 In this game, you are required to assassinate various leaders in different towns while helping 
 struggling citizens. You alo have the chance to explore the Holy Land and its ancient cities around 
 it! The game has a descent story although it kind of gets confusing since it goes between the present 
 during today's world to the past to the Crusades. You are practically free to roam all the cities 
 and there are very few areas that you cant explore. The graphics are really good! Everything looks 
 crisp and sharp from the buildings to the humans. Combat is very good since you can pull off very 
 cool moves to kill guards pursuing you. On the other hand, the gameplay in Assassin's Creed can 
 kind of get repetitive. The only things yo do involve assassinating people, exploring cities, and 
 saving citizens. I recommend that you rent this game first before you buy it. You might have mixed 
 reactions! But don't get me wrong, Assassin's Creed is still one of the top games out there for 
 the PS3! It is a real joy to play! Some people might get bored after the first couple of missions 
 though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRXgamer93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok ive been around ive played FF7 FF8 FF10 FF12 call of duty yea you get my point this is a action 
 rpg one of the best worth more than 60 bucks, and my PSN id is elsniper93 Playing ut3 iight peace 
 Oh and the chocobo knight in FF7 is a random enemy keep following the tracks  
 o and be prepared. AND the templars are kinda hard to find so il reccomend finding the flags before 
 anything else. And some people are complaing bout the 2nd to last fight its not hard at all just 
 block and counter and you will beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanksamazing
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  everything about this game is just absolutely near perfect! the graphics are what gets my attention 
 the most. there is so much to do in the story mode. all the missions, including the ones with the 
 assassination targets, are amazing. the weapons they give you are highly useful, and the voice 
 acting was remarkeble! i give this game a perfect score for everything in it. i highly reccomend 
 it to anyone who likes action adventure type games. this is the game i have played the most out 
 of all my ps3 games, and it is definitely worth 60 dollars! if you own a 360, or a ps3, you must 
 buy this game immediatly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is an action and stealth game combined together. You find yourself playing as a 
 member of the assassin creed. The creed is suppose to bring peace to the land by means of force. 
 You will find out there is a lot more to the story then meets the eye, and I dont want to reveal 
 too much info, so on with it.
  Good Things: The action is based on counter and quick reflexes, which makes the game pretty intense 
 and lots of fun. On the other hand the stealth mode of it is a lot more calm and harder. Making 
 you think twice about every action before you do it.. Which most of it is to the A I system. The 
 game is really smart and realastic. They did a great job of this new A I system, and I am sure 
 there wil be lots of other games following in their footstep. The graphics are good and the enviroments 
 are great. Not really any cut scenes, which is suprising. Most games have too many. The ideal of 
 being able to interact with all of the people is wonderful and amazing. There are tons of things 
 going on at once on the screen and the system never slows down a bit. The controls are good. Only 
 3 cities in the game, but they are huge with lots to explore and do in each. One of the best things 
 is that you can travel and go any where you want and also able to climb anything. Very new to the 
 game, and something I hope we see more of in the future. 
  Bad Things: The game can get frustrating easily. You do find yourself doing the same thing over 
 and over. The story is good till the end and ends up being very confusing and not very satisfying. 
 It leaves you with the feel that there wll be a second one. Which is great, because i enjoyed it, 
 but I hope that they take a little more time with the story line. 
  Over All: It does live up to the hype and it does deliver all and more than what it promised. I 
 hope that a lot of games take a feel for this and make more of them. Just the ending was a let 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riku222
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Some people say the missions are lousy, or boring... Well, don't listen to to them!!! I'm telling 
 the absolute truth, this is one of the best games I've played in my life!!! Go to Blockbuster or 
 Gamestop!!! I didn't even rent it, I bought it when I saw the comercials. Even if you're not into 
 killing games, try it!! This game has satisfying controls, there are no boundaries. You can jump 
 from building tops easily and quickly. The landscapes and all other graphics are impecable. The 
 fighting options and controls are satasfying as well as fun. The story line is interesting and 
 draws you in as you wonder the fate of the confused bartender and his thousand yesr old ancestor, 
 Altair. I also suggest if you like this game, PLEASE try Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axle211
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I got to hand it to UBI Soft, they made the best looking game on next gen. The game had great potential, 
 it's great in all aspects of the game, but they messed up big time in mission design.
  
  The environment looks amazing, the characters in the game are awsome. The way the characters interact 
 with the enviroment is excellant. You won't get bored of jumping off roof tops. And climbing up 
 the side of the tower to a view point, very cool. But sadly, that's all the fun you'll have playing 
 the game.
  
  It is the most repetitive game I've played in a long time. What were they thinking? Every man you 
 are sent out to kill, you follow the exact same useless steps. You wait for this guy to stop talking 
 and you punch him a couple of time so he can give you information you don't even need. Then you 
 have to steel some letter or map you won't even use. Then you are given the OK to go and kill the 
 dude.
  
  When you reach your target, he's never in position where you can actually sneak up on him. So annoying.
 
  
  They should have used gameplay similar to Splinter Cell. You go through people until you reach 
 the target. This game doesn't allow you to use stealth in many cases. It's impossible to sneak 
 up on your victim. That's what assasination should be all about.
  
  I'm dissapointed in this game. I bought a PS3 just to play it. And now I just want to get it over 
 with because i paid so much money for it. Also, this game has bugs. Maybe about 7 or 8 times the 
 game would freeze for no reason at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deezkhara
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I was dying to get this game after seeing many gameplay videos and reviews about it. I eventually 
 got it and was bored to death at the beginning. It goes on and on about this barman who is kidnapped, 
 is an assassin and whatever else I dont know since I wasnt paying any attention. Let's get one 
 thing straight... the storyline is the worst I have ever seen in my life! When I actually played 
 this game, it was brilliant. The graphics marvelled me, the freedom of choice marvelled me and 
 the action was great. After a while though, the game began to repeat itself. I began to notice 
 I was hiding from guards in the same 4 hiding spots, and the fighting was fought in the same manner, 
 and the wall climbing was simply holding up on the left stick every two minutes. 
  
  I don't recommend this game to buy, but I definately recommend you rent it, play half of it, and 
 then give it back. Summed up, brilliant game but after 3 or 4 hours of playing it it gets boring. 
 
  Gameplay-9
  Sound-9
  Graphics-9
  Storyline-0
  Boredomness after a few hours-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theamitgoyal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  I am a huge junkie for stories... and I think Assassin's Creed is telling a great one! In a way 
 I am not too disappointed with the cliffhanger ending because this can really develop into something 
 really worthwhile.
  
  I never had such mixed feelings about a game. What Assassin's Creed is both unbelievable and flawed. 
 Amidst the beautiful graphics, the silky smooth animation of Altair, great storytelling and excellent 
 platforming is (at times) moronic enemy AI and repetitive gameplay. Though neither of the two should 
 discourage anyone from playing the game. I would love to see some more variety in the future games 
 of the franchise, but I still had a lot of fun doing the same thing over and over because it was 
 executed so well. But it wouldn't have hurt to add some variety to the investigation missions. 
 The elements are all there, they just haven't been mixed and matched enough. But this one can still 
 be overlooked. 
  
  The enemy AI, however, is problematic. Why is it that a second guard does not react when I kill 
 the first with a throwing knife in his plain sight? Why can't they obviously see that I recently 
 killed a group of guards to save a citizen when I'm standing right there talking to the citizen. 
 And most importantly, why isn't there any consequence of killing so many guards? Sure, the game 
 ramps up the surveilance in later levels but I would have prefered a model where every city kept 
 a tab on how noisy I had been in my previous visits. There should be a reward for keeping things 
 quiet and a consequence of botching things up. Even in the assassinations, you can get away with 
 botching up easily and take down the guy in combat. 
  
  These things held back Assassin's Creed. But in a way its a complement too. How? Because if the 
 rest of the game did not shine so much... I wouldn't have noticed. This game has immense potential 
 which could not be utilized because of, in my opinion, release dates! I'm quite sure a team good 
 enough to make such a game would have noticed these issues. They probably just didn't have enough 
 time to fix them. 
  
  But now they are working on the sequel, and I really hope they work them out (and that they bring 
 Altair back... I think it's quite possible he may not come back)
  
  I like how Ubi evolved every game of the Prince of Persia series (Yes I thought Warrior Within 
 was better than Sands of time... and yes.. I think Godsmack made some sense there too in the larger 
 picture which includes the Two Thrones) and I hope Assassin's Creed does the same!
  
  To give some more structured scores:
  
  Graphics - 10 (absolutely breathtaking stuff. There 
 were points where I stopped just to gape)
  
  Sound - 8 (Even if Altair had to have a American accent, it could have been done better)
  
 
  Story - 10 (It's a great start, let's see where they take it)
  
  Gameplay - 8 
  
  To sum up, when I first saw Assassin's Creed before its release, it became a compelling reason 
 for me to get a next-gen console. After playing it, I was not disappointed! Nothing is true, everything 
 is permitted... Ubisoft knew what they were getting into! Hats off to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is, to put it in a word, brilliant. There is so much to it a yet so little.
  For the majority of the game you take the role of Altair, an ancestor of the main character, Desmond 
 Miles. The plot is pretty simple. Desmond Miles is captured by a unknown research group who claim 
 to need Desmond for his ancestors memories to find something. Of course it's not that simple. In 
 this game people also store not only their memories they have experience, but memories that their 
 ancestors have experienced as well. Then in these memories you play Altair. You are given 9 people 
 who need to be assassinated and you have to go carry out those assassinations.
  
  There is an easy structure to the game. You visit 3 major cities overall, which are split into 
 3 districts, each home to an assassination target. As you are given each name you visit each city 
 and their districts where you must do these things. Firstly you have to carry out an investigation 
 where you walk around the city carrying out missions such as pick pocketing eavesdropping and more. 
 Secondly you pay a visit to the assassin's bureau where you speak to a fellow assassin to let him 
 know you're ready to go kill the guy. You then go and assassinate your target and escape. There 
 are also some side missions to carry out as well. You can climb the taller buildings to visit some 
 viewpoints, which allow you to find missions on the ground more easily. You can also choose to 
 help the citizens, which are being harassed by the city guard. In return they tell their friends 
 and family and they all help you in different ways, such as the scholars who allow you to blend 
 in with them, and vigilantes, who block the city guard's way to try and help you escape from them. 
 There are also flags dotted about the cities, which you can collect as well but they appear to 
 have no point at all. My only guess as to the point of these flags is that they may unlock information, 
 which can be viewed on the laptops in the research facility but the flags aren't explained in the 
 game so it is just a guess.
  
  The gameplay is great fun and very easy to use. Each building has its own details, which in other 
 games you wouldn't necessarily be able to climb on but in this game you can. I mean if there is 
 a brick sticking out of a wall, you will be able to grab onto it rather than jump at it a just 
 fall to the ground like in every other game. The fighting is intense and allows you to dispatch 
 guards with ease, some may say too much ease. Probably the hardest thing to pull off is escaping 
 the guards. You have to run around the city trying to get the guards to lose their line of sight 
 with you so you can vanish into the crowds or a haystack or something, and considering there are 
 guards everywhere, even on the roofs, it can be pretty difficult sometimes. As you complete each 
 assassination you are given a new skill or weapon (and by the way there is no crossbow like in 
 some of the trailers) , which I find, overall, makes the game easier as you play through it rather 
 than harder.
  
  As far as graphics go, they are superb. As I said earlier each building has their own details and 
 the background scenery is brilliant. The characters clothes flow in the wind and you jump from 
 rooftop to rooftop and Altair's clothes and armour are really detailed although the detail doesn't 
 continue into the civilians. The sound is really clear and the voice acting is convincing to say 
 the least. The music changes in time to the goings on, whether you're in a fight or being chased 
 or just walking around minding your own business.
  
  Now I have to say it is very repetitive. After a couple of the assassinations you find yourself 
 carrying out the same old missions just only more difficult and in different areas, and for some 
 people this can get old and fast, and as far as the game goes once you complete all of the assassinations 
 that is it. No multiplayer, no bonus missions, just the main game where you just do the same thing 
 over and over. But in my opinion the main game is that fun I just don't care. The ending may be 
 confusing for some people and you find yourself asking 'ok so what does all this actually mean?', 
 which may be disappoint you, but where I come from this type of ending is known as a cliff-hanger. 
 You aren't actually supposed to know what it means until the sequels explain it. So for me a confusing 
 ending is not a problem.
  
  Overall an exciting intense action game which you may want to trade in after completing since the 
 repetitive missions may have already satisfied you enough to not want to replay the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  
  Assassin's Creed is fun a worthwhile your time! But it isn't a game without its faults. You are 
 Altair, a assassin in around about the early 12th century during the crusades. In he beginning 
 you make a botch up of a job (not like you have a choice) then you get stripped away all your ranks 
 and equipment. To redeem yourself you start killing Merchants, Doctors ect. from both sides. The 
 story is fairly interesting. But from the beginning you figure out who is bad and who's not. The 
 graphics, controls and sound is stunning. The really bad thing is really during the same tasks 
 over and over again. Until you eventually get a chance to assassinate your target, then same story. 
 The assassinations are interesting though. All in all this game would be great for your ps3! Yes 
 its short ,as a very confusing ending L and has a repetitive feeling but hey, everything else is 
 superb.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed for the Playstation 3
  
  Good- Amazing Graphics, Interesting gameplay, lots of things to explore!
  
  Bad- Screwed up 
 ending
  
  Gameplay 10/10- You play as an assassin named Altair and you go around killing people for your 
 so called cult that thinks killing off certain people will make the world a better place. So you 
 go around collecting facts about your enemy, easedropping, pick pocketing, killing people for information, 
 then going out and killing your objective. This is not the only part of the game, you travel wide 
 area's, climb huge towers, interact with everyone in the game, citizens react to whatever you do. 
 This huge world is unbelieveable and its just a masterpiece to play.
  
  Graphics 10/10- Like I said at the top you see alot of stuff and it just looks insane! It really 
 shows what it means to be on a system like the ps3 or the xbox360. 
  
  Sound 10/10- All the voices in this game are top notch and everyone is perfect, the music is sharp, 
 its just insane. 
  
  Storyline 7/10- The only part of the game that I can flaw it seems is the kinda weak storyline. 
 Lets rephrase that, its not weak its just confusing in many ways, manly the end. All the stuff 
 that goes on with altair is solid and good, but outside his world into the real world we still 
 have no idea what this all has to do with this organization besides one thing which I will not 
 say. 
  
  Extra's and Reply- 9/10 You can collect flags, and climb all the towers, do all the missions, there 
 not very fun however, but it does open extra area's for you to do if you really want the most out 
 of this game.
  
  Overall 93/100 for a 9.5/10 Only flaw is the storyline, besides that this game it beyond words. 
 Its a masterpiece you don't dare miss, and with a sequel coming theres no reason to not play this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Defiantly the best action/adventure game of the year. Crusades, assassin, crazy people, great story 
 and beautiful to look at.
  
  Gameplay  very easy to manage, very easy to get accustom to. Starting with everything, getting 
 it all stripped and the gaining it back help with the formula. Having the ability to improve you 
 skills stealthy help a lot. Full control of all camera angles. New comers to action games will 
 love this game. One would say its an easy game, but there's nothing wrong with that. It still ahs 
 it challenges and allows you to think a lil bit as well. 
  
  Story  no spoilers but you're an assassin who blew a mission now you have to earn your way back. 
 More and more into the game you learn things are not what they seem to be. In all it allows obviously 
 for a 2nd AC and the entire game won't disappoint in any way.
  
  Overall  this game is a must buy and for those with no budget to work on, rent and then buy later 
 for your collection. It's a game you will love in so many ways. Go play the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buthead21892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is easily one of my favorite games ever. The gameplay seems like neverending fun 
 and adventure. There is so much action in this game and the fights are so intense. Also when you 
 jump off buildings it actually makes it feel like you are falling and feels like you are in the 
 game. The storyline could be a little difficult to follow for some people. The graphics are just 
 outstanding and I don't know how it can get much better. People faces look real and the scenery 
 is just excellent. The only thing is that the blood looks a little unreal in fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  First off i really did enjoy this game. It looked amazing, the controls where great once you got 
 the hang of it. Also i thought the cities where very nice looking these suckers where pretty damn 
 big. I thought the story was not the best with the whole future tie end but i have to admit i really 
 want to know what the whole deal is with the next game. In the end the only gripe i have with this 
 game is sometimes it can feel very very redundant i don't even know how many times exactly i climbed 
 the same looking tower to scoop the place around me or saved the same exact villager. In the end 
 i would say rent this game it aint that long but if ya have the money ah go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrUmFrEaX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  With all the wait and the hype that was built for the game, I was looking forward for something 
 special. What I got was much much more.
  Assassin's Creed depicts what Next-Gen is all about. You are thrown into the dark ages of our history, 
 exploring the cities as it was, if not better.
  It is not your regular adventure game, but an amazing experience that you will remember for years 
 to come. All the aspects of a great game unfolds before you: a great hero, a mezmerizing world, 
 a captivating story and a top notch gameplay that makes every single move a true movie scene.
 
  The character "Altair" is one hell of a hero that you'll control with care and style. His movements 
 are fluid, his story is appealing, and you'll follow his path as if his cause was yours. 
  Once you're in the game, nothing can stop you, every view you'll have is breathtaking, truly an 
 "eye-candy" game. 
  Everything is there, the movement (running, climbing, pushing people, jumping) , the fights are 
 so fun to manage and you'll never do the same things twice.
  Apart from the usual things, there are the "specials" like when Altair climbs onto high buildings 
 and does the leap of faith, brilliant, and every time you'll do it, it's like the first time.
 
  You can go and finish the missions one after the other (knowing that even that is hard and takes 
 time) or you can always run through the city and explore everything.
  The fact that the whole story is about someone being thrown back into history and how it unfolded, 
 through the eyes of the Assassins, by a "teleportal" machine, is quite interesting, knowing that 
 there's also a story IN the present time. So you'll have like two stories in parallel that keep 
 you so captivated and stuck into accomplishing the story.
  To give some downsides, I'd say that you might sometimes get irritated by some missions when you 
 must stay "unseen" and you fail to do so over and over again. You might also get dizzy by playing 
 8 hours straight climbing all over the place, jumping around. You might want to take a break and 
 look around you, get back to reality.
  Assassin's Creed is an amazing treat that is worth the buy, and you'll play it again and again 
 and again, trust me. Great work from Ubisoft Montreal, looking forward for some other great games 
 as brilliant as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haughki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Some thoughts:
  
  -This "game" was very, very easy to play, and there was no way to increase the difficulty. Why 
 was there no way to increase the difficulty?
  
  -The only slightly difficult part of the "game" was the fighting, and that was only very slightly 
 not-easy. Everything else was as simple as could be, and extremely repetitive. In fact, I wonder 
 if this title can actually be called a game. It was much more like an interactive movie, where 
 you simply move the character from one place and plot to another. I didn't feel much like I was 
 "playing" anything; more just watching the "game" happen.
  
  -Of course, as a gamer, I felt annoyed, like I was "playing" a series of the easiest jumping puzzles 
 ever made, or like I was smashing crates over and over and over, except that there were no crates 
 and no smashing.
  
  -And still, I watched the gamovie through to the end. The plot wasn't great, nor was the writing, 
 no better than a very terrible movie, but still good enough to keep my  
 self watching.
  
  -I loved all the running around and being chased and climbing and jumping. That was a blast; even 
 though it was easy, it seemed like something I could at least get better at, as opposed to much 
 of the gamovie, during which I was a pushing thumb at best. 
  
  I could go on. It was a very pretty gamovie, but how this title could get 9.0 as a _game_ is beyond 
 me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAIDENKUN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Despite the immersive plot (both inside and outside of the Animus) , sprawling cities, and accurate 
 historical basis, somehow Assassins Creed fails to live up to my pre-launch expectations. I recall 
 watching the E3 preview with amazement, thinking that no company could make a game so perfect in 
 every way. Unfortunately, I was right.
  The game, while amusing for a time, quickly becomes boring by the beginning of memory strand 4 
 (roughly the middle of the game) . Even though the attention of the guards is increased with each 
 level, thus increasing the difficulty, each assassination feels like the previous one. After countless 
 hours of saving citizens, collecting information, climbing atop viewpoints, and being unable to 
 find EVERY flag and Templar, I am finally given the option to go watch an interactive cinematic, 
 stab a guy in the neck, and finally talk to him inside a computer. Not to mention that every fight 
 encountered when escaping the assassination seems identical. While the powerful counter-attack 
 is a novel idea, after the 800th time of punching a guy in the leg and hacking through his neck 
 you're begging for a bit of variety. It was then that I realized that my best bet would have been 
 a rental, rather than coughing up $59.99 plus tax for a weeks worth of repetitive play.
  However, in closing I give the game an 8.5 out of 10. Why you may ask? Well here it is
  Even 
 though I was bored out of my skull by the end of the game, my railing on it is not entirely justified. 
 As I mentioned before, the plot is enough to have you interested, to say the least (although for 
 what I heard dubbed as "the biggest plot twist in video game history" it was apparently big enough 
 to see coming a mile away, also I can't say I approve of the masterful cliff hanger that will have 
 me and a million other people scrambling to throw more of our hard-earned-cash at Ubisoft, hoping 
 for some closure to the plot) .
  I also commend Ubisoft on their work with the cities. There's nothing I love more than a good free-roam. 
 While there isn't much to do in the cities (that hasn't been done before) , they are still mammoth 
 in size, not an easy programming feat to accomplish.
  A third positive is the accurate history. Historical fiction is a tricky genre, and when it is 
 pulled off so well, it's hard to criticize. Although I don't recall seeing Saladin, they made a 
 good Richard, and the cities seem to hold their proper allegiances. Clearly one of the best elements 
 of the game.
  The final decision making factor in voting 8.5 is the concept itself. While boring it may be, nothing 
 screams Bad A like a medieval assassin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykojason
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is, in my opinion, in the top tier when it comes to using video games as a means 
 of story telling. Other great games are Final Fantasy, BioShock, Metal Gear Solid, and Resident 
 Evil. Assassin's Creed uses interactive cutscenes and has a storyline that goes deeper than what 
 you can see or hear out loud, and that's what makes it so great.
  
  Assassin's Creed as an action game is great; there are complaints that it becomes repetitive and 
 quickly devolves into buttonmashing, but I never had this problem. The combat is simple but fun. 
 It's based on timing your button presses with the attacks of your enemies. The kill and counterkill 
 animations are top notch too. If you experiment with different weapons you'll begin to find new 
 and interesting ways to kill off your attackers. 
  
  Assassin's Creed as a stealth game is interesting. It's different from previous stealth games like 
 Metal Gear and Splinter Cell because it emphasizes hiding right out in the open. Altair tries to 
 blend in with the rest of the townspeople by walking amongst monks or sitting down on benches like 
 he didn't just kill someone.
  
  Assassin's Creed also has some of the best in-game graphics I've ever seen. Probably the best thing 
 about the look of Assassin's creed is the artistic value. The work that went into detailing the 
 buildings, the people the landscapes, had to have been painfull. Not only that, but sometimes during 
 a kill sequence the camera comes to a low angle or maybe it swings around and the actual killing 
 blow is obstructed by a flower or a pillar of a nearby building, and you can't help but wonder 
 if that same sequence could be in a real movie. 
  
  I've also heard a lot of complaints about the ending, but remember that Assassin's Creed is meant 
 to be a trilogy and the ending seems very fitting and satisfying. Like I said, Assassin's Creed 
 is the best when it comes to storytelling and the mark of a good storyteller is that he leaves 
 his audience wanting more. If you do a little research on the bits of info that you're given in 
 the ending (or take the lazy way out, let someone else do the research and then read about it on 
 Wikipedia or some other gaming site: http://www. computerandvideogames. com/article. php? id=175552) 
 the ending becomes a whole new branch of the story. The team at Ubisoft Montreal were geniuses 
 in the way that they chose to work in artifacts whose origins and purposes are questionable. This 
 leaves room for the team to work in their own mythologies so that it suits their story. 
  
  The only problems with Assassin's Creed are minor skips in the framerate and sound when there are 
 lots of enemies around. Also, I understand that not too many people want to be perplexed and made 
 to think when they play a video game, they just want to pick up the game and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Let's first give it to Ubi-soft for pulling out one hell of a game. I really really enjoyed this 
 game, I don't listen to what other reviewers say how the game play repeats, but that didn't bother 
 me at all. I like the whole Free Roaming around the city and everything looks great on HD, I nearly 
 had my socks blown off my feet.
  
  Graphics: Probably one of the best on the PS3, I like it as much as Uncharted: Drakes Fortune.
 
  
  The sound in the game was very good, I like this game hands down. I had so much fun climbing, jumping, 
 and all the other things you could do in this game. If you like Splinter Cell, but more freedom 
 to do whatever you want. I highly suggest you pick up this game, don't listen to what others say 
 about this game.
  
  If you want a fun game to play, Assassin's Creed will indeed do the job right. Pick it up at you're 
 local Gamestore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's Creed, you are an assassin during the Third Crusade named Altair. Or rather, you 
 are reliving the memory of Altair which is being extracted from the DNA of one of his ancestor's, 
 Desmond Miles. Desmond is a bartender who has been abducted by a mysterious organisation who want 
 to use the memories of Altair to their own advantage.
  
  Apart from a few moments here and there where the story is being progressed, the game pretty much 
 entirely takes place in the memory of Altair. As you relive Altair's life, you will visit three 
 ancient cities in the Holy Land; Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem. Each city is presented very nicely. 
 They are always populated with people, maintaining the illusion that you are only one person in 
 a city of hundreds of thousands. Citizens will bump into, harass you and even beg you for money 
 as you wade through them trying to reach wherever you are going. Guards also patrol the cities. 
 They won't attack you for no reason, and luckily if you are about to enter a restricted area without 
 knowing it, they won't attack without warning. This is a relief as many games expect you to know 
 where out-of-bounds is, and punish you with no warning if you step into these areas.
  
  If you do need to enter these restricted areas, there is usually a solution. A large part of Assassin's 
 Creed is attempting to blend in with the crowd. For example, you can imitate a monk, or join a 
 group of scholar's who are given free reign through restricted areas. More scholars can be 'unlocked' 
 if you help citizens being unfairly targeted by guards. Sometimes other bonuses can be unlocked 
 such as vigilantes who will block guards' paths as they pursue you.
  
  If you need to get somewhere inaccessible from the ground you can always climb. Assassin's Creed 
 allows you to scale tall buildings, jump through merchant's stands and leap over walls. Basically, 
 if there appears to be a foothold on an object, you can climb it. This proves useful in losing 
 guards who are chasing you, giving you time to blend back into the crowd. Think of it as free-running 
 in an ancient city. 
  
  This free running works pretty well, although occasionally you will find Altair jumping the wrong 
 way, or getting stuck between two walls. You won't be permanently stuck, but it might be just enough 
 time for guards to catch up and hit you once or twice with their swords.
  
  Fortunately, if you struggle with the free-running, Assassin's Creed also allows you to stand your 
 ground and fight. The combat system is pretty good, and is much more engaging than simply button 
 mashing. You can block attacks pretty easily by holding R1, but later on you will need to be better 
 at counter attacking, dodging attacks, or breaking your enemies blocks etc. Luckily, this isn't 
 too hard to do with enough practice. The window of opportunity for counter attacking is fairly 
 narrow, and if you try to counter, but mess it up, you can expect to take damage. However, with 
 practice, you will get better at knowing when to counter. This often makes fighting guards more 
 enjoyable than running.
  
  Unfortunately, the fighting towards the end of the game suddenly becomes a lot more difficult. 
 What's more, it is at this late stage of the game, that the option of running is taken away. This 
 might not be so bad, if the learning curve had been a little more gradual, but unfortunately, the 
 combat goes from being challenging but forgiving to being downright frustrating in about half an 
 hour of gameplay. Enemies skills suddenly become better, and whereas previously you may have been 
 fighting a couple of poor guards and on or two good guards, you will now be fighting around 10 
 guards at a time who are all excellent. Fights at this stage become a bit more about luck. If a 
 guard breaks your defense, there is little you can do to stop taking damage. What's more, you can 
 perfectly counter 20 or so attacks and then make one mistake, and lose around a third of your health.
 
  
  As for the actual assassinations you will carry out during the majority of the game, they are all 
 uniquely different, but at the same time can be quite repetitive. Although the targets can be very 
 different, and the methods by which you remove them are different, the build up is nearly always 
 identical. Before you can assassinate them, you must do an investigation. This involves climbing 
 a tall building to find sub missions nearby, followed by doing the sub missions. Sometimes this 
 may just mean eavesdropping on unsuspecting citizens, pickpocketing, or beating the truth out of 
 somebody. This is engaging for the first couple of assassinations, but after a while, becomes a 
 bit old. At least once the investigation is complete, the assassination itself is usually fun. 
 You can just run at the target and attack, but it is obviously more rewarding to try and find a 
 stealthy approach and pounce on them when they least expect it. It's just a shame that for every 
 30 minutes of assassination, you must do an hour of repetitive investigations.
  
  A large part of Assassin's Creed is also it's story. What initially just seems like a bunch of 
 assassinations ultimately appears to be more than this. Altair suspects the victims are linked 
 somehow. Of course, being set during the Crusades, some mystery is also injected into the storyline. 
 The Knights Templar are in the game (you may remember them from novels such as the Da Vinci Code) , 
 and they ultimately become the main antagonists. It's like the Assassin's Vs the Templars. There 
 is a link between Altair's past and Desmond's present, but not much is done with this link, unfortunately. 
 The link is explored a bit more towards the end of the game, but ultimately the game ends somewhat 
 ambiguously in a way that just screams 'sequel'. This is a shame, since the story showed a lot 
 of potential, but it all ended up with a bit of an anti-climax.
  
  There are also flags dotted around the cities which you can collect, and each city has a number 
 of Templars which you can kill. There are 60 overall. Unfortunately, collecting all the flags or 
 killing all the Templars offers no reward, other than to be able to say you collected of killed 
 them all. Nothing is unlocked. This makes collecting flags seem a bit pointless.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is an imaginative idea that most gamers will enjoy playing and being 
 a part of. The cities are wonderfully presented, and it is endlessly fun to run across rooftops 
 just to climb the tallest tower. Just fighting guards for the sake of it can also be fun as well. 
 It's a shame that, at times, the main plot doesn't necessarily integrate these game mechanics successfully. 
 Nonetheless, ti is still entertaining, but you always feel it could just be slightly better. The 
 story is intriguing, and anybody interested in ancient religious history will like the fact that 
 most of the organisations and characters in the game are at least based on real counterparts from 
 the Crusade's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman03
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of those games you'll remember for years to come. The innovation in gameplay 
 and visuals overshadows the repetitive side missions required to pull off each assassination. 
 
  
  The open world environment is what really makes this game. The cities look amazing and "feel" amazing. 
 Citizens preaching against the crusade, drunks in the alleyways, and beggars in the poorer districts 
 of town give the world a next gen level of realism. The climbable buildings do not feel "preset" 
 or unnatural. 
  
  Using Altair's abilities is intuitive thanks to a great control system. Combat was done right along 
 with the given freedom to choose fight or flight. 
  
  The story was interesting however, I do agree with the "sixth sense" analogy used by IGN. I was 
 a little disappointed in how they decided to end the story, but I now understand the developers 
 were setting up for two sequels. 
  
  My 9.0 rating would have been a 9.5 or even a 10 if it wasn't for the repetitive aspects of the 
 game. Yes, many of the review sites were right... this game could have been even better than it 
 already is, but many of these reviews took things to an unnecessary level. If you own a next-gen 
 console this is a game that should be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Great game! Great Graphics! Great Moves! Great Story! certainly a must get game a great game for 
 Xbox 360 and Playstation 3!!! the set-up is great you could get more weapons and skills as you 
 play and the story amazing!!! you could go to great places like Jerusalem, Acre or your home town 
 Masyaf... things get suspicious as get on the story, game-play!!! oh! you are an assassin assassinating 
 people who creates disaster and mayhem, climb houses and buildings, blend and you your self have 
 a chance to be good or bad in a way... the A. I is great smart and challenging you have minor objectives 
 like climb view points or save citizens A GREAT GAME it makes history interesting, ending is really 
 confusing you must be a intelligent person to understand it... i like the controls great the physics 
 great!!! could keep you busy for weeks at least... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ichigo_Ban_Kai
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, i don't understand why everyone said they don't like it. If a game has great 
 Visuals, Great Art Design, great Story, and great game play, doe sent that make it a great game, the 
 detail in this game is fantastic, i can read and speak Arabic and its amazing when i am walking 
 in the streets and hear people shouting in Arabic and righting on the walls in Arabic which i found 
 to be versus taken from the Koran. And the gamely is an issue that people keep saying is bad, what 
 did u guys expect, Ninja Giaden game play, of course it is gonna be slow, but i have to admit it does 
 get repetitive but its still a fun game, and the story is really good, the ending is confusing but 
 thats why they are making a sequel, no one got mad at Lotr for ending the way it did, cuz it has 
 a sequel, bottom line is, go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaven_in_hell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is like a mixture of Prince of Persia (jumping, climbing and sword fight) , Splinter 
 Cell (stealth) , and Grand Theft Auto (open environment) . Having those three games together might 
 sound a good thing but unfortunately something went terribly wrong with AC. First let us look at 
 its story. When I first heard about the story of AC I was like "thats cool, you play as an assassin 
 and you must assassinate (obviously) prominent people during the crusade and there is actually 
 SOME historical accuracy in the story!". But when I got hold of the game and inserted it in my 
 PS3 and and started the game I was like "WTF is this!!!!!!!!!! Did I buy the right game?! Is the 
 BD busted?! Oh wait nothing's wrong it." Imagine watching a movie and at the beginning of the movie 
 you found out about the twist and the entire story was spoiled! Imagine playing Uncharted and at 
 the beginning of the game you came across of the unexpected twist in the plot. Ubisoft should have 
 made a different approach and made the first part the last part because its really annoying to 
 play the game whenever the scene of Altair's great great great great great grandson will appear. 
 AC story is just plain weird and not weird in a good way but weird in a terrible way simply because 
 of the mode of story telling. 
  Now let us look at its graphics.. yeah yeah yeah lots of people say that AC graphics are amazing 
 but I beg to disagree. I'm not saying the graphics is terrible, it just does not have the wow factor 
 that Uncharted and Ratchet and Clank gave me. I have to admit the first time Altair climbed a tall 
 building and looked at the environment I was a bit impress but when you do that 50 times (not sure 
 how many but believe me its MANY) and look at almost similar looking cities and environments you'll 
 then realize that there is nothing special to it. The textures of the houses and buildings are 
 good there are moments when stone houses and buildings actually looks real but then again when 
 you have similar looking buildings and houses with same colors everywhere your eyes will surely 
 grow tired looking at it. And of course AC is a glitch fest, you see Altair walk through people 
 during combats, you see his hands go inside thick walls and mountains and trees, and you'll see 
 his robe getting suck down by the floor. Those things are just wrong. AC graphics are pretty to 
 look at during the first 20mins of the game and then after that everything else looks generic and 
 the same, in short nothing special. 
  How about the most important aspect of every game: the gameplay. The gameplay of AC is easy to 
 explain you just, first you receive a mission from your master and that mission of course is to 
 kill somebody. Then you go to a city where your target is located. Find some information about 
 your target by eavesdropping, pickpocketing, killing someone, collecting flags and interrogation. 
 And once you have acquired enough information then go kill your target. Then return to your master 
 for another mission and do the same thing over and over and over and over again up until to the 
 very end. Though you have some additional things to do like to save the citizens from the guards 
 and you have to kill them using your arsenal of weapons: the hidden blade (used for stealth assassination) , 
 short blades, throwing knives and sword! Wow having 4 weapons is really fun! Yes I am being sarcastic! 
 They should have at least added bow and arrow, crossbow, or make Altair spit fire! Its a lot of 
 fun to see people burning! And I just have to mention how stupid the enemies are they are like 
 a bunch of retards! Their AI are so bad. I don't even know if they have AI. But off course there 
 some fun factor in this game, like killing innocent civilians, and stealth assassinating guards, 
 and when Altair do his killing move, horse riding is fun, and climbing tall buildings, jumping 
 from roof to roof, but then again after an hour or so you'll end up getting bored and might just 
 play go Sodoku or Snakeball. AC gameplay could have been great if only they did not make it ULTRA 
 REPETITIVE! 
  In summary Assassin's Creed is a great way to spend time if you have nothing else to do and I mean 
 nothing else because there are actually times where I prefer to watch Folding@home than play AC. 
 The fun factor of this game just got totally ripped off by being so repetitive. Its really a shame, 
 for this game actually have potential of being epic if only Ubisoft put the elements in its proper 
 place. But then I have to give credit to this game for being like a game that we have seen before 
 but still feel kinda bit different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ealamieln
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is made out to be this ungodly, groundbreaking game for the PS3 that will revolutionize 
 the platform. While having rather great visuals and some solid gameplay with a cajoling storyline, 
 this game absolutely does not deserve the hype.
  
  You do the same things over and over; find the flags, find the viewpoints, fistfight the street 
 preacher, pickpocket someone, and stealthily kill the crazy bad guy who is slightly better than 
 every other bad guy you face, like when you have to save the citizens. Then, using the quite worthless 
 information you are given and the assistance rendered to you by the civilians you saved, you go 
 and assassinate the target.
  
  This sounds a lot better than it is - the game is very glitchy, and suffered from a chronic freezing 
 issue. Altair's animations oftentimes cut through walls, people, anything. The over-hyped climbing 
 engine is terrible; you end up not ever wanting to go vertically, because all Altair does is LOOK 
 where you want him to go, rather than make that little effort to grab on to the ledge that is staring 
 him in the face.
  
  A particular annoyance are the "leaps of faith." They are not leaps of faith in any sense of the 
 phrase - you know that, every time, you will not be injured should you land on the hay, which is 
 visible most of the time. Altair clips right through the landing hay, and it barely responds to 
 him. Why is he even landing in hay in the first place?
  
  The game would have been good, but Ubisoft did not deliver at all. Next time you see an advert 
 for this game, remember: it looks better on TV than it does collecting dust on your game shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skye3000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty bad when you have to search forums to figure out what the heck the ending meant. 
 
  
  This game was okay. I've played better (God of War anyone?) . Graphically, this game was intense. 
 I loved the highly detailed textures and the fact that you could interact with everything. The 
 beggers and crazies got really annoying. I don't know how many times they screwed up my stealth 
 missions. Of course that was probably the whole point of them. The free running was fun when you 
 weren't being chased. It seemed very cumbersome at times to jump in the right direction. Also, 
 there were times that I started climbing when I didn't want to because you have to free run to 
 get away from gaurds. The battle system needs some help. The slow attacks made it difficult to 
 get really intense in the fights. I did like the stealth kills and the quick kills in fights. Towards 
 the end it seemed like my blocking stopped working.
  
  There were definately some great features in this game. Unfortunately they were shadowed by its 
 short storyline and repetitive game play. I feel really cheated that the game barely lasted me 
 a week and took less than 10 hours and cost $60.
  
  And one last thing. What is the deal with the flags? 100 flags in one area, 33 in another. There 
 must be 1000 flags in the whole game. And for what? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Sound: Awesome sound. From the AI speaking throughout the city as you leap and bound ("What is 
 he doing up there?") to the clinging of swords or rush of the wind. Excellent sound detail in this 
 game.
  
  Graphics: Awesome graphics... the problems with 720 and 1080 HD were a nuisance worth complaining 
 about but didn't entirely take away from the game. There was also a freezing issue for a lot of 
 gamers which is another detraction -- but other than that the presentation of graphics is amazing.
 
  
  Controls: Slick and easy to learn. This setup makes climbing / jumping / swinging / running like 
 second nature.
  
  Gameplay: Here's where things get tricky. There are 9 assassination attempts and they are ALL exactly 
 alike. After three or four assassinations you realize that you do the same thing everytime: eavesdrop/pickpocket 
 some info and then go find your target and kill him. After 3-4 it gets repetitive, but the storyline 
 is progressing at the very least.
  
  The last mission is where it gets really good and worth it, so being bored for 4 missions was somewhat 
 okay by me. There are plenty of side things to do while you're going through the motions (like 
 finding one of the bajillion flags or saving the citizens... finding viewpoints, etc...) but they 
 also get repetitive after awhile so don't abuse the privelege.
  
  All in all I'd say the gameplay is pretty good but it is severely plagued by repetitiveness... I 
 had to break my game time up and play it sparingly so that I wouldn't get fed up with doing the 
 same old thing over and over again.
  
  Storyline: Excellent storyline. It leaves a somewhat cliffhanger because it is a trilogy, but the 
 story is engaging and intricate. If you make sure to steal the scientist's password on memory block 
 4, you'll have 3 (instead of 1) computers to sift through for information regarding the sequel 
 / storyline. There's a lot of clues throughout these computers and makes it interesting at the 
 end for a little while.
  
  In conclusion I enjoyed the game, but got frustrated with it at several points. Hopefully Ubi makes 
 bank on its mistakes for AC2 and has a more refined product.
  
  I disagree with GS's high score but I also disagree with IGN's low score, so I'm somewhere in between 
 on this one. Rent it and see for yourself is my advice!
  
  In depth score: 82/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaphone27
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is worth every penny and I love the fact that you jump from roof to roof I really 
 liked that you hand throwing knifes but I wish you could have more what was really fun was the 
 hiddin blade for ovios reasons and it took to me a while to figure out that the blade was stealth. what 
 I hated was the ending I know it was for the next game but it sill need a better end. But other 
 than that I think it was a great game you really need to play it more than once to git every thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitch992
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said Nough said 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Those two words apply to a portion of the story and the game play. The main plot is crap and crap. 
 It turns out to have a sci-fi plot about some dudes using genes to look at memories of other dudes 
 to get information that is irrelevant but the memory giver is a hostage so he acts like a dink 
 (simple plot summary, don't want to give away any of the retarded twists) .
  
  Once inside the actual memory of the cool guy and the cool story, you get a real tasty treat. Many 
 complain that the game play is repetitive, but it actually isn't. You choose which way you want 
 to go and how you want to accomplish a task, using the game play your given. You make the game 
 as fun as your willing to make it. 
  
  I personally took great joy in the aspect of stealth assassinating folks, and then running around 
 the cities like spider man without webs was amazing.
  
  In fact, if there is something to compare this game to is the spider man games with the free roaming 
 cities. Except Assassins Creed has more detailed environments and actions with said environments. 
 You explore at will accepting missions as you please and beating up some baddies (or goodies, hehehe) 
 as you wish.
  
  The main assassinations are great, after completing 3 side quests to gather "intelligence" on your 
 prey you begin the trek into their domain where you proceed to either kill them, fight some guys 
 or start chasing them. The only problem is the cut scene after you stab them in the neck, they 
 talk for about 4-5 minutes each. After being stabbed in the neck I'd be silent, but this is the 
 crusades so obviously everyone is more powerful then we are.
  
  Using the hidden blade while snooping around on ground and the throwing knives while snooping around 
 on roofs is delightful. Then comes the sword combat.
  
  The sword combat is not bad, but I think it could use some tweaks here and there. At first you 
 don't have the counter attack (which is vital to use) so it sucks, but then with the counter attack 
 you can stab, slice and impale your way through one guard at a time. The counter attacks are very 
 cinematic and cool, its just pulling them off is an annoyance as well as the other moves available.
 
  
  There are these moments when your not even playing as Altaire, and it is just an excuse for nothing. 
 These gaps in game play are actually pointless. Its just the hostage constantly saying "tell me 
 something" and "why am I here" and they keep saying "...." nothing. They say nothing important 
 and leave you in the shadows and you feel like you literally are wasting your life.
  
  The sound effects and music are fantastic, but the voice acting is average if not below average. 
 They explain why everyone is speaking English, but it has to do with the terrible sci-fi portion 
 of the game.
  
  In the end this game is exceptional. It brings new game play and aspects as well as fun game play. 
 A lacking plot and mild blips in sword combat are not enough to turn gamers away, you must try 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Game-play
  Many have complained that the game-play is repetitive, but most games have some repetitiveness 
 to them don't they? The basic premise is that you need to explore three large cities that are very 
 well detailed to investigate your assassination target. These investigations take one of several 
 forms and you are required to do at least three before given the OK to take out the mark. The more 
 you do the more information you will have and the easier it will be. I did all investigations, 
 except on the third, I accidentally went back to the bureau, and talked to the guy inside early. 
 If you want to do all six, then don't go inside the bureau after investigation two. 
  
  There are nine men to assassinate, and the process of gathering information is the same for all, 
 but each is different in its own way. The settings are different, and the immediate surroundings 
 are different. Different towns, classes of people, ect. Again the overall concept is the same, 
 but the settings are different enough to keep you interested. 
  
  I read a lot of reviews before writing mine, and when I read about people saying that there is 
 a lack of a story here, it seemed to me that those people simply were not paying attention to the 
 game. There are subtle details all around, you will see them in the graphics, and they are also 
 in the story. The controls work really well and this open ended you pick the path style of a game 
 is something that all PS3ers should get.
  
  Graphics / Sound
  The graphics are really well done, as is the sound. The voice acting is top notch. There are a 
 few noticeable imperfections here and there, but otherwise they are excellent. I played in 720p.
 
  
  Controls
  As I mentioned earlier, the controls work very well, and the game's system of introducing you to 
 new elements is nicely done. There is a certain satisfaction to climbing in the huge cities and 
 especially the view points. Free running on rooftops is not difficult to do and is again fun. Combat 
 is well done as well, and when surrounded by five or six foes, you will feel comfortable in dealing 
 with them.
  
  Collecting
  There are a lot of Flags around for you to collect. But for us PS3ers they don't unlock any extra 
 content. They are bragging rights only. However I did find one very good use for them though. When 
 you collect a flag, by walking on it, it saves the game then and there! Now, for its use One type 
 of investigation is called an Informer. Later in the game these informers will have more challenging 
 tasks for you to accomplish, and the information that they provide is usually worth it. My suggestion 
 is to collect a flag right before going to see an Informer, that way if you fail the task, and 
 cause a lot of commotion by loosing your cover, just let those guards kill you. You will respawn 
 right at the spot where you collected that last flag. If you fail the Informer's task and kill 
 a lot of guards, you will have to wait a long time until things settle down to the point of being 
 able to attempt that task again. 
  
  Before the patch, this game locked up on me one time. My PS3 had not been turned off for weeks, 
 and it runs Folding@home every minute when not playing a game or MP3's. Was that a contributing 
 factor, I don't know. Since this AAA title had to have a patch I am giving it an 8.5, otherwise 
 I would give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MestreDiglet
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The reason I give this game a 9.0 it is mainly because of the wonderfull graphics, the views and 
 the fact that all buildings are able to do climbing on (something I had never experienced in any 
 game before) giving the player a sense of freedom and creating a bond between the player ao Altair 
 (the character we command) .
  At first the game is confusing, but once you start playing in the kingdoms it gets really interesting 
 and the plot is very well written and so you can get addicted very easily. Now the remotes are 
 really easy and really smoth, but in the fights you almost never die lacking so a little of authenticity.
 
  The main problem with Assassins Creed is that the mission you carry on are very similar and so 
 after a while it gets a little repetitive but you almost forget about that thanks to the secundary 
 objectives wich give the game a great environment.
  Finaly if you do buy the game dont be too sad with the ending because AC is ment to be a trilogy 
 so we will all have to wait for the next game to understand :)
  
  In the end Assassins Creed is a game you dont want to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eternal_Insane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  The game is fun, lots of things to do, running around, collecting flags, killing men on your hit 
 list such as the templars, scaling tall structures, and what I like most, diving onto the hay bails.
 
  
  The game is fun to play no doubt, the graphics and visuals are gorgeous, you can do alot in this 
 game that you couldnt before in last-gen, and as your doing these things it gives a new feel.
 
  
  Even if you've done enough investigations in town to kill your next target, there are still more 
 investigations to do, optional if you want to do them all.
  
  The game can get repetitive in key areas, the running around can feel tedious at times, and the 
 game seriously lacks humour, maybe not much humour is needed, but it needs some to a point. 
  
  The developers mainly concentrated on you, Altair, being an assassin, to take out targeted 
 men, with multiple weapons and kills you can pull off, and the fact that you can run around in 
 an open ended environment with gorgeous visuals. They needed to concentrate a bit more on the storyline, 
 and giving the player a feeling to want to go do more, and wonder what awaits in the future of 
 the game, instead of being so repetitive. And we all need a bit more than just going around and 
 collecting flags, if we need to collect so many flags, there better be a good reason as to why 
 we did it once we collect them all, not just to keep us busy from retiring the game soon. 
  
  The game is great to play, a new experience at first, but after awhile you'll feel you've came 
 short, and some things will feel missing. I got a feeling in the game that your goals seem dull, 
 we need a feeling that accomplishing goals will feel like we actually accomplished something. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: accharbs
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I was happy at first, until I got past the awesome graphics and ok kill moves. Then the fun stopped 
 and the same missions set twelve times over set in. I hated the fact that the game was so unoriginal, 
 the storyline lacked bigtime and the character models were all the same. On top of that you put 
 in 10 hours of the same thing for what? One of the worst to be continued endings I've ever seen. 
 Where was the masterful game of the yearish action and setting, where were the fantastic graphics? 
 I sure didn't see them. If you want, play it to the end but don't say I didn't warn you...
  
  I was happy at first, until I got past the awesome graphics and ok kill moves. Then the fun 
 stopped and the same missions set twelve times over set in. I hated the fact that the game was 
 so unoriginal, the storyline lacked bigtime and the character models were all the same. On top 
 of that you put in 10 hours of the same thing for what? One of the worst to be continued endings 
 I've ever seen. Where was the masterful game of the yearish action and setting, where were the 
 fantastic graphics? I sure didn't see them. If you want, play it to the end but don't say I didn't 
 warn you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okstate91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is one of the most exciting single player games made by ubisoft thus far, which 
 is no small feat. The storyline is like a good book, regardless of the other reviews people are 
 seeming to give it. Albeit not what was expected, it provides a good reason to keep playing when 
 the game becomes simple repetition which does happen after a while. But to get back on subject, 
 like many others have stated, the "twist" of the story is revealed depressingly fast. I don't want 
 to reveal any spoilers, but the game pretty much starts with the "twist". You go on from there 
 to get into the story that was expected. You are Althair, a thirteenth century assassin. The gameplay 
 is amazing, many features (including the Leap of Faith) show the ability of next-gen graphics to 
 make you go "wow". Something to be noted is that you can really play the game towards your liking. 
 I am a "run and gun" sort of person. So I get up on the rooftops and run around. However, if you 
 are intrigued by incognito you can walk among the civilians trying not to arouse suspicion. Don't 
 get me wrong though, throughout the course of the game, you will have to apply both methods of 
 play. These little quirks make the game worth playing, because beside the side missions, the main 
 storyline does become almost unbearably repetitive. You get an assignment, collect information 
 on the assignment, receive permission to kill the assignment, and then you follow through. But 
 a main reason to go through with these things are to continue the story, which it seems ubisoft 
 intended to be the driving force for the continuation of play. One statement, mission accomplished. 
 The aforementioned side missions provide a fun way to alleviate the feel of doing the same thing 
 over and over. They are like mini games, but about 10 times more hardcore. This is the kind of 
 game that you are going to want to finish in more than one sitting. Not that you couldn't do it, 
 It is just much more enjoyable if don't.
  All in all this is a good game to buy, but not if you are bored easily. It takes a commitment to 
 following through on the game. It is exciting and will remain that way if you are able to spread 
 it out. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkanWhite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Could of been game of the year, But it seems the makers have spent all there time on the graphics 
 instead on gameplay! 
  
  Assassins Creed lacks variety in its missions, saving a millions citizens, climbing to a gazillion 
 view points and a assassinating an Atrillion.. I mean hundreds of ugly targets does not make you 
 want to complete this beautiful looking game!
  
  Yes I said beautiful, Assassins Creed definatly has one of the best graphics of all the games for 
 these "generation" of consoles, but doesn' look as pretty when you may occasionaly fall through 
 the floor! As it as a few weird gliches which randomly happen.
  
  The flash-"forward" scenes to modern day, (more like the year 3000) , are useless an just add more 
 complex rubbish into the gamewhich is not needed, the story is good in itself but an ending which 
 could hang your mom off a cliff definatly spoils the effort you put into gettng there!!
  
  The "guards" haven't the wost AI ive seen in a game, but do have a tendency to frget what you look 
 like if they don't see you for 5 seconds if your in a random hay stack or chilling in the popular 
 curtained box!! However, they can remember you for hours if they dont see you but you dnt hide.. 
 =S
  
  If I could compare this with a game or two it would be...
  
  - A Metal Gear Solid base
  - A thick icing of Prince of Persia
  - A sprinkle of Gun
  - and 
 a nice juicy B. C version of Spiderman on top
  
  Overall you may wish to purchase ths as it's still a good game with alot of popularity but theres 
 lots of better games, and don't expect too much fun from this game, I dont want you to be let down! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the most hyped-up games of 2007 and in some cases this was justified. 
 However, there are a number of dissappointing aspects to the game.
  
  Firstly, the plot overall is very engaging and I couldn't wait to find out more. Unfortunately, 
 the only good part was the cinematic moments when out of the Animus (explained in-game) when Dr. Vidic 
 and his accomplice reveal what is going on. The missions which you can actually play set in 1191AD 
 are very repetitive and the voice acting is perculiar as Altair (the main character) has an American 
 accent when everyone else have middle-eastern ones! Next, the combat system is good but counter 
 attacks make it all to easy to win a fight. Finally, tthe amount of information given to you is 
 extremely small (a very annoying way to guarantee a sequel, especially when this one cost 40!) .
 
  
  The best points are an brilliantly recreated 12th centuary middle east, engaging story and a few 
 decent missions. The cliffhanger at the end is good but "the end" comes far too soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1775
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Its sort of like this after you done maybe 2 assassinations its fun but when you do the same thing 
 hence forth pick pocketing, eves dropping, interrogating, climbing up all those towers, collecting 
 flags with a time limit, killing soldiers stealthily with a time limit, saving civilians its all 
 the same thing. The Graphics were astounding sound was good and all the building placement was 
 very fluid so it actually looked like the Holy City and you if you never heard of the game it would 
 not be known if it was a platformer style, Fight system was good once I was able to get the ability 
 to use counter attacks otherwise it just felt like a hack and slash game. Annoying things include 
 the town drunks, and the beggars also the one glitch that freezes the game upon loading the area 
 not to mention the guards at the very end of the game always suspect you of being the assassin 
 unless your praying which personally I would suspect him too because what kind of a monk carries 
 weapons? Well none the less after the first go of things its a good game but once you seen it already 
 it gets kinda dry. 
  Not to mention their was alot of buildup they could've ended the game right there instead of making 
 2 more games to end the story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alx93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  amazing story, i hate the people who dislike the story, if it was just in 1191 t would be just 
 like every other adventure game, graphics are superb best for a game yet. missions are gr8 just 
 a little too repetitive controls are nice and smooth easy to pick up. an all round gr8 game. the 
 best game ive ever played, (even better than halo 3: P) :D not completed yet cant wait till end: D 
 there must be a sequel but it must be good they could make a rare good sequel, now that is rare, 
 a good sequel lol. Wow! amazing 
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsof2808
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Very Very Repetitive . . . However the Gameplay is outstanding all around. Think, Prince of Persia 
 meets Metal Gear. The Engine should not be changed, but the storyline leaves a tad to be desired 
 . . . All in all a great play all the way through. I had to stop playing for a while because all 
 of the missions were basically the same, just with different cities (which all look alike, and 
 amazing) , plus I got a bunch of new games as well. So if you have the time to play for a few days 
 and just want to beat the game, you could probably rent it and beat it. However, if you want to 
 complete the side mission, or what have you, buy the game. It is an excellent addition to any collection 
 as it will withstand the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaLiBeiRs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This game was definately worth the wait. Although the ending is a little awkward, especially if 
 they dont plan on making Creed 2. A few parts are kind of confusing but they do a good job explaining. 
 The graphics are also pretty amazing and the people in the streets are pretty impressive because 
 they all react differently to you. Also, if you dont like fighting in the beginning, just wait 
 for counter attack, you'll see. This game also has a nice assassination system. You'll need to 
 do a certain amount of investigating ( eavesdropping, interrogating, pickpocketing) before you can 
 strike major assassinations. They made exploring interesting with flags hidden in place all over 
 the game and some elite soldiers waiting for you to find and defeat them. All in all, this game 
 owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  First off Assassin's Creed is an amazing game everything right down to the climbing the skyscrapers 
 is awesome. Even though this game is amazing there are some bad things about it. First off the 
 main character Altheir (hope I spelled it right) is well it's not that he has bad voice acting, 
 but everyone else has superior voice acting so it's kind of hard not to notice how average Altheir's 
 voice acting is. And another bad thing about this game is that the ending is terrible; don't want 
 to spoil it but the ending is more of a climax then a true ending. I mean would it kill the developers 
 to add just 5 more mins to the story. But that still doesn't undermine the game. This game is amazing, 
 the controls are just so fluent and easy, yet hard at the same time; and the difficulty is just 
 right I mean I don't think I died once, yet at the same time I felt really challenged and it still 
 was a lengthy game.
  
  Graphics- This game looks amazing through and through definitely a 9.8. I mean just the curves 
 on the hoods and the characteristics on the characters faces. Amazing! 
  
  Gameplay- Normally I don't overrate, but this game's gameplay was just awesome it was so fluently 
 amazing, definitely a perfect 10.
  
  Sound- The sound was great to, when you drive your hidden blade through an archer your body just 
 chills definitely a 9.9.
  
  Value- Since this game has no downloadable content no online play or multiplayer it kind of lacks 
 on value but I still think that it's an amazing game and I'd give the value of the game a 9.5 because 
 you can still go back and play your missions and it will take you a long time. 
  
  Overall this is a great game that is a must own for any PS3 owner or 360 owner. This game gets 
 an overall score of 9.8.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vexer4000
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most visually stunning games made to date. The graphics are the 
 backbone of the game and the only aspect of the game truly that excels. Overall the game leaves 
 a feeling of disappointment. After experiencing the graphics and two to three missions, the game 
 goes down hill.
  
  The story is rather interesting and the controls are easy to pickup. Assassin's Creed environment 
 is quite remarkable as well. 
  
  However, the greatest drawback to the game is the missions. After the first assassination mission 
 you get the impression that the game is going to be a great ride. However, after the second or 
 third mission you wish there was more to the game. The missions are too repetitive and the game 
 doesn't offer much for side missions (collecting flags and saving citizens just seems out of place 
 for an assassin) .
  
  To top everything off the end of the game.???? I wont ruin it but the end of the game just doesn't 
 measure up. If you have some time I would rent the game first, because you could beat it in two 
 to three days.
  
  I gave the game a 7 (5 just for the graphics) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, I saw one of the trailers here on GS for it, and at first i was like, nah, im not going to 
 get it, looks too weird. 
  
  read some reviews on it and saw some of the gameplay vids, theni decided to get it just to see 
 what it was like.
  
  let me say, i am glad i did get it, this game pwns almost all of my other games.
  
  So on to 
 teh review.
  
  Overall: 9.8
  
  Graphics: 10
  No explination needed i think xD
  
  Sound: 8
  I thought there could have been a little more music in the game, it was mostly during 
 the boss assassinations/kingdom map and chase sequences that you could hear the music.
  
  Story: 9
  
  the story was solid. I liked that sci-fi twist that they gave it. I would have 
 like more time and objectives to do in the real world though, but the end of the game makes it 
 clear that Desmond is starting to gain his ancestor's abilities (eagle vision) so maybe if theres 
 a sequel we will see more out of Desmond.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  the controls were nearly perfect and i loved the depth of what you can do with it all.
  
  It 
 got to a point that I just sat on walls and waited for soldiers to walk by and used the assassination 
 blade on them.
  
  I also liked how the guards didnt notice that you did it right away, that is more realistic im 
 my opinion. 
  
  I mean if you walk by someone, kill them quickly and then keep walking with out too much movement, 
 most people arnt gonna notice too soon. this is mimicked very will in this game.
  
  some people bash it, but its a more realistic experience then the usual AI knows all bs that we 
 have to put up with.
  
  Climbing was difficult to grasp at first, as not everything is grabable and its easy to jump off 
 a building by mistake (killed myself that way more then the soldiers xD)
  
  Another aspect I liked was the different weapon choice for assassinating, instead of just always 
 using the Assassination blade you can use the throwing Knifes.
  
  I mostly stuck to the sword, but the daggers provide a quick way to kil off soldiers, drawback 
 is that they dont parry very well so you have to get the kill combos down good.
  
  
  One thing that did bug me was the few times the game froze on me during block 4. had to restart 
 my ps3 a few times because of it and even the smallest smudge on the disk causes it to throw out 
 a disk read error during the game.
  
  Over all 9.8 from me, awesome game, will be waiting for the sequel when/if it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakelegen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  i got assassins creed from my brother for christmas because i had been looking forward to it ever 
 since i heard of it. when i popped it in i was shocked by how great the game was. everthing felt 
 new and the graphics and free-runing were sublime. i was so intrigued that i litterally completed 
 the game in one day in 10 hours. 
  
  As the game got on i did begin to feel the repetitiveness of it but i just ignored it. i just looked 
 forward to assassinating the target and getting a new ability!
  
  just after i killed robert all of the characters had grown on me so much. the game right then at 
 that time was perfect -- but the perfectness didnt last for long ---
  
  the main boss was rediculous. i suspected something was up at around memory block 4 but the way 
 you had to kill the master was a joke. as i faught the last battle i was actually laughing... it 
 was hillarious -- fighting some tiny little old pakistani man who was dissapearing and laughing 
 haha! i killed the main boss with one counter stab with the hidden blade... so easy.....
  
  then to top it all off the game just ends!!!! leaving you with desmond (boo!) in a little room 
 after the plot had finished. i hated the ending sooo much.. but i guess it had to end like it did...
 
  
  i learned everything i could from all of the hidden messages in an attempt to make the game last 
 as long as i could. i just cant wait for the next game.. the end was such a let down.
  
  but i still give this game a perfect 10/10 because it deserves it.
  
  dont listen to the people 
 that bash the game!! it is great! buy it now!!!! if you dont you are missing out!
  
  -time to go off and get all the collectables-
  
  MERRY CHRISTMAS!
  
  chris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGNS_GRMR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  I think the assassins creed is a brilliant game, you can continue playing it, but it willl still 
 impress you. and so you have a wide range of weapons to take in use if you need it, for example; 
 throving knives, secret blades, swords, short blades and more. the cities are really really big, 
 so u must climb the highest spot to get a view over the city, and when u do, u get the details 
 on your map.... the visuals in the game are really good, you see people walk around in a really 
 natural way.. u can help civilians and then they will help you assassinate your target...
  
  the bad thing about the game is that you will have to do the same the whole entire game, and 
 you can't skip pass when you stand talking to someone, and they can talk in really long time, and 
 you are about to fell asleep.. XD 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: posterr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed allows gamers to explore a very graphical world created to please the aesthetic 
 senses. The game is beautiful to look at and the sound and gameplay is unrivaled. My only gripe 
 with the game is its repetitiveness. By this I mean that the series of objectives associated in 
 each of the villages/assassinations is the same for the most part. A pattern can be outlined basically 
 by objectives such as, "save the citizen", "find viewpoints", "pickpocket", etc... This creates 
 for a game with a lack of replay value.
  
  This being said, my suggestion is firm when i say just rent AC. You will fall in love with the 
 experience however, it will soon fade as its repetitive nature begins to form. 
  
  Overall, Assassins Creed is a great action-adventure in terms of creativity, sound, graphics, and 
 visual pleasure. Due to its repetitiveness, however, it loses some of its flare and deflates to 
 a weekly rental or early trade in.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefs190
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I heard this game was good, I actually seold my 360 to get the PS3 since I am loyal to my sony 
 brothers. I got the 80 GB and playes motorstorm which was alright for the first hour then I bought 
 Assassins Creed which absolutley blew my mind!!!!!! the graphics the gameplay and the controls 
 are just so perfect! The Voice acting is probably the best you will ever see in a PS3 Game!!!! 
 the only part that I would really look down upon is the game can get a little repetitive but its 
 very addicting and a very long story line so you will be happy for hours and hours!
  
  I really hope this has a sequel of some sort, the learning curve overall will probably be an hour 
 but the game has a good tutorial so its not too bad! 
  Between Oblivion and Assassins Creed these are a must buy for any PS3 Owners!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincedtm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  Assassin's Creed is a incredible action game. Sometimes it's a non-stop action game and later some 
 stealth missions. The controls are simple but solid. The only downpoint is the fact that the way 
 to escape from the guards or the way you must act to complete a mission is kinda redundant.
  
  -Graphics-
  The graphics of this game are simply breathtaking! It must be in the top of all 
 the greatest graphics for the PS3.
  
  -Sound-
  Pretty good! The voice acting is wonderful, the music and sounds of the game makes you feel like 
 you're in the towns.
  
  -Value-
  With about 40 hours of gameplay (for the first time playing the game and considering you've complete 
 everything to do in every town) it's pretty good. Some might think that the ending is not good, 
 but that's only an opinion. Sadly there's not some real replay value... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: checoasis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed: What to tell about this game? just simple, outstanding graphics, great atmosphere 
 and sound, and in my opinion this game have the best and ever created introduction !!! Very original 
 story makes this game unique, with all those places and history, create an amazing atmosphere.
 
  
  Game play is not complicated, but tutorials makes it easier. You will have to learn a lot of moves 
 and get a plenty of weapons.
  
  Sound & Music is just great, including speeches and sound effects
  
  Like the main review made 
 by Game spot, this is not a very difficult game, but is not easy neither, you will need to spend 
 a lot of hours if you would like to get memory full and not only the main missions.
  
  In my own opinion, this game will deserve even more than a 9.0, this game is just perfect!
  
 
  Kind Regards, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  In Assassins Creed you take on the role of an assassin named Altair, a reckless creed breaking 
 psychopath who will do anything to get the job done even if it means breaking tenants he has sworn 
 to uphold. Assassins Creed is set in the time of the third crusade and is fairly historically accurate 
 to a point.
  
  Lets talk graphics and Assassins Creed has some of the best with rich detailed environments and 
 living breathing world in a lot of senses for example there are beggars on the street and merchants 
 trying to push there goods on anyone passing by. the draw distance is something to be praised as 
 well, you can see for miles in fact standing on top of a large tower you can plan a route to jump 
 from rooftop to rooftop.
  
  The controls in Assassins Creed are mapped out to perfection and button combos are easily remembered 
 and utilized. overall the controll scheme is perfect for the climbing system and is pretty perfect.
 
  
  Enough praise though this game has some flaws and some minor details that irritated me personally 
 that i will share with you. Ok first up the lack of the ability to talk to NPCs was a bit irritating 
 for me (having been glued to Oblivion since march) infact the only interaction you have with most 
 NPCs is pushing them out of the way and occasionally pickpocketing or saving them but most NPCs 
 will just walk around with no specific interaction available. A major thing for me was the story, 
 i had no idea what was going on at the start and i still dont entirely know and i'm a fair way 
 into the game. another gripe was the whole sci-fi element i don't think it was entirely necessary 
 to do it like that and it might have even worked better if it wasnt sci-fi but maybe there is something 
 coming up that will change my views on this (like i said i'm only about a quarter through it after 
 purchasing it yesterday.) .
  
  This is definitely one of the stand out games of this gen and in my opinion the graphics alone 
 warrant a purchase but add in an ok story a detailed massive world and a fun and flawless climbing 
 system and its a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and you should get it. Well some reasons you should get it is because the 
 graphics and details are unlike any other before it. The fighting moves are cool and the storyline 
 is incredible. Also you can go anywhere in the memory block your in, its sort of like the freedom 
 of GTA. Well it begins with you waking up to two doctors who have you in this machine called the 
 Animus which lets you experience the life your ancestors had. You have to work with them or they 
 will kill you but they need the research they gather from your memories so I doubt they would have 
 killed him. Its not hard to move in the game and the controls aren't bleak or too easy like some 
 games but they aren't hard either.
  If there were anything bad about the game is the size of the writing its kind of small but overall 
 this game is hot and there is no real reason except being broke why you shouldn't get this game, 
 the writings small but you barely look at writing you mostly listen. GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuna991
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Every moment waiting for this game was almost painful. And now that it has come out and I managed 
 to get my hands on it, I must say that it was worth every single second of the wait.
  
  From the inovative controls to the gorgeous scenery around you, this game will be the most fun 
 you can have. Assassin's creed pretty much opens the world up to you and says "ok, here, you take 
 the wheel. Decide where to go, how to get there, how long you will take and what you will do first 
 when you get there." That sort of player friendly controls make the game all the better.
  
  The main story itself is a tad short but there's plenty of little side quests that will keep you 
 occupied for hours. And I would have never thought that climbing a top of a huge building to look 
 at the city below you would be that much fun.
  
  The combat is fast paced and fun without being overbearing and leaving you feeling like you're 
 completely outmatched.
  
  I'll admit, the game has its kinks. The slightly repetetive voice acting of the townspeople is 
 a minus, especially when hearing "thief, I'll have your hand for that!" for the 15th time in the 
 span of 20 minutes. Altair's voice itself is a bit too boring and dry. The game itself occasionally 
 glitches, but that may be because it's kept on for hours at a time in my case.
  
  All in all, an awesome, exciting game with gorgeous graphics and inovative controls and a kink 
 here and there., but in comparison, those can be overlooked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is exactly what we older guys wanted in Prince of Persia. The game is based around 
 the ways of an elite killer during the times of the Crusades. Altiar is easily one of the best 
 bad guys who you will control ever in the world of video games. His talents are chalk filled of 
 acrobatic and precise skills that always end with someone falling from one of Altiar's strikes. 
 
  
  First this game is a must buy, there isn't enough time to rent this one, play it, and then return 
 it. There is just to many missions and side missions that will force you to focus on at all times. 
 The learning curve is a bit steep. The controls are at best described as unorthadox. They are pretty 
 wierd at first, and if your like me, we all want familiar controls that are easy to learn within 
 the first 5 minutes of the game. Not Assassin's Creed. I've been playing for more than 6 or 7 hours 
 now, and I'm still trying to perfect my combo skills. This game is not a button masher. At first 
 I thought maybe I could complete the first few missions by just pressing anything, but I quickly 
 found out that I was wrong. The Left analog stick is movement, the Right analog stick controls 
 camera view, while the Triangle button controls head, the Square controls weapon hand, the Circle 
 button controls free hand, and the X button controls feet. There is also High and Low profile buttons 
 (L1 and R1) that distingush what kind of action you want to do. For instance if you want to make 
 a statment kill that is very public and loud then you use a High Profile manuever, while the opposite 
 can be said about the Low Profile action that will be a stealthy and very subtle kill. The amount 
 of detail that Ubisoft put into just that type of action you can perform are absolutely excellent. 
 But, like I said, the learning curve of what buttons to use and when and what type of Profile to 
 use and when takes some serious time getting use to. 
  
  Next, Altiar's movement and gameplay is absolutely flawless. He makes roof to roof top jumps seemless 
 and climbs walls without any major effort at all. Making the main character's movements this easy 
 makes for a very finished game that is supremely easy on the eyes while making the button combination 
 the real focus of the game. Killing your mark is the key to the game, while the movement across 
 the city is secondary. Which was a great idea, because there is so much going on at once, you don't 
 need to worry about timing while leaping for building to building. 
  
  With all that being said, the AI is extremely intellegent and fearless. They will pursue you across 
 buildings so running up a wall and jumping to another roof top won't get you away. You must jump 
 several walls and several roof tops while also trying to find a suitable place to hide that is 
 out of site. Which makes for intense and long chase sequences that are very heart pounding and 
 fast. 
  
  Another terrific but sometimes frustrating part of the game is the battles you frequently will 
 encounter with guards and soldiers. During the game there are times when you will have to turn 
 and fight your pursuing enemy's, and when you do button mashing will only get you killed and killed 
 fast. Like I said earlier, the learning curve for what each button does will take time, so I recommend 
 that you fight as often as you can early on in the story when the difficulty is more forgiving 
 before you get to far without learning the proper technique. The "Counter" fighting system is an 
 excellent tool that will come in handy when faced with multiple foes. Also when you do kill an 
 enemy with a "Counter" move you will be previed to a pretty cool and gruesome kill scene that once 
 again is all done flawlessly. 
  
  I'm not going to spoil the stealth kills that you will unleash against priority targets, but let's 
 just say following a guy around and then strking when the time is right really feels oh so good, 
 and Ubisoft does it so damn well that you can't wait till the next mark. One thing I will say is 
 this, the more side missions and investigations that you do on a specific target the better chance 
 you'll get to smell his breath when you slide the blade in. 
  
  This is an extremely fun game, with a great story that will immerse you very quickly. Buy this 
 game, and don't look back, there is also another plot twist and I won't spoil what it is and who 
 Altiar is and how he's being played, but you will love how well Ubisoft has put together a very 
 detaied and well thought out story line that will leave you hanging on every line. This is truely 
 one of the most innovating games to come out in a really long time and it deserves nothing less 
 than a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Ubisofts latest game, Assassins creed, is a historical game set in the time of the Holy Crusade 
 in the Holy Land. You play as an assassin named Altair (which is arabic for eagle) who is given 
 a task to take down nine important men. This task with have traveling between 3 cities, Jerusalum, Damascus 
 and Acre all of which were real cities. There a lot of twists in the game and the ending leaves 
 a blatant possisbility of a sequel. 
  The gameplay in the game is fun and the controls are easier than they sound. The fighting is realistic 
 allowing you to counter and dodge as well as attack and grab. The controls allow you to jump effortlessly 
 from rooftop to rooftop. The missions in the game could be more nteresting and varied aas in each 
 city you'll find yourself doing the same thing over and over again. There are no side missions 
 either so you'll be stuck doing just the story mission. There are side objectives like saving innocent 
 citizens from cruel soldier or collecting view points to know your surrounding off of which you 
 get to do a huge jump.
  There are many characters in the game all of which have complex personalities and superb voice-acting. 
 The citizens and guards also act differently and as you spend more time in each city and do more 
 thing they start to recognize you. 
  The graphics in the game are perfect and the lanscapes are huge. In cities, if you can see it you 
 can go tthere.
  Overall, Assassins creed is a great game with minor problems that can be easily ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliDiamond
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  When Assassin's Creed came out, I had some fears going into it. Unfortunately, what I had heard 
 was mostly true, but that does not make Assassin's Creed a bad game. It just isn't a game that 
 I would ever play again.
  
  Graphics:
  Very bland, but detailed environments. The buildings are the most impressive thing about the graphics. 
 It looks like every brick was hand-crafted. The people, however, are very unrealistic looking.
 
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Sound: There is great voice acting from every single actor, except for the main character. It's 
 not that he's bad. It's that everyone else is phenomenal. The score is also very well done.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  Story: A very B movie story. I will not spoil the twist at the beginning, 
 but it works with the game. The story also blends in very well. 
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Gameplay: The control scheme is excellent, even though the combat can take some getting used to. 
 However, the missions are extremely repetitive, but they have been very well crafted. The AI also 
 is some of the worst AI this year.
  
  Score: 7/10.
  
  Longevity: Rent this game, it'll last you a week.
  
  Score: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IE_Tho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Assassin's Creed put together a really great game. The game has some of the best 
 graphics I've encountered. The models, animation, shadows, and environment all look frighteningly 
 real. Even the games combat system was implemented very well and it works out great. So where did 
 this game go wrong?
  
  Well first off, the content of this game is missing. While starting, the game shows the few tasks 
 that you will encounter throughout the rest of the game. At first this is very fun, but it quickly 
 grows tedious, and by the end of the game, these tasks become old and boring, making it hard to 
 even want to complete them. The only change of pace throughout the game once it is set in motion, 
 are the unique assassinations that each of the tedious tasks lead up to. While generally these 
 times in the game are quite fun, they are short-lived and most of them hardly differ from assassination 
 to assassination. Even the average guard fights become boring after awhile. The combat system has 
 a great system of timing counter attacks to deal death blows to your enemies, unfortunately this 
 is by far the most efficient method of killing guards and it will be the only thing you do in huge 
 guard fights, which doesn't involve much interactivity.
  
  The story of this game is also sort of a let down. I think it was fairly innovative with the two 
 aspects of play, but like everyone else, I feel this ended too quickly. The DNA recordings story 
 was far too predictable, and the present day story was ended too abruptly. Now I went into this 
 knowing it was a trilogy, so I kind of expected some type of leading into the sequel, but what 
 the developers did was very upsetting. I feel that Ubisoft ended the game with no real resolution 
 with the intentions of boosting the sales of the next installment of the trilogy. I really wouldn't 
 put this past them as there were abnormally massive amounts of advertisements on television, the 
 internet, and magazines, trying desperately to promote the hype of this game.
  
  Now really, I can't complain. This really is a great game that I would recommend to anyone that 
 owns a next gen console. I just feel that it's unfortunate that the game ends so quickly and the 
 only thing I continue to find interesting in it is jumping from rooftop to rooftop flawlessly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First popping the game in, it was beautiful looking, and the intro movie had me hook, line, and 
 sinker... that is.. until I actually played the game.
  
  Looks aren't everything, and this game takes it to a new level. The story is a little convoluted, 
 albeit very original. The idea that our genes have deep-seeded memories of ancestors is a very 
 interesting concept. However, I gotta start faulting the game and here's why:
  
  Repetition, repetition, repitition. Every memory chain has a set of extra objectives as well as 
 the main ones. Except all the extra objectives ARE THE SAME THING. Climb a tower, take in surroundings, 
 save a citizen, rinse and repeat. This is where the game truly started to lose my interest.
  
  Battle controls are very basic, and kinda clunky. Parry, strike, attack one guy, get hammered 
 by six others. Didn't like it at all. Assassinations were very anti-climatic. Granted, assassinations 
 are supposed to be quick and quiet, not drawn-out and epic, the formula just didn't seem to fit 
 right. Chasing after a guy only to hop on him, stab him, and hold him in my hands as he talked 
 for 5 minutes, just didn't fit into what an exciting game is supposed to be. Great video game foundations 
 are built on loud and epic. The quick, quiet, "last words" deal is best left to the movies.
  
  I will however, praise the physics and environment of the game. Blending in and escape were 
 very well done. Climbing nearly everywhere and collision detection was top notch. Voice acting 
 was superb and well written, but it just wasn't enough for me to stay interested in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusducks6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is the first game on the PS3 I have played and if you get any new systems and 
 haven't played a next gen. game you should play this one. This shows you the graphics and some 
 of the things your new system can do. The missions you play back in the three old towns plus a 
 couple others you encouter at the beggining and end. The missions are the same throughout the targets 
 are a lot alike but very fun. The second player you "play" is fun only because it takes the story 
 farther. Now the story the whole way out it is very intriguing then at the very last minute it 
 sends a huge F*** you to everyone that wasted a whole weekend on the game. The ending really droped 
 the game from amazing to just great. I would still recomend it to anyone. The controls are great 
 and taking people out (such as Archers and the targets) are really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed really had me going since its premier at E3 '07. AC truly stands from the rest 
 of video games. It really is revolutionary, which is what I look for in a game.
  
  Graphics (8.5/10) : 
  The cities of the Middle East during the 12th century are BEAUTIFULLY re-rendered. 
 Not only that, but everything is explorable. The textures are also pretty good looking. The only 
 downer are the character expressions. They either ALL look angry or totally expressionless. Other 
 than that, the graphics are pretty good.
  
  Sound (9/10) :
  The sounds are pretty good in AC. There was only one flaw I could find. Everyone, except Altair, 
 Doc, Altair's lineage, and the Doc's assistant, all sound the same. You're probably saying to yourself 
 so what? That's all of the main characters, I don't care about any of the other characters. But 
 trust me, you do enough interaction with other people that it gets pretty damn annoying. But overall, 
 the sound is pretty much flawless. 
  
  Game play / Storyline (9/10) :
  AC is what makes a next-gen game... well... next-gen. With elements of Action, Adventure, Stealth, 
 Platforming, RPG, and even a little bit of Shooter, it pretty much blends these together seamlessly 
 and is amazingly able to pull these off smoothly. Of course, every game has it quirks. Running 
 through a city or galloping on your horse is aparantally unacceptable social behavior, and that 
 will have the guards on your tail as fast as you can say WTF. So it takes extra time to go through 
 a city. Another small downer is weapon choice. You only get five (I'm including the throwing knives) . 
 You can't pick up enemy weapons, which I wish you could, but the arsenal you are given is enough 
 to assassinate even the toughest of criminals. The framerate lags slightly when there are a lot 
 of people on screen, but it's not very noticeable. Possibly the biggest con is repetition. Travel 
 to some far off distant land, investigate, kill, run. Travel, investigate, kill, run. There's nothing 
 that really keeps it fresh and unique. You do the same stuff throughout the whole game. Finally, 
 leaping from building to building eventually causes you to take a nosedive right into the dirt, 
 which is pretty annoying. But AC is only about little quirks. The good definitely outweigh the 
 bad. By a lot. The action will keep you going for HOURS. The combat is pretty easy to pick up on. 
 Doing investigations are fun and really give you that feel of being an assassin. As for the storyline, 
 the game would of been GREAT without the whole futuristic side to it. But then again, Ubisoft needed 
 some element in the game to lead up to a trilogy, which they plan on making. Oh, btw, the ending 
 is really lame. But other than that, the whole past part of the game is really immersive and has 
 a great story.
  
  Lastability (8/10) : With no multiplayer, Assassin's Creed pretty much hits your dust collection 
 drawer in a matter of a month or two. Once you beat the game, you can always go back into a previous 
 chapter and collect the flags and stuff, but you can't really do anything else. Now if only you 
 could kill whoever you please, that would make it better.
  
  Final Comment: Assassin's Creed does a pretty good job at combining some of the most popular genres 
 out there. The game would of been really good if it weren't for the whole futuristic part of the 
 game. Gameplay is really fun and immersive, but does have some quirks. Overall, Assassin's Creed 
 should be picked up by any gamer as it will satisfy anyone. An 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcktlnt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Story - You play Desmond Miles who comes from a family line of assassins. As a captive using a 
 machine to access past memories embedded in DNA, he assumes the role of Altair during the Third 
 Crusade in the year 1191. The goal is to assassinate nine historical figures each giving up a piece 
 of the puzzle when slain.
  
  Gameplay - Fun at the beginning, but becomes somewhat repetitious throughout the life of the game. 
 I believe the main story is 15 hours long, but I have put in over 30 hours and I am barely on the 
 fifth assassination (9 total or so) . The controls for the free running is very smooth, very fluid. 
 It is easy to pickup after going through the tutorial and playing for a few minutes. Swordplay 
 maybe unnecessary, I found myself shoving guards on to the floor and killing them with the stealth 
 blade or into market stands to be crushed by debris. NPC AI is very lacking in fights but fun to 
 run away from.
  
  Graphics - Playing on a standard television set and the graphics are very detailed and beautiful. 
 Cannot wait to see what it looks like on a HDTV. There are occasional clippings.
  
  Sound - With speakers that are attached to the television, the sound is very crisp. Can't really 
 give an opinion.
  
  Replay/Lasting Value: Depends, for those that would like to find those flags and Templars, the 
 game could last a while.
  
  Summary/Misc:
  Pros:
  - Great Story
  - Beautiful graphics
  - Smooth controls
  - Flag/Templar hunting for those completionists
 
  - Very fluid and forgiving free running
  - Crisp sound and music
  
  Cons:
  - Occasional freezing (Patch is coming)
  - Lacking AI during fights
  - Repetitive after awhile
 
  - Skilled acrobat/athlete/assassin and your character cannot swim...
  - Blending does not seem realistic. You have unconcealed weapons and are hiding among scholars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow. The hype for this game is more than justified. Assassin's Creed is the definition of a next-gen 
 game, and rightly so. It shouldn't even be looked upon as a video game. It should be classified 
 as a whole new reality, a whole new world, a whole new entity. In my reviews, I've never given 
 out a ten, but AC is an exception. Let's start the review!
  
  All the adjectives and superlatives in the world cannot describe how good the graphics are in AC. 
 Each of the five areas you explore (Masyaf, Kingdom, Damascus, Acre and Jerusalum) are amazingly 
 and brilliantly detailed. The rich architecture is thoroughly exploited in each of the cities, 
 thanks to the awesome power of next-gen consoles. The draw distance is incredible, and basically 
 limitless. Whilst on top of the highest tower in Damascus, I could see everything for miles and 
 miles. Spectacular. Except for PC juggernauts such as Crysis, Assassin's Cred officially has the 
 best graphics ever seen in a video game. Oops, I meant the best graphics ever seen in a "whole 
 new reality".
  
  The story goes a little like this. In the near-future, two scientists from an unknown laboratory 
 has kidnapped a bartender named Desmond. They believe he has links to an ancient brotherhood of 
 assassins which were active in the Crusades. They lock him into the Animus, a machine which has 
 the power to view the memories of Desmond's ancestor. The player then takes control of Altiar, 
 that very ancestor. As Altiar, you are to assassinate three targets and each of the three cities, 
 nine targets altogether. The story is amazing, and is excrutiatingly engaging and intriguing.
 
  
  How the gameplay works is nothing short of phenomonal. Altiar by default is in "low profile" mode, 
 and walks around the bustling streets and markets filled with citizens, merchants, town criers, 
 and of course, guards. This low profile is socially acceptable, but as soon as Altiar enters "high 
 profile" mode, everything becomes risky. He'll start to run, knocking people over and drawing attention 
 from the guards. If you start sprinting, the guards will begin to chase you. You can do two things 
 now: fight them or flee them.
  
  Combat in the game is simple yet deep. You can block, dodge and slash your way through the enemies 
 with your sword, peg throwing knives from far away, or if you're undedected, you can walk up behind 
 someone and one-hit kill them with your handy hidden blade. Counter-attacks are satisfying, and 
 ridding the area of guards is something to be proud of.
  
  The other option: flee them; is a little more smart. Here, Altiar can enter the effortlessly fabulous 
 "free-running" mode. Altiar can and will grab onto EVERY nook and cranny whilst scaling the cities 
 building, and he can jump over any gaps and chasms whilst on the rooftops. This mode is consistantly 
 enjoyable, and never gets old. Pure fun.
  
  The score is fantastic, with ethnic instruments and a full orchestra. Replay value is great, with 
 View Points and Save Citizen missions to complete and flags, crosses and other collectables to... 
 ummm... collect!
  
  Altogether, Assassin's Creed is a gaming landmark. Beautifully realised, amazingly detailed, wonderfully 
 constructed and everything else you could possibly want in an action game is here. Buy this whole 
 new world right now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beinem
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Right, Assassin's Creed is a fantastic game. It offers what we wanted. Excellent graphics, cool 
 and easy gameplay, good storyline and great voice acting. It's a very unique game, but does it 
 really keep you playing for a long time?
  
  This is one of the games that you will LOVE when you first get, i mean it's one of the most fantastic 
 games ever. But after a week or two, everything will start repeating itself again and again. Once 
 you learn the main things, there is nothing new to learn. The whole game is basically "all mission 
 similar" if you know what i mean. So the first assassination is exactly the same as the last assassination 
 except the first is of course alot easier than the last.
  
  So, to sum this up, Assassin's Creed is a good game for 2 weeks, then gets too repetitive.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is one of the most hyped games of the year. Fortunately it does live up to the 
 hype for the most part. The game promised to be a free-roaming game that let you chose how and 
 when to kill your targets. The game does do a decent job but for the most part you will have to 
 fight your way through a horde of guards and then kill the person. For a game that talks a lot 
 about how stealthy it tries to be you really wish that there was more to it than just battling 
 your way through. The side missions that you undertake to gather information are good and fun but 
 after awhile they become mindless and tedious, a great variety in these missions is something that 
 the developers should put in the second. The game's combat system is easy to use and is fun to 
 use there is a lot of enjoyment to be had just hack the living crap out of some poor soldier, and 
 this is where the game truly shines. Likewise the climb system is streamlined, and effective but 
 is not on auto-pilot but it gives a lot of extra playablility to a game that is chalk full of extras 
 like trying to find all the flags and Templars. Unfortunatly the game is rather glitchy there will 
 be time that the missions don't load and you will be stuck at the blue screen forcing you to restart 
 your console also there are times when Altair becomes stuck and you can move but nothing happens, 
 these are very frustrating and are a mark on a very solid game and for a game that was this hyped 
 and this many resources where put to it this just shouldn't be happening. In conclusion, Assassin's 
 Creed got the basic formula right the game 98% of the time is an enjoyable ride that you will like, 
 but the lack of variety in the missions, the terrible ending, lack of replay because once you beat 
 it there is a lot more that you can do diffrently, it claims to let you chose but a lot of the 
 time there is only one way to go about it, and the technical glitches stop it from becoming a truly 
 fantastic game, it is a solid first effort and is definelty a game that people should pick up and 
 play and own but it could have been even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlesix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is the only game that i have played on the PS3 so far. Turned it on and thought all my christmas 
 had come in one. Graphics and gamplay was awesome. I Have never seen a chararcted free roam with 
 ease as much as this before. Swan diving off cliffs really had my heart going and really had to 
 stand back and think-hey this is just a game im not really falling. 
  
  Initial storyline was slightly confusing, the long cut-scene's didnt help as i wanted to jump straight 
 into the action. Load screens where you can still move the character was clever as it stopped a 
 little of the boredom that you usually get on a load screen.
  
  Halfway thorugh the game realised that all stroylines were the same and getting predictable to 
 say the least. Starting to get really cheesed off with the long cut-scenes and iniability to skip 
 even though my lovely white horse was keeping me occupied.
  
  Near the end of the game got to a tricky part where i started to swear, which is usually good sign 
 that im right inot the action. This didnt last! End boss was pathetic and considering im not that 
 much of a gamer thats saying something!!
  
  Worth a rent or borrow, not sure if you'll wnat to pay full price though, wait til the sales :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Ah, the good ol Medieval times. Remember the times when you would be climbing walls, jumping down 
 on the innocent populous and killing authority figures? no? well, when you play this you might. 
 
  Assassins Creed has been in a huge hype ever since it's release, when i first got my hands on it, 
 boy did i have expectations. But the begining of the game, was definitly not a great start, showing 
 the player that it's basically set in the future would definitly piss off a bunch of people. But 
 as the game progresses you learn to forgive this small bump in the road and start to even appreciate 
 it for expanding the storyline. 
  Gameplay wise, its original, sleek controls and some good action packed fights and chases. Sometimes, 
 the controls may feel a bit weird, but its ok, they soon make things better for you once you've 
 learned how to use them properly. Everything from sword fighting and wall climbing has been put 
 down to a simple one button press. This may seem too simple for such a HUGE game, but its actually 
 pretty challenging. Having to find the right timing to create a kill combo and having to find the 
 correct distance from building to building is one of the things the game keeps throwing at you.
 
  however, it can sometimes get TOO easy. but its, yet again, forgiving.
  The world you explore is insanely massive, the cities you visit are huge and every single building 
 you see, you can get to, none of it is backdrop or there for decoration. Each city however, is 
 split up into 3 parts and you have to unlock them as you prgress through the story. 
  Collectables range from numbers of flags to view points (needed to uncover the map) . Most of these 
 are hard to find.
  Replay value isn't so great. Once you've beaten the game you can choose any memory block you want 
 to revisit. But, lets say you completed a couple of mission and the game checkpoints. You exit 
 the game for a bit and return. You don't return to the area you left off, instead you start all 
 the way in the begining, unable to skip cut scenes. This would be forgiving if you could skip the 
 cutscenes, too bad you cant.
  Now, lets talk about Animation. The game is smooth, the characters move like actual people, making 
 you feel like you're actually controlling a little man in your're TV screen. This game is a great 
 game for those who want adventure and story, Action and Beauty. Overall, Its a Flawed diamond that 
 needs a bit of polishing to become perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Meter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game has brought something original to the table and delivered amazing gameplay, visuals, 
 voicing, and everything a gamer could want. The worlds are huge and you could play for days just 
 walking around. It is extremely fun and a must buy for anyone who has a 360 or ps3. You could just 
 walk around and watch what goes on, climb anything, walk walls, hang off of things, kill anyone, 
 blend with anything, jump in haystacks. This game also has an amazing storyline as well. Everything 
 plays together and it's fun for anyone. It is easy to learn as well. The graphics are beast too! 
 This is truly a next gen game. It's like a ninja version of grand theft auto except more complex 
 and fun. This game is straight up 2nd best game of the year. The only reason it wasn't first is 
 because bioshock. I hope there is a sequal! There is nothing bad you can about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Every now and then a story comes along and tries to open up the minds of some laymen humans stuck 
 in limbo between fettered idealism and unfettered free roaming suggestion. Anyone familiar with 
 something like The Matrix and Philosophical thinking will find a home with Assassins Creed. 
  
  This game is soaked in symbolism and historical reference. It is a backdrop to what is going 
 on in the world today. Just the main character alone is loaded with symbolism, while the rest of 
 the game has more than enough to go around. For example: Altair means "The Flying One" in Arabic. 
 His hood at the top is shaped like an eagles beak. In the real world Altair is a star that is linked 
 to the constellation named Aquila. Aquila is shaped like and eagle and Altair is the eye of this 
 eagle. Altair happens to be the brightest star in that constellation; if you have played the game, 
 you would have learned that Altair happens to be the brightest pupil under his so called master. 
 The name Altair fits him so well, especially with your ability to roam the city rooftops and scale 
 any building in site. 
  
  Assassins Creed is more than meets the eye (Altair) . No one should look at it from just the gameplay 
 side of things, there is so much more to it. It is the reason why I believe this game is so brilliant. 
 In days and times where so many games contain stories with no real purpose or meaning, Assassins 
 Creed delivers on its own level. 
  
  With Assassins Creed comes freedom, which is exactly what the story is trying to tell us. What 
 is our ticket to freedom, and what path shall we take to achieve success? Are you willing to fight 
 for that freedom, or let madmen take you by your soul, rid you of your security and human rights? 
 Do you fight or run as a coward? Do you listen to your leaders, or question their methods? 
  
  There is so much to see in the game: detailed environments, stunning visual textures and city 
 populations that have a life of their own. The action is just right and gives you yet again more 
 freedom to fight as you wish. You can take out your targets in the order you please given the situation. 
 The controls handle very nicely, so showing of your killing skills makes for hours of fun. Everything 
 falls into place very well with Assassins Creed. However, they're some glitches that could get 
 in the way at times. It isn't a good thing when the game freezes on you. Something many people 
 who have played it said something about but it doesn't happen often.
  
  There could have been a little more variety when it comes to certain aspects of Assassins Creed; 
 at any rate, this did nothing to invade the feel of the game. I am sure the developers will have 
 taken this into consideration the next time around.
  
  I could see from the ending of the game that there will be another Assassins Creed added into the 
 mix of things. In fact, rumor has it there is a trilogy in progress and a prequel that will be 
 launched on the DS. Great start to an exiting saga. I will add without spoiling it for anyone with 
 an excess amount of detail about the plot: the twist that was added to Assassins Creed will have 
 you wondering: what's next? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Way, WAY too much hype for this game. I think gamespot missed the ball on this one. giving it a 
 9/10 was very generous. Now ive had the game since its release (so a few weeks now) and ive played 
 maybe a total of 3 -4 hours on it. Its not too bad, but right now, Its really not that interesting 
 and with other titles available to me like R&C, uncharted, COD4 and warhawk, i cant bring myself 
 to play it at this time.
  
  The best thing about this game is no doubt the graphics. Amazing scenes, i think anyways. The cities 
 and landscapes have amazing detail. Really shows off what the playstation 3 can do. The other good 
 thing is that this game is suppose to have 15-20 hours worth of gameplay. now a days most games 
 that are not multi-player only offer half that. 
  
  The bad:
  
  The story, for me is whats hurting it. the "twist" that you read about in all the reviews that 
 is revealed in the first 5 minutes of the game, to me doesnt really need to be there. (spoiler) 
 I wish they just kept the story within one time period as that really appealed to me. Its just 
 boring (the "twist") and i dont find myself caring about that part of the story that much. Maybe 
 it will get more interesting as i get to the end of it but according to gamespot the ending is 
 just confusing so, theres another reason why im not eager to finish it.
  
  The gameplay is flat out repetative. As you advance through the game you seem to unlock more fighting 
 techinques but its hard to play through the same repetative crap for a hour or two just to unlock 
 one lousy move. The AI seems to be on the dumb side and the boss battles or assassanations seem 
 to be, again, repetative. 
  
  After its all said and done, is this game worth my hard earned $60 bucks? probably not. The fact 
 that the game is suppose to be 15-20 hours of game play is great but if the story and gameplay 
 are not there to back it up, whats the point.
  
  Im giving it a 7/10 which at this point i think is generous as there seems to be potential for 
 it to get better. For those of you interested in this game - its a renter or if you can pick it 
 up a used copy for half the price, then go for it. 
  
  
  Edit: After forcing myself to finishing the game, im just as disappointed if not more. possibly 
 one of the worst game endings in recent memory. Dont waste your time with this repetative mess. 
 Ive changed my rating from a 7 to 6 which i think is still very generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGamez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a great game all round. It is because of the wonderful environment you travel 
 around. This is a game that you will continue to play even when you have completed it. The storyline 
 is fantastic and great, but thats not all there is to do, you can free run almost everything, which 
 is my favourite thing except from causing chaos and doing the missions, you can kill templars. 
 Templars are the Assassins enemys which you kill in order to have no rivals (obviously) and you 
 can collect view points, collect flags and helps citizens in trouble and they may help you in further 
 missions. One of the other greatest features of the game is the fact you head back to the Assassins 
 HQ to get a mission, but to get to the point to kill your victim. Hope you enjoy this game.
  
  Thanks,
  Mr. Gamez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harvey12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Now there isn't any other game i've seen thats got more mixed opinions on.
  The deal is its one of the best looking games on the next-gen and the fluidity is spectacular, 
 But thats were it turns out to be nothing but a safari trip through the age of the crusades rather 
 than a thrilling prospect of living as a genuine assassin.
  You lose the whole idea of being an assassin, yes it's easy to assassinate people but the game makes 
 it much more fun to fight them,
  You can pull off some really cool moves when you counter enemies attacks which is really the most 
 addictive part of playing this game which is saying alot ,but you just feel like some swashbuckling, 
 swordswinging lunatic ready to take the world head on, Which is really taking the Name out of the 
 Game.
  As for the storyline it kind of shot me while i was down ,Here was me thinking i was going to play 
 a game which was totally in touch with the past for a change, with so many games nowerdays basing 
 their storys on future or present life,
  The idea that your just living the memory makes you feel limited,
  Also the main story line only 
 seems to have a beggining and an end as all the stuff in the middle is killing people who aren't 
 involved thoroughly in the story and the plot just doesnt thicken when you take one out.
  
  Overall this game is quite bland and Repetitive, with a lousy story to tell
  But don't get me 
 wrong its beautiful and has plenty to do with an exhilarating combat system.
  
  The game just isn't what it says it is,
  Assassinating as a job in this game is more boring than 
 having a job with Dot Cotton in the Launderette!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulscraper86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed puts you in the shoes of an assassin during the time and place of the crusades. 
 Throughout the games you'll be assassinating targets given by your clan's (aka Assassin's Guild) 
 master. Your targets are located in three impressively detailed, living, breathing cities (Acre, 
 Damascus and Jerusalem) . This could've been a must have game on the PS3 (and by extension Xbox360) , 
 however one can't help but feel that this was a rushed product. Bad story, repetitive gameplay 
 elements, repetitive voices in the cities and abysmal AI killed this game.
  
  As mentioned above, you play as Altar, a member of a group of assassins that do indeed exist during 
 the 11th and 13th centuries. In fact, this group, known as the Hashshashin is the earliest known 
 assassins in written history. Apparently, the nine men that Altar is charged to remove did indeed 
 died or disappeared around the time this game takes place.
  
  Each of the three cities has been detailedly rendered from top to bottom. Minute details can be 
 found in all nooks and cranny. The size of each city is also staggering, it is absolutely huge 
 (although exploration is limited in the early parts of the game) and transition from a district 
 to another district is seemless (i. e. no loading times) .
  
  The developers has also crafted bustling bazaars and market squares, detailed towers reaching to 
 the skies and also quiet, shady corners and streets to make each cities believable. To further 
 add to the immersion, the streets are populated with with tons of believable citizens. From jar-bearing 
 woman to merchants, and beggar women to drunks, every conceivable caste of society is included.
 
  
  However, the gameworld is not without flaws. The A. I. for the guards on top of roofs are as dumb 
 as bricks. If you are spotted on the roofs, they will either draw their swords or aim their bows 
 at you warning you that you do not belong up there for bout twenty seconds before they engage you. 
 This gives you plenty of time to hurl a dagger and send them to their doom. Alternatively, you 
 could drop and hang on the ledge and the guard will think that you mysteriously disappear and as 
 they turn around, you could just climb back up and stab him in his back. The guards are also deaf. 
 You could run along the roof jump and stab a guard and another guard (nor your target) nearby wouldn't 
 hear a thing.
  
  Also, the cities are completely devoid of children. Streets in those days are usually filled with 
 groups of street urchin causing all sorts of troubles. Also, the general populace is only limited 
 to a few sentences. Barely an hour into the game, you'll get so sick of it that you are tempted 
 to break your creed and kill that annoying innocent arsehole. Ubisoft stated that their multiplatform 
 games are identical as they do not want any one version to stand out over the other. I guess that 
 may be the reason for the limited amount of audio speech (PS3's Bluray disc can hold much more 
 data than its counterparts) .
  
  The controls for Assassin's Creed is quite intuitive. Each face button represents a part of the 
 body. For the PS3 version, triangle represents head, square and circle are hands and 'X' represents 
 the legs. Each face button is context sensitive. For example if you wanna look around in first 
 person mode, you press triangle. If you want to run, you hold R1 to enter high profile mode and 
 holding on 'X' will make Altar run.
  
  Running along rooftops, jumping from roof to roof, running up walls to climb up even higher and 
 continuing leaping from roof to roof is absolutely fun. Ubisoft was wise in not making this a platforming 
 game like Prince of Persia. To scale buildings, you only need to move your left analogue stick 
 and Altar will attempt to grab onto something in that direction. You must think like any rock-climber. 
 Every piece of art that looks grab-able or sturdy enough to be a foothold can be used to climb. 
 This is one of the more enjoyable and rewarding part of Assassin's Creed.
  
  You will need to utilise this mechanic to scale towers marked by eagles (known as view points) 
 to spot items of interests such as pickpocket targets or citizens in distress. By successfully 
 completing an eavesdropping, pick-pocketing and informer missions, you will gain additional information 
 which could help you in your assassination of the main target (most of which are pretty useless) . 
 Saving innocent citizens being harrassed by guards will net you some allies in the form of scholars 
 and vigilantes. Scholars are moving hidden spots which you can blend in to escape your pursuers 
 and vigilantes are like road blocks that grab onto pursuing guards to slow them down.
  
  However, this is where Assassin's Creed slips into mediocrity. Imagine doing all these mini-games 
 about 7-11 times per assassination for a grand total of nine assassinations, you will be bored 
 to tears. I plowed on in the hopes that the story is worth the grind. Be that as it may, the main 
 assassinations are pretty well-done for the most part and are actually enjoyable when compared 
 to the boring grind. Almost every assassinations can be done steathily or by force. In addition, 
 each assassinations can be done in a number of ways.
  
  Once you enter the area where your target is supposed to be, you will enter in a long cutscene 
 with story elements and you will enter into a stalking phase. After you stab your target, you will 
 be greeted with another cutscene with story elements. After this cutscene, the city alarm would 
 be raise and the hunter becomes the hunted. You will need to dodge all guards and reach the Assassin's 
 Bureau undetected. You will definitely be engaged in combat during the chase. Altar is more than 
 capable to hold his own.
  
  The combat system is simple and logical. Its kinda like a rhythm game where you tap a button in 
 response to an attack. For example, holding the R1 button and tapping the square button when your 
 enemy starts to make a lunge at you, Altar will engage in a cinematic and brutal counter-move. 
 By learning their rhythms you could practically dominate with impressive killing animations. The 
 flow of the combat is extremely fluid and when you are chaining counters after counters and occasionally 
 switching to offensive mode, you will feel like you are watching a over-the-top action movie rather 
 than playing the game.
  
  In my first hour of playing Assassin's Creed, I was very impressed with the whole package and thought 
 that this is game of the year material. However, as hours passed by, the pacing of the game slows 
 down with uninteresting repetitive minigames. It doesn't helped with the fact that the story is 
 uninteresting and an ending that screams sequel. When the credits rolled, I thought:" What?! thats 
 it?". The ending is not really an ending at all. IT would have been great if the huge twist in 
 the first five minutes of the game were revealed at the end. I'm not going to say anything about 
 the first five minutes though some reviews may have already spoiled it.
  
  Overall, this is a graphically impressive game with slick fluid animations and open ended game 
 world where you can technically kill anyone in your sight or go anywhere you want. Controls are 
 very intuitive and satisfying. However, the weak slow paced story and repetitive gameplay is what 
 keeps this game from being a must-have title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game that can be enjoyed by all ages. Its a slight simular to Grand 
 Theft Auto but set a long time ago. Here are the GOOD and BAD Points:-
  
  THE GOOD:-
  -Sharp Detailed Graphics
  -Large Enviroments to explore
  -Great Storyline
  -Great Sound Quality
 
  -Realism is spot on
  -Great fighting
  
  THE BAD:-
  -There are quite a few glitches
  -Not as much to do as you thought
  -Overhyped
  -Some story bits are boring
  -Quite short
 
  
  Graphics -- 9
  Sound -- 9
  Gameplay -- 8
  Value -- 8
  Legend Status -- 8
  
  This game is worth buying but it has no replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexbhp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The very first time I loaded the Assassins Creed Disc on my PS3 I was blown away with the graphics, 
 and the gameplay. I love Open World games, and this is an awesome example of an Open World Game.
 
  
  AC has issues, it is not ALL perfect. Stealth assassination has a different mean in the game. (Very 
 different than a Rainbow Six perspective) . They should call it "Anonymous assassination" or something 
 like it. Because it is not stealth, it is you killing a dude in front of lots of people, that's 
 not stealth, stealth is the guy dropping dead "apparently" for no reason, in the game you get very 
 close to kill the guy and lots of guards run after you.
  
  And after half the game trough, they know what you look like, so they should be a little bit less 
 guarded towards you, (making you only go through roof tops or blending) .
  
  I played the game a lot, and the scenery is beautiful, and the game play is great, but I missed 
 somethings in the gameplay, like the option to crouch or to lean agains walls to blend
  
  You fight from 1 to 12 guard at the same time, you should be able to turn one of the guards into 
 hostage (holding him with the sword to his neck) to make the other guards not attack you. Like 
 an escape strategy.
  
  In Summary AC has a lot to give, but if you expect too much you WILL be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman_eric666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  this game is good at the beginning but then it gets kinda boring and then u start 2 get mad, but 
 the game is still cool because u get to kill ppl in a sneeky way so thats still cool, but it would 
 be better if it were in the modern times so that we could get better weapons. It would be cool 
 if they make a secind tittle so that in the second one it is in the future and sso that we will 
 have better weapons! well the over all thing is that it is a so so game cuz it can get u mad but 
 it is fun killing ppl and its also fun when you sneek up on people and then kill them by surprise. 
   UUNNNNIOOOOOOOOON 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablich
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought it was awesome, but when I started playing it through i 
 realized its FRUSTRATING, I mean, this game makes you do the exact same things OVER and OVER and 
 OVER again in just 3 cities, it's not what they promised it would be. It's also a really frustrating 
 game, in many of the informer missions you are asked to kill several targets but most of the time 
 those targets are surrounded by people and when you assassinate them all of them scream and OBVIOUSLY 
 the guards come to kill you and POOF goodbye progress of that mission. It's also frustrating that 
 you have to scale like a 1000 view points before you get to know what to do, I mean come on it's 
 the same things over and over again with nothing different each and every time, you are all the 
 time saving citizens, interrogating and then killing people, or you need to go to the informers 
 so they make you kill people or you have to pickpocket something from someone, sure at the beginning 
 this sounds fun but once you've done it like 10 times it becomes repetitive and boring.
  Despite these minor issues the game plays and feels really well, but it's not enough to make up 
 for the issues in this game, however it's a challenging game with a lot of action and killing sequences 
 hehehe.
  Overall, I'd suggest you really think twice before buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The early previews of Assassin's Creed sounded so amazing. Tracking down your target, the moving 
 in for the kill followed by escaping before you were surrounded by guards. It all sounded so good. 
 Plus add in the fact that Ubi Montreal, the same team behind the incredible Prince of Persia games, 
 developing it and Assassin's Creed had all the makings of being a blockbuster title. Now that it's 
 finally out and I was able to play all the way through it, while the ambitions are there, the game 
 didn't quite deliver on all of its potential. Still, what remains is a very good stealth action 
 title from one of the industries best developers.
  
  Without giving away everything, as there is a twist that was never mentioned in any of Assassin's 
 Creed's previews, AC spends its time telling the tale of Altair, an assassin living during the 
 Crusades in the 12th Century. Altair is a member of the Hashashin guild, and is initially on a 
 quest to retrieve an ancient artifact so it does not fall in the hands of a Templar. This leads 
 into Altair's quest for redemption as he loses favor with his guild, and must reclaim what he lost 
 by agreeing to 9 assassination missions. The tale is very well told, as you travel through The 
 Kingdom to then explore Damascus, Acre and Jerusalem, where you gain information on your targets 
 and finally perform the assassination.
  
  From a gameplay perspective, AC is half good half bad. The control scheme that was developed works 
 extremely well, although it makes the platforming aspects, notably scaling buildings or traversing 
 rooftops, feel way too easy. Consequently, at times there really isn't much to the combat, as you 
 can have a great deal of success by simply countering attacks rather than actually fighting enemies. 
 It's an interesting mix. The basic control scheme uses the Left Analog stick for movement & the 
 Right Analog stick for camera control, but the face buttons are used differently. Each face button 
 corresponds to a part of Altair's body: X button is his feet, O button is for his offhand, [] button 
 is his main hand, and Triangle button is for his head. The face buttons also work with the R1 button, 
 which puts Altair in a high profile state, meaning actions he does arouses suspicion, and also 
 changes what the face buttons do. For instance, the X button on its own causes Altair to walk slowly 
 to try and blend in with the crowd, but if you hold down R1 with X then Altair will begin running. 
 Same for O, on its own Altair will cautiously push away other people, but when used with R1, he 
 will grab someone or tackle someone if running. As for weapons, Altair eventually has access to 
 4 different weapons, accessed using the D-Pad: his bare hands, throwing knives, a sword, and the 
 infamous hidden blade. Each direction is assigned to one of the four, and the [] button's use changes 
 based on what weapon is currently selected. The control works very well fundamentally, but as I 
 said, it almost works too well.
  
  The brunt of the game is scouting your targets, which means taking on missions around each district 
 of the three cities. There are about 5 different investigation missions, so there is some variety 
 but even I lost some patience for a 2 of those missions near the end. Admittedly more variety as 
 for how you gathered information would've been nice. You also can save citizens being harassed 
 by guards, which in turn means either a group of vigilantes will hang around an area and fend off 
 guards if they are chasing you, or a group of monks will hang around an area for you to blend in 
 with to gain access to an area. Saving citizens is not necessary, but it does help, as the vigilantes 
 do come in handy if you need to escape the guards. Once you accumulated enough information, its 
 time to find your target and take him out. Honestly, from what I read about AC originally, in actuality, 
 it was not as good as it was made out to be. It was still good as a few of the assassinations were 
 done well, but still as a whole they were a tad lacking. Still, what helped balance the scale was 
 watching Altair in action.
  
  Assassin's Creed is beautiful. All the cities look amazing, and they are absolutely enormous. Just 
 the area you have when you reach the first city, Damascus, is substantial and even then, you only 
 have access to one of the Damascus' districts. Once you gain access to all 3 districts, the cities 
 are incredibly large. And I haven't even gotten to The Kingdom, which is the countryside that links 
 all 3 cities, and it is very large as well. Amazingly, it all looks great. Once you arrive in the 
 Kingdom or a city, everything is loaded and can be accessed. Altair himself looks very good, and 
 the animations of him performing any task look phenomenal. He looks so fluid navigating the cities, 
 rooftop jumping and spire climbing. Its hard to believe there's someone for agile than the Prince 
 from Prince of Persia, but Altair may just be more agile. On the audio side of things, the voices 
 are done well, although Altair's is odd considering the time period, he sounds very American. The 
 other voices all fit the time period and sound good. The music wasn't bad, although I can't recall 
 it too much. Put it this way, it wasn't bad or else I'd say it.
  
  All is not perfect in the world of Assassin's Creed. The game is very ambitious, and so it does 
 miss a few steps along the way, well intentioned as it may be. Not everyone will care for the twist 
 that is revealed a little too early for my tastes, even though I liked it. What's more, not everyone 
 will have the patience for going through the investigation missions, which can get a tad repetitive, 
 I found a few of them more annoying than anything. AC carried a lot of hype prior to its release, 
 and I did disappoint based on that hype, but what's here is still a good game so long as you throw 
 all that hype out the window.
  
  Assassin's Creed is an interesting title. It was a very ambitious title that put in a number of 
 new ideas that we haven't seen before in a game. However, not everything was pulled off flawlessly 
 and so AC didn't quite turn out as well as it was originally. Still, Assassin's Creed turned out 
 well, telling an intriguing story, with great graphics and incredible representations of the 12th 
 Century Holy Lands, along with an interesting control scheme and some fun gameplay. It could've 
 been better, it also could've been a lot worse. All in all, Assassin's Creed was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: extrasafeivy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I've kept an eye on this game from the day I got my PS3 and why shouldn't I with all the hype this 
 game seemed to produce. And when the day of finally getting down to experiencing the world of Altair 
 and the Assassin's Creed I was speechless. Not from how great the game was but how disappointing 
 it was. The main problem with this game is how repetitive and tedious the game becomes over just 
 5 hours and after 20-30 hours nothing has changed. 
  The problems come from all sorts of destinations such as Altair deciding to jump 45 degrees from 
 where you want him to jump ending in a dead Altair either at someones feet in the street or face 
 down in a puddle of a lake. Others include all too many suspicious guards, beggars who approach 
 you all the same in all three cities, identical towers and viewpoints which just become boring 
 after you climb 5. Assassinations and sword fights are never fun as they become repetitive. 
  There are all too many little nags but the game repeats from the first kill to the last. 
  Sidequests.... Well 
 lets just say there are flags, saving citizens and climbing viewpoints where there are no rewards 
 just tedious repetitiveness.
  The only good thing this game can really take is its graphics and lighting which are all stepping 
 in the right direction. Just believe they took too much time in getting that right without leaving 
 room for gameplay which is still a huge part in gamers lives. 
  Is there really not a chance for an online mode for this game either. Im sure there may have been 
 a way.
  Never the less I will still give this game a respectable score as it will still place a landmark 
 on what the PS3 can achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I have been watching this game for a while. Back when it was a ps3 exclusive, 
 it was one of the reasons I was going to get the ps3 over the 360. After it went multiplatform, 
 I lost a little respect for it but was still interested. The more footage i saw of it, the less 
 interested i became. 
  
  This game soars on both sides of good and bad. It does a lot of things right, but does so many 
 little things wrong. I'll start off with the good.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Everything looks great. The people in the city, while not eventually 
 becomming repetitive, are lifelike. When the combat system works how you want it, it is a great 
 idea. Other than assassinations, i rarely found myself locking onto enemies, and the small sword 
 did not seem much different from the larger one. 
  
  The fluid movement system, not unlike the combat, is a blessing and a curse. When it works it makes 
 everything so much smoother. You don't have to press buttons to move everywhere and it often makes 
 it easy to move across the rooftops of the city.
  
  By the end, the story gets a little interesting, but they revealed the sci fi element way too early. 
 It would have been better to pull you out to the present mid way into the game or more towards 
 the end.
  
  Which brings me to the bad. Everything may seem like nit picking, but they were more than enough 
 to make me hate the game on more than one occasion. 
  
  The combat:
  As I said before, the combat was good... when it worked. There would be times I just stopped blocking 
 attacks. the combat system would often aim me somewhere other than were i pointed the stick and 
 i'd attack the wrong person. This made some assassinations take much longer than the should have 
 and made me die plenty of times.
  
  The camera:
  Most of the time the camera is fine. It's nothing new, nothing special, but it would sometimes 
 get stuck on things and leave you blind. Often it was tilted down from a top look, which made it 
 very difficult to manuever the building tops fast or to see enemies,
  
  Movement system:
  Like the combat, when it works it's great. It is a very intuitive way to move. When it messed up 
 though, it cause me to die too often to be ignored. Altair would jump different directions than 
 what i aimed at. This affected me most in combat situations but a few times I fell to my death. 
 More than once he decided to jump a different direction and aparently assassins can't swim. 
  
  Saving:
  The save points are sparse so when the movement system messes up you will be forced 
 to start over again no matter how much you accomplished.
  
  Cutscenes:
  Never would i have thought that a game about assassins in the crusades would have such boring dialogue 
 and cutscenes. The actors feel uninspired and bring the momentum of the game down. The fact that 
 they are unskippable and boring makes it even worse, especially when the game f's you over and 
 causes you to die and then forces you to watch the same ug cutscene again and again.
  
  Game itself:
  Assassinations are fun. Planning the strike, eliminating guardsmen before hand. 
 Unfortunatly a "recording" begins and you are forced to stand there andwatch the target talk... and 
 miss out on obvious oppertunities to kill him then forced to use a crapfest for the kill.
  
  Gathering the info before the assassination is boring and tedious. You will get spotted for 
 no reason sometimes and be forced to fight off hordes of guards. The game forces you to gain intel 
 again and again. As a matter of fact... the whole game is basically the same exact thing over and 
 over.
  
  My biggest gripe with this game... it froze... often. I know there has been talk about it already 
 and it was supposed to be fixed... but it isn't. This is inexcusable... especially since the game 
 was originally a ps3 exclusive. 
  
  SUMMARY:
  This game is a definate rental, but doesn't deserve all the hype it's been getting. It excels in 
 some parts like the movement system and fighing, but those are also a big reason it is bad. The 
 game is slightly above average. The minor kinks bring it down and the cut scenes, combined with 
 lame voice acting are boring. The story is alright and it will be interesting to see where they 
 take it in the sequel. The game freezing is inexcusable and definatly hurt the score. As of now, 
 this game feels like a warm up for the real show: Assassins creed 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4573r_n1nj4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all the game is absolutely gorgeous. The controls are smooth and the animations are pleasant 
 to look at. Even when your not playing the game is fun to watch. The acting is top of the line as 
 well. Over all great production value. However i did notice some frame rate issues, but that really 
 doesn't effect the fun factor.
  
  The glitches in the game are noticeable but that really doesn't stop you from enjoying from start 
 to finish. If you have a ps3 or 360 i say go for it. the only real problem i have with the game 
 is well....... the story is a bit, lame. i think lame is a good word for it. and oh yea! the ending 
 is pretty bad. remember pirates of the Caribbean 2? the ending is kinda like that....
  
  It isn't the kinda game you will rush out and buy, but if you see it used or know a friend it is 
 definatly worth a play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well, after finally playing Assassin's Creed, and after waiting almost a year for this game, WOW! 
 am I letdown. This was one of the most disappointing games I've played yet (almost as bad as Lair) . 
 What confuses me even more is how this game is receiving 10/10 and 5/5 star scores with so many 
 problems.
  
  First of all, the story is incredibly hokey. I will not ruin it for those of you that haven't played 
 it yet as there is a twist which is revealed immediately (making it less of a twist ) , and it is 
 a pretty dumb twist. I was willing to overlook this though.
  
  The graphics in the game I had mixed reviews on. While you're in your missions they look great. 
 Quite a bit of detail in the characters and environments. During the twist parts however they look 
 very outdated (think early PS2 graphics) . Not only this but during the twist parts, the controls 
 are very clunky and the whole thing seems like it was tacked on as an afterthought to the game.
 
  
  The controls work well in the game whether it's the interesting combat system, the free-running 
 along rooftops, or the scaling of walls. All of this worked out well and I enjoyed it. Now here's 
 the major flaws of the game.
  
  Enemy AI. Let me start with an example of how bad the enemy AI is. I was in a room w/ no one but 
 two guards and my target. I assassinated the target and the guards say Who did this? . Gee, I wonder???? 
 Could it have been the strange guy with a sword on his back?!?! Unfortunately this is very common 
 throughout the game and at every instance it makes me cringe.
  
  Stealth Assassinations: Don't let the premise of the game fool you. There's nothing stealthy about 
 this game at all. I wasted much time following targets around until they would be alone. Nope, 
 this doesn't happen. They walk in a repeated loop over and over again and most instances don't 
 really involve stealth. Stealth refers only to your target knowing you're there or not, not bystanders. 
 This seemed ridiculous to me and really caused me not to like the game b/c there's no sense of 
 accomplishment.
  
  Repetition. Every assassination is the same. Scale some buildings (most of which you climb the 
 EXACT same way) , sit on a bench and watch a cutscene, walk past a guy and hit a button to pickpocket, 
 save some citizens (all of which have a whopping 2 lines of originality you'll get to listen to) . 
 The game just doesn't keep things fresh.
  
  Overall, this game was a huge disappointment and was one of those rare occasions where I couldn't 
 even force myself to finish the game. I literally forced myself to keep picking it up until I could 
 take no more. If I could sum up Assassin's Creed, it would be that I had more fun riding around 
 through areas finding flags and viewpoints (things designed to be side quests to keep you busy) , 
 rather than playing the game for what it was intended to be, and that's assassinating people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  It great that UBISOFT has taken on such an ambitious project. You love to see something a little 
 different, plus the creation of a great looking game world. And you get a great looking game world.
 
  
  But is it a great game? If you look around the reviews, you see some people who think the game 
 delivered. But you also notice a very large number of the critics who were not captivated as much 
 as Gamespot was. So the obvious recommendation is RENT this first and see how it grabs you. GO 
 RENT IT AND DON'T READ THE NEXT PART - I don't want to spoil the fun if you enjoy it! Now here's 
 the part where I go into my list of fixes - this is why I write the reviews. Somehow I like to 
 believe that SOMEONE on the UBISOFT staff checks these things out - or maybe other people might 
 see this and pass the ideas along. Maybe wishful thinking, but you never know.
  
  1) Horrible Voice acting on the main guy. Horrible. Obviously it didn't bother some players, but 
 it bothered a LOT of others. Its monotone, dead pan, humorlous. It's really hard to care about 
 the main guy. OUR GAMES deserve the same quality of acting you expect in a feature FILM - no less! 
 GET A GOOD VOICE ACTOR!
  
  2) Interesting but flawed control scheme. My big gripe - do I really need a gentle push button!!!?? 
 GENTLE PUSH !!!!??? Man-o-man replace that with a kick and you got something sweet. There are too 
 many moments that get ruined with a dodgy control result. The most aggravating is the sudden kick 
 off the wall jump when you are trying to climb. The controls are a little short of being on target 
 - like a pre-release version that needed a few more months of development.
  GET THE CONTROLS MORE SOLID. CHANGE SOME OF THE BUTTONSTO BEEFIER ACTIONS.
  
  3) Am I playing 
 Fetch!!?? The core game is repetitive, and that is the biggest problem. Combat is interesting, 
 but the rhythm of the game is off. It is just not satisfying. Seems like you go from stumbling 
 through crowds to being chased by 20 guards with no build up. Nothing in between. This is hard 
 to really explain, other than more playtesting is needed. There are planty of action games that 
 may or may not have flaws, but they have a nice pace to them - you have your chaos, but you also 
 have your moments where you are in control. I jsut always felt like I was either bored or running 
 for my life - and I spent a lot of time getting the combat timing down so I could handle a group 
 of soldiers. IMPROVE THE PACE - MORE ADJUSTMENTS, PLAYTESTING NEEDED
  BETTER TASKS. WE NEED MORE THAN PICKPOCKET EAVESDROP CLIMB A TOWER INTERROGATE (follow and beat 
 up...) AND GRAB A FLAG SAVE A CITIZEN (fight some guards) . Here's some ideas off the top of my 
 head - take out a wild animal? Ride your horse with a timed delivery and add horse bow fighting 
 (like Collossus ) ? Trick thugs into fighting each other? Burn down blockade? Special quests to 
 get a beefed up version of your sword/dagger?
  THese are jsut top of head ideas... I am sure they could get a lot more creative than Pickpocket 
 ... how about RESTORE THE HOLY ARTIFACT? You are in the Holy Land after all. Make up some and avoid 
 direct religious reference to stay out of trouble. (Maybe make them all having to do with your 
 brotherhood) But the game is completely devoid of any spiritual atmosphere - weird when you consider 
 that its taking place in the Holy land. 4) Reincarnation of SpiderMan 2 !!?? YES, I SAID IT! I 
 can see the mob forming to flame me now...
  Everyone agreed pretty much, Webslinging through a virtual New York was awesome, but the game itself 
 sucked. Assassin's Creed suffers from the same, although not as drastic. CLEAN UP SPIDERMAN SYNDROME:
 
  a) Avoid repetive citizens crying for help - give fewer encounters that are more meaningful. b) 
 Less crowds of repeating people. Seeing endless clones ruins the experience - use less people if 
 needed, longer cycle before duplicating is needed. c) Pacing issue - you are either rooftop traveling 
 = web slinging or chaotic battle with 10 thugs REMOVE ANYTHING THAT REMINDS YOU OF SPIDERMAN 2 
 GAME!!
  d) Need more compelling mini-stories. How about freeing a kidnapped son or daughter from prison 
 with an emotional family reuniting. 5) Rethink the futuristic interface - at least when you are 
 back in time.
  Seems like it just killed the mood more than made me say oh this is cool ... it was more why am 
 I using a sci-fi interface on a artsy, historical game? . Wouldn't it have been cool if the controls 
 looked like a period style and morphed into future style as you morphed into the future? Well - 
 just think about that.
  
  6) Make the world woth exploring.
  It's fun to find treasures... the flags are boring. They could have made a list of artifacts like 
 LARA CROFT/DARKES FORTUNE... why not!? 7) Costume character change option. maybe it's cliche, but 
 a black or grey option (pretty simple, just the color) .
  EVEN BETTER - LET HIM BE A MASTER OF DISGUISE!!
  HIDING IN GROUP OF CLERICS is kind of silly 
 after two times... how about a few different costume changes - like throw on a green cover and 
 a hat and blend with merchents, grey cloak with citizens, prisoners, etc. Yes you would need a 
 putting cloak on animation but - man that would be cool!
  
  8) And if you want to make thing less artsy but a lot more fun, let there be a female version. 
 Try and tell me a lot of you wouldn't like to try the game with a sultry raven haired chick in 
 a black cloak slitting the targets throat.... with a specail option called seduce to get him off 
 his guard. I dare you to tell me you don't want it...
  
  UBISOFT has made a great game world with ASSASSIN'S CREED - I really hope there is an ASSASSIN'S 
 CREED II - and I hope some of the above suggestions are used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed review by Simon.
  
  Good Point:
   Great sound effect
   Interesting story-line
   Visual design
   Controls
  
  Huge world to run around in  
 Excellent stealth action  Great voice acting  Outstand small details  Outstanding background 
 sceneries  Assassinating your prey
  
  Bad Points:
   Repetitive
   Some freezing Annoying city beggars  Repetitive game-play  Freezing problems
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Assassin's Creed truly is a great stealth action game. The visual design is outstanding right down 
 to the very small detail and breathtaking sceneries worth drooling over. Assassin's Creed is massive, 
 there's tons of stuff to do and places to explore and is very fun to play. The game-play controls 
 are very well done and very comfortable to move your character through the game. The thing I really 
 find great about the game-play is how realistic the character moves, may it be walking through 
 a crowd, climbing buildings or running through a busy street, the game just looks and feels real. 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Plot: 9/10
  You play Altair, who is a highly skilled assassin that strikes his prey without mercy. 
 Altair is the best skilled assassin in the brother hood creed. By being an assassin you must follow 
 the three main laws of the Assassin's Creed. One: Never kill an innocent. Two: Never expose yourself. 
 And three: Never bring harm to your brother hood creed. Altair decided to go against the teachings 
 of the brother hood by taking matters into his own hands. Because of his actions and because he 
 broke the three main laws of the Assassin's Creed, Altair was stripped of his equipment and his 
 professional assassin's rank. You play Altair as is he must regain his assassin's rank, his dignity, 
 his loyalty to the brother hood and to stop all enemies of the creed. I want spoil the story for 
 you but as you play through the game the story get more interesting and you learn more about the 
 brother hood, what it takes to be a true professional assassin and you learn more about Altair 
 and what he is. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Visuals: 9/10
  The visuals in Assassin's Creed are breathtaking. Outstanding details even to the very small details 
 you probably want notice. The background sceneries are amazing. As you enter a city you will find 
 yourself mesmerise by the landscape. Each city is rendered beautifully from the ground up. Climbing 
 up the tallest building just to get a bird eye view is just breathtaking. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Game-Play: 9/10
  
  The game-play in Assassin's Creed is very well done. A lot of time went in the game-play. From 
 the very first time you hold the control and move Altair, you wont want to put is down. The way 
 Altair move through a crowd is amazing and really makes you feel like you really are moving the 
 character. You can do a lot of stuff in Assassin's Creed that gives it the feel of realism. And 
 this game is all about realism. Altair can run up wall, climb up almost every obstacle in the game. 
 You can jump from rooftop to rooftop, balcony to balcony, stone pillar to stone pillar. Anywhere 
 to anywhere. Ether to run away from your enemies, or to locate your prey. Assassinating your prey 
 is the coolest thing about the game. Make your way through the crowd to reach your target. Every 
 action you do has consequences and could decide whether the crowd will help you, or hinder you. 
 The crowd is your real cover in the game. The crowd is your stealth. It's your prefect hiding place. 
 Blend in to the crowd and your enemies will not notice you. And with there back turned, that is 
 your opportunity to strike. Assassinating you prey is all about planning. Plan your attacks, strike 
 without mercy and ether fight you way to escape or, run and hide. In Assassin's Creed there are 
 three main cities. Damasca, Acre and Jerusalem. Each city beautifully modelled and features busy 
 market squares to quiet street corners where citizen's converse and drunks lie in wait to accost 
 you. As you wander the streets you'll push men and women to make your way through the crowd. Hear 
 orators shout political and religious stuff. Watch town guards harass the poor innocent people 
 on the streets where you can make the choice to help, or to ignore. Listen in to conversations, 
 pickpocket and interrogate people to get information on your target. Upon arrival on a desired 
 city, you must make your way through the huge Kingdom. You can ether make you way by foot or on 
 your trusty steed, but riding the horse well get you to your destination faster. Even the horse 
 feels like your ridding a real horse. The only probably I'd say is the game is to repetitive. You'll 
 find yourself just doing the same thing over and over, and over again. Yes the game-play is great, 
 but as you get further into the game, you'll probably find yourself bored by the game-play. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound Effects: 8/10
  The voice acting is amazing. I've always said that besides the game-play, the graphics and the 
 story, voice acting is also important. The voice acting is the key in bring a character to life, 
 and Assassin's Creed dose just that. Awesome music soundtrack as well. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Over-All: 8/10
  
  Assassin's Creed is a brilliant game and was definitely worth the wait. A must play. The only main 
 problem with the game is the fact that sometimes it freezes, (Which is a real letdown) and can 
 get a wee bit repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shischkabob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about this game that hasn't already been said? I think I will just do my best 
 to write how I felt about the game as I progressed through it. This review may include some spoilers 
 so if you don't want to know what happens during the game I suggest that you refrain from reading 
 the rest of this review so that I don't ruin the game for you. As I started this game it was a 
 little weird going back and forth between this crusader world and the animus. Being that I hadn't 
 heard about the whole animus thing until I actually played it I was skeptical about what it would 
 entail. The game starts out where you are getting reprimanded by a higher power within and it's 
 easy to notice the graphics are absolutely amazing. As you continue though the story line there 
 are some factors that are easily noticeable. One of those features is how well the character the 
 moves through the environment. Altier climbing up and down the walls of the buildings is almost 
 majestic. Also running through the crowds of people running into people and falling down is life 
 like as well was tackling people is incredibly realistic. I also enjoyed when people would make 
 comments about you running into them or making comments about you climbing a building or something. 
 I also enjoyed the aspect of fighting. It seemed somewhat unrealistic that only 1 guy would attack 
 you at one time. I would be able to fight a group of guys and when I got done I would have 30 plus 
 guys lying around dead. I also liked the aspect of the hidden blade and throwing knives. There 
 is nothing more fun the attacking someone that doesn't know it's coming. Now I guess I will have 
 to address the bad parts about the game as well as a response to someone the aspects that other 
 people didn't like. I will do it in list form to make things easier.
  
  The game is too repetitive: Yes the game does repeat itself over and over. Having Altier going 
 around saving citizens, doing interrogations, eavesdropping, and then finally assassinating people 
 that are deemed to be bad to the Assassins order can get repetitive if you are impatient. But really 
 it isn't even that bad. If you bought the game to enjoy it this will be no problem because that's 
 what I did and I didn't get bored once while playing it.
  
  The game isn't worth more than 10 hours of playing: Once again to the impatient ones out there 
 it may seem that 10 hours of playing is boring. I probably played through the game in 20 or so 
 hours and I hated putting it down. I still go back and try and find all of the Templers and flags 
 which almost seem impossible because they are hidden so well. But there is no way you can even 
 get close to completely the game in less than 10 hours. Those who say that they haven't played 
 more than 10 hours haven't given this game enough time and therefore I don't really give their 
 review the time of day.
  
  The games missions are confusing and the distance meter is confusing: The missions are pretty straight 
 forward. Go and listen to someone talk, pickpocket someone, beat someone up, or kill someone. That's 
 not really difficult to understand. Also the distance meter being confusing: well if you actually 
 use it yes, but really you don't need to do it. There really isn't any need to use it. It's not 
 like you are driving and can only use a specific route. With Altier you can climb up the buildings 
 and go where ever you want once you have unlocked the entire city.
  
  The game freezes: This is by far the worst part of the game. Everything still works but your character 
 can't move. It just plain sucks and you need to reset your system. Now for me this only happens 
 once and it happens the first time I play but once I reset the system it doesn't happen again. 
 So really it isn't too bad as long as you are expecting it.
  
  Falling through the map to instant death: I only had this happen to me once and it happened when 
 I got off a horse in a small stream and I feel through the map but then I just was reborn next 
 to the horse with no problems. This didn't really upset me I just moved on. No game is perfect 
 so I don't see this one as a big deal.
  
  Overall I felt this game was a little overrated but if you are looking for a decent game to play 
 with amazing graphics I would say pick up this game but I wouldn't pay the $60 for it. It seems 
 a little steep. Just wait for the price to drop or pick it up used. This game is worth at least 
 playing so I would say give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game had ALOT and i mean ALOT of potential when i first saw it but it didnt live up to it 
 not to say its a bad game i enjoyed it just could of been way better then what it is
  
  First thing that turned me off about the game is all the bugs it froze my PS3 about 4 or 5 times 
 which got very annoying specially if i was in the middle of a mission
  
  Second thing that i didnt enjoy was it was very VERY reptitive not to say reptitiveness bothers 
 me it usually doesnt but EVERY single mission in the game felt exactly the same there was no variety 
 what so ever
  
  Well if you can get pass those two things you will love the game its a decent legnth for a game 
 and it also has beautiful graphics
  
  My personally fav part of the game is trying to figure out how to scale each building specially 
 the really tall ones its fun
  
  As for the story it was pretty interesting and entertaining i just hope in the future titles of 
 this series has way more depth in its gameplay and more variety in its missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogfishtender
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The first thing a player realizes when they watch the trailer of Assassin's Creed is the masterful 
 artwork involved. It is a real treat to gamers when they begin playing and notice that the graphic 
 and audio quality from the trailer is not missing during gameplay. This game, with both its visuals 
 and catchy 'puppet' controls, encourages players to explore the landscape and become familiar with 
 the characters. Unfortunately once the first assassination mission is completed the game becomes 
 more of a chore to play than an adventure. While the target in each mission is different the investigation 
 process is nearly identical for all them. Also many people might find it obnoxious to trek through 
 every 'city' on the map searching for flags or Templars when it seems they reward the character 
 in no way. There is an awful lot of effort involved in this game. The designers gave this game 
 their all. In the end though it feels like the game requires more effort from the player to be 
 entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldudealex7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game, played it for 3 days and completed it. I thoroghly enjoyed the game but I found 
 it repetive and the game was ruined as you were actually a normal guy but you went on this machine 
 and played a part as your ancestor. When you are not doing assassinations you can run around the 
 city but it is not all that good and it gets boring, there is only a number of times you can climb 
 buildings before you get bored. I would say dont buy the game, rent it and you will complete it. 
 So rent the game and you will have fun collecting flags and seeing viewpoints. The assassinations 
 are repetetive and there are boring sub tasks. It is not a game worth buying and I dont know how 
 anyone can rate it perfect. Hope this helped you all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Congrats to Ubisoft for creating the greatest game ever. Assassins Creed has so many places to 
 go, so many things to collect, incredible AI, excellent voice acting, brilliant graphics, ton's 
 of abilitys and weapons, a great but complicated story, and just about everything else that is 
 brilliant.
  
  When you start playing, you'll probably start thinking "What the hell is going on here? What do 
 I do?". But once you start to understand, it's just incredible. If you name something and ask if 
 Assassins Creed has that, the answer will always be YES! This game has knifes, swords, armor, climbing, 
 jumping, walking, running, sprinting, flying, diving, horse riding, killing, drama, and ton's of 
 other things that will leave you amazed.
  
  There are enough abilitys to keep combat from getting repetetive and enough things to do to keep 
 you from getting bored. There are lot's of guards to annoy, ton's of people to torcher and save, 
 lot's of flags to collect and lot's and lot's of citys to explore. This game will NOT get old fast.
 
  
  Don't listen to 5/10 reviews and 6/10 reviews, those are clearly from people who don't understand 
 the game. Even if it takes you a while to understand, you'll relize that the game gets more fun 
 once you start to understand the storyline. 
  
  The biggest treat in the game is probably when you get a new sword or abiltiy, because you can 
 now escape guards faster and easier, get to new places and just do new stuff! There are some really 
 fun timed challenges too where you've gotta find flags or kill guards. It's a lot of fun.
  
  Well, obviously Ubisoft has blown me away, allthough the game has some minor issues like: Annoying 
 bell ringing sounds, small graphical glitches and some frustration at times. None of these things 
 will really take away from the overall experience however. NOTHING can do ANYTHING to make me think 
 otherwise. This game is simply amazing and will have you pumped every second of every minute of 
 every mission. 
  
  I've been searching a while for a game worthy of a 10, and not even Uncharted got one, but Assassins 
 Creed deserves it. Great job Ubisoft, you've invented the best game ever.
  
  Pros: Just about everything! This game has barely any flaws!
  
  Cons: Sometimes bell ringing 
 sounds are kinda annoying. Little graphical glitches. Rarely, the game MIGHT be frusturating.
 
  
  Trust me, you will not be disappointed with this game. It's awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbow1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how it is that this game got such high reviews from Gamespot. Those guys are usually 
 spot-on when it comes to reviews. Maybe whoever reviewed it only played for a few hours. Those 
 first hours that you are playing are fascinating and addicting, but you soon realize that you have 
 already done all there is to do in the game in that short amount of time. You just have to do it 
 over and over again until the game is beaten. 
  
  About half way through the game, I found myself just playing because I thought to myself that, 
 "it would get better - it has to." I actually wound up selling it on Ebay before I had even finished 
 it. I was just that bored and frustrated with a game that had so much hype and so much promise. 
 
  
  Luckily my thirst for great games was satiated when I purchased Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. Although 
 it was a relatively quick play, and offered no groundbreaking features, it was highly entertaining 
 and provided a much better experience then did Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enmesarra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Much like a great painting, Assassin's Creed is truly beautiful to look at, but gets dull pretty 
 fast. For all the life that teems in the vast playground of narrow streets and sprawling rooftops, 
 the game just felt empty somehow. I think this stems from the repetitive game-play and stock NPCs. 
 For all its faults (of which there are more than a few) , this is a must have for any PS3 owner. 
 The graphics alone are worth the price and there is some solid game-play throughout. AC just lackssomething, 
 transforming it from what could have been a brilliant game into Grand Theft Auto: Damascus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great (minor glitches here and there) . The game world is detailed and big. I just 
 wish that there is more to the action. You spend most of your time running, running, running, climbing, 
 climbing, and climbing. The reason for the running and climbing is so you can climb the viewpoint 
 and more viewpoints to find mini objectives. Saving the citizens are also redundant. Killing guards 
 are fun at first but then it becomes ... you know it..."boring and redundant". I don't think it's 
 that much fun when I can assassinate a guard right in front of another guard while no other person 
 is around but me and I get away with ease by turning around and walk like a scholar. This game 
 gets a 7 from me for the graphics and the first couple fun hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRACK-A-BACK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is like a bottle of water: After you've finished, you come back for more. Then 
 you realize there's nothing left for you. Then you don't look again (unless you have OCD) .
  
  Graphics - 9.0
  
  The graphics in Assassin's Creed are superb. textures are top notch, 
 and the effects are great (excluding the blood, which is not good at all) . The only problems with 
 the graphics are the few glitches.
  
  Sound - 9.0
  
  This game has a wonderful soundtrack. When you enter a city, the music matches with the time that 
 you get a great view. But it's not just that; the music in general is great. The sound effects 
 are, as well. When you slash someone to bits and pieces, it sounds just like I imagine it would 
 in real life.
  
  Gameplay - During first playthrough, 8.5; otherwise, 6.5
  
  The biggest problem with the gameplay is the repetitiveness. You do the same thing over and over 
 and over again. It's ridiculous. It's not even funny.
  There are hundreds of flags hidden everywhere, and there's no reason to find them! This is the 
 reason you should rent it. The other problem with the gameplay are that it is too easy. You can 
 massacre a dozen people without breaking a sweat.
  
  Controls - 9.5
  
  The controls are amazing. They aren't complex, but the cool part is that it allows you to do so 
 much. The square, triangle, circle and X buttons do two things each, and there's of course the 
 combinations. You can pick up a controller, play this game for the first time, and look like your 
 a pro at it.
  
  Story - 8.5
  
  The story is nice, but quite convoluted and too confusing. Also, you probably won't get to read 
 all the emails until you've beat the game at least once.
  
  Bottom Line
  
  With no multiplayer, repetitiveness taken to extremes, and a confusing story, I say rent it. It 
 isn't worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermaki
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying Creed is a good game that fell short of my expiations. I'll break it down. 
 I am  way through the game, (memory 5) , so I feel I've played enough to express my opinions.
 
  
  Visually: This game is cannot be touched. The scenery is beautiful and the game forces you to look 
 at it all. The cities are developed well and they are easy to get to know and to maneuver around 
 in. They all have their own nuances that set them apart from another. Simply put, this game looks 
 awesome.
  
  Controls: When you free roaming the controls are simple and they are easy to use. It took me a 
 little while to get used to it because I haven't played a game like it. However, when you are climbing 
 buildings things get tricky and you have to fine-tune what you're doing. Here's my First Complaint. 
 The fighting controls, which are not that complicated, are very frustrating. You are always fighting 
 at least 3 people at a time and I cannot concentrate my efforts and fight accurately. There just 
 not smooth and you're always on the defensive.
  
  Game play: The storyline is so deep and mysterious that you can't help but continue playing just 
 so you can figure it all out. The "real world" game is rather boring but important to the story. 
 The real fun comes from the ancient world; you just know you can't trust anyone.
  The A. I. in this game is really good. The fighting is on the easy side but it's not like you can 
 dominate everyone. The weapons are used well by the fighters and if you get out of rhythm you can 
 get smoked. I will state that the beggars DO get really annoying but you learn to ignore them. 
 During cut scenes people are running into me and talking so much that it's hard to even hear whom 
 I'm talking to. 
  My Second Complaint, and it's my greatest problem with the game, is the camera. I hate the camera. 
 It's never in the right place and when you moving at high speed you are constantly moving blind. 
 Also you continually jump places due to the camera not being up to speed. Also you are constantly 
 looking through plants, walls, huts, and wood. The camera problem is why I rated this game lower; 
 I hate it.
  As others have said, you do continually do the same things over and over again. That really doesn't 
 bother me that much because the scenery does change and the weapons change. I use the repetition 
 to fine-tune my fighting skills and look into the cities and explore rooftops. There are however 
 100's (literally) of flags to collect that I know I will not take the time to do. That to me is 
 too mundane and repetitive.
  
  Over all: I would recommend this game to others. It has it's flaws but the story and visuals make 
 worth buying, you have to see it to believe it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MHF_DEMON
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  In Assassin's creed the ancient cities feel alive and real as the AI independently go about thier 
 buisness. I was completely immersed and personally felt that I was the assassin and when playing 
 in HD you completely lose yourself. Except for a few glitches such as having a hawk land inside 
 you and a strange ending this game was seemlessly produced. Great job ubisoft! If sony kicked out 
 more games like this for the PS3 then they would definitly get their sales up. After my number 
 on favorite The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion this is the second best PS3 game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_brooks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is an awesome game. the graphics are truely stunning and some of the best ive ever 
 seen everrrr. this game is a must have and a must play.
  
  there are a few problems though if you play it for abou 4 hours it starts to get a little repetitive. 
 also there a a few minor glitches and the game freezes every now and then.
  
  all together it is a great game and is definately worth you while to play. cant really think of 
 anything elso to say so im just filing up space. sorry soz sowwy great game fantastic graphics 
 superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hip-hop-cola2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed. Visually, the game is beautiful with flawless movement as you free run across 
 roof tops. Vast environments with viewing spots, take your breath away as you look across a kingdom. 
 The game is close to free roaming however you are pushed in the right direction.
  It has a uncanny resemblance to "GUN", however it shouldn't disappoint as the game is quite long 
 if you're not trying to do a speed run.
  Combat flows as well as the climbing. I've seen many people call it button bashing. This just isn't 
 true. The combat is all about timing, this may sound boring however as you must always be paying 
 attention, your drawn in, giving you the feeling that you're the one performing the dance sword 
 play when you've only pressed one button. Repetitive? Not for me.
  The game isn't without its flaws. Its hard not to be judging, iv rated it so high as I don't think 
 its fair to fail the game over these things. Those expecting a true "assassin" feel may be disappointed. 
 The game pretends it's stealthy when it's nothing of the sort. So far I've never seen any chance 
 to kill a target unseen. There's not much choice on approaching the targets, unlike the "hitman" 
 games. For me this is a huge flaw but like I said, it's unfair to judge the game (which is full 
 of fun) because it didn't do what I expected.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Ru1ez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The ending is a little confusing and i saw some glitches but over all i thought the game was 10 
 times better than oblivion the elder scrolls. Assassins Creed would be a little hard for a first 
 time gamer but over all it was ok in difficulty, it could have been a lot harder than it was. At 
 the end fight once you knew what to do it was easy. I liked the fact that you could kill anyone 
 you wanted to even though you lost syncronization when you kill innocent citizens. Over all the 
 game was just plain fun and exicting. I loved it!, and cant wait for the next one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andressaravia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ever since Thief, (the very first of the series) , no other game has been capable of transmiting 
 this feeling of urgent secrecy, within such an immersive world. Assassin's Creed excels at letting 
 you be a part of this universe in the Middle Ages, right in the main target cities of the crusades 
 while unwinding a global conspiracy that continues up to the present times. Perfectly balances 
 stealth and action, combat and guile, without loosing your interest or falling into a mindless 
 shooter or irrelevant "filler" quests that plague lesser examples of the genre. This is a perfectly 
 balanced game for those seeking not only an outstanding and enjoyable game but also a complete 
 entertainment experience, Bravo!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teliko_Hat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  pretty deadly game. it's got a decent interesting storyline and plenty odd bits if you want to 
 just have some fun. the fact you can climb aaanything amazed me. no game that im aware really borthered 
 with that. and the fighting scenes actually take effort and timing as opposed to retarded button 
 bashing which is always deadly. good choice of weapons. not the kind of game you get stuck on every 
 hour or so. the towns are so big you could be occupied in just exploring or even helping the public. 
 if they made a second one, id be first in line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_leathal_kill
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  wow its soooooooooo amazing!!!!!, yh like i said i have played better. basicly its not what everyone 
 expected it to be but still its amazing.
  i havnt finshed yet im on memory block 5 though.
  the graphics....... OMG!!!........ i have never seen graphics like that, fantastic.
  the detail 
 of the shadow is.............. wow! altiar's clothes and buildings are great!. sadly i havnt expirienced 
 the game on HDMI or blueray in that case.
  But even with out its unexplanably  
 wasting space.
  
  wow its soooooooooo amazing!!!!!, yh like i said i have played better. basicly its not what everyone 
 expected it to be but still its amazing.
  i havnt finshed yet im on memory block 5 though.
  the graphics....... OMG!!!........ i have never seen graphics like that, fantastic.
  the detail 
 of the shadow is.............. wow! altiar's clothes and buildings are great!. sadly i havnt expirienced 
 the game on HDMI or blueray in that case.
  But even with out its unexplanably  
 wasting space.
  
  wow its soooooooooo amazing!!!!!, yh like i said i have played better. basicly its not what everyone 
 expected it to be but still its amazing.
  i havnt finshed yet im on memory block 5 though.
  the graphics....... OMG!!!........ i have never seen graphics like that, fantastic.
  the detail 
 of the shadow is.............. wow! altiar's clothes and buildings are great!. sadly i havnt expirienced 
 the game on HDMI or blueray in that case.
  But even with out its unexplanably  
 wasting space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgame78
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed, you play as altair a historical assassin in israel. weapons, graphic and movement 
 are this games strong point yet it is highly overrated! the storyline is a bit mucked up, the fights 
 are not intense enough and the free roam is not wide enough to truly explore the realistic city 
 due to barriers stopping u from going any further. the games missions are fun and thrilling but 
 then you begin to realise the levels are all really similar and repitive and becomes boring. my 
 advice is to buy this game if you have any leftover money not as a 1st buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narib
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Assassin's creed is an awesome game with great graphic , great sound and the most important a very 
 fun gameplay, is higly addictive and i totally recommend it for christmas is an excelent present. 
 But like in all games it had 3 mistakes, the first it have a very strange ending, second for me 
 it was easy they had to do the game a little bit more dificult and elevate the AI, and the last 
 and less important i think that Altair had to swim i die a lot of times because i felt into the 
 water. But leaving that is a great game i had to congratulate Jade Raymond for this great game 
 and for be so beautiful. (i love you) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooklynsez
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed..... so beautiful... yet so boring! Like so many of us I waited and counted the 
 days for the release of this "game to end all games" I tried to like it, I tried to immerse myself 
 into it, but it simply left me wishing and wanting so much more. Altair handled perfectly and that 
 was part of the problem, there was no challenge! If he was in near proximity to the building, the 
 ledge, the tree, he landing perfectly, judgement and agility was not your accomplishment, Altair 
 simply could not miss because he was created "intuitively". 
  
  It was for the most part reptitious and confusing, over and over doing the same things in similar 
 environments where only the city's name had been changed. I found the fighting tedious and at times 
 non-responsive. It was a slow moving game and I found myself mounting my steed and simply riding 
 wildly around the country side just to feel free! The mapping was absolutely terrible and added 
 to the confusion of the missions... moving your marker along and watching the numbers decrease in 
 order to find your destination was a real distraction and it made it difficult to be able to appreciate 
 the scenery around you. 
  
  The premise was hoaky to say the least! A game set in the unrest of the Holy Land would have been 
 meaty enough without the anime characterizations and graphics that set the game into motion.
  
  I am sorry... no one wanted to love and boast about Ubisofts Assassin's Creed more that I did... but 
 alas it left me cold and disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trygvetd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  When you start the game, after witing the long time for the first loading to be complete, you are 
 in  and then you are in a cave killing an old 
 man. From there on you begin you're adventure. My first mission was to stop some templars enter 
 Masyaf, the stronghold for the Assassin's and then i was sent out to kill a man, Tamir a lunatic 
 weapon merchant, but before i can do the job i have to investigate how to do it, and doing that 
 9 times, which is the number of assassinations you have to do, can be a little repetitive, but 
 you will enjoy every second anyway. Back to Tamir the lunatic, i've just finished investigating, 
 i rooftop-jump to the place he should be and gets immediately into a interactive cutscene where 
 i can still move while the talking unfolds. After the talking Tamir inspects the merchant stalls, 
 and evil as i am i stab him in the back with my hidden blade, cold and extremely cool, then the 
 guards go crazy, and each and every single of them is eager to stick their swords into my stomach, 
 myself not very eager for this i run to the bureau, where i get my missions, and clarify that i 
 have killed Tamir. And so it goes on 8 times more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  
  Its fair to say that I like many others was really looking forward to AC and chose to get hold 
 of the PS3 version of the game. Much of what I'll say has been been said before in many forms and 
 forums. I'm going to start on the parts of the game that I didn't like, enjoy, annoyed me first. 
 First up is the glitching and incredibly annoying game freezes. These really started to p**s me 
 off as it was always at a critical time before I had saved. Having to reboot the console was a 
 pain and having to restart long passages of play really pushed my buttons. Thankfully however a 
 patch resolved this and all was well. Secondly there is a LOT of repeatition in the game structure 
 and play. Which after a while can leave you feeling a little bored. However the compelling nature 
 of the story and desire to complete all the Assassinations spurs you on. A little more variety 
 maybe in the different types of tasks would have been a real plus. Whilst there's no doubt that 
 Altair is a skilled killer he has very limited sword fighting kills and moves. Now this may all 
 seem a little petty as overall the game is stunning. The visuals and game mechanics, especially 
 in our Hereos climbing and movements, are truely amazing and almost lifelike. The production values 
 are 1st class all round and are currently a benchmark of whats possible. The assassinations and 
 killing moves are gruesomely satisfying and make you want to complete your missions. I can see 
 why this title will be part of a trilogy and look forward to the next installment with minor tweaks 
 and improvements to make it a true classic title. One of the games of the year no doubt. Let the 
 killing begin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyflip
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  I was one of them users on this side who followed the game close and watched every video released 
 related to the game. I was very excited and I was predicting this game to be one of the finest 
 this year and especially for PS3. 
  
  The first hour of experience with Assassin's Creed is absolutely amazing. The graphics are stunning, 
 the plot seems very interesting and indeed twisted. The controls, game-play and interface seems 
 very solid and did I mention the graphic? 
  
  The whole climb-feature is priceless and all the three cities are incredible detailed.
  
  Okay, 
 so what makes me put this only for 7.5?
  
  I don't understand how you can base a game on the same 4 actions in every damn mission/city? Pick-pocket 
 some random guy for information, smack some random guy for information, assassinate some random 
 templar for information & eavesdrop some random guy for information.
  
  Besides that you can gather all sorts of flag for no reason at all, you can rescue citizens all 
 over the city and you can climb towers to get an overview over the city.
  
  They could at least add some variations to the way to rescue citizens and give them more lines. 
 It is like the same 2 lines you get every time you rescue someone.
  
  I also spotted a few flaws in the logic of the game, which annoyed me a lot.
  
  First of all 
 when you are in the kingdom, the guards instantly spot you are an assassins IF you pass by them 
 with high speed. Next up - when you are inside the cities you are the only guy, besides the guards, 
 who carries weapons. And they are still like "wow - who slaughtered these 10 men?" while a guy 
 with two swords and knives all over pass by them with his arm crossed. And when you pick-pocket 
 some guy for information, they instantly discover they have lost their so pressure letter/note 
 or what ever. And instead of going all nuts and yell "Hey! I got robbed!!" they are like "aw damn... 
 oh well.. lala". 
  
  The main thing is to assassinate these targets and that also seems pretty much the same. I think 
 they could learn a thing or two from the Hitman series to be honest. 
  
  Another thing is the counter-attack move you get early in the game. That actually gives you power 
 enough to overcome 100 guards. 
  
  The hype was big on this one and so was the disappointment.
  
  Though, the storyline seems 
 very interesting and if Ubisoft manage to add some variation to the game-play, I will give the 
 2nd release a chance too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barney3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  First, The graphics in this game are awsome, and the gameplay is just as impressive... but the 
 story is extremely short, the limited side missions are extremely repetitive, and their are some 
 minor graphics issues. You will enjoy stealth kills, fighting and running from guards, but you 
 wont enjoy it very long. It took me about 6 hours to complete all the main missions in the game, 
 and then it was over. This game is worth a rental because you can finish it in 2 days, but definately 
 not worth owning. I have already sold my copy back. I don't mind repetition too much, but the least 
 they could do is make them say different things, and this game relies on it for the core of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I originally would've given Assassin's Creed a 9.5 but my game save got currupted and i had to 
 start all over from memory block 5 to 0. But, the fact that i played it right away after this happened 
 showed me this game really caught my interest, or frustration. Either way, the game is beautiful 
 and interesting. Different from anything out there right now. The length is made decent by uncuttable 
 cut scenes and long distances to travel. It does get repetitve but just running around the cities 
 can be a fun experience. But the headache i got from this game could not keep my original score. 
 But frustations did pay off with an interesting cliffhanger with many new historical and controversial 
 ideas to cover in the next game or two. Assassin's Creed is a one of a kind game and a must own 
 for every PS3 owner. Next up for me is Uncharted: Drake's Fortune... stay tuned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroLynx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing has great graphics and weapons. You will probably will never get bored of playing 
 this game even after you pass it. As I said before this game should be on everybody's wish list 
 and since it's almost Christmas you should send a letter to Santa Claus asking for this game LOL... 
 but seriously this game is a must buy. Assassins Creed is rated mature so its highly not recommended 
 for children. I highly reccomend this game for the Play Station 3 but thats my opinion so it really 
 doesen't matter for what platform you get it for as long as you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Set in the 12th century this free-roaming Assassins game is a must have game for the PS3.
  
  Ill start of with the bad points. Missions get a little bit repitive. The Guards can get annoying.
 
  
  
  That is about it, the rest of the game is fantastic, huge free-roaming city to have fun in, amazing 
 graphics and wonderfull gameplay. The game is so complex yet it is pretty easy to pick up. Alot 
 of people moan about the story, I dont see the complaint the story seems fine to me. The game is 
 a decent length but even after the story is over you can still have a great time free-roaming, 
 there are many other objectives and things to collect, this game will still be fun in years to 
 come, leading right up untill AC two comes out.
  
  Overall a true next gen game, amazing character designe and an amazing game, well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KengoK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing from the start to the very end! Not without its minor issues... anyway from 
 the start you'll feel troubled by the controls but after 15 min or so you'll feel like you played 
 this game for ages. The storyline is great and very addictive you want to play more and more just 
 to find out what will happen next! Also after you kill the target you will get smt new for your 
 Assassin... ability or items... so you'll never feel left out. The issues that I mentioned before 
 are some times annoying.
  Like when you kill a guard near another guard in a middle of nowhere you'll probably hear smt like 
 this  whose done this! I mean it's obvious right...
  It's not the last issue that I've encountered. There are also some minor graphical problems but 
 nothing to worry about.
  Anyway the game is without a doubt a game of the year so don't rent it just buy it, you won't regret 
 it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anewperfectday
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is SO fun from start to the middle. However, eventually you'll begin to see the big repetition 
 that you'll have to face throughout the game. I wish there would be more things that'll get your 
 heart pumping like horse chases or something. 
  
  The good is that there IS enough heart pumping situations and difficult is perfect! A few bugs 
 but I couldn't ask for more. Well, I wanted him to throw his hood over himself at the end but you 
 can tell there is going to be a sequel.
  
  Graphics are perfect. The maps are huge! Get this game and you won't regret it! I promise you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirjake118
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  The thing that most impressed me about Assassin's Creed was the sheer level of detail and commitment 
 put in by Ubisoft to create an immersive, living breathing world. Everything from merchants calling 
 out above the noise of the crowd, desperately trying to sell their goods, to huge view points revealing 
 the beautifully crafted city below all add to the highly believable world around you. Free running 
 is an absolute joy and the simple controls will have you leaping from rooftop to rooftop in no 
 time. Combat is a little more complex which works well, you'll be able to take down an ocean of 
 angry guards with relative ease. Onto the assassinations. There is nothing more thrilling than 
 the moment you kill the target, the crowd explodes into a flurry of panic as guards chase you through 
 the narrow streets, you can either break their line of sight or simply fight them all to get away. 
 The sci-fi element to the game delivers an intersting twist, even though you often don't want to 
 leave the Third Crusade and come back to present day. 
  
  The only real problem I have is the missions to get to the assassination. These involve pickpocketing, 
 eavesdropping, interrogation and a performing a task for a fellow assassin. The missions are fun 
 the first few times, but get repetitive quickly as the game progresses. Some cut-scenes often go 
 on for too long but this is only a very minor flaw.
  
  Overall Assassins Creed delivers an incredibly unique and exhilarating experience that keeps you 
 immersed in the world of the assassins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmaster13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft's latest game has been highly anticipated over the months beforehand, hyping itself up 
 with the prospect of interesting gameplay and shining graphics, and as Kane and Lynch managed to 
 just miss, Assassin's creed is spot on, save a few minor flaws.
  
  The game takes place in the third crusade, when the conflict between Saladin and Richard are at 
 it's peak. You play as Altair, an Assassin working for political motives on behalf of Al Mualim, 
 a copy of Hassasn-i-Sabbah, the original creator of the infamous Hashashin. The game focuses on 
 the Assassination of 9 key players in the crusade, from slave traders, to City Rulers, in the 3 
 key cities of the time. Acre, Damascus and Jerusalem, all of which are based on historical documents 
 of the time to make it as realistic as possible.
  
  Gameplay was always going to be hard to get correct with this game, being completely new, however 
 Jade Raymond and her team have created an easy to handle control system and flowing animation to 
 give a brilliant feel to the movement. Crowd interaction is not as big as they made out, and you 
 can easily pass the game spending 90% on rooftops, using the free running provided to quickly and 
 easily pass through the city.
  
  There are a few issues however with the gameplay. The fighting has an interesting system, and some 
 brilliantly brutal animations, but the fact that it's so easy to kill 20 or more guards takes away 
 somewhat from the realism. Saying this however, it has never really seemed a problem to me, as 
 the fighting system made this process quite slow and filled the moments with suspense.
  
  Another common complaint has been the fact Altair is unable to swim, however, this leads back to 
 realism. Anybody who has a basic knowledge of the society and superstition of the third crusade 
 era will know that swimming was thought to be a sign of witchcraft. Another factor being the Altair 
 carries 2 swords, and a chain-mail would mean that even if he could genuinely swim, the weight 
 of his equipment would be too much.
  
  Freezing does sometimes take away from the gameplay. This game has a habit to freeze mid jump, 
 however, this rarely occurs, and always fixes itself after a few seconds.
  
  Ubisoft Montreal has spent a huge amount of time on the world, and it is obvious why. It's huge, 
 with four cities and a huge kingdom in between them, and each one filled with huge amounts of details, 
 all of which correspond to the free running aspect of the game. The detail even goes into cracks 
 in buildings, where you can grab onto the crack as a foothold to access a higher place. Each city 
 has it's own distinctive look, such as Acre, which is the only city to have been seized by the 
 crusaders shows obvious signs of struggle, including dead bodies at the gate, and the fact that 
 there are only crusader soldiers inside.
  
  Assassin's creed is a huge amount of fun to play, the combat is fun and bloody, the free running 
 is enjoyable, and the assassinations shows the tactical side to the gameplay, all of which add 
 to a huge amount of fun. However, unfortunately, repetition rears it's ugly head.
  
  Each assassination has 3 stages, the planning, the kill and the escape. Planning involves finding 
 information from the city citizens secretly. You have to interrogate, pickpocket and eavesdrop 
 information on your target, fun the first few times, and often interesting but the fact that you 
 have to do the same thing so many times leaves the fact that it does get boring. Saving citizens 
 is the same. You can help citizens being hassled by the guards, gaining rewards in the form of 
 vigilantes, who will stop guards pursuing you, or scholars, who provide a moving hiding spot, useful 
 for gaining access to restricted areas. Each time, there are 3 or 4 guards who require killing, 
 providing the repeat of the last time you did it, even to the point where the dialogues of the 
 citizens are repeated. 
  
  With all that said, missing the storyline is unforgivable. Assassin's creed provides an interesting 
 storyline to those without an inquisitive mind, but to those who like to think into philosophical 
 ideas, social or religious. provides a story which will stimulate your mind to the ideas shown. 
 Some of these shown is the argument of ignorance versus knowledge, or the main argument is whether 
 mankind can ever be at peace with free will. It explores the ideas of Al Mualim, showing a different 
 meaning to Hassan-i-Sabbah's phrase "Nothing is true, everything is permitted", whilst providing 
 an interesting show of conflict between cults, (like Templars) or religions.
  
  With all that said, Assassin's creed is definitely a game to buy is you own a Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game, of course the day after that patch was released that is supposed to 
 alleviate the random crashing of the PS3. It only crashed like 5 times the whole play-thru for 
 me, so not too bad. (But kind of a surprise that a game can manage to totally crash out the PS3 
 resulting in it needing to be rebooted)
  
  This game reminded me of the Sid Meier's Pirates game, with that feeling of a collection of mini-games 
 tied together. And just like the Pirates game, I was totally addicted to this game. I kept want 
 to stop playing for the day, but then like eating potato chips, I found myself playing on wanting 
 to complete just one more task. And then another, and another, etc.... and then another hour went 
 by.
  
  The cities felt so alive, and yet empty at the same time, it's hard to describe. But they sure 
 are beautiful, and it is very fun to go sprinting over the rooftops.
  
  The biggest thrill for me was riding in on my horse, running over everybody, and crashing the gate 
 of the city, running in, and looking back at like 30 city guards chasing after me on the roof tops. 
 Very exciting!
  
  And at the end of the game, after doing basically the same set of tasks 10 times, I really felt 
 like the master of my character. I normally hate fighting games where you have to learn a bunch 
 of button combos, but this game I actually learned them and how to use them. It felt very satisfying.
 
  
  But even after feeling totally in tune with the gameplay mechanics, the story and everything that 
 tied the game together was kind of unsatisfying. When the ending itself comes, I found myself in 
 disbelief that they actually ended it that way. It's like some Project Manager came along to the 
 developers and said "end it now cause it's got to ship", and that's what they did. They tried to 
 fill in the story-line gaps with e-mails that you can read, but that was a pretty weak gimmick.
 
  
  In Summary - definitely worth it, even if it was a little light in loafers. Looking forward to 
 part 2.
  
  PS: Please get rid of that woman's voice telling you stupid "tips" while you waiting for the game 
 to load - oh that was annoying!
  
  PPS: Please don't make the game any harder. I see some people complaining that the game was too 
 easy for them, but I have to say for me it was perfect. In fact if it was any harder, I would have 
 hated it! So keep the difficulty the same please - just add more variety and story. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jam96h
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  assassins creed is set in the year 1191 in the holy land during the third crusade. the main character 
 is a man called Altair who is set the task of assassinating 9 people. the graphics for this game 
 are amazing it almost looks real, but there is a downside to this spectacular game and thats the 
 really long unskipable cutscenes. as soon as you put the disk in the console it probably won't 
 come out until you have completed it, you will surly love the realism and the action pact story 
 line. Assassins Creed is truly a must have game for PS3 owners!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLL_SuiTed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I think that Assasins Creed is just amaing this game kept me so entertained in the time i was playing 
 it that i never felt it was getting repetitive. i was sad when it ended because i instantly wanted 
 more. My only complains in the game was that it ended too soon for me and that the story was a 
 little bit confusing but hey thats why we need sequals right? And juding by the ending there will 
 be a sequal whitch is a great thing
  
  deffinatly a must own for 2007 and hands down probably the most originaly great non online game 
 ive played with lovable characters that will stay with you for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk1180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game the controls and the graphics are on the point for the PS3 havent seen the 360 
 version but I would guess it is pretty good. I have played through the game once and it is somewhat 
 difficult at times and the story can drag on alittle but you can get passed that and have fun with 
 the game especailly the action mode! A good buy for this holiday season to add to your PS3 library. 
 I would say though the replay abiltity or this game moight not be that high because to me it was 
 kind of short only about 10-20 hours at tops. But if you are a true gamer and want to beat a game 
 on every diffculty to show how badass you are then give it another go around. I does live up to 
 most of the hype that it has gotten since E3. I give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazgul9910
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was definately worth the wait. Although the ending is a little awkward, especially if 
 they dont plan on making Creed 2. A few parts are kind of confusing but they do a good job explaining. 
 The graphics are also pretty amazing and the people in the streets are pretty impressive because 
 they all react differently to you. Also, if you dont like fighting in the beginning, just wait 
 for counter attack, you'll see. This game also has a nice assassination system. You'll need to 
 do a certain amount of investigating ( eavesdropping, interrogating, pickpocketing) before you can 
 strike major assassinations. They made exploring interesting with flags hidden in places all over 
 the game and some elite soldiers waiting for you to find and defeat them. All in all, this game 
 owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Honestly, who wasn't excited about the release of Assassin's Creed, I'll tell you, NOBODY! The 
 day I bought my PS3 was the day I bought Assassin's Creed, was it the best choice, I hope so, if 
 not then I just wasted some green paper, jeez. It has been about two to three weeks sine that faithful 
 day, and now I have finished Assassin's Creed. Does the game really live up to the hype, or is 
 it just a failed assassination, here is my review of Assassin's Creed.
  
  (5 out of 5) Story: Assassin's Creed is about a man named Altair, one of the top Assassins of Masyaf. 
 He has broken all 3 tenets of the Assassin's Creed, and because of that he is stripped of his rank. 
 Now it is up to you to gain back Altair's lost honor by performing a series of assassinations for 
 Al Mualim, leader of the Assassins. The story doesn't sound much, but behind the scenes there is 
 a bigger picture going on, and for those of you who haven't played the game I don't want to spoil 
 the surprise. Of course you may have already heard of the twist, but oh well, too bad for you.
 
  
  (4 out of 5) Gameplay: Assassin's Creed is an open world full of surprises. You have the freedom 
 to explore, murder innocents (if you want) , throw annoying beggar ladies on the floor (what joy) , 
 and beat the crap out of guards. In order to move on in the game, you need to do assassinations 
 on specific targets. In order to do that though you must go to the Assassin's bureau, find a view 
 point, view the point (hahaha) , investigate the area, and assassinate the little bugger. This can 
 get pretty repetitive, but the story helps keep the game interesting. You are also able to set 
 marker point on your map so you don't get lost. What I love about Assassin's Creed is that you 
 can climb on almost anything! If it looks climbable it probably is, Altair's movement up tall structures 
 looks believable and realistic, what even cooler is that you only need to use two buttons to perform 
 all of those acrobatic moves. The fighting is fairly simplistic, keep tapping a button until you 
 kill your opponent, which is basically it. The counter kills are awesome to watch and easy to pull 
 off. The enemy A. I. can be pretty dumb at time, while you murder one of their fellow companions; 
 the others just sit there and watch, its quiteentertaining actually, for me of course. If you 
 assassinate a guard right in front of another guard you don't even get caught its pretty awkward. 
 The only time when the guards are extremely smart is when they are chasing you. It's like they 
 gained another pixilated brain or something. Gameplay wise there were only two things that bothered 
 me, the fact that Altair, a skilled Assassin, couldn't swim and the way the game sometimes froze 
 while I was playing, I'm not sure if it was the PS3 or the game but it was very inconvenient especially 
 when you were performing an Assassin.
  
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: The in game graphics are gorgeous. Every city is beautiful, detailed, and 
 full of life. All the small details in the game such as the merchant stands bring the Third Crusades 
 back to life. What's even cooler is that everything in the game you see is based on historical 
 accuracy, so the game is kind of like a time machine. The way the crowds move, the way they react 
 to what you do, its heart stopping. There are a few glitches here and there, but that can easily 
 be forgiven.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Sound: The sound effects in the game are realistic, from the clash of swords, to 
 the destruction of merchant stands. The voice acting is well done in the game, it almost felt like 
 I was watching a top-notch movie. The thing that got me was the crowd, and this is in a bad way. 
 Sure when you start playing its fun to see what they say about the things you do, but when they 
 say the same thing, over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over again it can be really 
 annoying. The sound quality is still nice though.
  
  Overall: Assassin's Creed is an awesome experience like any other, great story, open ended gameplay, 
 amazing visuals, outstanding sound quality; this game almost has it all. Sure there are a few things 
 that could have been done better and nevertheless fixed, but those things don't stop Assassin's 
 Creed from being on the best games of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyhunt1090
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  the game is very confusing. you never know where to go. and its always the same thing over and 
 over. spy on this guy easdrop on that guy save the viligers. i pre ordered this game and waited 
 in like for an hour and i was very disapointed. its super fun for about 2 hours then its just very 
 repetitive. im not saying its bad. its defenetly next gen. but i dont know if i would go out and 
 buy it right away. i would defenetly listen to some other reviews that didnt like it to much. lots 
 of people just say they like it cuase everyone else is saying they love it. and they dont want 
 to be the barrer or bad news lol. so im not saying it sucks its decent but its not some crazy game 
 thats gunna suck you in like world of war craft did. im just saying rent it first play it for a 
 couple hours and if your still having fun go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscled_arbiter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  I know, I am reviewing this game form the standpoint of: "if you play a game like this once, twice, 
 heck, three times before"... Well, shouldn't we be bored by now? It's got great graphics and all 
 the voice actors are great EXCEPT for the LEAD Altaiir's voice (horrible casting) . But what bored 
 me about 4 hours into gameplay is there is no real variety. You find a guy to kill and kill him. 
 Basically that is the game. Sure, you ride a horse to get from Damascus or Accra, but in all honesty 
 it is a boring trip. I love new innovative content and this was just a splashy presentation of 
 something we all have played before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Being a avid gamer age 33. In all my gameing years. I have never experienced such an emmersive 
 game. 
  
  Graphics. They are photo realistic. From the realistic character animation and crowd. The huge, 
 vast landscapes. Your main character is very highly detailed. The npcs, crowd act very realistic. 
 Every detail is breathetakeing. 
  
  Controls. The controls are very easy to learn. You move with ease, as you jump, or climb areas. 
 The sword fighting, hand to hand is very fun. Nothing like othoer games. The counter system is 
 the best I have seen. Very well animated. The stealtlh system is also very detailed. 
  
  Gameplay. There is alot of variety. Each missions is different, different areas, different tasks. 
 Its the kind of game you loose yourself in. From realistic crowds. To investigating your mission 
 targets. You can be stealthy, or just go in there fighing. 
  
  Sound. The sound is very realistic. You can hear npcs, characters giving speaches in town. Or guards 
 arresting npcs you have to save. High in the sky. You can hear the eagle fly above. And the crowd 
 below. 
  
  Conclusion. As a gamer I have waited for a perfect game. And in past its just been this myth. However. 
 This is a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_slug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has a distinct uniqueness gained by its realistic combat system and its extremely 
 open free running. This is all achieved in the historically accurate setting of 1191 AD; but an 
 interesting, if not confusing, storyline can sometimes detract from the overall experience.
  
  This game might be quite different from what you were expecting, as there is a sci-fi plot 
 twist to the entire game's premise. The only real reason you can call this a twist though is because 
 of their advertising campaign. While you'd expect the whole thing to be set at the time of the 
 Third Crusade through the eyes of a mediaeval assassin, you actually start the game in present 
 day as a character called Desmond.
  
  He has been kidnapped by a company, Abstergo, as they need to use him for unknown purposes. All 
 you do know is a rather arrogant scientist wants to access your ancestor's memories, which is easy 
 thanks to some technology they've acquired called the Animus. The concept they're putting over 
 is that we store our ancestors' memories genetically and this machine can extract and play them. 
 However, they can't get to the specific memory they want so they throw you into the nearest one 
 to that date and it's up to you to play through these memories to the point of in which they're 
 interested. This conveniently consists of nine assassinations and a conspiracy plot.
  
  So for the most part of the game you will be playing as Altar, a ruthless assassin who, 
 at the start of his story, breaks the rules of his creed resulting in demotion and a nice stab 
 wound to accompany it. You'll lose your weapons and have to start earning your ranks back before 
 you can have some little variation for the sword fighting. Even though you really are quite restricted 
 with your few amounts of weapons, it still gives you some different choices on how react to situations. 
 Once you've got them all back, which isn't that long into the game, you will have your long sword, 
 short sword, throwing knives and of course your wrist blade for assassinations. You will also learn 
 fighting techniques like the vital counter attack accompanied with dodge and step.
  
  The control scheme for your moves is a surprisingly effective way of keeping it simple, even though 
 it might take you some time to get used to it. You have different stances that then change your 
 buttons to different commands. In your default passive stance you can do things like blend in with 
 the crowd to try and avoid suspicion from the guards or do silent assassinations, which hopefully 
 no one will notice; even if you are in a crowded street corner. Then by holding down either R1 
 or RT you can swap to an aggressive stance, where blend will become sprint/free running and your 
 assassinations will involve a bit more aerobatics for a non-subtle approach.
  
  The free running system works well, but is maybe a bit bland. You will literally hold down the 
 button and run at whatever it is you want to climb. That said, you will have to look at what you 
 can grab onto, as every building is climbable, but the level designers have done an amazing job 
 of making it look authentic. You will also need to move the analogue stick quite a bit when climbing 
 the taller architectures for the purposes of getting to a sticking out brick or similar in the 
 certain direction you point. The climbing is obviously a major part of the game due to the fact 
 you will spend most your time doing it; to either get away from enemies or explore the map more.
 
  
  Once past the low learning curve to master the basic controls, you'll definitely want to go out 
 shanking the many NPCs clustering the cities. However, this will be punished with a steep health 
 loss as you're a professional and wouldn't go round stabbing innocent women with pots on their 
 heads now would you?
  
  The heavy use of NPCs really is what makes this game feel so alive, though. There is a fantastic 
 feeling and sound to the human traffic, which you can easily get away from by climbing the nearest 
 building. But even then, passers by will comment on how you're going to get yourself hurt. You 
 will also experience your fair share of beggars, drunks and crazy people while on your travels 
 which will most likely annoy you quite a lot at one time or another, but that is what they are 
 there for. While these people can alert the guards' attention, you also have a counter for that 
 with the ever so useful vigilantes.
  
  You will see many people being harassed, who will continue to be pushed around by guards until 
 you step in and save them. Then the person you saved, in a somewhat over the top fashion, will 
 thank you and you will then get a gang looking out for you in that area, who will grab onto guards 
 during a fight to help you out. You will also be saving Scholars in this manner, which you can 
 then use to pass by undetected with.
  
  When you do first arrive at a city, you will want to go to the Assassin's Bureau, where you will 
 be told who your assassination target is, and some general locations where you can find out the 
 necessary information needed to complete this task. There will be three assassinations in the three 
 cities of Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre, and you will unlock a third more of the map for each assassination 
 you move on to. These are represented as the Poor, Middle and Rich districts.
  
  Once you know where about you're meant to be, you will really want to just look up and find a tall 
 building. There are several view points in each district and once up them, you will see a great 
 view of the city and so this will update your map. Once you've completed one view point, all others 
 will be marked on the map, but you will have to climb every one to unlock the locations of all 
 the information quests plus the available citizens you can save for protection.
  
  For each assassination, you have to complete at least three of the seven optional information gathering 
 quests. These can include limited variations of pick pocketing, interrogations or helping out people 
 before they will talk. You will also have eaves dropping tasks which only require sitting on a 
 bench near some people talking about something they probably shouldn't in the middle of a crowded 
 street anyway. These information quests become the major fall of the game, as it does become rather 
 repetitive quickly, but that is not to say it stops being fun. There is no real reason to complete 
 every objective though, as I experienced no reward for doing all of them besides making the game 
 last longer.
  
  The game is also a bit more restricted than you would expect when it comes to killing your assassination 
 targets. You will only be able to attack your target at one particular time and place, and the 
 variation of killing them really is pretty much climbing up and trying to be subtle or just going 
 in the front door, blades-a-blazing. Sometimes, chases will ensue, which are made much easier with 
 the help of your vigilante friends.
  
  Once you've done what you have to do to take your target down, a cutscene will play involving conversation 
 with your target; this is where a lot of the plot develops. As you take more and more of them down, 
 you will see how they are quite linked until you discover a conspiracy. Though the storyline is 
 quite slow to unravel, it will eventually grip you and carry you through the game if the gameplay 
 alone isn't enough.
  
  Once you've done your deed, you need to get back to the Bureau to report the news, but you can't 
 get in while the guards are alerted and considering the town bell is going off and every guard 
 in the city is looking for you, it's not always easy. But there are plenty of hiding opportunities 
 around the place which can only be used if you first break the line of site any followers have. 
 So diving off of a very tall roof into some hay is one of the more useful ones, and luckily not 
 back breaking. This, of course, is all done with fantastic graphics and a high attention to detail. 
 The PS3 and Xbox 360 versions are practically the same with only minute differences. There is a 
 steadier frame rate on the PS3 version yet slightly better lighting on its 360 counterpart.
  
  Even though almost all of the game plays out really well and is enjoyable until (almost) the 
 very end, it seems to have quite a bit of wasted potential by not allowing more activities to do 
 with the freedom you have around the cities. But as you will have such fun playing this game, you 
 can forgive the unsatisfactory ending the game possesses, which doesn't even give you enough information 
 to raise questions, let alone want answers too.
  
  All in all, though, Assassin's Creed is an addictive and very enjoyable game that will see you 
 through from start to finish. But once the adventure has ended, there isn't much else to do other 
 than wait for the next instalment in the trilogy, which should hopefully leave us with a longer, 
 more satisfying feeling.
  
  See more of my reviews at www. sector7arcade. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsciandra
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a thing of beauty. I say this for a number of different reasonsnone of which are 
 as a direct result of being paid off by Ubisoft to say them. 
  
  First, the setting. No other game has really taken place during the Third Crusade, let alone in 
 cities such as Jerusalem or Damascus. Therefore, right off the bat you are sucked into a World 
 that you haven't experienced yet in a game (Please see: WWII, a 'not so far in the future' future, 
 another planet etc under the word "Redundant") . As a result, you are almost forced to take your 
 time and soak in the visuals. Even riding a horse while traveling between cities can take a couple 
 of hours because of the scenery and the desire to explore the many towns and hamlets that are found 
 in between the larger cities. There is an almost visceral feel to the game, it feels dusty, dirty; 
 you can smell the urine in the streets and death in the alleysThird Crusade urine is especially 
 pungent and goes best with chicken.
  
  Next, the open gameplay. Personally I like to take my time in a game, enjoy the World that the 
 developers created and complete all of the bonus and side tasks. For some reason these days there 
 seems to be two camps when it comes to playing games. One camp that rushes through the game, since 
 the objective is to finish it quickly. The other camp (which I am in) likes to explore, has no 
 problem redoing a level to get it right and has no problem delaying the end of a game that I spent 
 $60 for. I can decide whether I want to move on to the next task, or simply walk around the city, 
 soak in the environment, save a few citizens or climb to the top of all of the viewpoints. In fact, 
 even if I come across my next objective, I don't even have to complete it unless I 'launch' it 
 myself by locking on to the target. If I want to spend 3 hours jumping on rooftops and going into 
 back alleys looking for the many flags that you can collect to unlock memories, I can do that and 
 just immerse myself in the World.
  
  Sound and graphics. Top notch. The first time I came upon Damascus (the first city I traveled to) , 
 the game made a deliberate effort to 'reveal' the city to me in a sweeping vista that totally impressed 
 me. The lighting is superb, including flashes of afternoon sunlight peeking through the clouds 
 for a moment and you can almost feel the heat. The sound of the ambient voices and activities feels 
 realistic and really sucks you in. Climbing to the top of a viewpoint removes all noise from the 
 streets and all you hear is the wind in your ears and the birds flying above you. In fact, even 
 the act of climbing to high points gave me the feeling of height and that I could fall at only 
 moment, adding tension.
  
  As far as the missions are concerned, they are easy enough as you do some investigation leading 
 up to whom your target is going to be. Take them out and run like hellrinse, repeat. In the beginning 
 you can engage is sword fights, counter moves etc, but as you get deeper into the game, you are 
 generally outnumbered and best option is flight and hide. Controls are pretty seamless once you 
 get used to the new 'puppet-master' scheme, which makes it more fun to leap from roof to roof or 
 over obstacles. Then you can decide whether you want to push aside civilians or make your way around 
 them, since either option can have consequences or benefits. You can plan your escape route to 
 run through a neighborhood where you saved a citizen, therefore leaving the vigilantes loyal to 
 you and willing to slow down your pursuers. 
  
  Not a big fan of the sci-fi aspect to the game, but it is an interesting concept and obviously 
 leaves many options open for future AC titles that take place in other eras. I can already see 
 an AC WWII game, or a futuristic game, or one that relates to an early America, or Dynastic China 
 or Japan etclots of options by leaving it open the way it does.
  
  If you like games that require stealth, being tactical, where patience to plan your next move is 
 NOT annoying to you, then you will like this game. If your preference is to blast through a game, 
 beat it and move on, you might get bored with this title. To me it was intended for gamers that 
 like to get immersed in what they are playing and that includes the hours spent just simply looking 
 for and feeling satisfied when you find another flag or one that was cleverly hidden.
  
  Plenty of 'wow' moments and appreciation of the fact that you haven't seen anything like this in 
 a game before. I also have not experienced any frame rate issues like people in the forum complain 
 about and I play on a HD TV with a 60 refresh rate. I highly recommend the game, but it does depend 
 on your gaming preference. I don't like 'spray and pray' games, so I feel like I am using skill 
 to achieve objectives, instead of blind luck, button mashing and frenetic play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skakillers
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a cross between Prince of Persia and Theif. The game is overwhelming pretty 
 but unfortunately that is all that it has going for it, Without giving too much away, you are sent 
 to kill 9 men in three different cities. With each hit you have to gather intel on your target 
 before you can kill him. In the beginning it is awesome; however, byt the 4th guy the game seems 
 repetative. Stealth seems to have a lot to do with it until you realize you can fight your way 
 out of any mass grouping of bad guys. Kill all the men chasing you just resets the alarm so hiding 
 is pointless. The fighting is simple enough to be really fun but its not that hard so getting into 
 a fight tends to be tedious in the end. 
  The biggest problem with the game is that it is too easy. The inteligence that you have to find 
 about your target is useless because you cant choose where to attack your target and in many ways 
 when the stealth take down is the most satisfying the game forces confrontation between many guards. 
 
  Botton Line: Great graphics, voice acting, cut scenes, and story. However, it was way too short, 
 too easy, the end boss is a joke of a boss fight, and the ending was not really an ending at all, 
 it just sets up for a sequal and stops.
  Oh and the extras throught the game (flags everywhere) dont seem to serve a purpose at all. Get 
 them or dont there is absolutely no difference other then one is a large waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Explow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the story: the story is a great tale of an assasin in the dark ages, it is told 
 like a very nice movie in cinema. I think everyone has to agree that this story is wonderfull but 
 still I agree with gamespot that they say there is a confusing ending.
  
  gameplay just fun: go walk around climb buildings, interrogate someone, assasinate, etc. But look 
 out for the guards they are suspicious they will always try to keep an eye on you so try to move 
 carefully through the city. but actually if ur a pretty good player like me (ehem... ) hehe no 
 offence It is just when ur an experienced player (better ? =P) then u easy kill like 20 guards 
 just using block and the counter attack. ok enough about the fighting, I understand why some people 
 say this game is repetive, they say they always need to do the same and that's correctly ( i hate 
 climbing the vieuw towers) but it looks the same but it isn't totaly the same like for example 
 interogate one : sometimes you need to punch the hell out of him in a ally where no one is and 
 sometimes you need o interogate him in the middle of a marketplace when the guards just left, and 
 that is what some people don't see. pff enough gameplay I think u get the point. ah as last for 
 the gameplay, there are some idiots that say that the only thing fun in the game is killing innocents, 
 it can be fun indeed, but they say you can't cause u lose life points then, do u know what I would 
 say to those idiots ? Finish the game then u can kill them.
  
  Ah one thing i dissagree with gamespot and the most player's reviews is the Time Spent Playing. 
 To Date mine was 34 hours and some minutes but gamespot said 10 to 20 hours how the hell do u get 
 all flaggs, investigations, vieuw poins, assinations, etc in 20 hours?? Well i am sure soem people 
 find it kind of boring to find all flaggs but i liked it it is almost the same thing as in GTA: 
 san andreas there u had things like tags. but ok that's my personal opinion.
  
  Ok now the last thing graphics and sound. Ok before I start with that let me do this Dark-Explow 
 bows and say: an honor to ubisoft montreal studios for the perfect graphics and wonderfull voice 
 acting. oke that was that, ok sound first, everything is perfectly at sound you hear beggers 
 beg you for money there is teryffic background music that let you feel that you're in the dark 
 ages it is just great   
  oke that was my review I hope u think it's not that bad :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyjoefound
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  the game play is so smooth and fluid it feels like you are the one running around. it is just a 
 very mesmerizing game and the story has so many twisted it isn't funny and i hope everyone can 
 feel as awesome about this game as i do i just hope that Ubi-Soft keeps up the great work cause 
 this is very influential to other game companies to try and incorporate all the awesomeness is 
 just gonna be hard Altair is the most bad a@@ dude out there i think he is even harder than the 
 chief and i respect all that Bungie has accomplished and all but the possibility for sequels is 
 unconsequential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve812
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  First off, Assassin's creed for PS3 is gorgeous. Right from the beginning the well rendered environments 
 look great on an HD format. Cities like Jerusalem acre and Damascus all look how i imagine a medieval 
 city should look and sound like. The second best aspect of the game is the free running system 
 it is a blast jumping across rooftops and being able to climb almost any feasible wall. The free 
 running feels organic and is a lot of fun for those who like to avoid tedious platforming in their 
 action games. On the other hand, the game play feels somewhat unfinished, and most of the missions 
 feel like repetitive GTA side quests. The enemy Ai is fairly dumb, and the game doesn't do much 
 to reward stealth, as the combat system makes fighting 20 men as easy as fighting three. Zerging 
 your target is most often producing the same result as sneaking up and shanking him. The story 
 is cool, but there is probably a little too much of it. We all know that people should learn to 
 get along, blah blah blah. They could have done without some of the patchiness. After all its a 
 game about killing people in cool ways. Overall its probably worth a rental rather than a purchase. 
 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  It seems as gaming industry is gaining more history as time passes by, there are increasing number 
 of  type of gamers out there. 
  
  Many of these type of gamers consider themselves as hardcore gamers and label games as "games" 
 and if any games attempts to have any type of creativity going by taking away some game-play aspects 
 and replaces it with something unique, they go all berserk and is very quick to put it down for 
 good. 
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of those games that gets quickly put down by these more traditional hardcore 
 gamers for that reason. There really isn't much game-play offered here, and due to that simple 
 reason it is supposed to be this abomination of something that isn't a game and fails as a game. 
 
  
  I beg to differ. Assassins Creed does have it's shares of problems and game-play is certainly the 
 large part of it. It practically doesn't have one. All the elements are there. The controls, environment, 
 graphics, etc etc etc and even went further than other games in terms of game elements with unique 
 interactions with NPCs and freedom of exploration using unique interaction system with the character 
 and his surroundings. However, there simply isn't any objectives to make use of these game-play 
 elements into many different shapes and forms. Assassin's Creed feels more like having an action 
 figure and action figure fortress set. You can move around your action figure all over the set, 
 but the only method of entertaining yourself is to rely on your imagination. 
  
  However, Assassin's Creed does so many things that really separates itself from other games and 
 in few years, we will be talking about this game and how it changed the industry and really pushed 
 this era forward into certain direction. 
  
  First the city is so realistic and natural. It is quite amazing to just watch it. The citizens 
 of each city acts realistically as possible aside from some minor annoying characters that is meant 
 to annoy to give some kind of obstacles in the games. However, what's most impressive is how these 
 NPCs interact with you, the main character. 
  
  You can bump into these NPCs and it will trigger certain reactions. For the first time, how you 
 reaction among these NPCs actually matter for a change. There are certain social boundaries created 
 in this game and outside of such boundaries can trigger you from being noticed by guards. 
  
  This is first game that really made me aware of my social setting within a game. GTA did it 
 a bit, like how cops chase you when you do certain wrong things like murdering cops or something, 
 but in Assassins Creed, they take it further. Just running in front of suspicious guard can trigger 
 their alert. If you think you are doing something odd (except for carrier bunch of knives while 
 wearing suspicious clothing) and something that stands out, the guards will think the same. 
  
  It really is truly unique experience to enjoy and really gives that sense of progress in gaming. 
 People talk about which game makes you feel like you are playing next gen games, and Assassin's 
 Creed is that game. 
  
  Another thing about Assassins Creed is platform game-play. This is how next gen platform games 
 should play. Any walls or anything is something you can interact with. You can use the walls to 
 climb or even walk on top of that narrow space. You see a horizontal pole? You can either swing 
 under it or jump on top of it. It gives absolutely no restriction how you interact with your surroundings. 
 After so many years of Tomb Raiders and figuring out the specific reasons why these walls are placed 
 in certain ways, now you can have complete freedom within the cities you are in. 
  
  If you can just appreciate what the game offers, you are able to enjoy a virtual reality world 
 that is yours to explore. If you just don't think of it as a game where certain goals are in place 
 for you to accomplish, and do some kind of knee jerk reaction type of actions, but just enjoy it 
 as another world you are entering, Assassin's Creed can be unique experience you haven't experienced 
 so far. 
  
  What's better is that Assassin's Creed has quite interesting stories to go with the game. It is 
 quite a shame it doesn't have subtitle options because at times certain conversations are difficult 
 to listen. Still the story goes well with the setting and it can really draw you into that world. 
 
  
  If you can just overlook the repetitive objectives given to you and just enjoy the game in more 
 leisurely pace, you will appreciate what this game is about. Most certainly this game does feels 
 lacking and it seems more of incomplete game that is in progress of making, but for now, just enjoy 
 this unique experience. This is positive direction for gaming industry where everything else seems 
 to be a generic copy of each other. At least Assassins Creed is original. Incompletely and raw 
 game, but an original game which I'd rather play than another refined generic clone of another 
 games. 
  
  Also Assassin's Creed really shines with something else. It breaks the meaning of games and shows 
 the result of what happens when you think outside of the box. Also it shows another door that shows 
 you story telling method that only gaming industry can achieve. Instead of just being another game, 
 Assassin's Creed became a method of expression that haven't been seen before. In other words, it 
 is new form of art.
  
  Now only thing it needs is to be complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob_devitt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Glorious game. Breathtaking graphics and a level of satisfaction form the assasinations that is 
 not that common. In all my time playing games i have never seen one so beautifilly rendered on 
 a console. It is an indication of what is possible in the future. The scale of the game and the 
 level of detail is nothing short of amazing. It is one of the first games on the PS3 that rivals 
 the sumptous graphics found in hign end pc games machines. 
  
  You are so involved in the games that when you are climbing up high to synchronise there can be 
 a slight touch of vertigo and it canbe dizzying watching Altair free run across rooftops especially 
 in Jeruselam with its soaring church spires and slanted arches. You could perceivably just run 
 around the cities collecting flags for hours and not be bored.
  
  The gameplay is also excellent. 
  
  The fighting is well balanced and is quite difficult before 
 you raise through the ranks and gain the skills needed to take on multiple enemies. Also it is 
 a nice touch that the different soldiers in each faction have varying levels of skill. Even within 
 each factions some soldiers are much harder to fight and more prone to landing counters on you 
 than others in the group. This means you cannot pick fights willy nilly. The stealth kills are 
 almost disturbinly satisfying so much so that you will find yourself knifing every guard you see 
 just for the hell of it. Also slowly walking up behind a guard and throwing them off and watching 
 them tumbling down a cliff is a lot of fun. There are no over the top animations here for the stealth 
 kills or counter moves like those in say, Tenchu. Everything about this game is subtle and i think 
 it gains a level of quatlty and class for that.
  
  The storyline is quite engaging and clever. "Plaing" the role of the ancestor in a giant immersive 
 video game is a good idea and is pulled off very well. It is definitely an original story and it 
 does help you get into the game a little easier. Any plot holes or hokey dialogue is quickly dismissed 
 after all despite how i looks it is still a game and not a movie so you can't expect oscar willing 
 screenplays. Generally if a game has passable dialogue and a good story it enhances the enjoyment. 
 this has much more than that so i consider it a bonus.
  
  Saying that its not a 10 out of 10 game. It's barely a 9 out of 10 game. While it is beautiful 
 to look at and to play there is a very frustrating level of repetition throughout the missions. 
 You need to finish a certain amount of investigations before you can seek permission for the assasdination. 
 There are always 2 informer investigations - 1 assasination and 1 flag collection, there is 1 eavesdropping, 
 1 interrogation and 2 pickpocket missions - 1 for the location of the target and 1 for the location 
 of his guards. This never changes and it is incredibly frustrating. Surely they could have come 
 up with more than 4 mission types and they could have varied them a bit better. Maybe a puzzle 
 solving or some genuine investigting would have stirred it up a bit. Also the map pinpoints exactly 
 where everything is (once ou have scaled all of the viewpoints) and it probably would have been 
 more satisfying to maybe have to search for all of the citizens to save or spotted the viewpoints 
 rather than just follow a map straight to them. Also in the time i was playing, which was several 
 hours over a couple of days, i did crash 3 times. Not exactly prompting me to bring the game back 
 as others suggested but not exactly ideal either.
  
  Aprt for those minor and not so minor niggles thois is a trully great game and possibly some vindication 
 for the PS3 owners out there. With this and COD4 and Drakes fortune the future is bright for the 
 console 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sefirat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  This is a game for which we've been waiting for eternity. Hundreds previews, gossips, screens - 
 I can't enumerate those all things right now. But, yeah, it was good time. And this is marvelous 
 game!
  
  Sightseeing Jerusalem, Acre and Damask we are freerunning and doing all this things that we would 
 be able to if we lived in 1191, in the times of third crusade.
  
  Maybe gameplay is in the late parts of game quite "the same" as in the previous (for example the 
 same things to do when we are doing the investigation) , but this game should be brilliant even 
 when we will have only the freerunning system, without a plot.
  
  Great, great and one more time GREAT :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahstar
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed, once thought to be game of the year contender. Good grahpics, great story line, 
 and some neat ideas. With all that you'd think you would have an instant blockbuster, wrong. Dont 
 get me wrong it's not a bad game, but it's probably not what you thought it would be either. The 
 story at times tries to tie into real history and thats one of the cool parts about the game. It 
 makes you wonder, WHAT IF?! The game play on the other hand, the most important part, takes a hit. 
 I find it hard to believe ANY reviewer played this game and didnt write about some of the bugs. 
 Freezing, clipping, framerate issues (gamespot said the ps3 version had a slight better framerate 
 but that doesnt mean its a good framerate) , and characters that seem to appear out of nowhere. 
 They say a patch is coming, but it wasnt here before I finished it, and it never should have made 
 it out the door like this. The AI at times is pretty dumb, especially for a sneaking assassination 
 game. There is no way i should be able to walk up to someone stab them next to another enemy soldier 
 and walk away. I understand what they were trying to do, but they didnt do it well. I must admit 
 i do love the free-running. Escaping enemys by climbing and jumping on buildings is very entertaining. 
 I recommend you rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACIDUKILL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  i personally loved this game excellent single player campaign with very good graphics and excellent 
 game play that never gets boring. If any one is looking for a good action adventure this is the 
 game for you. The landscaping and the characters was done excellent with an very interesting story 
 line and to round everything off good all round slashing and dashing if you like assassins you 
 are going to love assassins greed.
  
  The three citys where everything goes down was done with great style huge environments and very 
 intelligent A. I and a very interactive crowd make for very interesting conversations. The movements 
 of our hero is great and the fighting choreographing makes it all the better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Writing a review for Assassins Creed is an extremely challenging endeavor. On the one hand, this 
 game is an extremely ambitious work of art that is to be commended for its scope and innovative 
 aspects. However, the game is far from perfect as a number of glitches and flaws keep it from greatness. 
 Because of those flaws, it's apparent that Assassins Creed is a great first attempt but there is 
 much for Ubisoft Montreal to do for the inevitable (and somewhat forced) sequels.
  Gamer opinions have been quite divided over this game. There are many who love the game and just 
 as many who despise it. I fall into the first category but I can also see how someone could hate 
 the game. I believe the primary reason is this game requires a certain level or patience and open 
 mindedness. A perfect example of a similar experience is the Shenmue series. Like Assassins Creed, 
 the game was very impressive in its scope and its creation of a living breathing city, but the 
 tasks within that city weren't very interesting, sometimes repetitive, and often quite mundane. 
 I didn't care for the Shenmue series at all, but there is a large crowd who love it. 
  The main reason I enjoyed Assassins Creed over a game like Shenmue is the immersive nature on it. 
 An hour into the game, I turned off all the HUD options and couldn't believe how organic everything 
 felt. I spent countless hours just jumping from rooftop to rooftop to get a feel for the landscapes, 
 walking amongst the people, and tackling the various side missions. That being said, I believe 
 that is the best way to experience the game. If you leave all of the HUD options on, not only does 
 it clutter up the screen too much, you'll find yourself running to the blips on the GPS too much 
 which makes the game much more linear than it should be. Playing without the HUD decreases the 
 repetition a bit, but I won't claim the game is completely devoid of repetitive elements. However, 
 once again, that flaw completely depends on your state of mind. 
  Each of the games chapters consists of 6 Investigation quests that give you intel on your final 
 assassination target and there are 9 targets total. All of the investigation quests are either 
 "interrogating" an accomplice (which means beating the crap out of him) , eavesdropping, pick pocketing, 
 a couple flag races, and stealth assassinating a set number of side targets to help out an informer. 
 Additionally, there are always 2 side missions in each chapter which are climbing every tall structure 
 and rescuing every mistreated citizen. That's 8 tasks repeated in each of the 9 missions. If you're 
 playing through the game with the sole intention of finishing it up, the tasks will seem quite 
 repetitive. I'll even admit that some more variety might have helped. But if you're taking your 
 time to carefully plot out each assassination, the tasks seem a lot less tedious. I loved listening 
 to what the informants had to say and marking my map for the best routes to and away from the target. 
 Not to mention, before you confront the main target, there's always an interesting cutscene to 
 view before hand. The game's extremely visceral and realistic combat system also never gets old 
 and is always satisfying. Playing Assassins Creed really reminded me of Shadow of the Collosus 
 as well. Like Assassins Creed, at the beginning you're already told how many targets you must take 
 down and the path to get there is sometimes long and repetitive. But, the game was so beautiful 
 and organic that the quest to each boss was still enjoyable even though it was slightly repetitive. 
 
  However, I can't fully excuse Assassins Creed from its flaws because there are number of technical 
 issues as well. For one thing, the "science" part of the game is downright ugly. Body and facial 
 animations are incredibly stiff and there are barely any details applied to the setting. It's not 
 a big deal since the strength of the graphics lies in the sheer size of the world, but it's still 
 a bit jarring especially when you have to spend some time in this world looking over emails. Also, 
 the actor who plays Altair really brings down the overall quality of the voice acting. It's not 
 that he's totally terrible, but you can practically envision the page right in front of the guy 
 as he's reading. Its one thing to read a line with an exclamation point, it's another thing to 
 feel it. Also while you're free running around the buildings, there are a couple times where Altair 
 will get hung up on a rung and refuse to continue even though you can see that it's possible to 
 go higher since the next rung is right above you. Also, as many may know, there are also the glitches 
 specific to the ps3 version such as the various freezing glitches which I experienced many times. 
 However, that should be fixed with a patch at some point.
  Finally, there's the game's ending. I'm not going to spoil anything but I will say that I am not 
 a fan of this trend of games being made with sequels already planned. I spent well over 40 hours 
 playing this game and I felt kind of ripped off that the game ended before it granted me what I 
 was working towards. I totally understood the story so it's not a comprehension matter, I'd just 
 like some kind of closure instead of waiting 2-3 years to find out the rest of a story I had invested 
 so much time in. There is an interesting revelation towards the end of the game, but it's something 
 you would probably guess anyway. Word of warning, don't make the same mistake I made and look forward 
 to some amazing confrontation at the end of all the foreshadowing. I'm sure there will be one, 
 but it's not in this installment. 
  Overall, Assassins Creed is not for everyone and it certainly isn't perfect. But if you have the 
 patience and if you are willing totally immerse yourself both in the sci fi universe and the world 
 of the crusades, this is a game experience like no other and shouldn't be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cetnikking
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is so detailed that i still can not belive it the graphics is amazing and it has 
 a easy controll system.
  
  When i herd aboute assassins creed i was a little like "So" because i didnt think it would be good, 
 i mean how many times did we wait for ever on a game to be released and then it sucked big time 
 but you bought it because it had a nice title... This time you dont have to worry aboute that because 
 if you did not buy this game youre cheatting your self...
  
  It starts with you having everything from max life, all weapons and moves
  then you lose all 
 of it and must start all over this is normally a bad thing but in this case its not because then 
 you learn to use everything from killing moves to assassination moves to handle your weapons skill 
 fully ect..
  
  As the story progresses you find your self in a beautyfull world with a lot of options, UBI soft 
 made it so that you can go everywhere a normal person can go that means climb walls, buildings, 
 ride on horses, kill people, help some ect parkour style!!... 
  i really dont want to go into details because it would ruin the mistery of the game, I have compleated 
 it and the only downside i can find in it is that it has a confusing ending so i am looking forward 
 for nr 2 if they plan to make a continue of the game... If you like the idea of being a assassin 
 (human) that does not have powers and runs out of life fast if you dont watch out,
  assassinate people amongst other people withoute being seen....
  BUY THIS GAME that is my advise 
 if you agree with what i have just told you... Untill next time, play play and play!!!!! .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a game with a very fun combat system and deep storyline. When you first start 
 playing your character has all the bells and whistles. However a series of unexpected (at least 
 for the character Altair) leaves him a bad reputation and a quest that seemingly has you seeking 
 redemption. There is also a parallel storyline in the game which only makes the games story deeper 
 but i won't spoil it for you although you'll find out at the very beginning of the game or even 
 by reading the instruction manual. The game is really enjoyable early on for its fun combat system 
 and story. The swordplay is amazing and each assasination leads you to a cutscene that are very 
 interesting and well put together before the assasination itself starts. However by the time you 
 have killed off the first five targets the game just gets too repetitive. It makes you almost feel 
 as if the last half of the game is a movie instead of game just to keep the plot moving. The game 
 remains very repetitive until the last assasination where all the repetivness pays off and treats 
 you with great last hour to two hours of story and gameplay. 
  
  Overall I give this game an 8.5/10 for its amazing graphics and deep storyline. Here are my individual 
 ratings.
  
  Story: 9/10 because its the only thing that keeps you playing until the end.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 The graphics were so amazing that they actually resembled Jerusalem, Acre, 
 and Damascus. Ubisoft did do their home work on this one.
  
  Gameplay: 6.5/10
  
  Difficulty: 6/10 Fairly easy but gets progressivley harder the further you go into the story. However 
 the only part that will consistently have you repeating stages of he game is after the start of 
 the 9th assasination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_p
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  You probably know story and the setup here so I'm not going to bore you with that.
  
  As I said, Assassin's Creed is a mixed bag of amazing and quite bad. So here it goes:
  
  The 
 good: Absolutely breathtaking graphics and attention to detail (some of the best I've seen on the 
 PS3) . A living breathing world that reacts reasonably well to you and interacts well with you. 
 All three cities have their own distinct feel and style. Beggars will get in your way and pester 
 you for money, drunks will bump into you or even hit you. The guards will react to things you do 
 and act accordingly. An interesting story setup and a deep plot. A fantastic combat system with 
 some truly brutal moves.
  
  The bad: The cast of Assassin's Creed manages to pull it off rather well, all except the guy who 
 plays Altar (the main character) . Most super low-budget action movies have better and more inspired 
 acting than this guy. He just kills my inspiration every time he opens his mouth. I had just played 
 Heavenly Sword and enjoyed the cast's flawless and absolutely riveting performances as well as 
 the well written and engaging story. Two days later I started playing Assassin's Creed. It was 
 like having to eat dry dogfood after being fed a delicious banquet. The story is there, it's a 
 good one and the game has everything needed to make it a fantastic ride. But somehow it manages 
 to make it boring and distant. Not only by some shoddy acting but also with some rather repetative 
 elements intented to drive the story forward. Instead they make it all rather un-dramatic and sort 
 of bite-size-fed, with no real twists and turns.
  
  Summary: It's a good thing Assassin's Creed does some things VERY very well. Despite it's blunders 
 and flaws it's still worth your time and your money. The game is best played a few hours at a time, 
 too much time at once and it will start to feel repetative and a bit boring, and all the glossy 
 graphics in the world can't hide that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxchevy87
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  This might be the worst review i have ever read on this site (and i been a member for a while) .. Yes 
 this game looks beautiflul but only when ur standing still, there is more screen tearing on this 
 game then any other console game ive ever played, i have fell off the level at least 10+ times 
 or fell through a wall and not been able to get out, the framerate he talks about being steady 
 is awful towards the end of the game its unplayable in some parts.. it happens alot!!! the gameplay 
 is soo repititive u can play most of it with one hand (especially the fighting) , this is definetaly 
 the most disapointing game of the year, another rushed by ea flounder, and im sure there ruining 
 prince of persia while we speak, thanx ea for ruining one of my favorite game studios!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, what should i say about this game? I really don't think theres anything THAT 
 good about the game. You probably already know who the main character is, so im skipping the introduction. 
 
  
  The game makes many mistakes. For instance is it just me, or is the beginning sequence really ugly? 
 Its pixelated like bloody hell. 
  
  But thats incredibly minor compared to the rest. The game is very linear, dont fall for all of 
 the videos thinking you can do what you want, you cant. There are visible (Yes i said visible) 
 walls everywhere. The missions are the same every single time. Go to Damascus, climb to a view 
 point to see certain icons on the map, save citizens (If you want to) , pick pocket, gather information 
 etc. After all of that bull, you finally get to assassinate who your after. 
  
  Then you do the same in Acre and Jerusalem. Its really repetitive. If that wasn't enough the game 
 freezes and most of the time you have to restart the PS3. Yeah, climbing on everything may be cool 
 at first, but its gets boring... fast. I forgot to mention, when you start the game, you start off 
 with every skill. So if you want, you can go around causing trouble and using them, having fun. 
 Then when you get far enough, lose them all. You have to gain them all back again.
  
  So, the only thing you could look forward to is ruined because Ubisoft gave you all the skills 
 from the start. You know what they all are. Dont listen to this "Editors Award" GS gave this game. 
 This game is BS. Its a waste of money, and i used to like the game.
  
  Seriously, think really hard if you want this or not. Because i guarantee you, you'll sell it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npearson713
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a solid A. Not an A+, but your moms shouldn't get too mad. Stunningly photographic 
 visuals combine with some A- voice acting and an intriguing story make the frequent load times 
 (and occasional lockups) only seem like an annoyance for enjoying the entire experience.
  
  The graphics in this game are just simply stunning. The world environments really shine here, with 
 stunning in-game View Points that are a rewarding visual for climbing to the highest possible things 
 you can find. Man, when you're on top of the Cathedral in Acre, you feel the butterflies from climbing 
 that high. You're not sure if that knob you're looking at is a good enough climbing stone, but 
 you've gotta get up there somehow, right?
  
  The story and how the game carries it is something truly remarkable. In all of the "history redefining" 
 stories that come out, I'd have to say that I thought the whole "god is an object" concept was 
 pretty new to me. I'm not sure if it's completely original, but it was something I'd never thought 
 of.
  
  My only gripe with the game is it's frequent and annoying load screens and lockups. The load screen 
 to first play is a 5-10 minute installation. I don't remember how long it took because I ate dinner 
 in the time it was loading. Then, when you first sign into the game, you have to go through about 
 3-5 minutes of loading screens before playing; screens that don't really serve any particular purpose 
 that I can see.
  
  Other than the usual framerate issues that come from such an immense, immersive experience, the 
 only other technical issue with the game were the relatively large number of lockups that happened 
 during loading and gameplay. They would require a system restart, but it was annoying to have to 
 stop playing, reset, wait for the loading screens, then have it worry you every time it took too 
 long to load.
  
  All in all, this game is a 8.5! Best console game I've played in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  I waited for this a long time, and i finnally got it. The game is like what i wanted, i can say 
 one thing "Ultimate Freedom" you can jump where you want you can do whatever your mind could think 
 of. The graphics are unreal when you play on HD television. Gameplay is awesome too, there are different 
 kinds of types killing people, the one thing really shocked me is walking down the street, and bumping 
 into people. The time of the game is great you can see so much unseen, But i can say one thing, 
 the game looks a bit Hitman and Prince of persia. Why? Well hitman is because you have an objective 
 to assassinate a person, and prince of persia because you can do many acrobatic moves, walk on builidings, 
 and you know prince of persia style..=) Well if youre looking for a cool game, this is the one to 
 buy.. see ya.=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostsoulsofmn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is, without a doubt, one of the best games that I have played in a long time. First, 
 the graphics in this game are phenominal. Sure, I have noticed a couple small frame rate issues, 
 but these are easily forgetable when you see how big this game is. Also, climbing to the top of 
 one of the superhigh view points, like the cathedral in Acre, will have you drooling at eyegasmic 
 view of the city that you have. They are simply stunning. 
  Secondly, the gameplay. A lot of people say that the swordplay sucks and that the game gets to 
 repetitive. For one, I do not know what these people were smoking because I thought that the swordplay 
 was awesome. Countering an opponents move and executing them by a swift slice of a knife or a thrust 
 of a sword is very very satisfying. And as far as being repetitive, yes it is true.......... but 
 damn, I love being repetitive in this game, because it never gets old. And doing every mission 
 makes you feel like more of an assassin by collecting a bunch of info on your target. And the actually 
 assassinations are extremely fun to set up and escape from. 
  The plotline kept me intrigued throughout the entire game. The end is a cliffhanger, but I dont 
 care because it is simply AWESOME! It has some pretty cool twists and will leave you thinking long 
 after it is finished. 
  Another thing that I like about this game is that it is a good length, and even after the main 
 story line is finished, there are still more flags to find and more soldiers to assassinate. Expect 
 to be playing this one for a while.
  The only thing that stops it from being a 10 is that it froze on me a couple times. Luckily, the 
 development team is working on a patch as we speak, so, no worries about that. 
  
  Overall, it was an amazing experience and I will be highly anticipating the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chicken_Helper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  From all the previews and videos I saw before this game came out , I was expecting so much more. 
 The cities are beautiful, and completely explorable. But the problem is the game forces you to 
 do the exact same thing 10 times in a row literally. Until the end when things are a litlle different, 
 and more interesting. First you start with Maulim. He gives you someone to kill. You go to the 
 city and check in with your local assassin brother. He tells you were to look for information. 
 You go to find the information through, interrogation, pickpocketting, easedropping, or you kill 
 somoene for a member of the brotherhood. And each time feels exactly the same as the last. So the 
 first couple of times you have fun. But then you get really burnt out. I nearly quit half way through 
 the game.
  
  The game does have huge, expansive, fully explorable cities. And the actual assasinations are a 
 blast. But the problem is the grueling and time consuming tasks you have to do, in order to get 
 to the assassination parts. Oh and the beggers who block your way when you are trying to walk are 
 extremely annoying. Even more annoying are the drunks who shove you all over the place. You can't 
 kill them though, because that takes away health.
  
  All and all this game was a big disappointment for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is an action adventure game created by Ubisoft. You play as an assassin named 
 Altair as well as his descendant named Desmond. Assassin's Creed's story is very intriguing as 
 you start the game in a machine called the animus. You hear voices speaking to you and have no 
 clue as to what is going on. Eventually you come to discover that you are Desmond, a mild manner 
 young lad, apparently stuck in a lab against your will. Lucy and Vidic are interested in learning 
 the the events of your ancestor to discover the location of a special item of interest. The bulk 
 of the game sees you play as Altair during the crusades carrying out 9ish assassinations (you will 
 see what I mean when you play it for yourself) . 
  
  Graphically, the game is one of the best to date. High character details and more importantly, 
 high environmental details are noticed from the very beginning. All of the cities are absolutely 
 beautiful and must be seen for yourself to truly appreciate them as words do not do them justice. 
 During the first few hours, the gameplay is very refreshing and ambitious. After a few more hours, 
 the game seems to slow down as the gameplay slowly become repetitive. You'll initially love swan 
 diving off of the tall buildings, but by your 20th dive, you'll grow weary of performing the feat. 
 
  
  The AI is slightly lacking as no real strategy is required to pull off any of the assassinations. 
 You can either run in there like a mad man or play it smooth and go in under the radar unnoticed. 
 If you break the enemies line of sight and hide during chase scenes, the AI eventually gives up 
 even if you're hiding in a pile of hay two feet from them. The biggest and most annoying glitch 
 is featured in this game as it will freeze at least one time during gameplay. It's annoying to 
 constantly have to restart your system time and time again and my final score will reflect this 
 issue.
  
  Lastly, with the in depth story and great yet repetitive gameplay Assassin's Creed's ending is 
 very open-ended and confusing. I spent sometime after I completed the game looking up guides and 
 info on the ending in order to make sense of the whole ordeal and I'm still confused. Basically, 
 Ubisoft is cashing in on the next two future games in the Assassin's Creed franchise as this is 
 the first installment in the trilogy. Hopefully Ubisoft will make sense of all this when the dust 
 settles and deliver an engaging story that ties all the story arcs together nicely. All in all, 
 this game is one to be experienced, but don't get frustrated by the ending and don't forget to 
 pick the doctor's pocket midway through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dnadolny
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for almost a month (And loving it) , but then I realized that I didn't 
 write a review about it! =O
  Graphics: Wow. When I first rode up the hill and saw Damascus, that is what I thought. Whether 
 it is the textures of every individual thing, or how fluidly Altar moves when doing all of his 
 assassin-y creed-like things, you just have to admire all the effort that has gone into the visual 
 section of this game. Though, as an afterthought, some games have done it almost life-like. Just 
 saying. (Crysis) Graphics= 9.9996/10
  Gameplay: I am still finding out that there are more counter attacks in the game. (Currently I 
 am honing my skills with Assassin blade counters) Though once you have played it a lot in some 
 sittings (3-5 Hrs.) some missions get frustrating and you start killing innocent civilians, and 
 that makes up for it in itself. 10/10
  Value: For the title, I would say that the price tag is worth it. I got the Collectors Addition 
 (See Below) and I don't care what chunk of my wallet it took out. 10/10
  Extras: In the collectors addition, you get:
  -Penny Arcade! Comics
  -3-inch Altar collectable
 
  -Mini strategy guide
  -Collectors Tin
  -AND THE GAME!
  I would say thats pretty good.
  Summary: Please don't say "Oh but it lost %0.004, WHY ISN'T IT 9.5!" I round. You owe it to yourself 
 to buy this game. GO NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goliath98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This was My first ps3 game and I have to say this is an amazing game! The graphics are beautyful, 
 the gameplay is really addictive, the controls are solid, the fram rate is fantastic and so is 
 the Overall game. Its worth every penny. You may think that since its my first ps3 game and I think 
 this game is great because I'm use to ps2 but I have call of duty 4 and Uncharted and I still fine 
 this game to have better greaphics then the two other games. Theirs not a whole lot of great games 
 out their but this one is defenitly one of the top PS3 games out their. I give it a 9.5 because 
 the game can be repetitive and their are some minnor glitches in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed.
  
  Isn't this the game that everyone's been waiting for forever? Isn't this the game that was supposed 
 to make history? Yeah, it was; but it didn't. Now don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the game; I just 
 don't think it's worth a full $60.
  
  And here's why:
  
  The graphics were a real disappointment. There were some nice textures, lighting, and animations 
 but it was all marred by a terrible frame-rate and loads of screen tearing. Not to mention the 
 deliberate clipping of Altiar's clothing as he walked on ledges. COME ON UBISOFT!!!! Also, there 
 wasn't enough variety to the world the game takes place in. Almost every citizen and soldier you 
 encounter looks just like every other citizen and soldier you encounter and the environments get 
 stale too. How many times have i climbed a building today?? It also doesn't seem very alive either, 
 it's just another open world game. That's it. 
  The gameplay isn't very interesting either. Of course it is open world so it can get stale at times 
 but this just isn't fun for a game that's supposed to be a cut above everything else. You have 
 four weapons at your disposal: your sword, your throwing knife, your fists, and your hidden blade. 
 You can choose any of these weapons to fight but each of them work best in different situations. 
 Your sword is for main combat which mainly consists of a well placed counter and a ton of button 
 mashing. This also applies to thge throwing knife but you can at least take a few guys out from 
 a distance first. Fist are used for interrogations (which are always the same) , and your hidden 
 blade is used for assassinations (which are the game's only redeeming qualities) . Other than fighting 
 you spend your time jumping off buildings, pickpocketing people, eavesdropping, favors (which is 
 always a hit on some random guy) , and yes interrogation. Sounds fun right? that's what i thought 
 but it's ALWAYS the same and it just gets boring. (You also ride horses around but i though it 
 was unnecessary to mention that) .
  Assassin's Creed sounds fabulous. The voice actors are top-knotch and the music is well composed, 
 it's just a shame the actual game itself doesn't measure up; even though it does have spectacular 
 production values.
  In the end, Assassin's Creed is solid enough for a play or to here and there but it's not worth 
 devoting your attention to when there are so many other games out there that can hold it alot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EugenioK
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Good better then anything else it really looks great, The Bad is a hell of a boring game which 
 basically has you doing the same thing over and over again. This game does not deserve a 9 as it's 
 designer forgot that a game has to be a game first and not just a beautiful land scape. It seems 
 like the designer love to smell there own farts. this game with it's short story and dull game 
 is not worth the money and I would recommend waiting till the price drops. Iyhe main voice actor 
 really really was up for the job and is out staged by pretty much every other voice actor in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdam77
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The good:
  What you heard from many is true, The game games environment are huge and great. Fantastic visuals 
 and his habitants makes this living world believable. Our assassin's movements are fantastic and 
 easy to use. The fighting is very good and stealth assassinations are satisfying when executed. 
 
  
  The Bad: I mean what could have being improved.
  I will point out many things but don't get me wrong this game is good but it could have being a 
 real greatness if:
  AI, the enemies AI is lame at some point If you assassinate a guard, the one next to him may not 
 react giving you the time to assassinate him as well.
  You cannot save anytime you want. When you reach a view point it will save automaticly or when 
 you find a flag (you can collect them all) .
  If you do like I did, spend time killing most of the guards in the kingdom to make my passing trhough 
 easier but I went to a view point, saved my game, turn the PS3 later to keep going and all the 
 trouble was in vein. They weren't replaced with better vigilance, the were bhrought back to life. 
 So no need to do this so you know.
  It gets repetitive lot. after 4 mission, you keep doing the same,... Go to the view points,.. pick 
 pocket, eve drops, interrogation and saving citizens if you want to and of course assassinate your 
 target. It all sounds lots of fun, It is in a certain way, but you get to the point where you say 
 AGAIN???
  
  What needs to be improved for the sequel, looks like it accordng to the ending.
  -No more saving 
 points but the ability the save whenever you want.
  -Better AI, the a guard at 20 ft standing if front and looking at you will indeed DO SOMETHING 
 if his buddy is killed.
  -More variety in the missions, side quests.
  -Somekind of stealth mode or sneaking mode.
  -being able to play during the night time. like 
 quests that must be done during the night and kills....
  
  conclusion, this game is good but could have being so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krycek9mm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  The good parts of assassins creed are good enough to cover up the fact that it's extremely repetitive. 
 
  It's beautiful and really fun to navigate, especially when you get a good hop scotch game going 
 with posts and flagpoles and beams. Though you only have to push a button to initiate free running, 
 it does take a little skill to know which path is best. The movement in general is really fluid 
 maybe with the exception of jumping into a wall, pausing slo-mo dropping and recovering.
  The fighting, though extremely simple, is really gratifying. Particularly nice is throwing knives 
 and throwing soldiers off rooftops. The bodies don't dissappear so you can stand in a field surrounded 
 by sixty soldier corpses and feel like you've accomplished something. 
  The game is generally pretty though some textures get glitchy, the architecture is awesome especially 
 when you look at a distance. Climbing the church in Acre is particularly thrilling.
  It's been said before but the missions get really repetitive and the assassinations feel clumsy, 
 you kill a bunch of soldiers, chase down the target, kill them, and run.
  I could take or leave the story, Altair is hard to connect with because he is at the same time 
 distrustful and complacent.
  The worst part of the game is the extremely long ... everything. You climb a viewpoint and you 
 have to sit through the same panoramic camera move for a couple seconds. You save a citizen and 
 you have to listen to their boring drawn out gratitude. You Assassinate someone and you have to 
 listen to them justify themselves. Then you have to listen to your master yammer on and you can 
 never skip it, even when you beat the game already and go back for replay you have to watch everything 
 and it's really boring. 
  All in all I think Assassins creed is fun and worth my money and it gets points for trying a couple 
 of novel things. I hope the sequel fills out the missing gameplay elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immemyself2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Intuitive controls (Did I mention that) , Loved jumping around the whole city and moving through 
 crowds undetected (or even better when detected) . The fighting was surprisingly well done. Even 
 through the repetition of tasks there was still satisfaction. The characters were well thought 
 out, the time period was new and perfect for game play. 
  
  
  The Bad:
  Repetition, repetition, repetition. So much of the game was the same. Side quests have you going 
 far out of the way to find what you need and this would be interesting if they were as exciting 
 as the main quest, but some distracted from the whole game. Lastly, the ending was strange and 
 unsatisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic01
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start with this game, yet another inferior PS3 port that feels rushed as most PS3 titles 
 do lately, what the heck is with that?!
  
  I've waited for this game since it peered its head on previews, and once it came out i hit the 
 store to spend my $60, boy am i dissapointed.
  
  You will notice the game will drop frames quite a lot, before you even delve into the gameplay 
 aspects which is where it became a big turn off for me there are no stealth aspects at all which 
 i dont get when u consider the name of the game?! its just hit your target then run like hell or 
 take on your foes, thats about it
  plus there are only so many tall building you will want to climb before you get bored and the repititon 
 of finding the bureau, finding information on your target, then back to the bereau for your target 
 this goes on throughout the whole of the game, while the free exploration of the world is a nice 
 touch your still only going to one of the three cities either way so it would of been better to 
 skip this out alltogher in my opinion as you will get bored running to find a horse, then doing 
 some more on horseback to your destination.... blah blah blah....., then constant civillian save 
 mini missions, preachers spouting same old rants (quite loudly) over and over in the streets, which 
 you will still hear from any buildings you wish to climb.
  
  Then there is the cut-scenes which live on forever not really making you feel like your getting 
 anywhere close to the story of the game.
  
  So overall it leaves you feeling like they really could of done so much better with this game, 
 its as thought they put too much time in creating the world and not enough thought went into the 
 missions, its like oh shiz we forgot about the missions, i know lets throw random crap in nobody 
 will notice the world is just toooooo beautiful!
  
  Reviews have been quite high for this game as though they are scared of upsetting someone being 
 as they got an exclusive on the review perhaps?
  
  Anyway give it a rent before you buy i say, and hope the next installment will be much much better!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_b1_kenobi
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Theres certainly alot to rave about when it comes to assassins creed but theres just something 
 that lets the game down.
  The game itself certainly looks next gen, the graphics are no doubt astounding. The huge city's 
 brimming with detail on every building, structure, merchant stands and civilian. The lighting is 
 also good, generating realistic shadows and an altogether good atmosphere. It's an absolute delight 
 just to explore the games huge spaces, and also nessicary to if your planning to collect all of 
 the hidden flags dotted throughout the game. At first glance there seems to be plenty going on, 
 with peasants pestering you for coins, guards abusing there power and crowds gathered around preachers. 
 But it soon becomes clear that these are just replicated throughout each city and soon become tiresome. 
 Although theres nothing thats exactly wrong with the gameplay itself, it also becomes very repetitive. 
 The game comprises of nine assassinations in total. Before each assassination you have gather information 
 on your target but completing side missions. These side missions are fun maybe the first few times 
 around but become somewhat of a chore, just hindering your progression through the game. The reason 
 for this being there just isn't enough variety in the missions. And there all pretty simple stuff, 
 eavesdropping being the worst offender, merely just pressing a few buttons. In case this wasn't 
 simple enough theres markers on the in game map to show you exactly where to go for each of these 
 tasks. 
  To mark these tasks on to your map you have to perform another repetitive task, this time climbing 
 to different view points located in each city. Once you have performed the menial tasks for the 
 tenth time whilst playing, you finally open the main assassination. This involves you to stealthily 
 take out your target who happens to be surrounded by guards. It works out a hell of alot easier 
 to simply take out your victim in full view of everyone and deal with the repercussions. These 
 repercussions come in the form of the lack luster guards, who due to poor AI are easily dispersed 
 of even before your lead character has recovered all the abilities lost at the beginning of the 
 game. The next objective on your agenda is to escape the guards and return to the local assassins 
 beauro. Legging it from the guards is easily the high point of the game and where Altair's running 
 and climbing abilities come in very handy indeed. The controls are both inventive and simple to 
 use. Making climbing the architecture and leaping off a rooftop only to narrowly hang onto the 
 next, both exiting to play and observe. Escaping these 12th century feds comprises of two actions; 
 the first is to break the line of sight from your pursuers. This can be done by running like heck, 
 smashing through merchant stands, and knocking over any bystander unlucky enough to be standing 
 in your way. The most effective way however is by scaling surrounding buildings and leaping across 
 rooftops. although the guys giving chase will climb after you and even throw rocks to knock you 
 down mid climb, there just doesn't seem like theres any urgency to escape. After all whats the 
 worst that can happen? You'll have to fend off a couple of floundering guards before simply climbing 
 the nearest building to try again. Once you've lost your pursuers you need to find a suitable hiding 
 place such as a bale of hay, a bench, or curtained gardens on the rooftops. Once hidden for a set 
 amount of time you'll become anonymous and free to continue whatever it is you where doing previous. 
 
  There are a few more features within the game worth noting, such as the option to help out civilians 
 that are being harassed by guards. Playing the good Samaritan gains you helpful allies in the form 
 of either vigilantes that help you escape by obstructing guards giving chase, or scholars that 
 act as a moving hiding spot. To achieve this you'll have to either engage in combat before playing 
 out the whole running, climbing, and hiding ordeal, or more simply duke it out and take down the 
 surrounding guards. Both processes can take considerable time to accomplish something thats not 
 integral to either the story or particularly useful. The idea seems novel at first but after coming 
 across about thirty civilians in distress in each city the novelty soon wears off. By far the most 
 random and unessicary feature is the ability to change camera angles during a cut scene by the 
 push of any button. The game tells you this should be done when a sort of blue static appears (it's 
 something to do with the whole ancestors memory storyline) but can be done at any point really.
 
  Another saving crace and the only real reason for playing the fifteen hours plus of gameplay is 
 the intriguing story. The story itself is actually set in modern day times, and you somewhat play 
 the part of Desmond, a bartender and descendant of main playable character Altair. To cut a long 
 story short, you've been taken by some kind of organisation that needs to pull the memorys of your 
 ancestor Altair using a machine called the animus. After every few missions during the main game 
 you'll be brought back into modern times and the shoes of Desmond. The need to know what the hell's 
 going on keeps you playing no matter how repetitive the main game becomes, and you find yourself 
 looking forward to the brief sections where you can control your modern day counterpart and find 
 some clues as to why your there. 
  All said and done this review is probably slightly harsh on what is a decent attempt on a fresh 
 take on both sand box, and stealth games. Its beautiful sprawling world is unlike anything out 
 there and is a welcome change from the likes of GTA and the dozens of clones that followed. Its 
 just a shame there isn't enough variety of things to do whilst exploring the huge landscape. The 
 game comes across as too simple compared to other next gen titles. Although it looks. sounds, and 
 in parts plays like a next gen title, it still manages not to fully feel like one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Being one of the most hyped adventures of the year, Assassin's Creed certainly had some big shoes 
 to fill. And while some elements aren't as good as we'd hoped, Assassin's Creed is still one of 
 the best games of the year.
  
  This is mainly thanks to an interesting backdrop where you play as master assassin Altair. In the 
 Third Crusade, Altair must eliminate nine high-ranking figures who are propagating the Crusades. 
 But there is more to the story than once thought, as Desmond Miles enters the scene. In the near-present 
 day, Desmond has been kidnapped and forced into a machine called the Animus. The Animus can read 
 the memories of Desmond's ancestors, which in this case happens to be Altair. The kidnappers objectives 
 are unknown, but all will be revealed in this sci-fi twist.
  
  Playing as Desmond is like playing an old-school point and click adventure game. There really isn't 
 a lot to it, and is mainly there to flesh out the story. But fortunately, you'll be spending most 
 of your time as Altair, scouring the bustling streets and hunting down your targets. You do this 
 by pickpocketing, interrogating and eavesdropping everyday citizens. But after a few assassinations, 
 this does get rather tedious.
  
  But once you've got enough information about your target, you can plan the attack. This all depends 
 on your play style. You may want to use Altair's parkour abilities by jumping from rooftop to rooftop 
 to stalk your prey. You could also blend in with a group of moving scholars to get close to your 
 target without attracting the attention of the guards. But if you're in a hurry, then you could 
 just run in and start cutting everyone.
  
  The sword fighting is simple, but it does the job. You'll mostly rely on counter attacks, which 
 is a flashy one-hit kill move that requires good timing. The camera does tend to jump behind the 
 nearest bush, or wooden pole when doing a counter attack, which is a minor annoyance, but when 
 you do get to see a counter attack in all of it's glory, the brutal kill that you experience is 
 cringe-worthy.
  
  After each Assassination, you'll return to Masyaf, the assassin's stronghold, to report your success. 
 You can then return to one of the three major cities with the name of your next target. This means 
 trekking across the expansive countryside to reach Acre, Jerusalem or Damascus. Unfortunately, 
 these cites don't differ much in play style and are all too similar, with only minor environments 
 exclusive to one city.
  
  But whether you're in Jerusalem, Acre or Damascus, you'll have plenty of fun traversing the city 
 thanks to Altair's parkour skills. He can climb up buildings by using decorative grooves, such 
 as windowsills, ledges or church crosses as footholds. None of these seem out of place or were 
 placed there for Altair to climb on.
  
  Sprinting, jumping and climbing your way through the cities is easy and a lot of fun. Holding down 
 one button will put Altair in 'free-run mode', so you just move the analog stick to where you want 
 Altair to go, and he'll automatically jump, run or climb depending on the environment. This does 
 seem all too simple, but you'll appreciate this when you're being chased by the guards.
  
  Being a free-roaming game, there are side quests and other diversions to distract you from the 
 main assassinations. But whether you're rescuing a citizen from abusive guards, or killing targets 
 that your fellow assassins have tasked you with, it's all too repetitive. These are so common that 
 you'll have way more fun just ignoring these altogether and trekking the huge cities.
  
  And the cities are the games best part. You'll feel that you're in a living, breathing world when 
 beggars are following you around asking for a single coin, or walking past a preacher sharing his 
 knowledge with the onlookers. You'll see women carrying vases on their head, rowdy drunks and money-hungry 
 merchants all wandering around. When you're surrounded by the towering buildings in a crowd of 
 people, you'll realise how immersive Assassin's Creed really is. It makes you feel like you really 
 are in 1191 AD.
  
  But with the games shortcomings like repetitive side quests and a simple combat system, this all 
 stands out because the rest of the game is so great. Assassin's Creed may take itself a bit too 
 far with the sci-fi side of things, but being in the Third Crusades stalking your targets, scaling 
 towering buildings and walking down bustling streets makes Assassin's Creed an experience to remember. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dony11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I finally finished this game a week after I first played it with a 3 day hiatus during because 
 the game bored me out of my mind. 
  
  Firstly the game play is pretty good, but often times when youre being chased by a bunch of soldiers, 
 instead of altair climbing up the wall he either decides to jump off against the wall or just stand 
 in front of it while soldiers are take chunks off his back. also often time altair refuses to do 
 what he's suppose to like jump a gap, grab upwards, take out a weapon and or block.
  
  secondly after the first three assasinations the balance of the game becomes more of a choir rather 
 than fun. During the second to last assassination the game gets pretty interesting with the assassination 
 of robert. There is absolutely no variation to this game; you either save citizens, pick pocket, 
 interogate and eavesdrop. Its pretty linear gameplay with the freedom to choose how you sequence 
 the game. Its not like GTA where you can play a whole week without doing any of the missions. 
 
  
  THe graphics are amazing, and the story is pretty interesting, while the lack of subtitiles makes 
 you pretty ignorant to most clues. heck i still barely know what the story is about. 
  
  I dont regret buying this game, I only regret being too hyped out about it. its a good game but 
 boy does it get boring!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsODD454
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been pumped about Assassin's Creed since it was first announced. I've been there, gawking 
 at the stunning trailers, gawking at Jade Raymond, and slowly grinding through the months up to 
 release day. However, there have been more than a few games that while having really cool trailers, 
 are not all they're cracked up to be. However, Assassin's Creed promises much, and delivers on 
 90% of the hype.
  
  I won't get into too much of the story details as they are readily available on this site. Simply 
 put, disgraced Assassin Altair has to whack nine historical figures who are perpetrating the Third 
 Crusade to regain his honor and restore peace to the Holy Land. The plot flows well, and it never 
 gets too unrealistic or too forced to interrupt the gameplay. 
  
  The gameplay presents a unique type of stealth that hasn't really been seen before. Rather than 
 sticking to the shadows like Garrett or Sam Fisher, Altair has been trained to hide in a crowd. 
 As such, the guards behave differently than you would expect, and it unfortunately leads the AI 
 to do some pretty stupid things like ignoring a huge crowd of bodies or losing Altair just because 
 he sits down on the right bench. However, the AI probably had to be a little unusual to preserve 
 the kind of gameplay that the designers intended. So, while it can be a little weird, the AI does 
 provide a challenge for Altair to keep his head down, and in the crowds. Indeed, much of the game 
 the player spends guiding Altair through crowds, immersing the player in 12th century Jerusalem, 
 Acre, or Damascus. Each city has it's own artistic style, with corresponding people inhabiting 
 each. 
  
  The Muslims rule Damascus, and Islamic architecture prevails, with the Umayyad Mosque dominating 
 the skyline. Acre, recaptured by the English king Richard the Lionheart, is a Christian city, with 
 monks and churches every few blocks, as well as shattered buildings and scaffolds, evidencing the 
 battle that recently took place. Jerusalem, while under Muslim control, still shows it's Judeo-Christian 
 path, with the Dome of the Rock at one end of the city, and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at 
 the other.
  
  Most of the game is spent exploring each of three districts (Rich, Middle and Poor) in each city. 
 Climbing to the top of a designated tall structure and pressing the Y button will have Altair scan 
 the city below, scanning for citizens to save, informers to meet, and other side missons to complete, 
 all with the purpose of hunting down his target. It's true, the missions can get a little repetitive, 
 but each side mission completed makes the actual assassination easier, usually by providing the 
 locations of guards or where a target might run to if the player gets spotted. This helps keep 
 the missions from being completely superfluous, and the player only has to complete a few of the 
 side missions, which helps those who don't like the extra tasks.
  
  A lot of criticism has been leveled at the voice actor for Altair himself, which I personally feel 
 is a little unfounded. True, everybody else in the Holy Land has either a European or Arabic accent, 
 and Altair doesn't, strangely enough. However, I think that was done on purpose, as Altair is voiced 
 by an Arabic actor (Philip Shabaz) , and he sounds like someone who learned Arabic and English at 
 the same time (probably like Mr. Shabaz himself) , which is probably exactly how the Assassin's 
 taught Altair. With linguistic analysis aside, Altair is not a very emotional character, but as 
 the premise of the story shows, he's a man of action, not words. It's a bit of a downer that he 
 doesn't sound like a total bad ass like the Master Chief, but Mr. Shabaz and the rest of the voice 
 cast do a fine job in bringing the characters to life. 
  
  The rest of the game's sound is fantastic. The soundtrack is composed by Jesper Kyd, who is known 
 for his work on the Hitman series for Io Interactive. Mr. Kyd fires on all cylinders for the Assassin's 
 Creed score, providing unique music to each area. Echoes of Gregorian chant permeate Acre, Islamic 
 instrument and calls to prayer flow through the streets of Damascus, and Jerusalem, as befitting 
 it's place caught between two cultures, mixes both. All the music is mixed with believable commentary 
 by the myriad citizens of the Holy Land, responding with anger when they drop their pottery, or 
 amusement and wonder as they spot Altair sprinting across rooftops.
  
  Probably the biggest strengths Assassin's Creed possesses are it's fantastic art direction, sound 
 and story, all of which pull you into a 12th century world where nothing is as it seems.
  
  While it gets a lot of things right, the AI is a little dumb, and the game shouldn't pose a real 
 challenge to any hardcore gamer. The side missions, while beneficial, don't change in style or 
 mechanism throughout the entire game, which makes the game drag in spots. And the ending, while 
 providing some closure, raises more questions than it answers, leaving anyone that plays it hanging 
 in the wind until AC2. (Also, Gabe is right. If you didn't get the "Visions of the Future" achievement, 
 you are banned from complaining about the ending.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun and amazing game. The graphics are absolutely stunning. You really feel like 
 a part of the game and the textures are crisp and stunning. The atmosphere is really stealthy, 
 but you can turn it into a violent one. This isn't recommended because you can get killed pretty 
 easily (at least when you start the game) . The story is really interesting and there is an awesome 
 twist to it. I won't say anything because I do not want to spoil it for anyone. The sounds are 
 incredible. Stabbing or killing a person in a game has never sounded more brutal. The game can 
 get repetitive a little bit, but I still have a lot of fun with it. The assassinations are very 
 fun and the rewards are great. This is an incredible game you cannot miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a unique and fun game that gets really old really quick. The beginning was 
 exciting, but I was kind of thrown off by the modern twist. The whole idea that the memories of 
 ancestors are held in the DNA of modern people, and the whole game is played as a memory through 
 a high tech machine. It confuses the game a little but the core gameplay is still good.
  
  GOOD: stealth is made fun and not impatiently boring, cool kills with whatever weapon you're using.
 
  
  BAD: repetition repetition, no variety, confusing modern twist, terrible voice acting, the lines 
 and the tone.
  
  VIEWPOINTS: The first thing you'll always do when in a new area is scale a viewpoint, whether its 
 the steeple of a church of tower of a castle, somewhere high where you can survey you're surroundings. 
 The graphics are overall pretty good and it's evident time was taken on detail. Using Altar's 
 acrobatics to climb is always fun, though he could probably go a bit faster, and sometimes it won't 
 let you climb an area that looks very manageable.
  
  INVESTIGATE: The second thing you'll always do when in a new area is conduct your investigation 
 about your target. You may eavesdrop on meetings, pickpocket documents, interrogate unfortunate 
 people or gather info through informants. All of these will require a bit of stealth and become 
 harder and harder as you become discovered. If a guard spots you making a disturbance, you're in 
 for quite a sword fight as multiple foes will surround you. You can use a sword or dagger to fend 
 them off, and most of the time you will be using the counter-attack. If you press the button just 
 as they swing for you, it will trigger a short scene in which Altar will brutally destroy his 
 opponent. Once all are dead and you are preparing to retry your mission, another guard will casually 
 stroll by and notice the bodies, demanding the imposter to step out, making it almost impossible 
 to go about unnoticed so you want to get it right the first time, or let the area cool down a bit. 
 
  
  ASSASSINATE: The third thing you'll always do when in a new area is finally assassinate your target. 
 When you have finally discovered all you need to know about your victim, you will report to the 
 Assassin's Bureau and plan your attack. It may involve tracking them down until they are outside 
 in the open or alone and vulnerable, and once there you can stab him from behind with your hidden 
 blade that replaces Altar's left ring finger, or toss a throwing knife from a distance. Once you 
 have accomplished your goal you return to HQ and receive your next mission along with upgrades.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed was off to a great start, then it lost some of its punch when nothing new was 
 added. The story line to Assassin's Creed seemed to have a lot of substance and potential but they 
 didn't really build on it, at least not until the very end where everything was turned upside down 
 and it finally got really interesting, only to leave us completely hanging. We get a glimpse of 
 this complex and controversial world but are left unknowing what it all means and what's going 
 to happen, then the credits hit you outta nowhere just when you're on the edge of your seat dying 
 to know what's going on. In the end I would say it's a rent not buy, because even if you can't 
 finish the game in time, you've done all you'll ever do in the first mission and the knowing the 
 rest of the story isn't great either. Even if you do finish (in around 15 hours) all that's left 
 is a ridiculous amount of flags to collect around the city, don't get me wrong, the free roam is 
 fun, especially running along rooftops, but spending another 20 hours collecting flags that serve 
 no reward it just not my style.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentclank15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game made by Ubi-soft Montreal for the PS3 and Xbox360. With stunning graphics, 
 great game play, and an immersive story, it's very easy to get sucked in as soon as you pick up 
 the controller. Although it's a fantastic game, there are a few flaws and details that set it back 
 just a bit.
  
  Gamers these days demand the most out of their game. They want it to have stellar graphics, a deep 
 story, mood-setting sounds and revolutionary game play. But most of all, gamers want their game 
 to be FUN. Assassin's Creed delivers all that and a bag of chips. Being able to climb any building 
 anywhere, kill anyone you please, and pretty much do anything you want (yes, I mean anything) , 
 this game sets the bar for future next-gen games in terms of being entertaining. I've spent 5 to 
 6 hours at a time playing this game (I LOVE sandbox games, so this one really impressed me) , just 
 exploring cities and enjoying what the game has to offer. I promise you you will not be disappointed 
 with the fun factor.
  
  The controls are very fluid and blend together marvelously. Jumping from building to building, 
 swinging from poles, and climbing any structure you feel like has never seemed so natural. Altair's 
 movements are incredibly life-like, it feels like you are the one exploring the city. The combat 
 system is very engaging, but at times it gets too easy with counter-attacks. You can easily dispatch 
 a group of 10-15 guards by just waiting for one to attack you and counter-attack. I do love how 
 the enemy will sometimes grab you and throw you to the ground though, it adds a whole new strategy 
 to the way you fight. My only complaint in the combat field is when you assassinate one of the 
 main 9 targets, you HAVE to sit through a long scene of the bad guy babbling on about how he regrets 
 nothing. Don't get me wrong, it definitely is crucial to the story, but Ubi-soft could've made 
 it a little more interesting. Most all of the cut-scenes are interactive though, which nearly makes 
 up for all of the boring ones you have to suffer through. My last complaint in terms of game play 
 is the lack of variety in gathering intelligence on your target. On each assassination mission, 
 before you can kill your target, you have to gather information on him by either pick-pocketing 
 info from a follower of your target, interrogating one of his followers, or assassinating a number 
 of guards for a citizen in order to get him to leak some info to you. That's really all there is, 
 for nine whole bosses, which gets insanely repetitive, trust me. Other than that, the game play 
 and controls are definitely some of the best i've seen in a while.
  
  The graphics for Assassin's Creed are definitely next-gen. The game has great shadows, lighting 
 and color. When entering Acre for instance, I ALWAYS look to the left before the main gate to just 
 stare in awe at the light coming from the sun. The glare is so realistic, it just plain AMAZES 
 me every time I see it. The only problems with graphics and such on the PS3 are framerate problems 
 and various in-game glitches, such as freezing and duplicate Altairs (the main character of the 
 game) . Ubisoft has promised a patch soon for all of these problems. Despite these problems, Assassin's 
 Creed is definitely one of the most well-rounded games graphic-wise I have set my eyes on for some 
 time. 
  
  Replay value in this game disappointed me, much to my suprise. Although there ARE hundreds of different 
 ways to approach assassination, they are only very minute differences. You always end up doing 
 the same intelligence gathering missions. The only difference in them is maybe you'll take a different 
 road to get to your intelligence target. Ubisoft is definitely hurting in the variety department.
 
  
  Assassin's creed is DEFINITELY a game you should buy, but be sure you know about the minor set-backs 
 the game has that I have mentioned in this review. I recommend this game to anyone and everyone, 
 it's is so amazingly easy to get sucked in immediately and sit and play for hours on end. I give 
 Assassin's Creed a 9/10 for being just plain awesome.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n8theknight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, ubisoft brings you back into the times of the crusades and lets the player explore 
 the cities as an assassin. Serving your master in a creed you find yourself in a middle of a conspiracy. 
 As you take orders and assassinate through your way unfolding more of the storyline, you can see 
 ubisoft put time into the story and character build up. Though the assassin you control serves 
 the creed, ubisoft gives the player more than enough freedom in the cities to enjoy the beautiful 
 scenery, smoothness of their fighting system, and the great environment interaction. Though combos 
 may not go in depth ubisoft gives the player smooth npc interaction in their fight system. With 
 and interesting and original weapon arsenal you can approach assassinations in different ways. 
 Though killing with style is half the fun, the other half is ubisoft presents to the player is 
 the chase or the escape. With smoothness environmental interaction, ubisoft lets the player jump 
 rooftop to rooftop and climb buildings that are sky high. With unique city lay outs you can say 
 that there are too ways to travel as an assassin, on the rooftops or in the streets. With unique 
 camera angles in fight scenes and chases, Assassins Creed gives what the players need and lives 
 up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the most highly anticipated games of the year for me and it has reached most 
 of the expectations for me. This game is about a sort of alternate reality of the assassins and 
 the templars during the crusades. You will assume the role of Altiar during the assassinations 
 but due to any possible spoilers i don't want to say anything more on characters and storyline. 
 The game graphics is par with most other games although not incredible they are decent for most 
 graphic whores. The sound is great everything makes sounds you would expect from swords clashing 
 to market stalls breaking. The voice acting is great and all sound Arabic ,save Altiar, and all 
 sound inspired. Gameplay itself is a topic i am split on because the game is very entertaining 
 but the easy controls also make it very repetitive and most of the investigations to finding your 
 kill are repetitive (they are fun still) . The story is very impressive and told rather well but 
 the ending is rather confusing but leaves a lot of space for a sequel. The only really big flaws 
 for me are repetitive missions, repetitive fighting, and lack of subtitles. But despite all that 
 the game is just great and a must have to almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23stars
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to thank UBISOFT for the work they did. It's really good. And the figurine 
 collector pack..... that was a great idea!
  To all gamers who haven't tried this game yet, I can already tell you guys that you will be pleased. 
 The graphics and the control of Altair are impressive.
  The story of the game..... no comment. You have to try it to find it out :o)
  If you still have 
 any doubts of this game, check out the PS3 trailer with the tear drop song from massive attack. 
 I've already seen a lot of different trailers with other songs to it but, they are not as good.
 
  well.... what can I say more..... Just try it you'll love it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiseass5052
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  First off, Assassins Creed is a fun game beyond a doubt and is a definite must have for open-world 
 and hack-slash fans. The game is beautiful, addictive, and genius. The game is also repetitive, 
 easy, and flawed.
  
  The gameplay is quite simple: kill, run, and hide... or kill everyone, a formula that does get old 
 rather quickly. The hidden knife isn't used to its whole potential as it seems as more of a device 
 solely for the plot (as its the only way to kill your targets) or to get in a quick kill before 
 facing a large group. The Counter-Attack is also beyond over-powered, allowing you to face literally 
 hundreds of guards without being killed. But when the counter-attack system is combined with regular 
 slashes it is cinematically beautiful, showing pure genius on Ubisoft's part.
  
  The Mission system is very limited choice wise. Getting information on the target is all dependant 
 on either helping a fellow assassin, beating a (usually) old man until he gives you info (and you 
 end his life) , listening to someone, or pick-pocketing. Despite the lack of options gathering the 
 info never once became boring throughout the game, making each mission's preparation unique and 
 entertaining.
  
  The minor things are what really ticked me off though. For one swimming is an instant death, something 
 that games, for the most part, have long since evolved from. The next is that the low-key assassinations 
 are, well, TOO low key, meaning that NO ONE notices you assassinate someone, not even when u assassinate 
 someone preaching to an audience. The final thing is that anything outside a major city is hostile 
 to you... just cause apparently.
  
  In the end, despite the flaws of the game, Assassins Creed creates a fun, unique gaming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Beautiful city design with large numbers of people all in each city make for a very compelling 
 setting. Dual story plots running parallel and intertwined at the same time do a good job drawing 
 you in. Combat is fun and gameplay controls are tight and responsive. Framerates and system performance 
 is smooth. Voice acting is solid.
  
  The Bad:
  Gameplay is extremely repetitive. Story ending is kindly described as a cliffhanger, but more accurately 
 described as an attempt at extortion. Character development is lackluster. Loading times are long, 
 but infrequent.
  
  Assassin's Creed is a game that shows a lot more potential than it actually realizes. When you 
 first start playing the game, your impression is going to be that it is an incredible, thrilling 
 experience. While other games start small and build though, the best moments of this game are at 
 the beginning and it becomes progressively less enjoyable as it goes along, culminating in one 
 of the worst cliffhanger endings of all time that utterly fails to tie off most of the main story 
 arcs.
  
  The game begins in the contemporary world of today with you as an unfortunate young man captured 
 by some sort of evil corporation of some kind. These corporate folks are looking for something, 
 and the key to finding it is trapped within what they call your "ancestral memory". As it turns 
 out, human beings have memories locked into their genes from their ancestors and these guys have 
 a machine called the Animus that lets them farm through these memories. Since your only hope of 
 getting out their clutches alive, it is into the Animus you go, and into the memories of your ancestor 
 Altair.
  
  Altair is an assassin who lived during the time of King Richard's crusade to "liberate" the holy 
 lands from the infidels. Saladin, leader of the aforementioned infidels, is currently at war with 
 him. The organization that you belong to has some novel ideas that by a few targeted killings of 
 a couple of evil individuals, peace can be obtained. At times this feels a bit like Ubisoft has 
 something to say about certain governments of modern times who order targeted killings of bad guys.
 
  
  As story ideas go, that isn't a bad beginning. 
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay shows you everything you'll do at all within the first couple of hours. 
 You have a hit list of nine bad guys, three each in the cities of Damascus, Jerusalem and Acre. 
 You will repeat the following activities nine times. 
  
  First, you go to the district in question. Second, you visit the local Assassin boss dude. Third, 
 you climb to the highest room of the tallest tower in the city district... or the nine tallest towers 
 as the case may be. You gather information via a couple of short minigames like sitting on a bench 
 near some folks and listening in. Once you've gathered enough information, you go back to the head 
 assassin dude and get permission to kill your target. In each instance, there is a specific way 
 that you're supposed to kill the guy that makes it easier, but it it is just as easy to go straight 
 in and kill him. Then you ditch the pursuit and head back to the head assassin dude. This is fun 
 the first couple of times. Towards the last few times it is just extremely boring.
  
  Every so often, you pop out of the animus back to the real world. The story advances in both places. 
 You pick up hints in the past as to who the people who have captured you in the present are and 
 what they want and vice versa. Unfortunately, the game ends without just about all of the main 
 story arcs being tied up. This game doesn't leave room for a possible sequel, it openly cashes 
 in on a sequel not yet made by outright requiring you to shell out an additional $60 if you want 
 to find out what happens to you after 15 hours of play.
  
  For all its faults though, Assassin's Creed is not, however, a game without a lot of impressive 
 things going for it. First and foremost among the things it does well has to be the technical issues. 
 For a game that looks as beautiful as this one, and that has so many things on the screen moving 
 around at once, the game's frame rates are silky smooth. Even when you are surrounded by a dozen 
 guards all trying to kill you with innocent bystanders running in panic all around you, the game 
 doesn't so much as hiccup.
  
  And the guards will want to kill you often. When someone things of an assassin, you normally associate 
 stealth and secrecy. You think about quiet killings where nobody ever sees you kill. Unfortunately, 
 that isn't the case here. You're going to be fighting a lot. Fortunately, the combat is one of 
 the better parts of the game. It is fairly rhythm based. You block and execute the sequence to 
 counterattack based on the correct timing, and then, based on which weapon you are wielding currently 
 and which direction you are facing, execute a number of poetic, elegant looking lethal ripostes.
 
  
  How the game looks, be it in combat or just wandering around, is another of the strengths of the 
 game. The city design, the beautiful buildings, sky, and people all blend together to create a 
 very vivid feeling setting. That may be why the game requires you to climb so many things, so the 
 game can show off how beautiful everything looks.
  
  From a sound perspective, the game has its highs and lows. The music is fairly generic. It isn't 
 bad, but it isn't anything that you'll remember for long after you play it. The voice acting is 
 pretty solid, but the voice of Altair, the main character of the game who does the most talking, 
 is pretty weak and subdued. Many of the other voices make up for it to some degree, but the main 
 character does do a lot of talking.
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a fun, but exceedingly shallow, game. Rent this one first and then 
 decide if it is worth $120, because that is the true cost of this game because the sequel should 
 be considered to be a required expense for anyone who wants to actually see how this game ends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the kind of game that makes you feel like you have complete control. It is one 
 f the few games that I can't think of anything that I would change, as far as game play goes. Graphically 
 the only game that is worthy of comparison is Call of Duty 4, all other games seem like last gen 
 titles compared to AC and CoD4. I could see that some people would say it is repetitive, because 
 there are only 6 different types of missions that you find around the city. This is not a fault 
 of the game because all the mission types are fun and addictive, they didn't add in a stupid mission 
 type just so they could more in the game, they stuck to what they felt worked, and it did. The 
 game may seem on the easy side for the hard core gamers but the casual gamers will find the game 
 amazing and easy to pick up. 
  
  The story line of the game is far from what is expected. It is a great story that leaves you wanting 
 more when the game is over. The basic premise of the game (without giving away any details) is 
 you are Altair, a member of the Assassins Creed, A group of Assassins who are fighting for world 
 peace. As Altair it is your job to Assassinate Templars. The Templars are the group of rulers who 
 are trying to take total control over their people. There are 6 major Templars you must assassinate, 
 and for every Templar you need to investigate the city. Investigation is where the majority of 
 game play takes place. There are Six different types of investigations you can preform, they range 
 from Eaves dropping, Pick pocketing, to saving citizens from rowdy guards. Then you report what 
 you have found to the cities Assassin's bureau, and are off to get your target. Also not to ruin 
 any thing but the games ending is a perfect fit for a sequel. 
  
  There are two major flaws with this game that kept it from getting a perfect score. The first is 
 that the game has many glitches. You will be running around the roof tops then all of a sudden 
 Altair is frozen but nobody else is, you can still move the camera around and you can still press 
 the PS button. Also I have noticed that when running I have fallen through the ground through nothingness 
 into the ocean and drowned. The second flaw is a small one, there is no difficulty setting, if 
 you ask me I would have wanted the game to be a bit more challenging, I only had to redo maybe 
 two or three missions, not counting the times the game froze mid mission, but if the game were 
 a bit more challenging it would have more replayability. 
  
  Despite it's short comings Assassins Creed is one of the best games of the year and sure to please 
 anyone who has ever dreamed of being an assassin. this game also leaves a perfect open ending for 
 more installments later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themanzjii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Been waiting for Assassin's Creed to come out since it was in early production and since the first 
 trailer i watched i knew "man, that's one game I don't want to miss" and it was worth the wait!
 
  
  Assassin's Creed has a sci-fi twist which you get acquainted with right in the beginning, presenting 
 you with a rather large tutorial explaining all the details of blending in and keeping a low profile 
 in the streets. However, the real assassination and the real fun begin when you learn all the stealth 
 techniques and master the hidden blade, which will be your main weapon for stealth kills.
  
  The game is always fast paced, with some interrogation, pickpocket or eavesdropping investigation 
 missions to explore and the preparation for the major assassinations and the consequent escape. 
 Altair has a variety of weapons but for close combat the sword and the short blade will be the 
 most reliable, presenting you with some jaw-dropping counters and cinematic kills.
  
  Climbing to the walls is like any other Prince of Persia game with some assassin-like acrobatics 
 and very detailed backgrounds and climbing to the highest towers in the cities to watch the amazing 
 background is just as satisfying.
  
  A true must-have!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahammut125
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has been a very much looked forward too, and finally after some delay, it has 
 become available to the general public. The artwork in this game is just marvelous, with every 
 detail having great attention paid to it.
  
  the main feature of the game is of course the openness of the world to Altair. He can climb any 
 building, except city walls. Any object sticking out from a building can be grabbed by Altair, 
 and he climbs all the way to the top of a cathedral for merely one view point, if you can find 
 the way up. Also, the citizens you save and the guards intelligence is quite amazing, though it 
 can get a little out of hand when guards attack you for running a couple of steps if you accidentally 
 hit the wrong button. The combat system is pretty good, though it can get a little repetitive, 
 though this is lessened if you use the short blade, which is by far the most fun to use.
  
  The beggars can get annoying, and I constantly found myself killing them so they would leave me 
 alone. The crazies also can be annoying, pushing you, especially when you are tracking your target. 
 The fact you can't swim is a really bothering factor, as who heard of an assassin that couldn't 
 swim? The only major issue I ever found though was the game froze a few times, causing me to have 
 to restart my PS3, however the game auto saves so often this is not a large issue. Also, the load 
 time can occasionaly be long, but for the most part this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bougiee
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Quick review pointing out the pro's and cons and why im only giving it an 7.5. Pro's: The graphics 
 are terrific, the story line is very interesting (something i might read up on afterwards) , and 
 well that's about it. The con's: the game play if extremely repetitive, the fighting sequences 
 are horrible and repetitive, the storyline though interesting is repetitive. Overall i think the 
 game is very worthy of a rental, even a few extra rentals. But ive found the game to almost be 
 boring the futher i play into it. The clues provided in the level are pointless, you wind up ignoring 
 them when actually accomplishing the assassinations, and in the end you just wildly wind up running 
 around until you fight your way out of trouble or luck into a quite area and hide for cover. I'm 
 sure this is one of the better games for the PS3, but to give it a 9 is ridiculous. You'd have 
 to compare it to other games that were rated a 9, such as halo. this game is far from being in 
 the same class as halo. IGN's rating is a bit more realistic in my mind... 
  
  ok, the more i play this game, the more i want to lower its ratings... im down to a 7... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediBaja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm about half-way through Assassin's Creed, 'Memory Block 4' to be exact. So far, I believe the 
 game is excellent in several ways. It defies conventional game mechanics; allowing you to climb 
 virtually everything. Controls are intuitive since the face buttons are mapped to body parts; allowing 
 you to operate your head, hands, and feet. The controls are also innovative in that one no longer 
 has to press a button to constantly jump from building to building, but rather you control the 
 character like a car and concentrate on navigating Altair through crowds and rooftops  which is 
 a challenge in itself. Combat is incredibly satisfying. I find the use of timed attacks/counter-attacks 
 a welcome change to the hack-and-slash trend in most recent games. The resulting kill animations 
 are varied, gruesome, amazing to see, and even more exciting to pull off. Assassinations are of 
 course the highlight of the game. Everything from the approach, the final kill, and the escape 
 is exhilarating. The best part is that each assassination is different due to the nature of your 
 target and his/her surroundings. Graphically, this game is beautiful and provides a wonderful historic 
 illustration of Acre, Damascus, and Jerusalem in the year 1191 A. D. during the Third Crusades. 
 There is no doubt that Ubisoft Montreal put a lot of blood, sweat, and tears into the character 
 designs and landscapes. You will discover the most detailed and breathtaking environments in this 
 game. So far, the story of Assassin's Creed is quite interesting. I like how there is an underlying 
 message and am eager to find out what it all means in the end. The characters are appealing as 
 well, especially the main character Desmond/Altair. Desmond has an air of mystery about him and 
 his ancestor, Altair is a complete badass. I do have a few complaints about the game however. Although 
 the voice acting is very well done, there isn't much variation when interacting with non-playable 
 characters. Whenever saving a citizen or climbing walls, you always hear the same two or three 
 reactions. At times, investigation missions and discovering viewpoints seem like a chore. However, 
 I found that by disabling the HUD solves this issue and made for more of an immersive experience. 
 The game is very good in that one can tell if you are dying or being watched through audio and 
 visual on-screen clues. Despite its few shortcomings, Assassin's Creed is a must buy. Not only 
 is it innovative in its controls and game design, but it is also a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommybao
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Really cool game and graphic is very good but this game gets a little to repitative. The first 
 few mission was very nice with the unique game styles and unbelievable graphic. Assassin's Creed 
 graphic has to give him or herself a pat on the back for creating such an amazing world and the 
 detail in the that world was so lifelike. As you go deeper into the game, you seem to be doing 
 the same thing over and over again. They should make the game so that you can be able to upgrade 
 your weapons and get stronger and stronger through out the game. So that the repitative game playing 
 doesn't seem to repitative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  So 15mins ago, i just completed Assasin's Creed. I have to say totally astonishing, initially i 
 was enjoying the game, until after half of it, i felt the missions were repititive and this game 
 was going to be on my 2nd hand list. But but but, when i finished it, it's totally AAA experience. 
 The storyline changed suddenly, revealing a plot his faster set for him. 
  And through determination, he assinated all 10 men including one being his master.
  The game 
 isn't easy, nor is it hard, it's just right, with me repeating some assinations a few times.
  The combat system is great, yet at the same time doesn't inbalances the game. i've heard ppl taking 
 on 6 guards, yes it's possible but towards the end of story, you have to DO that, maybe even 14 
 after you? And that's where the fun part starts. Also the part where you'll master ur swordplay.
 
  
  Pros:
  -Storyline
  -combat system
  -The open world, althought not relli so.
  -The climbing physics
  -Well done climbing objects
  -Good voice acting
  -Atmosphere
  -Cut 
 scenes
  
  Cons:
  -repitive missions
  -lots of bugs and freezes
  
  All in all, this game might seemed dull when ur during the middle stages, but once u complete the 
 game, i felt satisfaction. Especially the last few parts, the game gets quite hard. It's also a 
 totally new gameplay format, but could be better if they can add more interaction to the people. 
 Storyline line wise, it's long enough, unlike the trend where storyline becomes shorter and shorter.
 
  It's a must get if you have a ps3. but the downside is there might not be replay value due to 
 the low interactivity of the crowds.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8nnwilder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Okay well first of all this is my first attempt to write a game review on here and secondly I haven't 
 completed Assassins Creed (Yet) .... 
  
  I got my copy of Assassins Creed on Sunday and I only managed to put a good 3 hours into it. So 
 even thou I'm not far into the game and only pulled off my second target kill last night I have 
 a pretty good idea of what to expect.
  
  Well once you get around the controls and get use to the way Altair moves you will automatically 
 start enjoying it more and more as you keep playing. The better you you get at playing it the better 
 the game just becomes all round.
  
  I'm a big fan of the Hitman series and if Assassins Creed is the new series in that direction I'll 
 definitely pick it up as the sequels come along as it can only get better.
  
  You are probably asking yourself ;"Well how can he write a review if he's barely started playing 
 the game?"
  
  Well that's the thing.... After spending the brilliant 3 hours playing it I suddenly realized that 
 I've been pushing through this game like I'm possessed and I've done that a lot in recent games. 
 You now buy the game, get it going and just power your way through it... usually ending up finishing 
 the game in a matter of hours.
  
  Well luckily this game has a lot more hours to power through but my point is that I suddenly stopped 
 and realized that even thou it all good and well to play like that this title (Assassins Creed... Obviously) 
 needs to be enjoyed to fully see the beauty in this game.... You know take your time and just play!
 
  
  So that is what i did.... I really started playing it as if I was in it. And I guess this is where 
 my review starts!!
  
  
  From the moment you sit back and get into things you will really see how beautiful this game looks, 
 feels and sounds... It is a living breathing world with thousands of people in a city that just 
 goes on and on... So the scale of this game is just huge. And it come together nicely.... 
  
  Okay certain you'll notice gets repeated a lot... Like what people say and how they react when 
 you walk by. But the only way they could've done better on it is if every other character in the 
 game had to be separately voiced by a Voice artist and individually dressed and modeled and I think 
 we all agree that that would have taken forever to complete this game... So it's not really a bad 
 thing and you can get over it quickly.
  
  The combat system is solid and surprisingly easy once you get your head around it... Even thou 
 right now a sixth finger on my right hand would have been perfect.... but that's not the point. 
 Once you get into battle and learn the counter attack you basically want to fight everyone. It 
 is just a lot of fun when you throw one guard into the other then suddenly counter attack the next 
 and stab him in the back of the neck switch to the long sword defend yourself... counter again... 
 kill another... Turn around run to the walls scale it out like you've been freakin' bit by a spider... 
 Jump across a roof stop and throw the guard thats following you off the roof ................. 
 and finally vanish! Phew!!! That was wicked! don't think the fighting in this game will ever get 
 boring...
  
  And then there is your HIDDEN BLADE!!!!! That by itself is probably the coolest little weapon ever... 
 Okay fair enough you get your guns and grenades and what-not in other games but you hidden blade 
 is swift and quick... I took out a civilian by accident but it was probably the coolest kill so 
 far... (Okay except for the guard I killed from above but I'll get there) I was just walking about 
 minding my own business when I just wanted to prepare my self with the right weapon... But I had 
 the hidden blade equipped and pressed the wrong button.... Soooo... the poor civilian got a hand 
 on his mouth and a blade in his back... Bloody hell that was quick... Anyway so after the warning 
 pops up about killing civilian I keep walking and no one around is the wiser as the poor dude was 
 still busy dying... only once he actually fell over people where like WTF!? What happened and blah 
 blah blah So now at least i know how to do that... My point once again is.... I want one... In 
 my country with all the crime it will be a kick ass feature... Give some would be Hi-Jacker a blade 
 in ass... But that has nothing to do with this review so let's carry on.
  
  
  
  Oh BTW did I mention the horse? That is also a pretty cool feature and riding your horse also feels 
 real and realistic... For a game... Last time i was on a horse a nearly died and got trampled like 
 mothr******. So a lot safer in the game. And traveling between the cities is quite scenic experience 
 and you can run over guards at full speed if you want...
  
  So all in all I say this game rocks! Not even 3-4 hours in and I already made up my mind. Personally 
 I say forget about reviews , previews and a walk through and tips and cheats. Take this game and 
 just play it! Do whatever you feel like go where you want... Take your time and explore. I truly 
 think you'll get more out of this if you really play it the way it was intended and don't just 
 rush through it!
  
  So between doing leaps of faith... beating up people to killing them with your hidden blade there 
 is a lot to do and a lot of ways to do it.
  
  
  There is some minor issues I picked up and I had two glitches but the good outweighs the bad 100-1. 
 So even thou this game isn't perfect it's a must own game for anyone that enjoyed Hitman and other 
 similar titles.
  
  The replay value of this title is huge... I'm certain that once I do it my way I'll play it again 
 and do things the right way... After that I'll do it again and do it the mass murder way..... 
 
  
  
  Okay well this was fun! think I should write reviews on the games I actually completed recently 
 like COD4 and Heavenly Sword... At least i can give a complete review and opinion. 
  
  **Now just to check the spelling so if I miss some to bad English isn't my first language so don't 
 blame me.... 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Climbatize1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  
  At first glance Assassin's Creed is one of the best adventure games to this date. The gameplay 
 is almost perfect and the graphics is amazing. On top of that it has an usually good music score 
 which contributes alot to the already great ambient atmosphere.
  
  The problem with the game comes about half way into the story when you realise that there aren't 
 going to be any more new places or challanges. You spend all of assassin's time in the same three 
 cities. And the gameplay doesn't have any variation from this point.
  
  With more cool environments to discover and much more variation to the gameplay Assassin's Creed 
 could have been outstanding. It still is a very good game, but could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amac18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game that is enjoyable to anyone that likes playing a good action adventure 
 game. The story isn't great but it is very good and has some big twists and turns throughout. Once 
 you experience the ability to scale and jump from building to building along with assassinating 
 your targets you'll be hooked.
  First off I want to say that the game play is some of best I've ever experienced in any game. The 
 controls are tight and feel very good and responsive. You are able to move, jump and climb around 
 the world with great ease. The combat in the game is as equally good. The counter moves that you 
 pull off to kill opponents in a fight are easy and very rewarding. You will use these all the time 
 in fights because it is the best way to get through a fight. You are only required to push two 
 buttons to perform this when an enemy attacks. This is great because these combos aren't overly 
 complicated like most action games can make them.
  The missions are set up really well you always know what you have to do. You never really feel 
 lost in the world you are in. You have a navigation system that is simple and effective. The world 
 itself is pretty big and being able to navigate it without confusion is a big plus. Overall Assassin's 
 Creed is a great game that shouldn't be missed by anyone that has a xbox360 or ps3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabber69
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful game, very boring.
  
  Not much to do, very repetitive. Could have been way better. Rent it, not worth $60. Do yourself 
 a favor, don't buy it. Lame, lame, lame. Fun for about 30 minutes, cutscenes es are way too long. 
 Would rather bang my head against a wall than watch another 5 minute diatribe. Please kill me now. 
 GTA IV, where are you??? Sony fooled me again with this one. I mean, do I really have to climb 
 another spire? Do I have to eavesdrop on another worthless conversation? Shoot me in the head. 
 Try finding 100 flags hidden about a huge city. The only fun thing is killing randoms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikamaru37
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  This really is an awesome game. The graphics are extraordinary beautiful. 
  You can view over the complete landscape. It's very realistic. Almost no glitches or lags. Smooth 
 playing + Only 4 loading places in the entire game!!!
  
  A cool part to is that the game is completely interactive, people act differently on everything 
 you do, you can grab anything you like 
  + It's historical accurate and I LOVE IT!!!!
  The idea behind the game is awesome to. completely my genre :D --  Find information about your 
 target -- plan your attack ---  kill him ---  escape
  The fighting is also very realistic 
  
  however there are also some negative points. The game is pretty easy once you get a hold of 
 the controls (you got no game difficulties) . Not so much variation in the missions: Get some information 
 by pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogating. Ask for permission to kill your target and kill 
 him. No unexpected changes in the storyline.
  
  This game is graphically one of the best games ever made on any platform!!
  The storyline is 
 great however i expected more variation and a more challenging game
  
  It's still a must-have game if you love adventure games + i can't w8 for the next assassin's creed 
 game to come out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inciteechc
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I thouroughly enjoyed the first 1/3 of the game. Once I got the hang of it, which took about 15, 
 it seemed like a groundbreaking game. Shortly thereafter I came to the realization that I would 
 have to do the EXACT same thing over and over again... example - Climb this building, evesdrop on 
 those two, pick that guys pocket, maybe kill 3 or 4 people... and follow that up with an easy assassination 
 attempt. This game was simple minded. 
  
  Graphically speaking it was amazing, the VOs/sound were great, and the game-play/handling was terrific, 
 I also loved the roof top menuvering. The big problem was the fact that I beat the game in less 
 than 6 hours... AND I didnt realize I had even reached the end of the game. It is such a horribly 
 bad and pointless ending. I do recommend this game to those of you who like an easy win, but rent 
 it DO NOT BUY!!!
  
  I expected more out you Ubisoft - "If you dont live up to the hype, you will die from it." a quote 
 from ME!
  
  All in all, it's better then The Godfather but far worse than Ninja Gaiden Sigma. I rate it a 7.0 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Forget your blockbuster movies this christmas like Narina or Lord of the Rings, Assassin's Creed 
 a great game that you will be playing over and over. I never really liked Ubisoft work apart from 
 Beyond Good and Eil was brillient, Assassin's Creed was excellent.
  
  Main story is that youare in this science experment where you are this local bartender and you 
 have to go in this machine called the Animus where you find out that your ansessctor is an Assassin. 
 It takes you back to 1191 during the Medevil and Crusdaers war, First off you mainly play as Altair 
 a person when first play it you will lose all your moves and albilities before playing the main 
 game becuase you make a big mistake that makes everyone very annoyed, playing as Altair you travel 
 to 5 different locations such as Arhce, Jurluserlum and other citys where you have to Assassinate 
 9 leaders and ending the war and brining peace. But to do all of that you need to look around a 
 city and find clues on how to find the Leader to Assassinate. Also you can plan your attacks, save 
 helpless citizens which is proppler worth doing in order to get past somting or have more protecten 
 where you are. There are some Glithcesin the game but they clear off a few seconds later, the sword 
 fights are really cool but abit trickey you need perfrom the right moves half the time in order 
 to kill gaurds or leaders. The should take you up to more then 20 hours at least.
  
  The graphics are perfect for a next gen game you can't escape from those kind of graphics and sounding 
 and vocing just like a Blockbuster Movie where you have to kill certain people, its alot like Grand 
 Theft Auto but without the cars and guns.
  
  Best part about the game is where you can climb to the highest buildings in citys and get a great 
 view of everything feels like you were a part of history and jumping off high buildings like an 
 eagle. This game is almost perfect if it didn't had any glitches, if you played Tenchu or Metal 
 Gear Solid this game should be in your collection. Bring on the sequel if there is gonna be one.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: remirez69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Since its initial announcement, many eyes have been firmly fixed on the progress of Assassin's 
 Creed and breath has been baited all around. Inevitably, this lead to claims of a game being "over-hyped" 
 or other claims of disappointment before the game has even been released. Many criticisms of this 
 game can be found all over the net, from "enemies attack you one at a time" (partially true, but 
 nonetheless irrelevant) to the ludicrous "there's no jump button" (not true, and, since you're 
 not playing Mario Bros, irrelevant also) . Now, the game has been released, and I like many others 
 have finished it.
  
  What can I say? WOW.
  
  The game is brilliant. It does have some small annoying parts, such as the beggar-women who just 
 won't leave you alone and the speech repetition, but these small factors jar only because of the 
 quality of the game itself.
  
  Firstly, let's deal with the plot. Assassin's Creed puts you mainly in the role of Altair, a member 
 of the Assassin Brotherhood in the Holy Land of the Third Crusade era. The link is his ancestor, 
 modern-day bartender Desmond Miles, who has been kidnapped by an organisation of great wealth. 
 This enigmatic organisation has created a machine named the Animus, which allows a link to the 
 genetic memory of Altair in Desmond's DNA. Effectively, Desmond is quantum-leaped into the past, 
 in order that the organisation can learn about an ancient Templar treasure.
  
  Everything is handled by what's known as "synchronisation". Rather than health, you have a synchronisation 
 bar, which, when depleted, will stop the Animus and restart it from a recent memory. Game progress 
 is shown through DNA synchronisation, with each side-mission and assassination being represented 
 as a chromosome in the Animus' display. Altair has been given nine targets to assassinate in order 
 to stop the evil machinations of the templars and bring peace to the Holy Land.
  
  Now, let's discuss the free-running/climbing. This is one of the best aspects of the game, with 
 the animations being incredibly real, each limb movement is specific to the way you climb and what 
 you're climbing, you bounce across the rooftops like Ubisoft's favourite prince after having parkour 
 lessons. Going into free-run mode means Altair will automatically leap across gaps and climb for 
 you, meaning you only need to worry about direction for the most part. Many people criticise the 
 game for this ease of use, but since Altair's main method of transportation is free-running, it's 
 like complaining that a game is bad because it's too easy to walk.
  
  Combat is a great swash-buckling affair, and often Altair will be surrounded by guards who all 
 want him dead. With many weapons at his disposal, the titular assassin is more than capable of 
 dealing with them, but this is no hack-and-slash game. You will need to use position, tactics, 
 timing and the satisfying counter attacks to win. The real strength is the realism here, the animation 
 is smooth and shows a level of attention most game designers wouldn't dare to attempt. However, 
 after a few hours of play, you may find most of the combat a little easy. Fortunately, the more 
 you master it, the more satisfying it looks.
  
  Each assassination, taking place in a district of one of the three major cities (which are all 
 surprisingly large) , comes in several separate parts. First, you must visit the Assassins' Bureau 
 to acquire some initial information. Then, you will gather intelligence about your target by climbing 
 towers in the city to see things happening on the streets below. Then, you will be able to eavesdrop, 
 pickpocket, interrogate or simply gather the information you require. You're never asked to gather 
 all the information available, but doing so will make your hit easier. Then, you go back to the 
 Bureau for permission to assassinate your target. Finally, plan it and go for it. Death is so satisfying 
 when it's someone elses.
  
  What transpires in the game's plot is excellent, a twisting turning story which never assumes you're 
 too stupid to understand it, and delivers a great cinematic experience. To sum up, if you miss 
 this game, on your head be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeemcD_6395
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed from Ubioft takes you back to the year 1191 AD during the brutal times of the 
 Third Crusade. You play as Altair, once elite assassin who messed up in a mission and was stripped 
 of his rank. You have to regain your honour by performing 9 assassinations. 
  You work for an aged assassin, Al Mualim, your master, who has learned of your resent blunder and 
 demotes you to a novice, the lowest rank there is. After you beg for mercy, he decides to give 
 you an opportunity to redeem yourself by giving you 9 assassination targets.
  There are 3 cities for you to explore - Jerusalem, Damascus and Acre, each with 3 targets. Every 
 target can be assassinated in several differant ways, either it be a direct approach or a stealth 
 atack from a bulding roof, as long as they die, it doesn't matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The game features some of the best animations I've seen in a game (especially the parkour moves) . 
 Great artistic design in the cities and interact able environments, you can scale just about everything 
 and it feels so fluid. Reminds me of myself back in elementary school in the playground. A sure 
 buy for the PS3, the story is top notch and really draws you in as well. Running from the guards 
 after being spotted really adds the sense of urgency as you hop, climb, and take leaps of faith 
 into haystacks really adds to the immersion. Highly original game. The graphics are great but the 
 shadows can be a little jagged at times and some textures are a little blurry, but counting for 
 the sheer amount of living and breathing NPCs and huge environments more than makes up for that 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauddib1537
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I am enjoying playing this game, I can say so far it has lived up to all the hype. Although it 
 does have some glitches that they are working out, the game all and all is very enjoyable. This 
 isn't a game for young kids anyone else should be ok, knowing what they are getting into. I even 
 bought a ps3 just to play this game and others like it, and it was worth it so far. If you enjoyed 
 playing an assassin in oblivion they this takes it to the next level. You become totally immersed 
 in the game , you can roam anywhere , and on anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpapimalo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that came after the price of persian the the playstation. The games 
 is agreat game to play and enjoined the story line of it but the game have some issues. The problem 
 with this game is that the side missions is all the same for example: save civilian, the view points, 
 pick poker and other. After a while people get tire of doing the same thing over and over. But with 
 no dout this games is a great game for just $60 bucks. I give it a 9.0 out of 10. And i hope ya 
 enjoined the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPlodT
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say that this game is the best looking game I have ever seen. With some little 
 little glitches on it, the imaginary world of assassin's creed is awesome and the gameplay is also 
 awesome.
  The game is really good. But it could have been a classic, and it will never be one like this.
 
  The problem of it is that it gets repetitive on the first 6h of gameplay. Well, you may think 
 that this will get better as the game continues, but it doesn't. You just keep climbing the goddamn 
 view points, saving citizens, pickpocketing and assassinating. But if you pickpocketed or saved 
 citizens or anything in many different ways, it would be ok. But you don't. Citizens say the same 
 thing when saved, pickpocket targets act equally and you have to do the same thing to get the item, 
 and so on. And the targets you got to assassinate are always saying the same thing and you have 
 to kill them in the same way. THAT IS WHAT MAKES THIS GAME A TOTAL LETDOWN!
  And the combat system, well it gets better when you get the new moves and combos in late game, 
 but it ain't good. It is a one-button combat that makes you get annoyed after saving millions of 
 citizens the same way.
  Well, the overall is sad. A GREAT GAME WITH A GREAT GAMEPLAY AND PLAYABILITY, NICE MOVES, NICE 
 STARTING IDEAS, NICE GRAPHICS, NICE PROGRAMMERS AND NICE STORYLINE becomes a TOTAL DISASTER when 
 developed without new ideas.
  And another bad thing: it freezes. If yours freeze than it ain't a problem with your cd or system. 
 Programmers should take a look at this because it really makes you angry when you are about to 
 complete an objective and has to reset the ps3 manually and redo the objective.
  Maybe the next assassin's creed version will have this gameplay and all these good things with 
 a whole new objective and with many different ways to reach it. Then it will deserve a 10, but 
 as it is 6 is more than good for it.
  If you want to have a great time with it, just don't buy it. Rent it for a day or two, play it 
 alot (like 20h) then return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeCrown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First things first: Assassin's Creed is a pretty cool game. You can explore three huge, bustling 
 cities as you see fit, can climb almost any structure, and kill just about anyone in your way (though 
 murdering an innocent will set you back a chuck to your life bar) . That said, here we go:
  
  Gameplay wise, the game takes a bit of time to get used to. But before you know it you'll be 
 leaping across buildings and perfoming assassinations as though it were second nature. Combat is 
 both simple and complicated, as you'll often be surrounded by four or (many) more soldiers at a 
 time. However, enemies will attack you one by one, and after a little practice you'll be able to 
 counter their hits and take them out pretty quickly. There are multiple weapons at your disposal: 
 Hidden blade, throwing knives and a sword, the latter two which can be used in close combat. The 
 hidden blade can be used in several different ways: You can be a badass and kill guys with a big 
 display, or take them out stealthily (often the better choice) . The game has been advertised and 
 revolving around "social stealth and interaction." This is very true, though climbing climbing 
 buildings in front of people won't draw as much attention as you'd think. You can do it right in 
 front of soldier's and many won't even notice. Strangely, at other times you'll be blending in 
 with the crowd and somehow a guard with spot you effortlessly. . . odd. The game lacks an manual 
 save option, instead auto-saving and returning you to preset check points when you die or quit. 
 Which isn't so bad, but often sets you back a LONG distance.
  
  Grapically, the game is impressive. Climbing the tallest tower of a city and seeing all of that 
 said city beneath you is breathtaking. Character models, though not the best I've seen, are still 
 great. Voice acting is of a very high quality, and Altair's animations are for the most part smooth 
 and believable --- you'll actually feel his weight as you move him around.
  
  The story is intriguing from the moment the game begins, and presents you with more and more questions 
 as you progress. You'll begin to wonder who truly who is in the right and who in the wrong, or 
 if the two sides are even black and white at all.
  
  But no matter what you may have heard, the game is VERY glitchy. I personally have experienced 
 the notorious framerate drops, freezings, and all sorts of other odd glitches, such as my horse 
 mysteriously changing colors before my very eyes. None of these will break the game, but it can 
 become annoying. Also, by the time you finish the third assassination (nine in total) repetiveness 
 begins to rear it's ugly head. You're pretty much doing the same thing over and over, even if there's 
 several different ways to go about things. At least these actions are fun.
  
  Lastly, was Assassin's Creed overhyped? Yes, in my opinion. But it's still a good game, and something 
 worth looking into. Is this assassin worth hiring? Sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  No one can argue that Assassin's Creed has turned heads, especially on E3 press conference.
  
  Assassin's Creed puts you in a role of Altair, you'll explore three major cities of the Holy 
 Land in the 12th century: Jerusalem, Damascus, and Acre.
  
  It's a beautiful game, while there aren't that many visual differences between three cities, they 
 all look phenomenal. Large towers reach very high to the skies, especially the Holy Church that 
 took me a little while to figure out how to top its crest peak.
  City is a busy place on their own, markets are full with people, beggars will annoy the crap out 
 of you and local mad man/drunks will push you around looking to pick a fight. 
  Assassin's Creed raised a bar with interactivity of NPC. There are many of them all over the place 
 which time to time takes patience and elegance to pass by them without getting spotted, which holds 
 true for few mission assassinations.
  If you feel for some action soon into the game you will gain counter-attack ability which will 
 make most of your future combat heavy dependent, with each mission success you will gain another 
 rank with new ability added.
  You will be able to throw knifes, gain short blade for quick dispaching of numerous enemies, stealth 
 blade - which is your primary silent kill. It can be done in both low profile, and high profile. 
 
  Both are very effective depending on a situation.
  You will also have a long sword, which is very good and my personal favorite weapon of choice when 
 In trouble. 
  
  Once you gain dodge, counter-attack, grab, counter-grab and enemy defense break thing will heat 
 up, and get much more action oriented then most of the game stealth aspect.
  You can play the game any way you wish, either stealthy and silently or action run and blade drawn. 
 The later could be quite hard until you gain most of the abilities.
  
  I definitely recommend to learn dodge and get use to it, the tougher folks especially in the later 
 levels will break you defense and strike fearsomely with combinations of attacks. Dodging will 
 be essential when facing multiply of enemies at the same time, as well as countering. 
  
  Another interesting aspect of the game is that's it not entirely historical based.
  For those 
 that haven't played the game yet, I will not spoil it however I believe that game design idea was 
 quite cool and it will be revealed to the player very early in the game.
  It's also the main part of the story which is very well done. The actors voices are excellent with 
 many good lines.
  
  The only quirk that I would had towards game would be it gets a little bit repetitive. 
  I for 
 one didn't really mind it that much, as I enjoy exploring since the game lets you go pretty much 
 anywhere free roaming.
  
  Towards the last few missions, I kinda gave up on getting all the birds eye towers climbing simple 
 because I didn't needed them, as well as some of the citizens to save.
  If those encounters were a bit different and offered something as a good rewards, it would feel 
 less of a drag and more of a excitement. If side quests were giving maybe a bonus photo gallery, 
 or developers video, or something along side those lines, then it would be something to look forward 
 to.
  
  Then again, you can go ahead and ignore them and be gone with your missions.
  
  The game gave me a great eighteen hours of play and could had definitely go beyond that if I spent 
 time and discovering all of the flags in each city and kingdom. Again, it's a personal choice but 
 I decided to skip most of them as they feel more like a drag to me. The games does get repetitive 
 and could have used different approach to gathering information for each target.
  
  That alone would had helped the game tremendously and in my opinion the only downside to otherwise 
 good game. Repetitive tasks that are all the same feel as a burden in this large and living world. 
 Outside of that, the rest of the game is very good. 
  
  I had a great time, the graphics are beautiful, gameplay is solid and fun, sounds is in the right 
 place, and most importantly for myself - I enjoyed the story, which is the reasons why I'd buy 
 most of the games I do.
  It had me grasped, each assassination was a step closer to uncover the truth.
  Great game and 
 definitely recommended for holiday season if you can bypass the mission gathering information repetitiveness. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  There are 2 stories in Assassin's Creed (AC) . One takes part in the future/present and the other 
 in the past. In the present, you are a subject to an experiment and the researchers are trying 
 to find information from your memory. According to them, memory of ancestors is stored ina person's 
 DNA. With a machine called the Animus, they can let you relive the events of your ancestor. When 
 they want to access the memory they need from you, your body shuts down. This forces them to slowly 
 let you experience everything to finally get to the information they want. This is done by letting 
 you play the Assassin Altair, which is 90% of the gameplay.
  
  Story:
  The story is awesome, however, i cant say much more then i already have cause it might spoil your 
 game.
  10
  
  Graphics:
  Are superb. 3 Fully living cities, beautifully rendered with only a few hick-ups every now and 
 then.
  9
  
  Gameplay:
  This is truly something you havent played before. Though some elements might feel familiar (PoP: 
 sands of time) , it is unique and because of it, it makes this title a real "next-gen" game (though 
 it's a current-gen game, you know, just for those "next-gen" folks) . However, doing EVERYTHING 
 in this game will be a repetative experience. After 50% of the game, you get the feeling to just 
 rush the through the story, leaving most extra's behind, maybe for a second play-through.
  9
  
  Sound:
  is just as good as the graphics. Everything sounds as it should and the voice-acting 
 is terrific. Altair's voice seems a bit out of place, maybe there is a reason for that? (no, this 
 isnt answered in this game, so it's not a spoiler but a thought for AC2)
  9
  
  Tilt:
  Eventhough the game is terrific, the gameplay becomes boring after a while, as you basicly repeat 
 the same stuff over and over again. However, the story will keep you playing until the very end, 
 only to be kinda disappointed due to the awkward ending. So eventhough it's a great experience, 
 it still has a few flaws and lacks a little variety in gameplay. I myself am looking forward to 
 the sequel already and hopefully this turns in to a big franchise.
  8
  
  Overall score: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Pros
  + Beautiful and gigantic worlds that scream exploring
  + Combat system that requires strategy and good timing
  + Free running is all is cracked up to 
 be
  + Compelling main character
  
  Cons
  - Thought not bad, the story's exposition leaves much to be desired
  - Investigation missions 
 are repetitive and lack any sort of variety
  - Though huge, the worlds offer little in them apart from the missions
  - Enemy AI goes from 
 bad to questionable
  - The game is plagued by glitches that mar the experience
  
  The holiday of 2007 promised to be one of the best in recent years, with the advent of many sequels 
 to loved franchises, as well as new IP's that have wowed players every time they made a showing 
 at the biggest conventions. One of these intellectual properties is the new offering from Ubisoft's 
 Montreal Studio, Assassin's Creed, a game that set out to define what true next-gen gaming really 
 is. Unfortunately, Assassin's Creed strikes out with a shiny, yet dull blade.
  
  Assassin's Creed takes place in the 13th century. This period is known to most of us as the Crusades, 
 one of the most turbulent and chaotic times in human history. You play as Altair, a master assassin 
 whose skill is only matched by his own arrogance. After foiling a very important assignment, Altair 
 is stripped of his rank by the master of his order and is sent out to the cities of Acre, Damascus 
 and Jerusalem in search of nine different men, with no apparent relation to each other apart from 
 their common destiny, to die by Altair's hand. Success will give Altair a chance at redemption, 
 and the safety of the Holy Land.
  
  Assassin's Creed jumps into a territory rarely visited by games, for mixed results. A lot of care 
 was put into the historical part of the game, as all of these nine men disappeared around the time 
 the game takes place and it also manages to recreate the ambience of the time as described by historians. 
 The premise is compelling and the story maintains an overall quality that is brought down by the 
 way it is presented to the players. There are not cut-scenes per see, and the plot will unfold 
 in front of the players mostly through the conversations between Altair and the game's cast. While 
 it is commendable that the creators wanted to portray things a little differently, this also presents 
 the story telling biggest problem, as most of the important information is given out after Altair 
 kills his targets by the targets themselves. This can take players out of the game's world, as 
 it is rather silly that you're sitting here with your victims in your arms, listening to their 
 schemes and motivations while their personal guard just stand there with their arms crossed, waiting 
 for you to be satisfied. 
  
  The game also has another science fiction story going on at the same time and the two are deeply 
 intertwined. However, this sci-fi element is even less compelling than its historical part and 
 suffers of the same storytelling problems as the other. If there is one thing that the story gets 
 right, is the character of Altair. Not wanting to spoil much, you'll definitely see a growth in 
 Altair's character that is both, realistic and does not come out forced, as the story does.
  
  Words can do little to describe the beauty of Assassin's Creed's world. The game is one of 
 the best looking games out in the market. The scale of the three major cities, as well as the kingdom 
 that connects them, is nothing short of astonishing. Every little detail in the world is beautiful 
 to look at and the edifications and surfaces really give you a sense of awe due to there almost 
 photo realistic compositions. The character's that populate the worlds are equally detailed and 
 animate well. Altair moves with grace as he walks, jumps and interacts with this world. The game 
 does feature some clipping between the characters and structures, and the NPC's can sometimes have 
 jerky animations, but these are little flaws that can be forgiven due to the whole of the game.
 
  
  Assassin's Creed biggest strength is in how you traverse these cities. In this regard, the game 
 does fill its lofty next-gen promises, as Altair is easily the most movable and agile character 
 to ever grace a video game. Altair's free running skills allow him to climb any surface in the 
 game, as well as make daring jumps along rooftops and move from anywhere to everywhere. If you 
 think you can get somewhere, you'll most likely be able too. And the best part is that Altair is 
 also incredibly easy to control, allowing for almost zero error in his movements, once the players 
 get the control scheme. If there is a complain regarding Altair's traveling skills, is his inability 
 to swim. Though there are not many instances where you'll be close to water, the fact that an assassin 
 who is supposed to overcome any environmental obstacles to reach his mark, makes his inability 
 to even ditch out a basic stroke the more frustrating when you find yourself re-loading due to 
 a misstep that lands you in the wet stuff.
  
  For all its freedom and carefully laid out control system, Assassin's Creed suffers from a flaw 
 so big that it will test even the most patient players, and probably drive most others up the wall. 
 That flaw it's the mission structure. Each of the game's nine assassination's first require you 
 to visit the assassin's bureau, where you'll get some info on your target and then its up to you 
 to get the permission to proceed with the assassination by finding out more about your mark. It 
 is here where Creed drops the ball, as these investigation missions are devoid of any variety whatsoever, 
 even when there are different tasks, such as eavesdropping, interrogating and some others. The 
 problem is, once you've done and interrogation, you've done them all, same with eavesdropping and 
 the same with all other tasks. The worse part is that you'll have to do at least three of these 
 menial tasks for each of the nine assassinations. Thankfully, all nine assassinations, specially 
 the later ones are engaging and present you with different scenarios and various ways of approaching 
 them. The escapes are also thrilling, though as to why Ubisoft picked places such as hay stacks 
 and curtained houses that scream "I am hiding here" as the only ways to avoid the guards is beyond 
 anyone's guess. But in the end, five minutes of fun cannot make up for having to go through an 
 hour of repetitive tasks. Apart from the specific missions, there are also viewpoints, which if 
 climbed will give update your GPS and citizens to save. But other than that, these huge cities 
 are devoid of any sort of activities, side quests or mini games for Altair to partake into, making 
 the world of Assassin's Creed alive only in appearance. 
  
  Another disappointing aspect of the game, it's the enemies AI, which ranges from bad to questionable 
 at best. I find it hard to be absorbed into a game world, when I can beat up people with my fist 
 and face no consequences whatsoever, but as soon as I ride my horse, no matter how slow I go, I 
 manage to raise red flags from the bad guys. It also seems very odd that I can pop out of any of 
 the conspicuous hiding places right in front of an enemy who was chasing me five seconds ago and 
 just forgot who I was, but suddenly get riled up by a full squad, just because I was walking on 
 the streets. Apparently, Altair is devoid of both, a visa and a horse-riding license. Add to this 
 all the annoying bugs, such as getting stuck on walls, forever falling and occasional freezing 
 and the game becomes even more frustrating than it needs to be. Fortunately, these glitches are 
 few and far between. 
  
  The combat in Assassin's Creed is well executed. Altair has four different styles at his disposition. 
 Fist brawling, dagger throwing and the hidden arm blade all have very specific uses and are not 
 very useful outside their particular purposes. The sword is the last of these four styles and clearly 
 the most fleshed out. It is the only style capable of saving you in combat. Combat is kind of like 
 a rhythm based mini game, where well-timed button presses make the difference between life or death. 
 Even when it sounds simplistic, the engine certainly has depth and will take a time to master. 
 The enemies are particularly adept with their blades and will give you a run for your money, though 
 the sub-par AI does rear its ugly head in combat as well, as for no apparent reason your enemies 
 will completely drop their guard to taunt you, which normally means instant kill. 
  
  The sound design in the game is almost as good as its visuals. The characters voices fit the part, 
 and the citizens speak a variety of languages that give the game another touch of realism. Sound 
 effects of combat and the environment are also well done, and the score also intensifies the mood 
 for good results. Though as to why Altair has an American accent in an otherwise very well spiced 
 multi-cultural soup is beyond me, though this is hardly an annoyance, as the actor at least makes 
 a good job delivering the lines. It is unfortunate that with all the great voices, the only lines 
 coming from citizens mouths are in complain of Altair's persona. It feels as if the game intends 
 for Altair to be the most criticized man to roam the Holy Land, and makes every citizen seem like 
 they just got up from the wrong side of the bed or just jealous at Altair's mad free running skills.
 
  
  In the end, Assassin's Creed does a lot of things that truly define what a next-gen world is all 
 about and has many of the markings of a great game. Its navigation is compelling and easy, the 
 worlds are huge and is beautiful to look and listen to. Unfortunately it is stuck in an old archetype 
 of design, which feels even older due to its shallowness. Add the countless bugs, terrible AI and 
 bad story exposition, and the precious, perfectly cut diamond that Assassin's Creed could have 
 been, ends up as just being shiny, but rough. And a very rough diamond at that. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfOldSkool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  "For a more detailed background I suggest reading Gamespot's previews among other information pertaining 
 to this title as my reviews are geared more to gamers who pretty much already know the gist of 
 the game and just want to look into other perspectives on the positives and negatives of the game 
 in question. When it comes to reviews in general I do not believe that any one opinion or rating 
 of any single person or organization is the be all and end all judgment of any given game, instead 
 I feel they should be sifted through in moderation and simply be used as a starting point.. not 
 a concrete outlook that might skew any reader's own unique gaming experience if/when they decide 
 to try the game for themselves. That's why I consider my reviews to be closer to simple recommendations 
 based on my own experience alone (devoid of reading other opinions beforehand, only my ending statement 
 discusses possible outside perspectives) .. and me just enjoying the game for what it is and not 
 overanalyzing just for sake of being critical. Basically, I call it how I see it without an agenda 
 behind it.."
  
  Intro - 
  Assassin's Creed is brought to gamers courtesy of the game developers responsible for franchises 
 the likes of the recent Prince of Persia titles, which is not to surprising considering the quickest 
 way to describe AC's gameplay is probably "Prince of Persia meets Grand Theft Auto". The games 
 protagonist Altair takes his Prince of Persia-like acrobatics into a massive open-ended world.. 
 which for most of the game takes place in faithfully rendered versions of Third-Crusade era (early 
 1100's) middle eastern cities Jerusalem, Damascus, & Acre. Similar to the recent God of War titles 
 which made it roots in the largely untapped potential of Greek Mythology, Assassin's Creed also 
 takes a less traveled road when it came to the time era and subject matter that it is centered 
 around. In my opinion using the Third Crusade timeframe was the right way to go for the simple 
 fact that it played to the strengths of what the development team was trying to accomplish.. which 
 was to create a fresh gaming experience for gamers to enjoy both in terms of gameplay as well as 
 environment. The premise is undeniably interesting to even the most experienced gamers, being able 
 to take control of a skilled Assassin not just simply in confined quarters, but in a huge virtual 
 world of the past. While some may have disliked the revelation of the sci-fi twist which revolves 
 around the game for the most part taking place within the memories hidden inside the DNA of a modern 
 day descendant of the playable character.. I believe that that as well is an intriguing element 
 that adds even more depth to the overall experience. Due to some of the aforementioned aspects 
 of Assassin's Creed among other things, it unsurprisingly garnered it's fair share of hype even 
 amidst the deluge of other highly anticipated titles being released in the back end of 2007. As 
 most gamers already know.. with hype comes an increased amount of scrutiny upon the finished version 
 of the game of many self proclaimed critics.. so here is a quick overview. 
  
  Positives - 
  Great graphics, an engrossing storyline with characters that are actually interesting (unlike 
 some other major titles as of late) on top of being able to take the helm of a stealthy assassin 
 exploring huge fully realized virtual worlds is a recipe for quite the memorable gaming experience. 
 Despite being able to traverse towns with many NPC's and varied structures (almost all of which 
 are scalable) on screen at once, the loading is minimal. One of the better parts of the game is 
 the big payoff that comes with getting around to triggering the assassination memory of each of 
 the nine main targets throughout the game.. while the investigation to gain details specific to 
 each target is quite linear for the most part.. the actual assassination itself can go however 
 you wish it to be, allowing for a very unique thrill. Around 10-12 hours of gameplay even if you 
 cut corners, quite a few more gaming hours if you're a completeist that intends to pick up all 
 of AC's version of GTA's hidden packages which are various types of flags that are scattered throughout 
 each town. 
  
  Negatives - 
  The expected tradeoff for a huge populated gameplay areas with minimal loading is indeed the occasional 
 game freeze (which can be quite frustrating if takes place amidst an assassination) . The framerate 
 can also be suspect at times, which is why I would recommend the PS3 version for its more stable 
 framerate.. unless that is you're an X360 achievement fiend. Though even with the achievements 
 on the X360 version coupled with the various free/flag quests the replay value is moderate at best. 
 Another tradeoff for the open ended assassination memories is indeed a mildly repetitive round 
 of grunt work to attain them. The button timing combat system might be a little on the simple side 
 for some.. but I suppose they went that route for the simple fact that it is possible to fight 
 quite a large amount of enemies at once at certain points and throwing in a advanced fighting system 
 would have made things quite difficult.. especially to do it without straying away from the game's 
 normal mechanics and without going from a "Prince of Persia" type of combat mechanic to a "Heavenly 
 Sword" type of combat (which obviously would have been out of place) . Lastly, the last 1/3 of the 
 game sees quite the increase in difficulty.. which can also be frustrating for some. 
  
  Overall - 
  Although Assassin's Creed has it's fair share of hiccups that prevent it from a perfect 
 rating, the sum of it's part more than justifies a rating far above average. The main critique 
 I've observed concerning the game is indeed it's repetitive portions. I personally can't punish 
 Assassin's Creed TOO much for the simple fact that the premise is what it is.. being stealthy, 
 observing and investigating, and then the eventual necessary assassinations.. sort of like how 
 I'm not going to go out and punish various First Person Shooters for there "being too much shooting".. 
 at the end of the day your either a fan of the genre or you are not. Either way, I'm not saying 
 the game shouldn't have mixed it up a little bit more as the game progressed.. but as with most 
 first efforts in new franchises (which is expected to have a few more installments before all is 
 said and done) .. I give the developers the benefit of allowing them an opportunity to build the 
 groundwork the best they can initially and then henceforth learning from the experience and move 
 on to improving in the future (which also means less patience on my part for sequels) . Bottomline, 
 whether you consider yourself a fan or not.. you can't help but admire what Ubisoft Montreal set 
 out to accomplish in the first iteration of their new IP. Despite whatever issues the game may 
 have.. they were part of the growing pains of game developers paving new gaming grounds, not of 
 treading well traveled ones. In a console generation being suffocated under the weight of the same 
 old genres such as FPS's, sports, and MMO's with more often than not little to no innovation but 
 mere fresher coats of paint.. Assassin's Creed is very much a welcomed sight. The production value, 
 graphics, storyline, and art design are all top notch.. the game is repetitive at its worst, but 
 an engrossing and unique experience at its best.. I personally am not going to allow any single 
 issue to significantly take away from the game as a whole. Also alongside Bioshock, AC is one of 
 the few titles nowadays that indeed put more emotional and intellectual weight upon who and how 
 you kill as well as consequences of such actions.. adding a very compelling element to the games 
 chemistry beyond just mindlessly disposing "enemies" without taking a second notice of who your 
 true adversaries really are. The potential of both the storyline and gameplay is ENORMOUS, I certainly 
 look forward to the inevitable sequels that will hopefully build upon what this iteration has managed 
 to accomplish. In the end, any who consider themselves a serious gamer owes it to themself to explore 
 the world of Assassin's Creed at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romad64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has finally arrived. Now, I'm just gonna say right now, that Assassin's Creed 
 is a great game, but does it live up to the much hype it and it's developers have created for itself? 
 We'll find out.
  
  Graphics- Assassin's Creed looks unbelievable. It has some of the best graphics i have ever seen 
 in a game. The city feels like a real city. It is a living, breathing city. The game just looks 
 beautiful. 
  
  Gameplay- Now this is definately one of the biggest parts of the game (even though gameplay is pretty 
 much the biggest part of every game) . Anyway, the gameplay in Assassin's Creed is great and fun 
 at first, but after the first 2-3 assassinations, the game definatly gets repetitave. I mean, your 
 pretty much doing the same thing over and over again. It just feels the same, espescially since 
 you have to assassinate 9 people, but the gameplay is still satisfying no matter what. Another 
 cool thing is the ability to almost climb anything (just thought I should mention that) . Now, apart 
 from the assassinations, another big part of the game are the sword fights. Now the swordfights 
 aren't exactly what your use to in these action type games. Usually, swordfights are fast and extreme 
 like gunfights, but in Assassin's Creed, the swordfights are actually very slow paced. In Assassin's 
 Creed you control different parts of your body with the buttons. You use the square button to either 
 attack or counter your opponet, you use the circle button to grab him, and the x button to dodge 
 your opponet. It sounds very complicated and slow at first, but it actually works. The swordfights 
 are actually a lot more realistic thanks to this.
  
  Story- The story of Assassin's Creed is really really great and definatley is Hollywood worhty. 
 I really hate ruining stories so I won't even say anything, but trust me when I say that it is 
 a pretty good story.
  
  Bottom Line- So I believe the question was whether Assassin's Creed would live up to the hype, 
 well to me, it was a little over hyped, and it did not live up to the big hype, but it is still 
 a great game. Its just that the biggest part nof the game, being the assassinations, just got way 
 to repetitave, And thats what brought it down in my mind. Assassin's Creed is still a awseome game 
 though, and it just barely misses at becoming a game of the year nominee, but it just gets too 
 repetitave too fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is truly a profound game. I had to think for quite some time after finishing what 
 score I would finally settle upon for this game. I had started out with a perfect 10, but then 
 realized that I rarely ever give perfect 10s to any game, and the ones I do are truly revolutionary. 
 Towards the middle of the game, I wanted to drop the score around to an 8.5 or 9.0, but in the 
 end I believe the story is simply too good to be left at either of those scores. Assassin's Creed 
 is a great game with incredibly graphics, great gameplay, decent acting, a great feel to it, good 
 music and an unbelievable storyline.
  
  The gameplay is liked by many and hated by many. Personally, I have never had so much fun assassinating 
 or killing people virtually in my life. The great super-short cutscenes zooming in on the way Altair 
 assassinates his victim make the game truly enjoyable. I will admit, as others have said, that 
 towards the middle of the game, it seems very repetitive, and almost annoying. There were points 
 where I simply didn't want to play anymore, but the urge to unveil the storyline and of course 
 the great feeling of assassinating a few people easily got me through the rougher, more monotonous 
 stages of the game. Once you near the end, the gameplay quickly get more fast-paced and much more 
 enjoyable again, making for a very fun beginning and end-game with a still decent mid-game. There 
 are tons of investigations that you can choose to do or not to do; many take major issue with this 
 because you receive nothing extra for completing any extra investigations or collecting flags. 
 Purely self-gratification. I didn't do it my first time through, but afterwards, I did go back 
 and tidy a few things up for my own purposes. All in all, the gameplay is good.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing. From the busy districts of towns, to the outskirts 
 of the land, everything is always beautifully designed and great for one to look upon. Altair's 
 movements are swift and excellently designed. Many claim that the movements of the citizens in 
 towns are not quite as graphically acceptable, but the sheer number of NPCs with AI makes up for 
 this minor pitfall. The graphics of the game are simply some of the best seen in a next-gen game, 
 and are one of the games strong points. Although I did have one issue: late game, in an important 
 battle, there is a very un-ideal area set apart for this important fight, one in which lots of 
 haze lagged my PS3 a bit. Just thought I would mention it.
  
  The music is good. I'm not going to claim it's near the quality of a good RPG or the famous Halo 
 song, but it's still a respectable soundtrack. The voice-acting is very good in my opinion; it's 
 not the best ever encountered in a game, but still good nonetheless.
  
  The strong point of this game in my opinion was the storyline. The storyline was absolutely amazing 
 and held the entire game together for me. I The last game I can remember playing with a storyline 
 that affected me as much as this game was Final Fantasy X. From the beginning, the storyline seems 
 just decent as you are cast into the past for an unknown purpose in a device called an Animus. 
 As you uncover the secrets of the game, the purpose of you going back, and the secrets of the facility 
 you are trapped in, one of the greatest and most positively ambiguous gaming storylines of all 
 time emerges, and is one that is sure to clasp onto any storyline lover for years and years to 
 come.
  
  All in all, Assassin's Creed is a superb game filled with great gameplay, incredibly graphics, 
 and one of the best unanswered storylines of all time. This game is worth every penny of the price 
 tag, and I can't wait for Assassin's Creed 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiljas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the most ambitious games I have seen in a while. Ubisoft has brought out 
 a great game with the wide open world that we all love to wonder around in.
  
  Graphically this is a beautiful game. The textures are well done. The sky looks great and it is 
 large. Maybe not the same size as GTA San Andreas but it does look 100X better in every way.
  
  All the diffrent areas almost seem alive. Ubisoft seems to have took alot of time making you 
 feel like you really are in these anchient citys. Although there have been many times I have just 
 killed that annoying begger lady. Yea sure I feel a little guilty afterward but she was asking 
 for it. I was just trying to go quietly threw the city to my next assassination or following someone 
 to pickpocket them. and the brush aside does not work as well as I hoped. Also later in the game 
 I have found myself being watched by every soldier in the city. So I have to blend in with the 
 crowd. Problem is I cant sweep the pottery carring wemon of the wood plank carring men that seem 
 to aim for me when they are walking in circles.
  
  So because of that I am constantly on the top of all the buildings now because the towns people 
 are annoying and that brings one of the best parts of the game. Climbing and jumping around the 
 buildings. This is everything I hoped it would be. You can climb almost everything in the town. 
 But also it's easy to pick up and run around everywhere and not a long learning curve and super 
 precise button mashing. it is the biggest joy of the game. Finding the tallest tower and going 
 all the way to the top.
  
  The Story on the other hand is good but seems to move very slow. many of the tasks you do seem 
 repetative. You don't get any answers only questions threw most of the game. and when you do get 
 answers you only get more questions along with it. Then the main characters you never really feel 
 attached to. They are just there to move the story along.
  
  Sounds are great. The city feels and sounds like a living breathing city. The countryside is alive 
 with sounds. The games musical score adds to the feel that your looking at a time during the 3rd 
 crusade. Not the new age rock that for some reason was put into the 2nd Prince of Persia game. 
 The voice acting was well done but the main characted was bland. Forced energy when he was angry. 
 he never really sold the vocals that he was angry or confused or even curious.
  
  All togeather the game is great to play. The story needs to be livened up a little bit and more 
 variety needs to be added to the game. Not just the simple pickpocket mission. But maybe delivery 
 missions or something more. Also I want to see something out of all the flag collecting. Not just 
 the simple you have collected all the flags in this area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed... where to start. Im serious where should i start, there is so much to cover. 
 Lets begin with the storyline. If you dont like spoilers then skip the following paragraph.
  You will first enter Assassin's Creed and your first thought will be... "Am i playing the right 
 game?" The answer is yes you are, you will be in a research facility. Technology has developed 
 so far that by the use of a machine called an Animus, researchers can look into someones past lives. 
 These researchers do this with you, they look into one of your past lives where your name is Altair, 
 you are an assassin in the 1100's and are about to get yourself in trouble with the Assassin's 
 Creed (your clan of sorts) .
  
  After a brief tutorial and chance to run around and test your newly learnt skills, they're stripped 
 away from you for disregarding the rules set by the Creed. From there you are back to square one, 
 and your task is to perform nine required Assassinations to climb the ladder back up the ranks 
 within the Creed. Thats about all i will mention on the story out of fear of ruining it for you.
 
  
  Visuals: The visuals in Assassin's Creed are stunning, climbing to the top of a viewpoint and checking 
 out your surroundings is one of the most rewarding gaming experiences ever, and one im sure you 
 will enjoy. At any one time you could be surrrounded by 100's of NPC's, Ubisoft didnt skimp on 
 the NPC's, they look wonderful as well. Cities such as Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus look brilliant 
 and are covered with more NPC's, each of which you can interact with. To perform an Assassination 
 is a work of art and one im sure you wont be forgetting for some time.
  
  Audio: The audio too is stunning, when progressing through one of the cities you can overhear merchants 
 trying to sell their goods, discussions between members of the public and other such NPC activities. 
 Only one jibe, i have noticed that when Assassinating a templer, the sound is very slightly out 
 of sync with the video. However dont let that discourage you, its very minor and a non-necessary 
 element to the game anyway. Every other element of the Audio is breathtaking. Character voices 
 too are brilliant and in sync with the video
  
  Gameplay: A new element of gameplay was explored in Assassin's Creed: Button-Body correspondence 
 (i made that name up, personally i love it) . What it means however is that for example by pressing 
 the Triangle button, you will control Altair's head, by pressing Square you will be controlling 
 his weapon arm. Circle his other arm, and X will control his feet. It may take a little while to 
 adjust to but its definately a positive thing. Controls are sharp too which is always good. If 
 you choose not to progress with the storyline for a while, the playing world is massive and will 
 keep you preoccupied for hours on end.
  
  When planning for your next Assassination you have the option of barging in and fighting your way 
 to your target (effective but risky) or using a stealth approach, blending in with scholars, climbing 
 rooftops and pouncing on your prey. All unbelievably believeable methods of approach and you feel 
 extremely proud of yourself once you have performed your Assassination, however its not over yet, 
 now the entire city is on its toes on the lookout for you, you need to shake your chasers and make 
 your way back to the Assassination Bereau without being killed yourself, this can be tough if your 
 Assassination approach was stealthy because it means you left a hell of a lot of guards alive, 
 meaning there are more chasing you. Luckily there are more than a few giant haystacks scattered 
 about which you can hide in, however theyre useless unless you break the line of sight with the 
 guards.
  
  Assassin's Creed is one of those games which will have you gushing whilst playing and gushing afterwards 
 too, and would be on track with Super Mario Galaxy for this years game of the year. If you have 
 a PS3 or an Xbox360 you owe it to yourself to pick up this game, its one you wont forget.
  
  Thanks for your time reading, its my longest review to date and i hope it helped you.
  
 
  - Paul James 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cperez22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Truth is Assassins Creed is like a mix between Tenchu and Grand Theft Auto III. Everything they 
 did is great ut they needed to adds some extras to keep U glued on to the game and its world. During 
 the first 3 missions the game is perfect no one will complain, yet after that the game gets repetitive, 
 that is when we needed some variety. besides that when i collected all 30 flags at musayaf and 
 gained nothing I felt cheated and even though continued to search for the remaining flags didn't 
 feel an urge or desire to get them all. The game is still awsome, I never get tired of running 
 around but wish there were more to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  For anyone who has lost faith in the straight single player game in a world of online multiplayer 
 madness, Assassin's Creed is that glimmer of hope you may be searching for. Finally there is a 
 highly satisfying, and richly developed game that has been designed from the ground up to be a 
 solo adventure like non other. This game shows you what a "current gen" one-player game can be 
 and raises the bar for what is possible. You will find yourself with many moments of sheer excitement 
 as you play through the twisting storyline that Assassin's Creed lays before you. Though it is 
 not a perfect game, what little flaws it possesses are few and far between and don't really affect 
 the overall enjoyment of this tale.
  
  In Assassin's Creed, you first find yourself playing the role of Desmond, a normal run of the mill 
 bartender, who has been abducted by some highly industrialized tech company. You find out that 
 they don't really want Desmond they just want his genetic memories, the memories of Altar. This 
 is how the game works. You spend some time in a side story as Desmond, before being thrown into 
 the real game to play as Altar, the main character. This works by Desmond in essence reliving 
 a genetic memory of Altar through the means of an Animus, a machine which links to Desmond's brain 
 and allows him to relive his ancestor's memories. With all that explanation aside, this two-sided 
 story approach is really an interesting way of organizing the games seven chapters. In the beginning 
 you really don't understand at all what is going on in the "futuristic" storyline, but that is 
 intentional. As you progress you find out more and more, piecing together the puzzle of this side 
 story. That leads us to the first big flaw in the game, the ending. I suppose it's not really a 
 flaw, more bad taste in design. Anyone who is familiar with the ending to Star Wars: The Empire 
 Strikes Back would have a good idea of the way this story ends. Basically it leads up to some big 
 event that never happens. Since the story starts and ends in this side story that leaves it as 
 a bit of a let down. However the main story of the game does have an ending, which is satisfying 
 if not entirely predictable.
  
  On a gameplay standpoint this game delivers an intense experience. The mix of stealth and action 
 really does go far beyond what Kojima first invented in MGS. To augment the sneaking around, you 
 have four ways to deal with those pesky guards: secret blade, sword, fists, and the short sword/throwing 
 knife combo. You will find a use of all of these as your skills advance. The secret blade is just 
 amazingly satisfying to use and you won't easily tire of it. The game provides a nice cinematic 
 camera touch in key moments when using this blade or performing an equally nice counter kill during 
 a sword fight. Sword fights are not particularly impressive but they do add a different dynamic 
 when faced with no other option and flow fairly smoothly. There are in fact moments when you must 
 face off against a group of guards who enjoy surrounding you and wait for you to attempt to attack 
 one, leaving you vulnerable for a slash across your backside. This can be frustrating for those 
 who enjoy hack and slash sword fighting because timing is everything. If you are off with your 
 timing you are going to get mowed down. This is an example of emphasizing details. The game plays 
 a convincing role in realism details, such as the games use of maps. Basically you have to put 
 together a map of an area from scratch. To do this you must climb to the top of the highest buildings 
 in the city and surveying the surrounding area. That area is then added to a map. There are usually 
 around 10 per area. You might think this to become tedious, and it would, if it wasn't so much 
 fun to do. It truly is just fun to watch Altar scale this huge building, perch onto a ledge and 
 take in the sights, before taking a "leap" into a conveniently placed pile of hay. That hay plays 
 an important role in the game. 
  
  The main idea here is stealth, get to know the area, gather information on the target, and assassinate 
 all without being detected by the numerous city guards. There are three different states of awareness: 
 the regular state which is basically no guards around, the yellow state where there is a guard 
 around, and the red state when the guards are watching you. The first two states you really don't 
 have to be that careful, it's the last one that will make them wise to what you are. If you do 
 manage to alert them to your presence, and this is increasingly easy to do as you progress through 
 the story, you only have two options: rely on your sword to take down anywhere from one to a dozen 
 if not more guards that are pursuing you until you are no longer suspected, or the games more supported 
 tactic, run. You must run taking turns at high speeds trying to elude your pursuers. Once they 
 cannot see you, you are then tasked with finding a good hiding place until they give up. You will 
 find that sitting on a bench, blending in with scholars or hiding in a pile of hay can prove most 
 useful in eluding your captors. If no pile of hay is available, take to the roofs and hide in one 
 of the convenient covered gardens. In fact the best way to get away from the heat is the rooftops. 
 All in all the whole system of blending in and sneaking around is highly enjoyable and leaves you 
 feeling quite superior. 
  
  Satisfaction is delivered on all fronts of this amazing title. Side notes to mention are the fact 
 that though it is great to have in engine cut scenes, you also need a way to skip through them. 
 They become annoying at best on a second play through of any particular chapter. Speaking of a 
 second play through, there really isn't much of a need for it. There isn't much replay value unless 
 you are just itching to find every single last flag in the game. The fact that you have to play 
 the entire chapter over again and cannot just pick up in one spot doesn't help. You might as well 
 just play the whole thing again from start to finish. The whole game won't take you an incredible 
 amount of time to get through but it is a game worth playing if not owning just for its sheer mastery. 
 Through the ingenious gameplay and attention to detail, UbiSoft has delivered to us an experience 
 like non other. The drawbacks aside this is a game worth every penny and it gets a 9 out of 10 
 only because of the problems it has with the PS3 engine. A 9 out of 10 is "Above and Beyond" in 
 my rating system and that is exactly what this game goes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboymike
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing and i loved the gameplay, haven't enjoyed a game that much in a long while. 
 I strongly recommend anyone to buy this game, iv complete it and enjoyed every second, its pretty 
 easy but fun non the less, i bought a playstation 3 just for this game and im glad i did. They 
 could of made the game longer though, assassins creed doesn't take long to complete and the only 
 thing that keeps you on it for an extended amount of time is looking for secrets.
  
  Now im frustrated that i have to wait till next year for assassins creed 2: assassinate harder. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrostman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Its a great game, the graphics are amazing but it feels like i'm doing the same the over and over 
 again. I think i'm about half way through the game, but it seems i haven't really got into the 
 story. Hopefully there will be a twist later on to draw me into it. 
  
  But nevertheless, the game is fun. I have fun slaughtering countless guards just for kicks. The 
 battle system is pretty good, but it could've used more bloods and chopped off limbs would good 
 too. And jumping from building to building, is good but i don't think ive done it the way is suppose 
 to be done. i never hide from the guards, i just run and kill until i loose them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: franchise811
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  i dont noe why so many poeple i noe are complaining that this game is overrated. Wat else do u 
 want???? it was a fairly long game, the graphics were unreal, the story was not perfect but WHO 
 CARES..... its was a fun game, and it kept me going through it even if it got repetitive. it was 
 almost real in the way poeple talked and interacted. The player actually has to move around and 
 run, instead of just smashing buttons and pushing forward on the analog stick. U had to think, 
 and its the first game where u actually have to run away, and not fight 600000000 enemies. adn 
 the best part, was that everything, and i mean EVERYTHING was in play. u can climb and use anything 
 u see in the game. stop complaining, and just enjoy it for what it is. if u dont like it, then 
 sorry, grab another game and stop hatin' on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is really stunning and amazing and its story and amazing gameplay manage to hold onto 
 you from start to finish but what it lacks is substance. its animations and graphics are nice but 
 they do not make up entirely for the games repetition and lack of game length but unlike most of 
 its players i think it does have replay value. i have finished it and am already halfway through 
 it again and i am still not bored of it and am sure to play it again. this game also includes a 
 marvelous soundtrack especially in damascus with all the aladin stuff it really adds to the game 
 and the free running makes it fun just to run around and climb shit and its good that when you 
 finish the game yoou can go on blind rampages without loosing any life . buy it now its good and 
 a really amazing and inovative game but the ending is gay cos its trying to lead into the next 
 game but still buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastshadow160
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. awesome 
 graphics. superb gameplay. awesome graphics. superb gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzxz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This ending is psycodelic, no way, end of the world 2012, freaking amazing, i cant describe, how 
 much this is fun. the nostradomous, very INCREDIBLE TWIST, I DONT LIKE THE,. i dont like the ending. 
 This game is great on some real ish.... but it makes a hard decision for those with regurlar allowance... get 
 this game or wait the 1 more week or so to get UNCHARTED.... not an easy decision, i say find a 
 way to get both.... this game is too good to miss out on though . This game is great on some real 
 ish.... but it makes a hard decision for those with regurlar allowance... get this game or wait the 
 1 more week or so to get UNCHARTED.... not an easy decision, i say find a way to get both.... this 
 game is too good to miss out on though 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost2499
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was by far my most highly anticipated game of 2007 even more than halo 3 and call 
 of duty 4. I ended of being very dissipointed because i expected revelutionary AI and awsome assassinations. 
 The actual assassinations were cool but the investigations leading up to them just downright sucked. 
 The game never changes these investigations and they end of being a repetive boring chore. Towards 
 the end even the actual assassinations become repetive. Also the controls are innovative but can 
 get in the way at the most important parts of the game. The saving grace is the story which is 
 better than most games out now and was the only thing that made me want to see it to the end. The 
 combat is also very enjoyable and realistic
  
  
  Pros: Awsome Graphics and Story, Fun Combat and Interesting Stealth Menchanics
  
  Cons: Overly 
 Repetive, Wonky Controls, Not as Innovative as orginally thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Besides some of the small glitches, I relly have nothing bad to say about this game. The world 
 is huge, The AI is some of the best i've seen in a 3rd person adventure since Gears of War. The 
 Story is awesome and i mainly like the game just for that alone. 
  
  The controls are very very fluid, but you will run up a wall you don't want to run up sometimes. 
 The fighting system takes a couple of minutes of getting use too, and just for the record, the 
 hidden knife is probably the most bad ass weapon you'll have at your exposal.
  
  When it comes to sound and graphics, this game is BEAUTIFUL. Every little detail stands out, It'll 
 be sunny at some points, then the clouds will block the sun, before moving away and giving sunlight 
 back to the area your in. Some of the best voice acting i've come across too.
  
  This is a rare game that will make you pick it up and play it again after yo beat it.
  
  Just 
 get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinanDhia
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics, moves, realistic scenes, and sound I've ever seen, but the game 
 play is so boring your just riding your horse from one city to another doing the same thing over 
 and over again,
  The movement is easy, climbing is so easy, sometimes you can get confused where to go, because 
 there is so much space open to you. The game could have been done much better, graphics like this, 
 and the new idea, I love it, but they could have used the same game play as prince of Persia
  I just wished that prince of Persia 3 had the same graphics
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dndmn422
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  It was very disapointing to purchase such a hugely hyped game and find out it did not deliver. 
 While the freedom the player has during the game was it's selling point, just about everything 
 else falls short. The missions are the same exact thing over and over again. There is very little 
 to do other than the main story, and while the freedom to climb almost anything is cool for a while, 
 it gets very boring very quickly. The storyline is rather confusing unless you pay close attention, 
 and on top of that the voice acting is pretty poor. The ending is interesting, but it comes out 
 of nowhere. This game has alot of potential, and sisnce its supposedly the first of a trilogy, 
 I will look for Ubisoft to fix some of these major problems. The game is definitely a rent-first 
 type of deal, because you could probably beat it in about 20 hours anyway, and that , for me, is 
 certainly not worth 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the most innovative and well designed games I have ever come across. 
 Everything from the gameplay to the music to the control scheme is designed so well and makes for 
 such a fun and engrossing experience. The game world is so huge and the cities are so detailed 
 and realistic. The story is very entertaining and well written. The cinematic scenes are incredible. 
 It is definitely one of the best looking PS3 games to come out so far. This game pretty much does 
 everything right and should be played by everyone. I hope that more games like this one continue 
 to come out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-gamemaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  i didn't buy it yet because i have one problem. you see im Muslim and i see that its in damascus 
 and im afraid you would have to kill some major muslim people because to me it would be a sin and 
 i seriously dont want to go to hell because of a game. If people say big deal or who cares i have 
 one thing to ask you. would you buy a game in which you would have to kill jesus? no offence to 
 any christians. otherwise it would be a great game. now im just going to stick in a few words because 
 i have nothing else to say and my review has to be 100 or less words so don't say "what the hell 
 is he an idiot" if im just writing something that makes absolutely no sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philip-Duck
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  The Game Was a great buy with a huge play time and landscapes a like, people are saying it gets 
 to repetitive which is true but does not get boring while progressing through you want to know 
 more about the story.
  The graphics are good but not amazing i wouldn't say as good as cod 4 but given the size of in 
 game city's its forgiven.
  Also when you begin it seems to easy to kill people and progress through the game, this does change 
 when you reach memory block 5 without a doubt everything becomes harder which helps the game last 
 longer and become more fun when running away from guards.
  
  If you have doubts whether to buy this game or not, don't ! buy it, its worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedioSinjari
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The first 30 minutes after i popped assassins creed into my play station 3 i was extremely impressed. 
 The game looks and sounds amazing and the fighting system is a gory masterpiece. The cities are 
 massive, amazing looking, and the sychronization feature with heights is a great concept. However 
 with all these features this game felt more like ultimate spiderman rather than a top notch assassination 
 game. In games like "hitman Blood money" you get maybe five different choices in killing your target 
 ranging from strangelation, gun fights, accidents, poisoning, sabatoge, etc etc. In Assassins creed 
 you can either stab you target with the hidden blade or get into a fight with him and use your 
 sword...... thats it! This would be fine for an adventure game, but it claims to be stealth so the 
 game becomes extremely repetitive, 3 major cities and 9 targets. For each target you go in, gather 
 info, find the target and fight him. This game could have been so much more and im sad they didnt 
 craft it in that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_dang
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  If only the game added just a litlle something more instead of climbing walls, blending in, running 
 away, and fighting. Perhaps the Assassins Creed 2 could have more things such as upgrades and weapons 
 such as oblivion or god of war where you could make a better weapon and god of war, where you get 
 different abilities throughout the game to keep you going. In Assassins Creed, yes it gets repetitive, 
 but the only thing that keeps me going is the need to finish the game and wanting to kill a few 
 people here and there. But again, there is just something missing that doesn't give it that spark. 
 If your reading this Assassin's Creed producers, please rethink the next Assassin's Creed game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killersalad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  i'm not going to write an essay that few people will read anyway. i'll keep this short.
  
  the game is very good. 
  
  the learning curve makes this game very enjoyable from the start.
 
  
  the absolute BEST looking game i've ever played.
  
  it only froze once on me. (other games have froze more on me)
  
  the concept is spot on. the 
 freshist idea ever and they pulled it off.
  
  i can only give this game a 9.5 b/c it has froze on me and i'm not done playing it. i suspect it 
 could freeze again. once ubisoft releases a patch to fix this problem, this game should be on everybody's 
 buy list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to get my hands on Assassins Creed. Although I love all these great 
 shooters which were coming out this year I was happy to play something different this time, something 
 new. And Assassins Creed definitely is something different alone because of its interesting setting 
 and game mechanics. But still the game disappointed my high expectations.
  
  Assassins Creed offers great graphics with sharp textures and an incredibly long sight. Also you 
 really see how detailed the developers created the three huge cities in the game. This breathes 
 live in the world you wonder around in as Altair. A pro pos wonder around: Altairs animations look 
 fantastic, in fights as well as when he climbs walls or jumps over rooftops. Furthermore the sound 
 in Assassins Creed is amazing. It doesn't matter if you're down in the streets of Jerusalem or 
 high above on the top of a view point: everything sounds as it should.
  
  Why the game is a letdown then? Because it becomes annoyingly repetitive! The tasks you have to 
 fulfil before every assassination have absolutely no variation. Talk to the informant, climb on 
 a viewpoint, listen secretly to a conversation, climb on a viewpoint, beat some information out 
 of some guy and than kill your target. Every mission is the same. Moreover the information you 
 gather are more or less useless. If some guy tells you to sneak into the target zone with the help 
 of a group of monks it is a lot more easier to simply climb over the rooftops to get to your target. 
 Or if you get a map with the positions of the guards it is useless because its confusing and hidden 
 somewhere in the menu.
  
  In short terms I have a simple tip: rent the game over a weekend, play through the 20 hours of 
 the campaign and give it back on Monday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I was waiting to play this game since last year2006. Now , I'm playing the game and it is 
 really a great game . I have had a nice time seeing this game on my HDTV . In the time of playing 
 this game , I counldn't stop sayingWhat a graphics, what a music, what a storyand 
what a game.
  
  The goods :-
  Everthing in the game is good , except the one inThe bads "
  
  
  The bads :-
  So many 
 glitches .
  I feel the game plays in a slow motion .. ( The movements of everything is slow ) ... its make 
 the play time longer .
  
  
  Final Score :8.5 / 10
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed has been a very long awaited game, usually that spells trobule, but not here. 
 You cannot say enough about the graphics. There are many moments, usually at a view point, where 
 you want to just look around for a few minutes. The story line and subject matter is very cool. 
 Not many games would tackle the crusades. The gameplay is tight enough, my only issue with it is 
 breaking away from fights and running, like after a major assination. It all gets repetitive, but 
 I never seemed to mind, and wanted to finish all investigations on each "mission" even if it was'nt 
 needed. This is what a section of games should strive to be: long, great story, huge worlds, ect.... 
 Not everyone is in love with multiplayer deathmatches, and after COD4 which was fantastic for all 
 of 4 hours this is a breath of fresh air. Please Ubisoft make another! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ps3LoVeR_95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply, utterly, amazing in a way. It just clicks right. Really smooth game play, 
 unbelievable sound and graphics. Although, the story mode kind of threw me off I expected it to 
 be completely third crusade but you`re really a normal guy who`s kidnapped by scientists to find 
 out something that his ancestor knows and then ends up ending a little funky but at least the ending 
 told us they`re will be another assassins creed at least that`s how I feel the ending told us. 
 So overall it`s a really cool game if you like stealthy action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiwak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a good game worth spending your money before you get it on Greatest Hits. Glitches 
 keep it from being perfect some dialog and missions seemed a little repetitive. I don't know what 
 the guy reviewing this was thinking saying the ending was confusing. I enjoyed every part of it 
 including the e-mails you can read thru. (FIX THE GLITCHES) In order for you not to get too upset 
 when you play this game: FIRST, turn off the Message Board on your PS3 (That ORANGE thing scrolling 
 in your main menu for the PS3) . SECONDLY, do not go on-lineMake sure that your PS3 is not logged 
 on!" This will help prevent freezing in the game! Not a total cure but it helps tremendously!!!!!!!!
 
  OK now let us review this game. The controls are very smooth and responsive and you are given 
 time to implement all the moves as you progress on the game. I personally feel that the visuals 
 are very 360 and to its limits and the code was just made to translate into the PS3. The game is 
 still very beautiful and was just wonderful to look at. ( I spent a lot of time just taking a look 
 at all the details in the game) I also enjoyed the story at first it was weird but once you knew 
 what was happening it all made sense. I am a big movie person but this game kept me from doing 
 anything else for an entire week. I had vacation time off from work and it was also the Thanksgiving 
 holiday so there were days that I played for 8 hours non-stop.
  This game made me feel like the first time I played Metal Gear Solid on the Playstation. I was 
 very excited about all the control and exploring everything in 3-D. This is a great game to get 
 until MGS4 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznkhaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, pushed back multiple times, but now it's finally here. The moment we've all been 
 waiting for. And does this game deliver? Or does it fall flat. Some say it does, some say otherwise. 
 I however state that: "It excedes my expectations by a long shot".
  Now you start off as Desmond. He's a local bartender and he's been kidnapped so a coupel scientists 
 can use him as a guinea pig on their new toy: "Animus". Animus lets you go into your DNA and access 
 Memories of your ancestor that has been embeded into your DNA. Altair, the assassin is Desmond 
 Ancestor and this nutjob of a scientist wants to exploit Desmond to get information so his bosses 
 won't sack him. 
  Altair, an assassin by skill and of renown. Expert swordsman and acrobatics extraordinare. He so 
 graceful, you might think he's dancing rather than killing. That is just how fluid and perfect 
 his character animation is. The acrobatics feel jsut about right, if not a little off. But then 
 if this were any faster, I seriously doubt it would run as smoothly. The fight scenes are slow, 
 but tactful. Guards fight you one on one instead of all of them charging at you. The assassinations 
 with your hidden blade look so sick. You can eve nfeel abit of the pain when that 8 inch blade 
 penetrates the skin of that unlucky begger or that one drunk who was just a plain jerk. In addition 
 to these weapons. You also have a limited supply of throwing knives. They are essentialy OHKs, 
 but only to regular enemies. 
  The acrobatics is just plain fun. Who doesn't like "Parkour" videos on youtube? Well, in Assassin's 
 Creed. You can do all those jumping stunts that you wouldn't be crazy, nor flexible, enough to 
 do in reality. Imagine this; the guards know your there somewhere and you've killed someone. What 
 do you do? Should you kill all the guards? Should you run away? Or should you climb a nice big 
 tower and perform a leap of faith into a haystack? I prefer the latter just for the fun of seeing 
 Altair jump into the air spread eagle. 
  The missions are all about assassinating a few select individuals who have, in some way, grabbed 
 the attention of your Creed Master. You must kill them and report back to your Master to rank up 
 and gain new abilities and such. 
  The fighting is somewhat difficult to master early on. I took a couple hits because I was completely 
 clueless. Then I realised the button scheme and performed several chains of counters. You are later 
 stripepd of your abilities, but they are regained in time.
  The graphics is great, this reminds me of FF12. When it came out, everyone was surprised at the 
 amount of detail and interactive objects. I feel the same with AC. Same thing applies to ES4, but 
 that is another story.
  The sound is realistic and soemwhat annoying. Annoying as in it is too real. The babble of city 
 life floods you while your are walknig aronud the city looknig for view points and such. 
  The only bad things I found so far is: nothing. There were rumours and several complaints of crashes 
 and freezes and I've yet to encounter one. I don't want to push my luck, but I hope I got one of 
 the better copies. 
  Overall, it's a must have for all of you PS3 owners. 
  Keep Gaming,
  -azzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I never thought I would say this but "Die Infidels!" this is the first Crusades game where I was 
 on the side of the Muslims, the people who were wronged by the hordes of so-called "knights" during 
 th Crusades. Historical views aside, Assassin's Creed is masterful. I get distracted often by sneaking 
 up and using my hidden blade to dispatch guards. 
  
  The game has a feeling that can be described as a medieval GTA, I can go roam around until I get 
 bored and decide to do a mission; the missions I speak of are assassinations, but you have to do 
 some activities before you gather enough intelligence to go after your target. The idea is understandable, 
 I mean you don't just go after someone and magically know where the person is, but it gets annoying 
 to pickpocket info about my target from some random merchant. 
  That said assassinations are fun and the in-game movies that come before them are very well done, 
 a good standard for video game acting, it does not compare to Mass Effect or The Darkness however.
 
  The game has good sound effects as well, I love the sound of clashing blades and the chaos of 
 the crowds.
  The crowds break new ground, I've found that killing guards and sending the crowd into a panic 
 makes for a superb escape route ( the drunks and beggars get REALLY annoying though) and I have 
 always found the wandering scholars to be quite useful as well.
  The gameplay is smooth and exciting, Altair moves very well, and I don't see any sort of glitches 
 that get him stuck on walls or anything like that. The fighting flows very well and makes me feel 
 satisfied when I use a counter-kill on anyone dumb enough to strike at me, you are never obligated 
 to fight, if the situation calls for it you can flee up to the rooftops and send your pursuers 
 falling to their doom.
  Assassin's Creed all in all is very well done and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyfon_Gump
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible and it has lived up to all the hype it was given. I have been following 
 it since i saw it on E3 in 2006. The many weapons and moves give very entertaining gameplay that 
 will keep you playing it for years, the deep plot will keep you looking at Wiki and googling everything 
 you can to find out more about all the backgrounds, and the all around gameplay will make you want 
 to master the game. The graphics are great, it sounds amazing, and the controls are nearly flawless. 
 The only bad things i have to say is there are a few minor glitches with the graphics, the ending 
 doesn't give me enough detail on what i should do after i beat it *if there is anything i need 
 to do*, and the fights to start to get a little repetitive after a little while but if you don't 
 just mash all the buttons at once this will take longer to get this feeling. I can't wait for the 
 sequel of this game and I just hope they add new moves and weapons and fix all the minor bugs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akzy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  The movie graphics dont really diferentiate between the gameplay and the movies, either way its 
 looks amazing. The size of 3 full scale cities and another giant land makes this game giant. The 
 abiltiy to go and climb anywhere makes it even bigger. Mingle with the crowd and when you come 
 across guards searching for the murderer of god knows how many guards, climb onto the rooftops 
 and do a 'leap of faith' into a hay bail. The ai is the best ive ever seen, every action provokes 
 people in the surrounding area to react . The soldiers run away when your stuffin' them! Easily 
 my favourite game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rac_fan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  This was an amazing game with amazing graphics with amazing and organic environment from begiining 
 to finish the game s story is interesting and it also makes you think the combat system could have 
 been a bit more diverse and a few differetnt side quest missions but aside from that the game was 
 phenomanal extremely fun and worth bying the game sucks you in and never lets you go . The graphics 
 are fantastic and are very solid through out the game aside from a few frame rate drops here and 
 there and the occasional freeze happened to me twice not that bad i guess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onewheeldoin200
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Well, let's get the bad stuff out of the way first. The AI is not good. Not good at all. You can 
 kill a group of guards in broad daylight and simply walk away pretending to be a monk. A monk with 
 throwing knives and a sword. Riiiiight. If you are spotted, getting away is WAY too easy. There 
 are little huts on all the roofs that are easy to spot and easy to get to. If you're too lazy to 
 climb to the roofs and jump into one of these little popcorn stands, you can just jump in a pile 
 of hay on the ground. It doesn't usually matter if the guards saw you go in there or not, they'll 
 soon forget about you and you can walk around freely again. This game is also guilty of being terribly 
 simple. Go to the icon on the map, do repetitive task X, rinse and repeat. You'll never have choices 
 for dialogue options, or have to use keys or bribery money or anything like that to gain information 
 or access to locations. Even the assassinations themselves are a letdown. I was expecting something 
 along the lines of a "Hitman in Jerusalem", but I was soundly disappointed. Simply walking up to 
 your target and stabbing him with a regular sword is good enough. You can't kill a guard and use 
 his clothing to get close to your target, or poison him, or loose an arrow from the rafters, or 
 arrange an "accident" or do much of anything except walk up and stab him. There is very little 
 freedom in terms of how you go about carrying out the assassination, and to me this is the game's 
 greatest failing.
  
  *deep breath*
  
  Okay, all of that said, there are some things this game does a phenomenal job of. The graphics 
 are stunning. Climb up a tower (and witness the excellent, life-life character animations) in a 
 city and take in the view; All the locales are gritty, realistic, and breathtaking. The character 
 animations are almost flawless, to the point where the simple act of quietly sliding through a 
 crowd like a shark through a school of fish is enjoyable. Honestly, just exploring and taking in 
 the world is more entertaining at times than the actual game. Beggars will hound you for money 
 and get in your way, guards will tell you to be on your way if you get too close, crazy people 
 will giggle and push you, and merchants will peddle their wares to you. The overall effect of atmosphere 
 is astonishing. 
  
  Combat is fairly simple, but very visceral and cinematic once you learn a few of the more advanced 
 moves. Your character certainly isn't a juggernaut, and guards will even mock you if they're in 
 a big group against you. There are amazing moments during combat as well: Once as I killed three 
 of four guards on a castle rooftop, the fourth guard fled in terror and jumped off of the castle 
 wall to his death. It was one of those.."Woah.... that was cool" moments.
  
  It pains me to think about how great this game COULD have been. If the complexity and freedom of 
 choice from the Hitman games was present in this game's assassination missions, it would be a "10", 
 regardless of other problems it may have. It's just a little too simple, with a little too much 
 hand holding for me to really call it anything but "decent". If you want a "Hitman in Jerusalem" 
 like I did, you probably want to rent this one before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, but I can only handle small doses of it at a time because you essentially replay 
 the same mission over and over throughout the 3 cities, only you assassinate a different individual. 
 The only difference is a few you have to chase, and few where you simply watch the cut scene, approach, 
 stab with the hidden blade, watch another boring "dying breath" conversation, and then escape from 
 the guards as usual on your way back to the Assassin's  nauseum.
 
  
  I actually was loving the game at first, and completely was in agreement with Gamespot's score, 
 and then I got to about the 6th assassination and I began to realize just how correct IGN's review 
 was. It is an AAA game graphics wise, but as a game in general, just no way. Just unforgivingly 
 repetitive, absolutely no mission variety, buggy as hell, and the free running feels like you are 
 not even playing the game.
  
  A few things that would have greatly improved the game in my opinion is if they would have simply 
 added different quests to go on before each assassination. You know, something to work, sneak and 
 fight your way towards instead of eavesdropping on a bench, beating a dude in a corner for info 
 and pick pocketing over and over and over again, lol. 
  
  They also could of added customization for Altair's look, weapons and so forth. I mean come on, 
 he is an assassin who keeps going into the same cities in the same outfit, taking out high profile 
 individuals, and he is able to just waltz right back in the cities repeatedly with the group of 
 scholars in white, and then he is able to just freely roam the cities in pursuit of his next target 
 as if he had never been there before. It's just stupid, and after a few missions of more of the 
 same, the game quickly becomes a painfully dull affair.
  
  All in all, in my opinion, it is a mediocre, (but fun for a while) game with beautifully rendered 
 graphics, and a killer concept. But unfortunately, it feels completely unfinished as far as the 
 game itself goes. To each their own, but I was ultimately let down by the game in the end. It feels 
 more like a game foundation than an actual game to me. Maybe the sequel will be more fleshed out.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mog1191
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed should be a lock in for game of the year. It is by far the most amazing gaming 
 experience I have ever had. The controls allow for fluid and precise movements throughout every 
 aspect of game play. The views and graphics are spectacularly detailed and breath-taking at many 
 moments. However, what sets this game apart from others, is the masterpiece of the story. Assassins 
 Creed follows 2 stories simultaneously, that of Desmond Miller, and that of Altair. In the beginning 
 the stories appear virtually unrelated, yet as you progress through the game they slowly intertwine 
 and start make sense. However, most people will miss the important parts of the story of Desmond 
 Miller, and believe that the parts of game play where you control him are only meant to complement 
 the story of Altair. However, if you know what to do and remember that all the answers are in front 
 of you, you can slowly begin to infiltrate the Abstergo Lab, computers, and certain characters 
 email accounts which reveal shocking twists to the storyline. If these small but very important 
 details and moments to take advantage of them are passed by, the story will seem to end abruptly 
 and confusingly, but if they are found everything will begin to make sense.
  
  Of course, every game has its faults, and the only ones I can think of are occasional game freezing 
 (very rare, happened to me twice in about 70-80 hours of gameplay) , and that important parts of 
 the story are easily overlooked, and if you do not get the secret ending, its magic is lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_church
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  When it come to Assassin's Creed this game is beautiful in every aspect. First we'll start with 
 the things I liked about this game. The first on being the graphics are amazing, I mean it's very 
 had to find a point in which Altiar is floating in mid air. it's almost as if you took a plane 
 ride in time back to the crusades. Another thing i liked in this game was the story, I mean it's 
 new and original. The things i didn't like about it were sometimes it glitch's and I had to restart 
 the game. from last save point. Thats another thing i didn't like is the fact the only way to save 
 is to do a mission or viewpoint. Some parts of the story lacked and playing as Desmend isn't very 
 fun because you can only walk. The voice over's were good, didn't like the fact that no cut scenes 
 just "glitches". Over all very addicting and is a recommended game for you r collection. I bought 
 the limited edition and i have to say the little action figure looks good on top my ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Assassins creed is the best game i have played and is the most fun i have had in a game. I like 
 all the weapons he has and i like the storyline and the scenary when you on top of a building is 
 beauifull. The gameplay is great too and i like how you can clime building and save citizens and 
 all other stuff. I also like that you can look for flags for side missions which makes the game 
 a lot longer and more fun and this game i think everyone should at least play it because after 
 they play it, they would want to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Although Assassin's creed sets the standard for a new type of genre, it doesn't fufill some key 
 elemants.
  
  Story
  I don't want to give anything away but the story was a little unecessary. They could have had just 
 one story line but they added another one which just added confusion.
  
  Graphics
  Very good graphics. The NPCs look just as well as you do. There can be 30 to 40 NPCs on the screen 
 at one time and the frame rate stays perfect. The architecture is incredible. You can climb everything 
 and it doesn't look like it's there just for you to climb, they look like believable buildings.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The controls at first are very difficult. It will take you 5-10 hours to really get the hang of 
 them. But once you do, you will have the fun of your life. Getting chased by guards and then climbing 
 up a building and running across the tops of buildings looking for a hiding spot is some of the 
 most fun you'll have. It is so satisfying to walk up to a guard and stab him with your hidden blade 
 while he's not expecting you. It might a little too easy to kill people in this game. Once you 
 have the counter ability, fighting is a breeze.
  
  Overall, this game is great, once you get the hang of all the controls, you will have a lot of 
 fun playing this game. But if you're one of those people who are looking for a great story with 
 tons of twists, you're not going to find it in Assassin's Creed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  GREAT TITLE (ASSASSINS CREED) GREAT GAME
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  STORYLINE 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY,,,,,, I 
 HEAR THIS IS N0.1 OF A SERIES AND ALREADY AN INSTANT CLASSIC,,,,,, N0. 2 AND ON WILL HAVE A LOT 
 2 LIVE UP TOO.
  
  I SHOULD TELL YOU THAT ASSASSINS CREED IS NOT JUST A CONTENDER FOR GAME OF THE YEAR............ BUT 
 IS GAME OF THE YEAR.
  
  
  PLEASE DONT BUY IN GAME TOO EXPENSIVE BUY IN TESCO OR ASDA UK OR ONLINE FOR BRAND NEW AND CHEAPEST. 
 (GAMES A CON)
  
  
  THIS GAME CAME OUT ON 16/11/07 I MANAGED TO GET IT IN AN ASDA STORE AFTER TRYING AROUND 4/5 OF 
 THEM AND THEY WERE ALL SOLD OUT ESPECIALLY ON THE PS3 THERE WERE HOWEVER XBOX360 VERSIONS STILL 
 AVAILABLE AND CAN ONLY ASSUME FROM THAT,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, IS GOOD NEWS FOR THE PS3. THE PS3 VERSION 
 OF ASSASSINS CREED IS LITERARY FLYING OFF THE SHELVES.
  
  
  
  i THINK SANTA WILL BE DELIVERING LOTS OF THESE ON CHRISTMAS DAY.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffross31
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A very good game that even my four year old can't put down. The graphics are the best I have ever 
 seen, growing up in the 70's and seeing how far games have progressed since the first game console 
 I bought from sears; Pong. My four year old son spent a good three hours just exploring the roof 
 tops and killing everyone in sight. With graphics this amazing I can't imagine the stories he will 
 tell when he reaches my age. I remember the good ol days.
  
  Only complaint, PLEASE MAKE THE PATCH AVAILABLE SOON!!!!!!! The game freezing issues are a BIG 
 let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatr115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The game grabs hold of you, at least for me it did! One of those type of games, that you can't 
 seem to stop playing it, until its done! Even though this isn't happening soon but can't wait for 
 its next line of generations to come out! The detail that the developers put into this game was 
 impressive! The storyline wasn't confusing, nor boring, which is said into today's game that allot 
 of games have poor story lines..... So I tip my hat to them for making a game that isn't like the 
 rest of the ones that are out, mind you I am not saying this isn't the only game with a good story, 
 but most are like that now days.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpyr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Okay, I play a fair amount of games, i also check the reviews, which pretty much are on par... 
 but this game has some flaws. Major flaw is this thing locks up, it cant be my PS3, cause it doesn't 
 lockup on any other game. Maybe in needs a reinstall, which by the way takes as long or longer 
 than a DVD game loading from new / fresh onto a PC , so is this for faster load times... well load 
 times are not that fast in this game as well.. Other main beefs are that every time you start / 
 restart a mission you have to hear the whole dialog.. unless there is some secret button, (I have 
 tried all buttons... maybe there is a secret combo) , this fact drives me nuts! There are other 
 issues like camera going off once and while and this can be a pain. I wont review any other bits 
 as this game should be already covered by the main review. However my big question (s) are: Is anyone 
 else suffering from lockups / hanging on loading, or during gameplay? B) how about the 360 version, 
 any lockups? Load times and during 1st play was there a long installation process? 
  
  Good thing I tried this on a monthly rental, i may go back for the 360 version.. 
  
  Cheers 
 and good gaming all!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampirejack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Originally i had submitted a review with a 5.0 rating. the game "was" more severely broken than 
 it should have been; FrEeZiNg at least 7 times before the 5th assassination. After the updated 
 firmware patch by Sony (2.01) the game has only frozen on me once in the last 4 hours (i was jumping 
 off one of the towers in damascus while the game was saving - "matrix lockup") .
  
  The Core:
  
  The game has a great story (thus far... i'm on the 7th assassination) . After the 
 5th assassination a great and exciting piece of information is landed on you (in present day) . 
 The battle mechanics, while slightly simplistic and easy to own with, are still far better than 
 slash & bash controls; making Altair seem far more human, but still agile and strong. The physics 
 are quite nice.
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Wonderful, and immersive.
  As far as people complaining about the shadows being too hard and jagged and fake, i would have 
 to disagree. I did a test (not intentionally) while i was on break at work sitting under a tree 
 on a bench, and when the light pierces, very hard shadows were cast on my clothing and the ground 
 (only slightly softer around the edges than real life)
  
  Repetition:
  This game will bore quickly those who just want to kill their target and rush through the game, 
 and they will find it repetitious... go play dynasty warriors or a similiar game is all i can so 
 for those of you
  
  For Others: If you enjoy stealthy kills, EARNING your kills, and are a completist who likes engaging 
 the story as well, this game is for you. Repeating the same stuff for every assassination seems 
 Rewarding, not repetitious to me.
  
  Complaints: The few that i have are that i've still encounted sound errors (delayed attack sounds 
 from time-to-time) , The lack of complexity in the pre-assassination tasks: Interrogation, eaves 
 dropping with pick-pocketing, collecting flags, saving citizens... is too simplistic to be repeated 
 every time. 
  
  Recommendations for a next game:
  
  Day & Night sequences, Ability to steal weapons and armor/accessories, rain every once and a while, 
 ability to where a guards outfit from a guard you've slain for more covert missions, or just the 
 ability to change clothes every once and a while to thwart enemies, More missions.
  
  All in all this is a Great game, and i look forward to the sequel correcting the mistakes and making 
 the game deeper gameplay wise.
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulcanraven-213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Ubi Soft has become known to me as a company that puts out products they promise. When they state 
 the game will display certain features, they deliver in spades. Assassins Creed is no different 
 from this rule. They promised a new distinct control system, done. They promised a diverse and 
 exciting way to explore the open environments they created, done and done. They said this game 
 would make you feel like an assassin with iron in his veins and skill in his actions, well they 
 didnt promise that, but its their too.
  
  This game is a marvel to be seen, with your own eyes, while you control every move on the screen. 
 And I mean every, the controls let you do more than just button mash. You are the assassin. If 
 you own a next gen system, you should own this game. The grace and precision that the lead character, 
 Altair, uses to climb and leap his way through the large cities presented here is in one word, 
 amazing.
  
  Never have I seen anything like this in my years as a gamer. I couldnt stop exploring and killing, 
 because every minute spent, feels new and fresh. I simply adored this game since it was announced 
 and I love it more that I have played it. Dont get me wrong though, the game has some flaws, but 
 the creators put so much in it, that they are easily either excusable or passed over because you 
 are to busy to catch them cause you are having so much damn fun with what is so awesome about it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgaiger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  I didn't like the game at first because of the sci-fi twist. After beating it, I still wish it 
 was just set in 1191 without the sci-fi elements, but it's still a really cool game. The combat 
 is brutal, the stealth kills are cool, the side missions are very fun, and the difficulty is perfect. 
 The first few assassinations are very forgiving, but late in the game the guards can be a pain 
 to deal with. What's cool, though, is that no matter how sticky a situation you find yourself in, 
 you never feel overwhelmed. Whether you're running from a whole city's worth of guards or facing 
 15 dudes at once in combat while trying to complete an objective, the game does a great job of 
 keeping you confident. The graphics and sound are also great and really do a good job of putting 
 you in the holy land during the 3rd crusade. The sci-fi twist, though uneeded in my opinion, does 
 offer some interesting stuff. Well, I had a great time playing through the game and I'd reccommend 
 it to anyone, especially fellow PS3 owners who are hurting for new games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is arguably one of this holiday's most anticipated titles but before you rush 
 out and get it for yourself or for a relative it's best to know that this game surprises yet disappoints. 
 Now, I'm not prepared to say this was a bad game by any means in fact, it was quite a ride and 
 I enjoyed it thoroughly but what I'm getting at is that it has it's drawbacks.
  
  First I'd like to start off with the graphics. They're awesome for a multiplat game. The scope 
 of each city is epic and they are living and breathing thanks to accuracy. Everything honestly 
 has the look of the 12th century and even better is the amount of structures you can see and climb. 
 It doesn't have very vibrant colors and the ultra-bright lighting on the PS3 makes everything seem 
 washed out. Jaggies are also very noticeable and frame rate drops are rampant. Also, far too often 
 do you have the same NPC character models in a row and not much design was put into certain NPCs 
 and many of them have faces that look like lumps of smushed clay.
  
  Now, the sound effects in the game weren't bad and nor was the voice acting but the soundtrack 
 was absolutely terrific. My only criticism about the sound effects is that there wasn't too much 
 thought put into them. I know you're in noisy cities but was the same formula everywhere. Like 
 I said, the voice acting wasn't bad but it lacked emotion in many parts.
  
  The story wasn't bad but for anyone who hasn't been keeping up on the game they may be surprised 
 that it has a sci-fi twist and while it isn't a bad thing at all I was a little disappointed about 
 it when I first heard about it. Without giving too much away the story has a few parts where you 
 could read right through it and figure it out but mind you that they aren't obvious holes. The 
 ending is rather eerie and screams "buy my sequel next year!" but if the eerieness of the ending 
 is any indication of how the sequel will be then I will buy it day one. The final action sequence 
 of the game is rather lame and surprisingly easy but it is worth it just to get to the cinematic 
 ending.
  
  Now, the gameplay isn't something to dance in the streets about. It's repetitive and is really 
 the same formula up until the actual assassination of you target. If you're like me you'll love 
 just climbing on buildings for the hell of it and trying to find the different flags through out 
 the cities and kingdom. The combat isn't all that special and is rather frustrating at times but 
 noting that totally takes away from your experience. The way you need to go about certain assassinations 
 feels like punishment sometimes but in the end it makes the kill sweeter.
  
  Before I rap this thing up I need to point out the obvious stability problems with this game. More 
 than once did it warrant a restart. I thought my PS3 was dying from playing it so much (I have 
 Rock Band and CoD4 as well) but alas it's the games own stability problem. I found myself with 
 sound effects and music still going but Altair in suspended animation along with the populous of 
 the city. I was able to look around but not move around.
  
  All in all Assassin's Creed is a solid stealth action game that has some drawbacks that may or 
 may not make or break your gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous graphics, awesome story, you feel cool after a few hours, great music from Jesper 
 Kyd, great sound, fun gameplay......
  
  The Bad: ... but its not without its faults, combat feels chunky, counter moves feels random, 
 one of the worst endings since Halo 2, suprisingly lack of side missions.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  On 16 September 2005, it was told that the makers of Prince Of Persia and Splinter Cell was developing 
 a new game. On May 6th 2006, Assassins Creed was announced. Many (including me) thinked that the 
 game looked awesome, and it looked like a must buy game. I mean come on, who dosent want to be 
 an assassin in the end of the 11th century? I sure as hell would. So everyone grew just as exicted 
 for it as with GTA4, MGS4, and Halo 3. And best of all. PS3 only. But on september 1 2006, Ubisoft 
 disappointed by letting Assassins Creed be one of the many PS3 only games, making it for PC and 
 X-Box 360, and that made me mad. Now i got the game, on the PS3, which i had always intended too. 
 Assassins Creed was one fo the few games, that really made me exicted when i held it in my hand. 
 I couldnt believe it. The same happended, when i was on the start menu, and it just said "push 
 start". Then i started the game, and now i have finished it, and here (at last) is my review.
 
  
  STORY
  
  The game takes place in 1191 AD, at the end of the 11th century. The assassin Altar is sent to 
 retrive a hidden treasure, and assanaite Grand Master of The Templar Knights, Robert de Sable, 
 but he fails to do both. His gets killed by his master, but finds out that he really hasent been 
 killed. His master didnt kill him, but let him live. But all good things, comes with a bad thing (s) . 
 Your stripped of your rank, and everything Altar has learned, but be learned back, but assassanaiting 
 9 targets, to achive peace in this time of war. The story might not seem like much, but believe 
 me it is. It starts of with a brilliant twist, and really is going to change the whole feel of 
 the game, and it makes you think how the developers could hide it for so long. Also there keeps 
 on coming great twists, and the last twist is just as shocking as the first twist. But then the 
 game kicks you in the crotch. Just like Halo 2, Assassins Creed just suddenly ends. And just when 
 something is about to happen. The ending is awfull. You dont end stories like that! And to understand 
 the full meaning on it, you have to go on wikipedia to read about the plot to fully understand 
 it. But besides that, the story is awesome. But the ending hurts......... 9.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Assassins Creed is a stealth game, but it dosent have the problem that games 
 like Splinter Cell, & Hitman has. Its not trial and error. The objectives are simple, and its 
 never frustrating finding the targets, or clear the objectives. Its a stealth game, where you 
 dont replay the same section over and over. You have 3 citys to explore. Jerusalem, Darmascus, 
 and Acre. Each city is big, and full of atmosphere. Citizens will react to every move you make, 
 and when you climb buildings, and other things, people react with "what is he doing" and so on. 
 You can climp on pretty much every ledge you see in the game, and jump over every ledge and small 
 paths, and it always feels natural. To get the locaton of your targets, you need to investage, 
 by either doing taks for informers, evaesdropping on someone, or pick pocket someone. After you 
 have done 3 of these tasks, its on the the target and kill him. Of course should you get spotted, 
 you can always escape from the guards, by running and hiding. You can hide in haystacks, or blend 
 yourself in with a group of monks, but wierdly you can get undetected by just sitting on a bench! 
 How the hell can that be right? Hiding by sitting on a bench!? I cant believe it myself. Wiredly, 
 after you have killed someone, you can just hold down X, and go around like a praying monk, and 
 actually become invisible. Seriously you can kill a man, and just blend, and youll nevet get spotted. 
 It just feels like the enemys are plain dumb sometimes. But it can be a bit annoying trying to 
 stay undetected. You gain attention by running through the streets, and attention is not good when 
 you are an assassin. And if you bump into other people, youll gain more attention, and some of 
 the objectives can be a bit far away, so you have to walk the whole way. Then you think "I will 
 just take the rooftops then", but though luck. Guards are placed on rooftops, and order you to 
 move down to the street, or youll get the entire force at you. You can fight them, but the combat 
 is chunky. R1 blocks, and using that button with the attack button after an enemy attack, you get 
 a counter kill. Problem is that these counter "kills" are pretty random. I tapped on the right 
 buttons from time to time (not always) , and either i didnt get my counter kill, or he just peforms 
 a move that knocks the enemy to the ground. Blocking attacks also feels pretty random. Sometimes 
 you wont block at all, and enemys attacks from all sides. And sometimes when you do block, you 
 still get hurt. And the enemy blocks quite a bit too, and they have no problem counter attacking, 
 but that very system dosent work well for you, so combat is both chunky and a bit broken. I remember 
 a big fight near the end of the game, which i had to replay several times cause of these flaws. 
 And getting away can be hard, cause they can jump as fast over things as you. They can follow where 
 ever you go, how ever you do it, and its a bit wired why the guards are able to do that. The game 
 also isent that sandbox adventure we thought it would be. You can pick the order you want to kill 
 your targets that, but it pretty much ends there. There are missions like saving citzens, and killing 
 templars but thats pretty much it. After that its collecting flags, and finding view points, 
 but they dont unlock anything, so its only for the hardcore. Overall the sneaking is the strongst 
 point of the gameplay, but the combat is weak. 6.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The strongst point of the game. The graphics are just beautifull. Character models look great, 
 and the 3 citys and everything in between is stunning. The animations are revolutionary. It has 
 never been as pretty as in this game. They are so smooth and natural. They only thing that hinders 
 it from a perfect 10, is that some very rare times, the character models went through the walls, 
 and some frame-rate issues. 9.0
  
  SOUND
  
  Now this point is just a great too. The voice acting is great (expect from Altar who feels a bit 
 flat", great sound effects, and awesome music from Hitman composer Jesper Kyd. 9.5
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game takes 8-10 hours to complete, and after that you dont want to go through 
 it again. There are no rewards for playing it to death collecting everything (unless your playing 
 on 360, but thats only achivements) , so you might as well just complete it, and pick it up again 
 maybe in a year or a few months. 6.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Assassins Creed is a disappointment. I was really exicted about the game, when ever i saw new 
 footage or read new previews. I rarely get so exicted over a game, as i am with the MGS series, 
 and GTA series, and AC was one of them, and it disappointed me. But hey, at least it gets a sequel, 
 a chance to do it better. Well i demand a sequel, cause i love the story, and the ending was awfull, 
 so i wanna see what happens next. Believe me, the ending is bad timing. As Justin Long from Die 
 Hard 4 would say to the ending: Good luck at the bad timing awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boydominican
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  well it good to star and to finished .When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. 
 Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time 
 - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. Schwarzenegger is an 
 action stealth game, set in 1945 WWII Europe. As a scientist, you must uncover the truth about 
 a mysterious Nazi stronghold and its secret weapon projects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rd1858
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for thise game since summer and was expecting a lot from all of the hype. It 
 almost lives up to all of the hype, but not quite. The fighting is fantastic and I enjoyed it until 
 the credits rolled. The graphics are probably the best around at this point in time. The 9 main 
 assassinations are great and were all different which made it exciting. The free running is one 
 of the main aspects that made this game great. They really put a lot of work into that. Now for 
 my concerns. During my time playing the game it froze 4 times. Towards the end I started getting 
 bored of the investigation missions and just wanted to blow through them instead of tryng to accomplish 
 them all. The two story plots were a little uncalled for and took me out of the game from time 
 to time. Besides those few complaints I really enjoyed the game and will probably restart my journey 
 again sometime in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is wonderful game with nice graphics and evviroments , But i found the game a bit 
 Unspired.
  
  
  Lets get started: Th evviroments of the game are simply amazing the graphics are wonderful but Still 
 sometimes it feels like like smoke messing graphics (well its historic game but stil coudnt they 
 make it bette)
  the combat system works horribly, the assassin doesnt know any cool combos exept countering attacks. The 
 camera feels horrible u cant take any one caus u will be too concentrated on 1 foe wile ofers kick 
 ur ass. The camera and combat system work togethar horribly.
  
  Minor stuff: The story itself is fine BUT VERY EXTREMLY SHORT. ther ar only 3 cities in the game 
 which look nice but short. Also in Enviroments u can explore them but whats the point if there 
 arent any collectables.
  
  
  
  Overall its an unsiperd game with a wierd ending stilish gameplay , lack of callange , but with 
 good graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is an amazing game with amzing graphics and amazing gameplay. The story is very 
 good and interesting it is also very original the weapons in this game are also very creative esspesially 
 the hidden blade in Altair's hand. The voice acting is perfect. The only thing that prevents this 
 game from being perfect is the controls they are very hard to understand but once you start getting 
 the controls right this game is very fun. I deffinatly recomend this game for anyone who wants 
 to try something new and creative so you should definatly buy this game and u will not regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolGuy6654
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  when you first pop in Assassins Creed in you ps3 and boot it up you find out that you can only 
 play one file at a time and when you start that file the BIG plot twist that was so eargerly talked 
 about .The whole game happens as a memory, a memory of Desmond MIles, a subject of a scientific 
 experiment. Thats not where it ends you play as Altair , a master assassin, but that changes when 
 you fail to bring back the templars treasure and a fellow assassin get killed beacuse of you in 
 the process so you get deomted all the way back to novice and has to assassinate nine people who 
 are trying to make the third crusade happen. at the end you find out the people you were examining 
 you are actually templars looks for their treasure. This game is the first of a three game series 
 and you can tell that by the story and it is the best game i have played to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  this is my first ps3 review and I am not sure I will ever be able to say a game is better looking 
 than this one. 
  
  other sites give this one mixed reviews, but I think gamespot is right on mark with this one. it's 
 absolutely a must own title and anyone with access to it should go pick up right now. the prince 
 of persia like maneuvers of the hero are a treat to watch in action and simple to pull of thanks 
 to the intuitive control scheme. I didn't know how they would pull this off after seeing the commercials 
 but it works perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdesteban
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is great for anybody who likes great visuals intense gameplay and the freedom that comes 
 from being able to jump from building to building killin people first the graphics are just beautiful 
 obviously you need a hd tv to be able to appreciate it in all its majesty but on any screen you 
 can tell this game is magnificent the gameplay is great i absolutely love the counter system and 
 you can tell they put alot of work in the moves they are really well done and exciting everytime 
 you kill a guy the only knock against it is once you get the timing down it turns really easy i 
 put down thirty guys in one sitting while getting hit once 30 on 1 and i got hit once i think that 
 it should force you to pick your fights better make it extremely difficult to take out thirty guys 
 but then again its always fun to kill thirty dudes then get on a building and look down on ur destruction 
 the only other thing i have against the game is that there is nothin to do after you beat all the 
 missions all you can do is go back and do the missions over again they could at least let you do 
 those missions with ur best weapons or give you another cool weapon that is the only reason i regret 
 buying this game other than that the game is perfect fix those things up on the next one and it 
 will be even more magnificent.... and i thought the ending was fine it was obviously put there to 
 set up a sequel why not??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The game that has come out after once been an exclusive to the PS3 to now after 4 years in development 
 the game has come out and let me just say that Its so worth the paying $63.00 for. The story is 
 great the cities are marvelous and beautiful the citizens of the town are amazing and diverce from 
 the drunk to the crazy guy to your average working Joe. The cities include Acre, Jerusalem, and 
 Damascus and two minor towns, the gameplay is great, it sets a new standard for upcoming adventure 
 games, Ubisoft really worked there @ss off, to make this game grande and beautiful. 
  To compliment this game better is that well assissinating someone has never felt so great, first 
 you do the investigation which isn't dull and boring you've got to steal information, beat the 
 crap out of someone for information, or have an informer, or just listen to the crowd.
  You just never know what you can get and there's nothing like climbing up tall buildings. "It sure 
 is high up here" The game is great the music is wonderfull, if one thing I hate though from this 
 game are drunks they sure do know how to make an assassination difficult. The only thing that brought 
 the game down a bit was the ending which really left for a sequel, nevertheless the game is definetely 
 worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed really suffers from over-expectation syndrome. So much was expected from this 
 production that anything less than exceptional will lead to massive disappointment. And overall, 
 this game, although often stunning to look at, is certainly less than the gilded gameplay experience 
 we were hoping for.
  The main issue is repetition. Each assassination revolves around the climbing tall  
 triad before you can take on the main target. The strictures of these requirements means that the 
 game, far from being some kind of sandbox experience, feels very much like it is running on rails.
 
  This main gripe is only added to by the flimsy rendering of the NPCs in the game. They may look 
 fantastic and convincing in demos but when playing you can quickly spot the routines each character 
 types runs (the woman holding the pot, the guy that keeps rubbing his hand over his face, etc) They 
 feel like window dressing, and never really integral to the Altair's quests.
  
  Overall, this is a game that will be worth purchasing when it comes down in price. It will give 
 great pleasure over the course of a two or three night rental. just don't expect the pomised land. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk0375
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  I have both systems, the 360 and the PS3 and one of my best friends decided to sell his 360 to 
 buy a PS3 and let me tell you. this game looks and plays way better on the 360. I am not throwing 
 dirt at Sony since I have all their systems but the graphics on the Sony version made me sick. 
 Yes my friend got it for the PS3 and after playing it on both systems until we got to memory block 
 3, we agree that this game had better graphics on the 360. about the game, this game is not horrible. 
 but if you were expecting a lot of action from this game, forget it. its pretty cool the way you 
 can come from behind and perform a kill (looks better than Manhunt 2) but that's about it. the 
 game seems very repetitive after the first 40 minutes. (since in those 40 minutes you learn most 
 of your moves) there was nothing spectacular about this game. in fact, it remind it me a little 
 bit of a game call Thief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tazman200
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Nice views, nice citys, nice graphics but...... the gameplay gets boring afer 2h. General Missions: 
 Kill somebody.. How ?? Stell a letter from a guy to get information or punch a guy to get information 
 or spy on a guy by siting on a bench. 
  Side Missions: 1, Climb up a tower and enjoy the view. You do this about 100 times.
  2. Rescue 
 someone from soldiers 100 times and everytime the 
  same. Kill the soldiers or jump on house and ran away.
  
  Some much hype for such a stupid 
 gameplay. The graphics are very nice though but this is it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandberd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  You play as the most bad ass assassin ever seen called Altar. He is on a mission to get an artifact 
 for his assassin guild, but something is wrong. The templars got there before Altar and his team, 
 so Altar breaks all three tenants of the creed and the situation gets out of hand. Altar forgets 
 all that he has ever learned about being stealth and goes into a full frontal attack and fails 
 miserably. He gets separated from his team and ends up having to go back to the guild alone. Here 
 he is stripped from his rank and all his inventory for ignoring the creed and will have to earn 
 it all back.
  
  As written before, the first 30 minutes of the game is a long tutorial that teaches you the basics 
 which could have been done in 5 minutes, BUT, the tutorial is also an important part of the main 
 story, so that makes up for the boring part. The controls are great and easy to learn, and you 
 end up spending hour after hour just jumping from roof to roof, and even if you fail a jump, Altar 
 manages to look bad ass all the way through, even when he gets thrown around by guards he looks 
 like someone you don't want to mess with. The graphics are incredible and so nice for the eyes 
 that you can spend much time just running around in the cities to look at it all. The only bad 
 thing I can come to think of is the camera angles. If your camera is a bit off then you might end 
 up killing yourself in a leap of faith or just jump right down into the cold water. There are also 
 a few bugs they need to fix, like when suddenly everything stops moving and you have to restart 
 your PS3. But a really cool game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moved2wii
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is flawless. Designed deliciously for serious gamers. I bought the Limited edition and 
 very happy without any remorse. Its a must buy game this holiday season and nope I seriously dont 
 work for Ubisoft (although i would if they would hire me) . The graphics are awesome and storyline 
 is great. This game makes me want to buy a 1080p LCD and will do for sure this holiday season. 
 I bought it together with Super Mario Galaxy and I havent opened the mario because this game is 
 so addicting. Get the game and you will love it no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game where you can kill people silently with nothing left but a knife in 
 a crowd, then you've found just the right game. Assassin's Creed delivers an incredible story that 
 takes place in 1191 A. D. You play as Altair, a master assassin who has to kill the nine leaders 
 of the crusades, not only because he was told to by his master, but because he's on to a whole 
 conspiracy thats behind all this. As you play through, you start to figure out that the story isn't 
 just Altair's life, but also a man named Desmond Miles who's life actually takes place in the future. 
 You'll also learn that theirs a whole philosophy to the game, especially at the end which I won't 
 give away for those of you that haven't played it yet.
  
  In the beginning of the game, Altair gets demoted after a foolish move that he makes from trying 
 to steal a treasure and looses most of his equipment because of it. In order to get his equipment 
 back you must rank up by progressing in the game. At first, you'll start with a blade hidden in 
 your finger that you can use to kill people from behind or sometimes in front if you're lucky. 
 You'll also start with a sword and i think you can guess what you use that for. And eventually 
 you'll get throwing knives that comes with a curved blade that you use to defend yourself just 
 incase someone tries to kill you from close up, which seems to be just as effective as the sword. 
 Now sword fighting in this game is actually pretty fun and can be challenging if you dont get your 
 timing right when you try to counter others attacks by simply hitting square ,as your holding R1 
 and L1, right before the target lays an attack on you.
  
  The visuals on this game is probably the best part about the game, due to the fact that everything 
 looks so life-like that it could even be called the best graphics yet on a next-gen system. From 
 every little detail on Altair to the buildings he climbs on, in which you can climb on practically 
 anything in the game, is just amazing. Even the citizens of the three cities Damascus, Acre, and 
 Jerusalem look and act pretty real. Every once in a while you'll see a homeless woman run up to 
 you asking and begging for money, which can get incredibly annoying after a while, and drunk guys 
 that beat on you for no reason, which is also incredibly annoying, especially when your trying 
 to walk slow to hide from guards who are after you from an assassination or something like that.
 
  
  The only thing that stopped this game from getting a perfect 10.0 is that their's nothing to do 
 after you beat the game except save citizens that you haven't yet saved from guards that abuse 
 them, find all the view points that you haven't already found, which help you see things on the 
 map better, and collect all the flags hidden throughout the city. Other than that, this game is 
 solid, just like Altair's perfectly assassinated victims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was great for the first 5 hours of play but after that it became repetitive. The graphics 
 are GREAT the interface (controls) are GREAT the best ever, the flow, loading , fighting, great 
 great great. After playing throught 3 memories the only thing that keeps you playing is wanting 
 to finish it and move on to the next game. If you thought tranversing NY or Cali in grandtheft 
 auto, by car, was irritating then imagine doing it on foot, or by horse back. Over and Over again, 
 because after you complete a mission you have to report back to your camp then travel to a new 
 location over again. Since you are an assasin there is no fight scene or series of buttons (GOW) 
 and it must be done close up. So the thrill of the kill weres off after some time. And the side 
 missions/investigations were good for the first couple hours, ( FLAG COLLECTING, saving citizens, 
 lookouts, pick pocket, eavesdropping, and interrogating) but more variety should have been added 
 over the course of the game. I didnt count but most locations have 100 flags/items to collect its 
 like 500+ in the game. ANd if you choose not to do any side missions or collect stuff then you 
 dont get any points to increase your life bar and you will be doomed. You dont talk to people, 
 no items to collect to use on your missions like bow and arrow, poisons, other assasin tools, etc. 
 No puzzles to solve. Just a bunch of jumping, and sword fighting drawn out over the course of 20 
 hours.
  
  This game is a mix of Prince of persia, GTA, and hitman, with out the puzzles, cars, and constume 
 changes. No replay value so Rent it. But still a great game for the first 10 hours
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Just got my game last night. Played a few hours. 
  
  Its a good game, now i am at the stage after the main character is being demoted. No weapons and 
 not much free running skills.
  
  But it is a good challenge. I can't really fight the guards with bare hands. Just push them around 
 and run off to hide.
  
  Well, no matter what, it is still a good game. I like the part that he jumped off from the castle 
 befroe he was stabbed by the leader of the brotherhood.
  
  All the jumping and running around was really fun. I hope there is part two of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurnlklank
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game for a LONG time and so the day it came out i went to my local store 
 and picked up a copy. I stuck it in my ps3 and straight away it was not the game i was expecting. 
 But thats not to say its a bad thing the bad thing was after playing through it in about 7 hours 
 i was left feeling a little disapointed. ok so for the good The gameplay is solid and flows beautifully 
 once you have the hang of it. The graphics are wonderful when you first enter a city and the landscape 
 sprawls in front of u its great. the storyline. ok for the bad. the storyline i dont know why they 
 had to add the whole future thing to the mix i felt it seemed a little to tacked on to the side 
 of the game with a paper clip it just didn't feel right. By the time you get to memory block 5 
 the game just seems repeat what you've done before and once you've actually finshed the game there 
 isn't a whole lot left for u to do. So all in all it was a decent attempt to make something a little 
 different than what we've seen. Right now i'm waiting on MGS4 and i've been waiting a while so 
 i hope its gonna be more than a decent attempt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderIIWiggen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful world that immerses you into the game, minus the sci-fi twist which only detracts from 
 it. Combat and AI are mind-numbingly easy. sequences sometimes feel "unfair" as to how the react 
 by the simple push of an x. AI is staggeringly unintelligent sometimes. There are some very simple 
 changes that could have taken place in order to make this game better. However the AI probably 
 needs an overhaul. I have a feeling the DNA portion was Ubisoft's doing. I was really hoping to 
 feel as though I were apart of the game, but cheesy rationalization for a stupid theory of hollywood 
 science created a large plot hole for me.
  Guilty Pleasure: found myself jumping across buildings for 30 minutes :0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  whenever i read game reviews i look for the bad things people say. if i can get past all the bad 
 things people say, then i buy the game if it looks good. so heres the bad. guards are very easy 
 to kill, especially after u unlock "counter kill", u can slaughter them one after another for as 
 long as u want. this game as a lot of running and hiding features, but with guards so easily defeated 
 (and brutally, awesomely murdered) , theres no incentive to run and hide. climbing will take some 
 getting used to, as to what u can climb, and what angle u have to hit things at, how far u can 
 jump, etc.. combat is awesome at first, but gets a little boring after a while. different weapons 
 = different brutal kills, but every time u enter combat mode, he always pulls out his long sword, 
 and u gotta find a break in the action to switch if u want. the game only has one difficulty level, 
 and is still pretty easy. each town requires u to do the same stuff. some of the "assassinations" 
 are more like just straight fights like with any other guard, and require little sneaking. camera 
 angles can sometimes get annoying, but the guards arent constantly swinging at u, so u have plenty 
 of time to move around and get a better angle.
  
  now the good. iv put in about 10 hours so far and iv only done 3/9 assassinations (granted iv done 
 every possible thing in every town so far) . so the game definitely has some length to it. although 
 things u do get repetitive, its still fun to do. story line is original and pulled off well. the 
 "counter kills" go to a cinematic view for a second to watch ur brutal murder, and these switching 
 of views is rather seamless, and puts u back into the action with no flaws. graphics are quite 
 amazing.
  
  although iv listed far more bad, the good outweighs the bad by a lot, and this is certainly a game 
 worth looking into if u like prince of persia and splinter cell, and wanted to see what it would 
 be like if they had a baby. not to mention, its very hard to justify spending 60 dollars on a game 
 now, especially if its some 10 hour shooter or something, but this is worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I could easily sum up assassin's creed in 2 words, very inventive, who could ever think up a storyline 
 like this, basically, this guy is the key to help a group of assassin's fufil their potential, 
 but to do this, the guy must be fed memories that his ancestors posessed and use them to do what 
 his ancestors did, and more, sounds pretty basic (Yeah right) but there is so much more to this 
 game than just the storyline, such as the amazing detail that is the town, the feeling of a real 
 bustling town that literally feels as if it is full of life and the fun of free-running with altair 
 (Our main guy in the game) This game overall is pretty solid but does have a few probs, such as 
 that is does become quite repetitive over a period of time (Round about 2-3 hours of solid play) 
 and that sometimes people can be seen amazingly appearing from nowhere, but besides these factors, 
 assassin's creed is solid game with glimpses of idioticy and at the same time genius. I would recommend 
 to rent it first but i'm pretty sure most gamers will enjoy it and gat the most out of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is sadly just another case of looks over gameplay, styIe over content, hype over 
 reality.
  The first thing you'll notice, once you get past the section where the "big secret" they kept mentioning 
 in the previews and demos is given away before you even get to have any real control over the game, 
 is that the graphics are stunning, washed out and lacking colour (which is not something that can 
 be said of many PS3 games, usually the developers through as many colours at a game as they can, 
 and then some more for good measure) but stunning neverthe less, sure the frame rates stutters 
 occasionally but the PS3 usually struggles to handle this amount of graphical movement, and considering 
 the limitations of the hardware its impressive.
  You can even ignore the occasional bit of screen tearing that occurs, what you can't ignore is 
 the dull repetitive gameplay.
  With the task of killing nine influential people in a bid to halt the crusades there is a a lot 
 of room for variety, but they just haven't implemented any, the game's nine assassinations all 
 play out exactly the same, with new scenery. The gorgeous locales do help with some of this tediousness, 
 but not nearly enough.
  Combat is a slightly more complicated affair, involving a constant need to block the attacks of 
 others and counterattack. Instead of the usual gameplay of hacking into enemies with abandon.
 
  There are times when you feel that your not really having that much input into what Altair is 
 doing, to climb you just push the stick in the direction you wish to go and he'll climb, surely 
 they could have made it a little more complicated than that, especially as the way you interact 
 with the scenery is a major part of the game and one they made a big deal of in all the build up, 
 I mean, in all the videos they showed off not once did the player slip up when scaling the buildings, 
 or swinging on poles, and it would have been hilarious to see the dive into the hay bale miss just 
 once to see a red squish on the floor if ever there was a hint that the climbing section of the 
 game was not quite what it should have been it was in those demos.
  In short, the game offers two hours of solid gaming, which is then repeated, and repeated, and 
 repeated until you either kill all your targets or kill yourself with boredom.
  Could have been so much better.
  Maybe the inevitable sequel will allow the player a little more 
 control than there is here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is fun, ingenuitive and, minus a couple small issues, a really revolutionary game 
 that will keep you entertained, if you let it. 
  
  Graphics - The game is beautiful, the cities are huge, the world is huge, and the people look real. 
 If you get to close to someone during a cut scene, however, you might catch a hand sticking straight 
 through you, or the occasional NPC suddenly appearing right in front of you, but these problems 
 are rare and don't subtract from what is truly a visually stunning game.
  
  Sound - what little music you hear comes during certain key points, and really helps set the mood. 
 The towns are alive with the calling of merchants, beggers, guards, and everyone else who has a 
 voice. The voice overs are really very well done, minus Altair, who is horrible at the beginning 
 of the game, and only makes very moderate improvement as the game progresses.
  
  Controls - I have to admit, once I got used to the controls, they worked very well. And the learning 
 curve for getting used to them is very small. The first hour of the game is devoted to familiarizing 
 you with everything, and the rest of the game it still shows up from time to time. The Climbing 
 and Fight mechanics work great, my only problem being in how often the guards attack, which could 
 have been bumped up a notch. Gets kinda boring waiting for them to attack to counter. 
  
  Gameplay - I'm gonna break this up into two parts. Exploration and investigation/battle, because 
 they truly are very different aspects of the game. 
  Exploration - The world is huge, and everyone seems to be aiming for you. The bottle and box holders 
 seem to intentionally turn and walk right into you whenever you least want them too. The Beggers 
 and "weird" (drunk, drugged, or mentally retarded, I'm not sure which) people tend to get in your 
 way VERY often, to the point of just wanting to kill them, which you will do, out of frustration, 
 many times. I actually feel bad after assassinating a begger who just cost me the final kill of 
 a stealth assassinate mission. But they add a bit of challenge to looking around, and despite the 
 sheer numbers of them, they seem very realistic.
  Investigations/battle - This is where most people found fault. Repetition. I don't know about you 
 but I think just about every video game I've ever played was repetitious in some way or another. 
 I found that with every assassination, the investigation got harder, or the "save the citizen". 
 When you first start out you might have as many as 5 opponents. By the last mission I wasn't surprised 
 to see 15-20 guards show up at a save the citizen. I completed every mission (minus the flags and 
 Templars which I didn't take the time to hunt down) and never once got bored, frustrated at a certain 
 part, sure, but never bored. In battle, once you get counter attacks, you'll never do anything 
 else, and the animations are nice, with the short sword or the regular sword. And the assassinations 
 themselves were fun, It was hard to try and do it just right so the mark never saw you coming (which 
 I did very few times) And getting away was a blast, In my humble opinion. 
  
  Story - I found it to be engrossing, while slightly predictable. Ubisoft really messed up throwing 
 the "twist" in at the beginning, but honestly I'm looking forward to what happens next, and did 
 throughout the game. Made each kill fun. I could've dealt without the trips to the "real" world, 
 though I guess they were needed......
  
  Overall I had a really good time with Assassins Creed. It wasn't the best game I've ever played, 
 but it was certainly worth the wait. If you just sit down and have fun with the game, you'll find 
 yourself immersed in a huge world with really unlimited possibilities. I can't wait to see the 
 sequel, wonder what time frame that'll take place in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sun2Devil
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This is certainly a visual game. Personally, I felt the graphics were quite solid, voice acting 
 was very well done even if the lips didn't always sync.
  
  It helps that the game is able to stream easily between cutscene moments & the "normal" free roam 
 view. I liked that it didn't appear to change the setting when you were eavesdropping. The only 
 time this happened was with assassinations & that added an element of closeness between the characters.
 
  
  Story was a bit slow to start, but it picked up as I kept at it and I came away from it generally 
 liking it. I'm always fickle with endings so I'll just focus on the main arc & I thought it kept 
 moving at a good pace overall. IMO, the ending was both great & meh at the same time.
  
  I really enjoyed the action tho from climbing to fighting to jump assassinations. The fun factor 
 of this alone makes for great replay value.
  
  Tediousness & small misc gripes: drowning, freezing loading screens, the fog loading screen wasn't 
 a favorite of mine before it froze tho, the same basic type of tasks for conducting research, & 
 so little interaction in "other" portion of the story.
  
  I liked the pedestrians in the cities (including & except) poor beggars who were annoying & not 
 for the reasons they should have been, but because they didn't have enough unique lines for as 
 prevalent as they were. I know they're suppose to annoy me to create that effect of how bad things 
 could be in that time period, but I shouldn't want to punch them for saying the same thing that 
 the last beggar said. Being shoved around by the mentally handicapped was annoying as well. Why 
 am I the only person they were shoving? or that beggars were begging?
  
  I thought this was a great game overall & I don't think the "flaws" should force it any lower than 
 a 9 - twists & all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxlinkxx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Takes place during the 3rd crusade of religious characters and conspiracys relived by a geneticly 
 linked being to his ancestor Altair. This game is by nothing short of incredible! The story and 
 plot line is very innovative yet simplistic at first then as you move on forward begins to question 
 your purpose but does it in a very fun way. Assasins Creed has been credited by Hideo Kojima creator 
 of the Metal Gear Solid franchise as one of the most inspiring an innovative games he ever seen. 
 Loved it and would reccomend it to many others out there that are still sceptical about this game! 
 If you have the PS3 version get it for PS3 cause I noticed it looks better than the 360 version 
 not to sound like a fanboy but I also own a 360 and just rented the 360 version to compare it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok the game has a twist in that you are really living out experiences of Altair a relative of long 
 ago through DNA memory. I have only played for about 4 hours but am incredibly awestruck by the 
 gameplay mechanics graphics story line scenery etc. when riding horseback the horses animaations 
 are realistic and you truly can go just about any where you choose. So far I have maade it to about 
 5 scenic spots rescued several citizens from being molested by gaurds, been helped out by vigilantes 
 and eluded gaurds to hide amongst scholors or a pile of straw. Thus far I have experienced no glitches 
 and maybe just 1 or 2 minor slightly noticable frame rate drops nothing that taakes away from the 
 gaming experience. Let me just say this is the game you must own and play for it is truly different 
 than many games before yet has some of the similarities of so many of my favorites. Just buy it 
 you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 18greenmachine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Great game just fun to run around the cities. Towns are amazing and look beautiful. almost everything 
 is interactive. Side story of real time kind of throws off the time line feel of ancient times. 
 But its a fun game to just running around and killing any bad guy. Climbing the buildings are revolutionary 
 ive never played a game that every ledge or post can be climb stand on or jumb from. This is one 
 of those games that can be played over and over agian its hard to put the controller down. The 
 only thing that has stopped me was the battery has run out of my controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukimurasanada3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. it does have some small glitches at points, and it takes a little while 
 to actually load the game, but other than that, this is an awesome game. The cities are HUUUUUUUGE. 
 There is so much to do. it is a little repetitive how you have to get info then kill the guy, but 
 if you ever get bored, you can just go around killing guards. The story is interesting, if not 
 a little confusing in the beginning. Very fun, but i feel there is some small thing that is missing. 
 i hope they make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fady904
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  i rented this game for 5 days and i stopped playing it on the third day. You basically do the same 
 thing over and over again. This game lacks the element of surprise and it lays down all the intelligences 
 for yea and you end up doing the same thing. I played the game fable on xbox and i loved that game. 
 UBISOFT could have done better, they took long to develope this game but it is no near what i've 
 expected. This game has no challenge and i've lost the motivation to finish it. I hope they would 
 not repeat the same mistake with Blazing Angel and add some excitement to this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jad-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a great game that hold the fun and the freedom like never seen before. Run 
 over house, rooftops, on the streets, blend into the nation, hide before ur enemies find you on 
 the most secure place on the higher ones just for ur own survivor to complete ur mission.
  
  Assassin's Creed hold amazing graphics, a stellar storyline, great music and excellent VA. 
 So what did u waiting for buy it now or ur will loses one of the most amazing experience on the 
 gaming world this year.
  
  Presentation:
  The tutorial is great, the menus are slick and the whole package is a top-notch.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Very addictive to the very end. The maneuvers into battle are great and the attacks are very well 
 done.
  
  Sound:
  The VA is great but there way too over used on the crowd VA department especially the poor womans 
 that ask u for money on the streets are sometimes VERY annoy.
  
  Last Appeal:
  The game hold the potential to be a Game of the year but could improve even more on the next sequel. 
 The story is so way to great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbrickwood
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the Good
  
  This game looks beautiful!
  
  The Montreal team have done a cracking job of recreating three Living Medievil Cities, The details 
 are beautiful, the textures look crisp and the character models too!
  
  The Climbing Mechanic works really well and for the most part so does the fighting mechanic. 
 
  
  
  Unfortunately the mission structure seems to let the side down. Yes we have 3 free roaming cities 
 and large kingdom to explore, Missions which can be done in an order of your choice ( to a degree) 
 , but having to return to your home citie after each mission can drag. The fact is there is too 
 much repetition to walk away feeling truely satisfied. 
  
  I only wished they had included more challenging Climbs as part of the assassination missions and 
 Included Interiores of palaces etc ( like Prince of Persia) 
  
  
  The Assassinations seem all too easy, and no strategic planning or choice in how you execute are 
 really on Offer.
  
  I was expecting a similar concept to Hitman Blood Money, where each Kill is a Puzzle and how you 
 solve it is up to you. Its not Unfortunately.
  
  
  The fact is there is too much repetition to walk away feeling truely satisfied. 
  
  
  The 
 Hype that has led upto launch dashes your hopes leaving you feeling dissapointed, but wanting more!
 
  
  What Ubisoft Montreal have done is create a good foundation with the stellar graphics, Great Climbing 
 and Fighting mechanics.
  
  If they can succeed next time in creating a better mission structure, more variety and make each 
 Assassination ' a puzzle ' , i think they'll be onto one good franchise.
  
  My Score, 7.0
  
  
  p. s I hope next time they fix the glitches, FPS and Freezing issues!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Assassin's Creed, chances are it will astonish you. The game looks amazing 
 and tells a story which is above the typical high school standard found in most games. Most elements 
 in the game are designed to feel natural and not break the player's suspension of disbelief; however, 
 the experience is over far too soon. 
  
  Though the game extends beyond the typical 4-8 hours of game play in action games, Assassin's Creed 
 is over long before the game ends. Game play is so well implemented in this game that for the first 
 couple hours you will not be able to put the controller down. Unfortunately, after these first 
 few hours, the game ups the difficulty level and repeats. Side-quests in Assassin's Creed take 
 a page right from the Spiderman series. Vast and aesthetically pleasing locales suffer from nearly 
 nothing to do aside from the monotony of finding all the flags and climbing all the tall buildings.
 
  
  Of course you can skip all of this extra content and proceed at high speed through the main story. 
 Assassinations are enjoyable at times, yet lack the depth of planning and approaches found in games 
 like Hitman. On top of this, you are given no real emotional connection as to why the target must 
 be killed. Back story is given on them sure, but generally this information is only used to express 
 the best way to eliminate the target and not to actually involve the player.
  
  When the game begins, the player's character, Altair, is able to sprint through crowds and bump 
 into guards without attracting attention. As the game progresses, guard awareness increases at 
 an unpredictable rate. At times during the later parts of the game you can run by guards unnoticed 
 yet five minutes later walking slowly is enough to initiate a city wide search. This unpredictable 
 nature becomes increasingly frustrating as you are trekking across the large cities to locate your 
 target. 
  
  Overall, Assassin's Creed is a great game and a must buy for the Playstation 3, especially since 
 it is one of only a handful of decent games for the platform. Aside from a repetitive storyline 
 and minor bugs, Assassin's Creed is a great experience which will not soon be forgotten. It is 
 not; however, game of the year material. Much is left to be desired yet on a console with so few 
 good games, Assassin's Creed is a definite rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinrj06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  the game is the perfect game (for me, and im sure many others) as it has a back story that maks 
 the game both fun, and confusing at the same time.
  
  the fighting system is perfect, even for somone with no skills in games (i know, i had a 54 year 
 old play it) . you can fight, or escape as you please.
  
  the parkour aspect makes escaping fun, and hard to do at the same time, jump off any building, 
 anytime anywhere. climb any building anytime anywhere, kill any target anytime, anywhere.
  
  the ending is a bit confusing, but it makes you think about the game long after you have beaten 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da-devil-dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing the controls are just right the Ai needs a little work and there is some 
 bugs in there as well but if you can get over all that then you must get this game free roam nice 
 graphics nice voice work its the best game ubi-soft has made so far. The game maybe a little hard 
 at first but after awhile you get the hang of it and the whole story is great but is does have 
 some twist in there that just keep on making you want to know more. The game can be maybe around 
 15-20 hours long depending on your skill level plus there are also some good side mission and the 
 fights are while done the assassination are good as well with all that said you must get this game 
 for the ps3 or XBox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A huge, open world that is open for exploration, 3 huge cities -- Damascus, Acre, and Jerusalem, 
 all waiting to be explored, 9 main assassination for you to preform, and each is relatively entertaining, 
 huge, interactive crowds and citizens, and Climbing -- the best part. 
  
  The Bad: Some bad technical glitches (the game froze on me 3 times so far) , some missions can become 
 quite repetitive, such as pickpocketing, saving innocent citizens from the abusive guards, and 
 more. Also, while the story may be well-built, it is executed terribly -- the cut scenes are too 
 abundant and too long, and the major twist is revealed to you 5 minutes into the game -- ??? This, 
 in a sense, can destroy the story for you. 
  
  The long-awaited Assassin's Creed. Does it live up to its hype? It definitely does in many ways, 
 but unfortunately, it completely fails in many other ways. I have now played around 8-9 hours of 
 the game. It gets off to a very slow start, and, although you think it will eventually pick up 
 the pace, it never really does -- it maintains a slow, dull, and rather repetitive pace. The three 
 best things about Creed are exploring, climbing, and the combat. The world is huge -- there are 3 
 immense cities for you to explore, as well as some open countryside. And, of course, climbing to 
 the top of huge towers is always marvelous. And, the combat us brutal and awesome. Once you explore 
 , climb, and fight for around an hour or so, what else is there to do? Well, you can continue to 
 try and follow the dull story, and attempt to preform your next assassination, or you can one of 
 the many repetitive side missions (pickpocketing, eavesdropping, and a couple more) . Not too impressive, 
 eh? And now is a good time to say that the AI is pretty abysmal. I mean, yeah, the large crowds 
 are nice and realistic, but they're simply stupid, and a bit dull. So, in the end, it all comes 
 down to this -- Assassin's Creed has potential, and had so many revolutionary ideas, but it fails 
 to use the potential that it had. hopefully Ubisoft can pull all these flaws together for a great 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ventorian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  How to start? Well, right off the bat the games story grabs hold of you and doesn't let go. The 
 concept is innovative and fresh.
  
  The game runs beautifully; the animations are smooth, the art direction is magnificent, and the 
 world that holds it all together is perfect. 
  The controls are tight, though sometimes you may find yourself jumping in directions you didn't 
 want to. The 'puppeteering' works wonders with Altair, making him easy to manouver quickly through 
 the cities.
  
  
  I can't tell you how wonderful this game is... But I can tell you that the cut scenes are annoyingly 
 long. You still have some control over Altair or Desmond, but not a whole lot. I want to play, 
 let me run around while you talk to me!
  
  
  
  Final Verdict: Have a PS3 or 360? Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiff_p239
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that I really wanted to love but it ended up being mediocre at best. 
 The idea behind the game is really great in theory but not so much in practice. I loved the thought 
 of being able to carry out assassinations of the various political figures of the era. However, 
 that's pretty much where the fun ended.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is that it is extremely repetitive. Every mission unfolds in 
 the exact same way. Visit the bureau, climb to a viewpoint, perform menial tasks, head back to 
 the bureau, and kill your target. The worst part is that all of these tasks are so simple and they're 
 not the least bit exciting. I also didn't like the fact that there is no incentive whatsoever to 
 complete more than the necessary investigations before going after your target. You don't really 
 learn anything new by doing all 6 of the tasks. I didn't even realize that you could view the results 
 of your investigations until after I'd performed 3 of the assassinations. Even so, the information 
 you get from looking at the maps aren't all that important at all. You can figure out the path 
 you need to take on your own.
  
  As some people have said, the AI in the game is absolutely brain dead. You can kill a guard only 
 10 feet away from another guard and he won't have any idea what happened. He'll come over to investigate 
 and not be aware of who did it. Pickpocketing people is a joke as well. Very rarely does one of 
 your victims have any idea what's going on. You can follow him for quite some time with your hand 
 out and the person will be none the wiser.
  
  The combat system is also extremely weak. Once you learn how to counter an attack, that is the 
 only move you'll really need. The guards will almost always block your sword strikes so it's better 
 to either counter their strikes or throw them to the ground and hack them up.
  
  The sci-fi backdrop of the game is also a waste of time and the moments where you control Desmond 
 are absolutely boring. To be honest, I don't know why the sequences aren't just done as cutscenes. 
 There is no reason whatsoever to actually control him yourself. You can only do one required task 
 before the game launches into a speech from one of the scientists. No offense, but being able to 
 walk around in a 10 foot radius while another character is speaking does not give you any additional 
 freedom. I understand that the developers were trying to make the game into a franchise, but the 
 modern day twist should have been left out of the game. They would have been much better served 
 by creating a series by assassinating leaders from different periods in history (one game in the 
 series could be the assassination of Adolf Hitler or some other evil person from a different era) . 
 Unless the series is radically changed in the next game, I won't be the least bit interested in 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishisluv7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  AC is an excellent game. I have the PS3 version and have been playing non-stop since I got it home. 
 The graphics are top-notch, not just the textures, but the way depth of field is employed along 
 with bloom and art direction make the game simply stunning to look at.
  The free-roaming GTA style of game play is fantastic as you can choose for the most part what you 
 want to do, and even how to accomplish your goals. You can usually just run in and battle, or go 
 for a stealthier, planned out kill.
  I would give this game a perfect 10, except for two issues, one minor, and the other much more 
 serious. First is the voice acting on the main character is weak, at least in comparison to all 
 the other voice actors in the game. Second, I had the game lock up while riding the horse once 
 and actually had to turn off the main power at the back of the PS3, which is not cool. Nothing 
 would respond, after letting it sit for about 5 minutes, I did the hard reboot, which is worrisome. 
 
  Its just really a game you simply have to experience to believe though, the production values are 
 through the roof, there is loads of content to keep you busy, and the mostly non-linear game play 
 is great. So far, Assassin's Creed is my number one pick for game of the year. 
  Bottom line, it is quite simply a joy to play, look at, and most importantly downright fun.
  
 Get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joker_fam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game has it all, especially if you've every fantasized about being an Assassin. The teacher 
 is forced to become the student again, in order to prove himself worthy of the title: Assassin. 
 You can allow your imagine to roam, only to find out that it has been included in the game at one 
 time or another. An excellent storyline, which is sure to keep you glued to the game to the very 
 end. The mini games manages to add something to the main storyline. The blending of two storylines 
 into one keeps the subject matter real for you in present day, which only adds to the authenticity 
 of the line between the Main Character and the future generations.
  
  Caution: VERY ADDICTIVE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  I dnt know how to describ it ,but somthing didnt feel good when i play this game .I dnt feel like 
 im having fun or getting an idea about what this game want me to do or what is the perpose of killing 
 all these people.
  first .i dnt like spending most of the time getting from one city to the other ,its like a nitemare 
 sometimes u lose ur way and go back to fine the correct road.
  2nd .i feel its hard to fight the way u want its like the fight mode is slow and u keep doing the 
 same shit .
  for me heavenly sword is better than this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trojans_57
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Assassins Creed was a highly anticipated game and was well worth the wait. its graphics are unbelievably 
 realistic and the game-play is ingenius. The storyline differs from what you would expect if you 
 watched the commercials but in a fun twist sort of way. This game is what the PS3 fans have been 
 waiting for. it explores all the elements that the PS3 has to offer. Everything from the sounds 
 to the people in the game, it all blends in to make a remarkable game. the sights that you can 
 explore are unprecidented. If you are looking for a game that has all the elements and can do just 
 about anything this is the game for you. This game could start the greatest next-gen franchise 
 for both the Xbox 360 and also the PS3. Forget Halo go out and get Assassins Creed. 
  
  
  trojans_57 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronz42
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  This is when you want to go out and get a PS3. Yes, A. C. looks good on a 360 but it will shock 
 you on a PS3. But that's just the beginning. This is more than a stealth game, more than an action 
 game, or sci-fi. Until you dive head first off a 100 foot tower or take on a crazy priest who is 
 doing brain surgery on the local crazies... well... let's just say your life has been tedious up 
 to this point. Or you have just saved a citizen and the guards are chasing you through ancient 
 cobblestone streets. Suddenly, from your left, five men in white robes appear. They are waiting 
 for you. You step into their circle and they take you away and the guards are saying, I know he 
 was here. Wasn't he here?
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garcia_d
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a marvelous game good graphics good story, the only bad think is that in some 
 loads it freezes my ps3. When the game is in a load section it gets stock so I have to restart 
 my ps3, it did not happen very often but it is annoying. You can finish the game in under 20 or 
 40 hours all depends if you decided to collect all the flags. Flags are around all cities, let 
 me tell ya' those are difficult to find, ( I don; t know what you get if you find them all) . But 
 in general is GREAT!!! Missions are fantastic the killing is marvelous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobb-Boss-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Assassins creed is great for climbing, killing, fighting and stealth. But its not so great because 
 its short and the missions are very similar.
  
  The graphics are good and has huge cities to explore, but once you have completed the main story 
 all there is to do is collect flags hidden in all the cities, and because its big you would expect 
 it to have loads of missions like GTA but it doesn't like most games that have come out so far 
 on PS3.
  
  Its still worth getting, but you will probably complete it within a couple of days and get bored 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  The Basics, 
  Can you say Grand Theft Auto during the crusades? The game gives you freedom to run through the 
 streets of 4 cities, each divided into sections, which you unlock after you complete a mission. 
 There are side mission, which you need not complete, but it raises your health bar when you complete 
 enough of them. Guards chase you through the streets and over roof tops till you hide long enough 
 for your status meter to return to normal. you can kill anyone, but it is not recommend, just take 
 your aggressions out on the guards. There are side events where you can gather the 100 flags of 
 a map in each city, or kill 100 Tempar guards, what you get i don't know since they are not to 
 easy to find... I couldn't help but feel as if my next mission was going to be to steal a horse 
 and race someone to a flag or something. 
  
  The over all feeling of the game is smooth, with transition times only when you enter a new city 
 or die.. The first time you climb a scenic view you see the vastness of the games detailed graphics 
 which is certainly nice eye candy. 
  
  The story is entertaining, at least if your interested in history, or the plot of one man crusade 
 to do what ever he his told (Puppet) .... 
  
  The Good. 
  Graphics, Smooth Game Play, Detailed maps, Easy controls
  
  The Bad.
  Repetitive, Very Repetitive. 
 Game Glitches at times with Reset Required. Weak Ending. Replay Value
  
  I liked the game, but it's replay value is little to none, and now I'm just waiting for the next 
 one to come out... So i say Rent it for 5 days, play two hours a day and see if you like it, then 
 add it to your wish list for Christmas or birthday.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alzani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  I've read a lot of reviews for Assassin's Creed about the 'repetitive nature of the gameplay', 
 which, in reality, is feasible, but it's all about how you choose to the play the game.
  
  I'm not going to go into the story of Assassin's Creed, as that's been written on here a hundred 
 times before, but more about how you can play the game, compared to how the designers feel that 
 you should.
  
  If you're the kind of person who buys a game in order to complete it as fast as possible, then 
 you I can understand why you may find Assassin's Creed a little repetitive. These kind of gamers 
 will simply get to their first area of one of the three massive and beautifully rendered cities, 
 climb the nearest viewpoint, hunt down the minimum two objectives (whether it's an interrogation, 
 pick-pocketing or eaves-dropping) before running head-first into the assassination, no doubt ending 
 up chasing their target through the cities before hacking and slashing them to death. Sure, this 
 is all well and good, but this is now how the game was obviously designed to be played.
  
  Personally, I'm more of a completest, and endeavour to get as much out of the game as possible, 
 and it's in this area that Assassin's Creed really shines. When you play like this, you take the 
 time to explore every newly opened area of the cities, climbing all of the view-points and gathering 
 all of the information possible about your latest target. This is an interesting challenge in itself, 
 as in the latter half of the game, the view-points are guarded buy a multitude of archers that 
 you need to either stealth around or quickly assassinate before they call for help. There are 9-10 
 pieces of information that can be discovered about each target, and each piece will help you plan 
 your assassination in more detail, whether it's a way to get close to the target, where the guards 
 will be, a map of the area or an escape route; each piece having it's own benefit. This type of 
 gamer, the purist, will not simply run into the assassination, knives bared, but will instead carefully 
 time and execute a perfect assassination, killing the target with a single sweet blow, before scurrying 
 away across the rooftops to a planned hiding point. This is how the game is supposed to be played, 
 and this way, it shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, I realize people went into this game with very high expectations. I was hoping this would be 
 one of those games for the PS3 that would blow your mind. Well, if you are playing it on the right 
 TV, it will be a great experience for a short amount of time.
  
  Yes, the gameplay gets repetative, yes the cutscenes are way too long with no way to stop them, 
 and yes, you don't have nearly as much freedom as you might expect, and ok, yes the storyline kinda 
 blows. However, if you go into this with expectations of say.... GTA meets Oblivion, you are going 
 to be disappointed. You expect something, and it doesn't deliver what you wanted. This = disappointment.
 
  
  I went into this game with an open mind. I wanted to see what kind of crap I could do with scaling 
 walls, what kind of cool death animations I could pull off, and how I could torture the townfolk. 
 I can do it all, and so far it hasn't gotten old. To be perfectly honest, I love just walking away 
 from it while the cutscenes play, and then terrorizing the townfolk. So it gets old, what game 
 doesn't get old after a while right? The graphics look great imo. If you can view it on an HDTV, 
 you won't be heartbroken. 
  
  Now, i've played some horrid games, and I've played some damn good games on the PS3. This is one 
 of those games that is up there with the upper crowd of games. Is it the best? No, not really. 
 Is it the worst? Hell no. Could it have been better? Yes. Could it have been worse? Much much worse. 
 
  
  All I'm saying is, don't expect this to be the next messiah, and I don't think you'll be too disappointed. 
 The controls are easy to manage although jumping can be awkward at some minor pionts. (Like post 
 jumping) Death animations are awsome. (but can get repetative) and you do have quite a bit of freedom 
 in each city. 
  
  Rent it first, and go into this with an open mind. I can see why people like it, and I can see 
 why people hate it. Personally, with so many limited options, I think it's much better than what 
 we've been fed with previous titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocaLypse805
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to this game since I heard about it. About a year ago. I thought it 
 have a mix between gta and oblivions open end roamness and maybe a little prince of persia fighting 
 system in it. BOY!!! was I wrong. This game is repetitive and boring. Its basiclly run, sword fight, 
 climb walls. The missions are no better. You ease drop, assassinate, save towns people, and interrorgate. 
 You do this over and over agian. With the added unskippable long cutscenes, one hit button mashing 
 and you have assassins creed. This game is the biggest disapointment of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Assasins Creed is an amazing experince. You can tell how much work went into the game. It feels 
 'thick' with production values. The best part of Assasins Creed s simply being in it. 
  
  The mission objectives become repetitive quite quickly but this can easily be overlooked as its 
 such a joy to be in this world in the first place. 
  
  The controls are great. Once you get the hang of it you will be running loose like a madman in 
 no time... the one down side to this is once you get the hang of the combat controls... combat 
 becomes WAY too easy. It seems to me that you could simply sail through the whole game without 
 once experianceing demanding gameplay and as I said... this can easily be forgotten as its such 
 a great pleasure to be in this world in th first place.
  
  The story is very unique and fresh in relation other games out there these days. A cyber medieval 
 world??? Now, thats unique. 
  
  Gamespot says that the framerates on the PS3 are better than the xbox 360... if this is the case, 
 then I feel sorry for 360 owner cause the framrate is obviously lacking. This is the case with 
 all games not programmed on the PS3 so its something we gotta get used to until this problem vanishes... 
 I could say the same thing for any multi platform game on the PS3. Because of this, I dont feel 
 its much of an issue at all.
  
  I own TONS of games now on the PS3 and love most of them (especially ninja Gaiden, Heavely sword, 
 Call of Duty 4, Resistance and Oblivion) but this has quickly made it to the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed is the first part of a proposed action adventure trilogy by Ubisoft, the same makers 
 of the latest Prince of Persia series. Although it follows some of the same spirit of the PoP franchise, 
 it is entirely a new entity that carries itself well as the forerunner of a new franchise.
  
  First said, anyone that is into X-files-esque conspiracy theories and ancient legends of secret 
 societies will love this game. Most if the game is played in the setting of eastern Mediterrainian 
 Europe at around 1191. For anyone who was tracking the development of this game loosely only seeing 
 screenshots of medieval cities, it comes an intriguing surprise on starting the game realizing 
 it actually takes place sometime in the near future. You start out as a character named Desmond 
 Miles who is forced by two scientists to interface with a machine called the Animus. This machine 
 causes one to relive ancient genetic memories of our ancestors. These scientists right off tell 
 you that they are trying to get information out of your genetic memory and will cooperate or be 
 killed. The lab you start out in is free to explore but limited, and the Animus is free to enter 
 and exit anytime.
  
  The Animus machine acts as the games main menu. From here you can check game options, and review 
 or enter your memories, which are the stages of actual gameplay. When Desmond enters the Animus, 
 he takes the roll of Altair, one of the top members of the Assasins Brotherhood. The Brotherhood 
 is a secret order that strives for a peacefull society by policing strategic assasinations on individuals 
 causing social unreast or humanitarian crimes.
  
  The are a lot of elements to this game that when put all together make a fun experience. Most noteably 
 are Atair's acrobatic skills and detailed cityscape maps to facilitate those skills. Altair is 
 one of the most graceful and acrobatic characters introduced in gaming to date. Altair can scale 
 up walls and leap from rooftop to rooftop with a natural ease. Controlwise one only has to point 
 and run the direction they want and Altair complies without hesitation to climb or jump over any 
 obsticle. His Polident fingers have no problem clinging to any ledge or beam. Almost any building 
 can be scaled. ledges and handholds are conveniently and plentifully placed on the face of these 
 buildings. Running across rooftops is the quickest way to get around. Cities are compact and its 
 a simple to leap from one roof to the next. If you choose to take the streets there are dozens 
 of people wondering that tend to more get in your way.
  
  Combat is well done also, but may not be the most frantic or complex as games such as Ninja Gaiden 
 or God of War. This does help give the game a more realistic feel. The frequency of combat does 
 detract from the authenticity of an assasin though. For a character thats only supposed to kill 
 his mark, he sure has to battle through dozens of guards to reach it. Minimizing combat can be 
 achieved by acting socially appropriate. Guards have an alertness much like the MGS series, and 
 slipping past casually and quietly keeps you from getting noticed.
  
  The story pans out in stages where you have to travel to one of the ancient cities, find information 
 on your mark, and then execute the assasination. Each stage has six different objectives that give 
 you the necessary information, but you only have to complete some of them. Some are rediculously 
 easy like eavesdropping on a conversation. The more satisfying require taking out marks for an 
 informant under a set time limit without alerting the guards. Once you have your info you are tasked 
 with the assasination. These objectives are very satisfying to carry out and require some thought 
 and freeplay on how you want to execute. You can charge in with swinging sword and kill all the 
 guards first, or you can set yourself up and find a way to get the kill in quietly. On eliminating 
 your mark, a dialogue opens up between you and your mark that pans out the story and conspiracies. 
 These moments can really suck one into the story of the game. After the kill outrun the alerted 
 guards and get back to the brotherhood, then you exit the Animus and are back in the lab.
  
  Although the objectives in each stage are satisfying, it can get repetative as each mark requires 
 the same objectives to aquire info. Luckily scaling and jumping all over the detailed structures 
 of the cities really never gets old. Plus the plot that unfolds will always leave you wanting more. 
 Hidden flags are scattered in the cities for those with an exploratory itch, but on finding them 
 its unclear if there is any reward. Rplayability seems moderate as there is no need to return to 
 a stage other than finding more flags or reliving or completing overplayed objectives.
  
  Some technical glitches pop up on occasion. The worst are lockups that require a complete system 
 restart. Sometimes the sound drops. Occasionally citizens will pop up out of nowhere, and Altair 
 has a few brainfarts when scaling walls. At one time I got stuck inside a building and couldn't 
 get out. There is no "restart at last checkpoint" option so that at a few times I'd just as well 
 let the guards kill me just to restart a botched objective or stuck glitch. Framerate can hiccup 
 or slow frequently. Still, with all that said, considering the complexity of the maps and how well 
 done everything else is the flaws are easily forgotten. This for me does however push my rating 
 down to an 8.5 instead of a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Quick summary:
  
  Story is totally engrossing, like a great movie.
  Feels like a real next-gen action game.
  One-button combat is somewhat unsatisfying, but will 
 make the game accessible to more people.
  Story, worldview, presentation all top-notch.
  At times the map is hard to make out and there are bad camera angles. There are lots of little 
 annoying things like that.
  The acrobatic play mechanics are totally addicting.
  
  The graphics alone are enough to make it the best next-gen game to debut, but thats not the whole 
 reason the game runs so smooth from the demo and vids it's amazing...... Anyone who love's thriller/Story 
 based games like this one are gonna be in for a treat this is gonna be bigger than Halo by far 
 it's only the first game and they already are saying it's gonna be..... The lasting ability of this 
 game after it's beat is awesome because you can play each mission a million different ways.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiemoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game about a man named Desmond (That's right, not Altair) who is caught up 
 in a crazed science experiment, for the pursuit of figuring out the past of Altair, an assassin 
 who lived in the year 1191 A. D. How are they going to discover this through a present- day bartender? 
 Well, the mad scientist has discovered that people's memories are stored in their DNA, and that 
 Altair is an ancestor of our Desmond. Believable? Not a bit. Do you mind, or do you just wanna 
 stab someone? That's what I thought. So, as you go through the memories of Altair, you are occasionally 
 getting pulled out of the memories to see the scientist and his assistant talking about things 
 you have no idea about, and you basically wait to get back into the action. 
  Graphics in this game are no doubt great. They aren't the best you will ever have seen, but they 
 are without a doubt gorgeous. You will find yourself getting into trouble just because you wanted 
 to see how he looked when climbing something in particular ( Save you some time, a little itchy) . 
 Anyways, the character animations are the real thing that you notice, as the character moves nearly 
 flawlessly at all times, no matter what he is doing. As a very free game, you will definitely want 
 to push your game as far as you can, which in my experience will get you stuck in people, walls, 
 benches, and even freeze your PS3. When climbing, you may notice some strange things (i. e. arm 
 going through his body) which are mostly just because of the strange ragdoll style climbing method 
 (hands and legs are free to move separate from the body) .
  Sound in this game is for the most part very nicely done. The voice acting is never overdone, although 
 many o the accents surprised me, not that it took away from the game at all. Weapons hit with great 
 sound and feedback, which is greatly appreciated. Every sound you could need in there is there, 
 and is the right volume to make you feel immersed. The only problems I would have is the annoying 
 beeps you would get being chased, and when in very long chases when you are unexperienced, you 
 might just want to stab your ears until the blood will fill your buds to stop the sound (might) . 
 In game script is the biggest problem, hearing the same thing over and over again, just in different 
 accents, sometimes within the next second. When climbing you will hear the same thing constantly 
 that makes you want to just shank them all (which would make you lose, so : ( to that)
  Gameplay is my most awkward experience in this game. Free running is without a doubt the most fun 
 you'll have in this game, as I was still having fun even when I had already beaten the game. The 
 chase is sometimes fun when you are doing crazy fast lines around the city, dodging and assassinating 
 at every turn. But when you are frustrated by those guards attacking you just for walking closeby, 
 not scholar- like, You most likely will want to attack them and defeat them quickly instead of 
 being chased around for 10 minutes trying to find an extremely obvious place to hide.
  Controls are very tight, not much to say, the fight is very simple, not too difficult to pick up 
 and be great at, with fights afterward not getting much harder. You will have two types of control 
 schemes, high profile and low, toggled by holding and releasing the R1 button. Controls are mapped 
 to the face buttons, Triangle putting you into first person Intuition/ Eagle Vision mode, Square 
 drawing your weapon, Circle using your open hand to grab people, and X to dodge, climb, anything 
 like that.
  The story, the most important part of any game, is confusing. Not to say that it is bad, but, it 
 is confusing. As you play through the game you will continually change sides to root for in Altair's 
 memory, as you play as Desmond you just get less and less confused, and in the end much more. The 
 two stories really never cross indefinitely, but as the first part of three games, there really 
 isn't much to complain for.
  Assassin's Creed is fun. Not really much to add, so if you read any of my rambling, read that sentence. 
 This game should apply to nearly everyone, and is a good rent at least, and a definite buy if you 
 like to find those little collectibles tucked away everywhere (I really don't know how people can 
 collect all of those, there's a lot) . It's an easy 8.5 for being a great game that you can easily 
 run through without even noticing you did anything (Just like White Castle) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbj17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I literally just finished this game and I am in awe. It truly is a game that you should not 
 miss. Almost everything about this game is excellent. I think that the sword fighting is perfect, 
 because you can also attack while you are waiting for them to attack. Some people do not really 
 think about this. The environments are all beautiful and very well done; everything just comes 
 together so well in this aspect. The story is actually very good but it really picks up in the 
 last couple hours of the game. In this regard the ending leaves you with so many questions that 
 you want answered immediately. I don't consider it a disappointing ending though simply because 
 all of your questions will be answered in the next game. I cannot wait to see more great things 
 come from Ubisoft and this series; just to see where they take it. 
  There are a few problems though with the performance of the world. There are a few small minor 
 glitches in the game but none of them are problematic. One thing that is though is when the game 
 freezes. I had it happen to me about 4 or 5 times throughout the entire game but these may be fixed 
 with a patch. The last thing is that the game's framerate drop big time towards the end for one 
 small part but I think it may have been done on purpose. So if you haven't picked this game up 
 yet then your missing out on very fun game that brings alot of new things to the table.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake_93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most visually impressive title on the next gen platforms to date, and it 
 has the gameplay to back it up the visual as well.
  Be warned though, this game isn't for everyone, its not something like halo that everyone can get 
 into.
  This game is for people with patience, and some good eye to hand coordination, you'll need it for 
 the combat system.
  
  
  Now the combat system does a lot of things well, such as the awesome cinematic counters and combos (not 
 button combos, it isn't a button masher) that feel rewarding. Most of my gripe with the combat system 
 is that you'll be waiting most of the time for them to attack you at the begining of the game. 
 After a while though*MINOR GAMEPLAY SPOILER* you get the ability to do break your enemies defenses 
 leaving them open for a attack.
  The combo system, while simple, is very coordinated to your timing, you have to press the attack 
 button again as soon as you make contact with the enemy. 
  
  The story line is awesome as well, and while it may be confusing sometimes, it all comes together 
 and makes sense. 
  
  The free running elements and the chase system makes for some very cool moments while your escaping, 
 especially if you find a place to do the leap of faith.
  
  While some investigation missions can get very repetitive, the assassination is where the game 
 shines and just trying to infiltrate a enemies fortress makes for some really epic assassinations, 
 and fun gameplay.
  
  
  Most of AC faults don't get in the way of this awesome game, but this game definitely feels like 
 a set up for a sequel and heres to hoping its a better game than the original! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a solid game all around. It is fun to climb, jump around, or fight. The story 
 and its delivery are well done. The music fits the game well. The controls are easy to learn, and 
 master. Unfortunately the game has more flaws then GameSpot acknowledged. The game periodically 
 freezes the PS3 without reason, that can tell anyway. The tasks you are asked to complete can get 
 repetitive quickly. The beggars while initially are no problem; become quite annoying after a while. 
 The repetitive dialog of some of the npcs can make you want to forget the Assassin's Creed. Even 
 with its flaws however Assassin's Creed is a game worth buying if you like games like Prince of 
 Persia The Sands of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is probably one of the most innovative games ever to brought out into the video 
 games industry. Its gameplay and presentation will make you remember this game for many years to 
 come. 
  GRAPHICS: Very sharp, but does have very minor graphical glitches. But overall, it shows the power 
 of a next generation system.
  GAMEPLAY: Its new innovative gameplay is interesting and brings new meaning to video games. Fight 
 sequences are fun and climbing tall structures should be tried for all games out there.
  SOUND: Music matches the game's feel and voice acting is superb.
  
  Overall, this game is all 
 that its hyped up to be and its a must get for next gen system owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpepper420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Maybe this game was just over-hyped, or maybe I was just expecting too much. Either way, I have 
 to say that overall, I'm a little let down after playing this game for awhile. The game looks great 
 with some of the nicest graphics I've seen yet on my PS3. First of all, the beginning took me by 
 surprise and made me wonder if maybe the wrong game had been put in the case. I won't give it away, 
 but it doesn't start at all like the game play. Some of the gripes I have would be with having 
 to travel back to the same place gets a little old, and some of the actions become too repetitive. 
 For instance, climbing the towers was really cool at first, but it began to get boring with me 
 after awhile. The mini missions also become tedious, because you do the same thing over and over.. pickpocket 
 this...... rescue a citizen..... eavesdrop... etc. etc. In the end, most of the scoring from my viewpoint 
 comes from the beautiful graphics, but overall, I'm a little let down by the end product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFI4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Before reading this: this review contains a *SPOILER* in the first few minutes of the game.
  
  
  
  After 4 years in the making, with delays, and dressed up producers making videos. Assassin's 
 Creed is finally here.
  
  Starting the game you are Desmond, a guy which seems to be in the future. You go into the past 
 (1192) and become your ancestor, Altair replaying memories for some weird science guys After this 
 part, the game is linear and you follow the instructions until you get on your own. From there 
 the world opens up, well sort of. Since you are in a memory the cities are locked off by giant 
 blue force fields (kind of like GTA) Until you progress further they become unlocked.
  
  After this you are sent to kill 9 Important political figures in three cities in 1192. During this 
 time you can do "side quests" which are the same 2 type of people scattered throughout the cities, 
 what you do is kill the guards harassing them. That's it. Those are your side quest. If you want 
 to call the other two things "side quests" than you can, but they are 1. gather flags throughout 
 the city and 2. climbing to the top of places synchronizing with your ancestor to reveal part of 
 the map.
  
  The game is pretty, good graphics, but the dropping frame rate during combat, and later stages 
 of the game, along with randomly playstation 3 freezes, the good graphics kind of get unnoticed. 
 Also beware that freezing can corrupt all of your save files.
  
  My biggest complaint about this game isn't that it freezes, isn't that the frame rate drops, its 
 the fact that the only side quest you can do is rescue the same two type of people to get thugs 
 who help you or scholars to help you blind that wander the city.
  
  Although there are some good points to the game, the controls are pretty solid, it doesn't feel 
 like you are going to slip off ledges and climbing on top of buildings is quite fun. The combat 
 system is a little hard until you get the hang of it, but when you do all the AI seems very easy, 
 you can take on 12+ guards at once with out much trouble.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are visually stunning and will impress your friends, although some frame 
 rate drop during running and some combat, and the later parts of the game where more of the map 
 is revealed.
  
  Game play - Solid but lacking game play. Controls are easy to use, you catch on quick and combat 
 becomes fun, although the story and side quest lack big time to make the game play any fun besides 
 free roaming.
  
  Sound - Sound is good you can't complain except the fact the volume jumps up and down during combat 
 which can surprise you.
  
  Replay Value - I doubt I play this game again, I doubt I find the flags, but if that is cool with 
 some people then so be it, the game is very repetitive. 
  
  Overall - If you can put up with repetitiveness then the game isn't bad, I thought I could but 
 I just cant have fun with this. You pretty much experience everything at 1/3 of the game and it 
 continues.
  
  Pros: Amazing graphics, Combat system is fun and solid
  
  Cons: Freezing, Glitching, Very repetitive game play, Bad AI, No replay Value, Bad frame rate, 
 Very little side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  WHERE TO START!!! This game was just by far one of the best action, sword wielding, graphical, 
 revolutionary games i have EVER played! The story consists of you (the assassin) trying to slaughter 
 9 influential leaders of the crusades... thats about as much as i kno considering its my friends 
 and we spent nearly 2 hours free running all around the buildings and killing random people! All 
 of the controls are nice and smooth, and also bring a little challenge with the sword fighting. 
 Killing enemys is very fun! you can pounce a top people, do the classic Splinter Cell assassination, 
 and many more. Killing guards on building is coll becasue you can throw there bodies off the roof. 
 The AI in this game is by far the best i have ever seen out of a next gen console! As said in the 
 video review you will remeber this game from YEARS TO COME!!! If you haven't played this game find 
 someone who has it and go at it! Its just fantasic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rodimus80
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  That this game is better than Oblivion? HELL YA. The graphics of this game are beautiful, the sound 
 is unlike any game there is. The movements, actions and even the way Altair walks past people is 
 better than anything I have seen before and the freedom to go anyway you want is pure brilliant 
 and the buttons are easy to get use to. This game was well worth the wait. This game is the first 
 true 3rd generation game. Ubisoft have out done themselves with this title and i hope they carry 
 on the story line. Now if you don't mind, I'm going back to Assassin's Creed =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vectorman23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best third person adventure/ Sand box yet. The sound is wonderful. The story is 
 the best iv seen on the ps3 and nice convincing voices. gameplay is again good but there are some 
 glitches on the ps3 like 
  freeze up. But don't let it get in the way of a awesome game. The controls are good for beginners 
 to third person games. I think they went overboard with sci fi. The fighting system is easy and 
 awesome. Im not sure about the graphic because i play on a standred tv but it looks fine. overall 
 this is game is truly the best third party game for ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  worth 70$ for limited edition. Great grafix only few glitches, great game play, its just awesome 
 . fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: publicenemy_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is probably, if not for sure, the best game for PS3 released until today!
  The most important cities of the Holy Land in the 12 th century totally recreated in a massive 
 world to explore. And the citizens and soldiers, well... let's say you sometimes wonder if you're 
 not playing an MMO, judging by the incredible AI they possess!
  You can do anything an assassin is supposed to do: killing, pickpocketing, obtaining information, 
 not always in a pacific way, run away form the guards until you find a hiding spot, and a lot more...
 
  You can kill people in different ways, if you want some action just hop into a fight in which 
 you can create an endless body count or you can just stick in the shadows waiting for your opportunity 
 to silently murder your target.
  
  Assassin's Creed is also a huge game, I've played mos than 10 hours and I'm not by far at the middle 
 of the game.
  The story is a very original one, and very surprisingly as it seems.
  Altar, the main character, is a mixture of Prince of Persia with Sam Fisher form Splinter Cell. 
 He's agile and a natural killer with a lot of equipment at his disposal.
  
  There some minor glitches like a bit of clipping and sometimes the game freezes, but hey! nothing 
 is perfect and you won't remember that when you start playing.
  
  Just to resume: Buy the freakin' game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottozero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Ok if you dont own many PS3 games... (assuming you own a PS3) then this should be a no brainer. 
 Good story, Very good graphics and Tight controls. I cant speak for Sound Cause I only use TV speaker 
 so no 5.1..... But Sounded good to me. 
  
  This is a Open ended sand box game, with many place to explore. You can climb just about any where 
 you little heart desires. Now thats freedom. You ride horses, use knives, throwing daggers and 
 swords. No major equipment enhancements here though.
  
  Still haven't beaten the game yet, and I honestly dont know if I will. Too many other games to 
 play... even thinking of buying (should rent) Mass effect this week. But like I said if you only 
 own a PS3 ( I have 6 system) this is a great buy, you get your money's worth.
  
  This game feels like Prince of Persia with the Openess of Oblivion. One thing that would of been 
 cool is to HAVE ALLOWED THE PLAYER TO OPEN DOORS, to make it like ahem.. SHENMUE.. yeah probley to 
 much work doing that. I dont feel that this game is easy nor is it Extremly hard, but it does take 
 about an hour to get the jinks out of it. Most hard core gamers will be disappointed and will feel 
 like it might be too short of a game (but thats expected.. we are hard-core!) even though there 
 are a bunch of things too find (FLAGS) .
  
  Bottom line I feel this is the 3 best Game for the PS3 this Year (2007) , so far. Only Oblivion 
 and Warhawk beat it IMO (I haven't had a chance to play COD4 so cant judge it yet) .
  
  One more thing.. the xbox 360 version has achievements and stuff 
  but I didn't buy it for that 
 system cause I am on my second 360 and I am not willing to spend money on games for a system that 
 might RROD on me again. Having said that my last 360 game was Halo3... So having this inconsideration 
 the 360 version has Achievement and a possibility of RRODing on you :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAltair89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Well I'm sure you can go almost anywhere at the moment and find debates over how good Assassins 
 Creed really is, and if not then this game is fantastic and a definite must buy. Let's get down 
 and review some of the positives first before looking at the criticisms.
  
  The main and first thing you will find about Assassins Creed is that the environment looks fantastic; 
 the presentation of the game is stunning and remarkably accurate. The graphics too are stunning 
 which make up for the small number of clipping issues and the very few pop-ins. The sound is great 
 as well and each city and environment has a 'realistic' sound that matches with it.
  
  Now for the gameplay, there is a mixed opinion about this really. First off, yes the whole assassination 
 thing can become fairly repetitive but at the end of the day you've got the freedom to do almost 
 anything you want, kill whoever you want and go wherever you want to go so why are people so ticked 
 off about it? Both Jade Raymond and Patrice Desilets have given you what they promised, neither 
 of them said there would be hundreds off weapons to choose from and they said the 9 assassinations 
 will be a 'little' different in their own way even if it isn't hugely noticeable at the start, 
 again neither of them promised that there would be a hundred millions ways trying to kill targets. 
 Furthermore, Ubisoft and the producers should be respected really, they tried something different, 
 there are far too many companies at the moment that are hiding behind the whole war and shooting 
 genre of games because they all know fine well that its pretty hard to go wrong, therefore, its 
 nice to see that certain people are trying something different.
  
  One main thing that people have noticed is the American Altair voice acting, but, (possible spoiler 
 start) it becomes very clear when Desmond who is in a time close to ours looks back into his past 
 and TAKES the role of Altair, its common sense really then why Altair has an American voice. If 
 Desmond takes role as Altair then his voice isn't going to change right? (Spoiler ends) .
  
  Stupid Al, I think that some of the bigger review sites (aka, IGN) have been far too critical, 
 yes, if you go into the 'blend' mode and people don't see you then its slightly weird but when 
 you are being chased and eventually the guards give up then that is realistic really, from then 
 on they become more aware of you so as soon as you do something wrong they are after you again. 
 I've mentioned the repetition though that is balanced by the massive cities, atmosphere and freedom. 
 So yeah people who struck this game down straight away because it wasn't what they expected that 
 I don't really know what you actually were expecting to be honest. They showed and promised us 
 what they were going to do and in the end they delivered. It may not be the sort of game that you 
 would play over and over again but I would happily finish it then wait 2/3 weeks then start to 
 play it again because it that good and even if you didn't want to start it again you would probably 
 find everything else you can do pleasurably satisfying.
  
  Presentation: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Replay value: 8.5/10 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yitih
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games you HAVE to play. It features an pretty average story, but it is 
 performed by an amazing cast of actors in a beautiful and realistic city backed up by the greatest 
 game play to date. 
  
  Alot of game producers claim much more than they actually can keep, but Ubi soft Montreal really 
 pulled it of this time. Not only does the game look great, but the fact that you can climb on pretty 
 much anything you can see is amazing. The game features a new type of stealth than the one we have 
 come to know and love from games like: Metal Gear Solid, Splinter Cell and alike. The system is 
 called social stealth and it is based around you trying to not attract attention to yourself instead 
 of hiding in shadows and staying out of sight. For example if you start climbing on a building 
 or jump around people are bound to notice you right? 
  
  The AI is also pretty good. It seems like the guards communicate well with each other and is very 
 well oriented about their surroundings. That said its not without its flaws. Several time they 
 hit each other as a cause of a pretty obvious dodge from me. Running into a top compartment of 
 a house and have the guards come up and go "Where'd he go?!" made me laugh really hard more than 
 once.
  
  Now to the the awaited game play. It does absolutely live up to the hype. It feels great and is 
 not to far fetched to climb on buildings. The viewpoint system is also pretty good and is a great 
 exchange for the standard exploration system. Basiccally it does so that you r character does not 
 automatically save the path he takes or memorize everything he passes, but he has to reach certain 
 tall buildings/towers to be able to draw a map and pin point where he should investigate to find 
 out more about his victim or where people are in need of help. Mark that last part because actually 
 several times during the game good deeds will come back to you and help you get away from guards 
 in one piece. 
  
  I'm not going to have along story synopsis, but its not very good. Its enough to keep you interested 
 but not "WOW THATS SO COOL!!!!!!".
  The ending is not by any means as confusing as Gamespot wants it to, it just tries to keep you 
 interested for a sequel. Unfortunately IT fails to do this, but the rest of the game is so great 
 and highly addictive you're just gonna want more.
  
  Ultimately: This game is to great to be missed. And to PC owners: You'll just have to wait, but 
 this game is just so fantastically great that its going to be worth the wait for you too :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  what i game i wont give this game 10 because no game is perfect but this one is close, it has some 
 gliches but it doesnt bother me which game doesnt. This game is huge and have a great story what 
 else do you want form next gen game, and its like a move, i wish comes out just like this it would 
 be awesome, i really love the environment and its not like one of those games where you can beat 
 it in two days or so this one is over 40 hours of adventure if you go around and do side missions 
 its really awesome, stunning vision and everything if you dont have it go get you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBel
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  The game itself is wonderful, without a doubt with several great aspects that make the game what 
 it is, such as the beautiful scenary coupled with the historic accuracy of the Holy Land and the 
 time.
  
  The new and somewhat revolutionary control system also gives the game something different from 
 its predecessors such as Prince of Persia. The controls can be difficult to get a hang of but in 
 the long run they prove to be an effective and enjoyable control system.
  
  but... and this is a big but.
  
  I think that Ubisoft Montreal have forgotten some of the basics 
 in this game and the biggest problem this game has is the pretty much abismal AI system that reminds 
 me of the old Metal Gear Solid AI. This game could've been amazing and i would've given it a 10 
 myself but when a basic point such as the AI seems overlooked in a stealth game where the AI plays 
 a huge part it makes me wonder why Ubisoft didnt pull back the release date and spent more time 
 making a much more intelligent UI system rather than the Templars attacking you one at a time in 
 a group battle or if u kill a templar all you hear from the one stood 10 ft away is "whos done 
 this". If ubisoft montreal would have spent more time on creating a more intelligent AI system, 
 it definatley would have been an amazing game but i feel that it is quite a big let down when AI 
 isnt intelligent in a game that revolves around it.
  
  NO doubt this game is good and it has a great playability and i would defiantley reccomend people 
 to buy it, but i think it had much more potential than what we see in the final product, hopefully 
 the same mistake wont be made in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahoh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I can think of few games that can ever be classified as true 10 out of 10's, this is one of them. 
 For me this really the first game where I've turly seen the PS3 difference, other games you could 
 say obvious differences between the PS2 and PS3, but the graphics on this are awsome, the views 
 of the cities there are just awsome. And the moment you get to do a counter attack, all you want 
 to do is fight 5 guys in a row, this game is very addictive and is truly worth every penny, you 
 wont regret this buy at all. This is a for sure classic and I have to put in my top 3 favourtie 
 games. Now I for me I dont know if anything will beat Metal Gear Solid for the PS1 except maybe 
 MGS4, but this game gives that game a run for its money on my list and Imagine it gives a lot of 
 people a new favourtie game to play. And the best part its something different, theres not too 
 many midevil or crusades games like this out there so its nice to see something like this out there. 
 So do your self a favour if you dont have the game and go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucardmishima
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I noticed that the 'twist' that was said to be super great was 
 pulled out right at the beginning of the story. To be honest, it really takes away from the thrill 
 of the rest of the plot. I noticed that this game got many very high reviews, but I find myself 
 unable to be as positive. The only new things about this game were the climbing system and graphics, 
 which were awesome but not enough to distract from the major flaws. The fight system is flawed 
 and repetitive, and the enemy AI can be stupid, it reminded me of the old Tenchu games - kill an 
 enemy, another enemy nearby sees you, you duck around a corner and the enemy forgets you ever existed. 
 Forgivable for last gen, but they really should have improved on the enemy AI, since all of the 
 other AI (citizens) were extremely intelligent. The majority (about 90%) of the game is buildup 
 to the 9 major kills you make. That buildup consists of pretty much nothing but errand missions, 
 and only a few different types. Eavesdrop on people talking, pickpocket, or interrogate, and then 
 repeat until you're ready for the major kill. Repeat 9 times and there you have it. The development 
 team spent way too much time on the buildings and the climbing system, and seemed to forget that 
 a good game needs an interesting story and good AI. It's really too bad the game had such uninteresting 
 aspects, because with 3 perfectly made cities and next-gen graphics, it had the potential to be 
 so much greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaRail
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Assasin's Creed is probably one of the best games of the year. With an amazing story AND back story 
 it makes you want to finish the game to find out about what is really going on in both stories. 
 It is more than a hack and slash, like Heavenly Sword, you try to dodge, counter, sneak attack, 
 straight-on combat and much more. You can jump from every building in the game and there is many 
 epic views. Also, if you like GTA, you can just run around and kill people, just make sure you 
 don't die. Unluckly, I can't say it is a 10 because of a lot of repetitive tasks you have to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_sound
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game, and it was an amazing experience. Gamespot is right with this, its a 
 story you wont soon be forgetting and should be in everyones collection. I know people have been 
 saying that the game has frame rate issues, and i admit that this agme has froze on me 2 or 3 times, 
 but that doesnt make it a bad game. I would much rather had got this game now and had it freeze 
 on me a couple of times than to wait a year and never have it freeze. It is frustrating when a 
 game freezes on you in the middle of a fight or something, but you get over it. I am a little mad 
 that after you finish this game, you cant go back and beat objectives you skipped, you have to 
 start that whole memory over. If you don't have this game and you have no idea what I mean when 
 i say "memory", you are a retired assassin in modern day, and a scientist has captured you and 
 somehow our brain is connected to our ancestors memories and this scientist puts you in this machine 
 that lets you play as an assassin living in 1191 AD. Anyways, I believe this game would be a lot 
 better if they had made it where you could just go around and complete missions that you skipped. 
 I also agree with gamespot when they say the ending is very confusing, although confusing does 
 not mean bad. It just left me with a different feeling than i expected, more of an unrealalistic 
 type. Also, if you had watched or read the IGN review on this game, you would had saw that it said 
 that climbing the walls and buildings was very fun, well, that is very true. You could buy this 
 game and just run around the city's climbing things and get your money's worth. And IGN's review 
 also said that this game is about10-12 hours long, well that is true, if you skip half the missions! 
 I just finished this game today and I spent about 20 hours. And I skipped a couple of investigations. 
 Also you may choose to run around and collect a number of flags in all three city's. Anyway you 
 choose to play this game, I believe everyone should buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewski613
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game takes combat, free running , and ancient landscapes and combines them into a great gaming 
 experience. When I first saw the trailer and it showed Altair bounding across roof tops, I never 
 believed that it could actually be like that in game play. But guess what... it is. The motions 
 are fluid and incredibly entertaining. If they made a free running game then this would be it. 
 The combat is also very cool, and you actually can jump into the air and assassinate a guy just 
 like in the trailer. This is the best game for the PS3 so far in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is definitely a package that's hard to classify. I was more than motivated enough to 
 play all the way through it, but this game was not without its issues. Anyhoo, here's how it breaks 
 down:
  
  Graphics: Absolutely freaking stunning, most of the time. The building textures, the character 
 detail, all breathtaking. Each city has its own style and personality (although one could argue 
 that Jerusalem and Damascus are very similar) and chances are you'll have a favorite in no time. 
 However, as far graphics are concerned, it's odd that they paid so much attention to so many little 
 details, and yet when you sit on a view point ledge, the trails of Altair's cloak go THROUGH the 
 ledge. Also, when you do a leaping assassination, if the camera's at the right angle you can tell 
 that Altair's arm just goes THROUGH the guy's neck, as opposed to the blade realistically puncturing 
 the guy's neck.
  
  Gameplay: It's completely satisfying to scale walls, jump from one rooftop to the next, and the 
 like. The fighting mechanic is solid enough to provide some great action, yet ambiguous enough 
 to allow varying styles of combat. Personally, I simply held L1 down (which is a constant block 
 unless an enemy breaks through it) and waited for an enemy to try and hit me, then I hit square 
 and countered their attack with either a killing blow or a hit that knocked them off their feet 
 (you don't decide which, by the way) . All in all it's all very simple, yet it takes a bit to really 
 master it. However, both the combat system and the platforming controls don't hold up in high pressure 
 situations. Its like all of the sudden Altair just won't do what you want him to and you can't 
 seem to counter worth a crap. Fortunately, truly high intensity/close quarters situations are fairly 
 rare, and it's not bad enough to keep you from completeing the objective, it just makes you a bit 
 frustrated for a few minutes.
  
  Story: Ah yes, the crowning achievement. The plot must be experienced, and not merely explained, 
 to be appreciated so I won't spoil anything here. It's highly intruiging, not without surprises, 
 and even though there's one pretty big aspect that I could see from a mile away there's so much 
 other stuff to worry about that it didn't really bother me. BE PREPARED FOR A CLIFFHANGER ENDING, 
 just don't get pissed off at it. If you're pissed at the cliffhanger ending, it means you want 
 to know what happens, which means you loved the story, hich means they did their job.
  
  Characters: Good and evil are really blurred here, and I can't elaborate too much or I'd give plot 
 points away. On the good side all of the principle characters are very interesting mysteries, on 
 the bad side you'll be watching them simply stand stock still and talk most of the time, with maybe 
 a few gestures here and there. True cutscenes are few, and even then you have to press a button 
 when the screen "glitches" in order to get that view. It's hard to get a sense of Altair when you 
 only get to see the back of head as he talks/is talked to.
  
  Voice Acting: Aces across the board (yes, even Kristin Bell) , except for whoever voiced Altair. 
 He's not cringeworthy, he's just... underwhelming. Hopefully they get him some voice acting lessons 
 before the sequel.
  
  Sound: Walking into Acre for the first time is kind of horrifying (in a creepy, good way) , in that 
 there's no music and all you can hear is the bustle of hungry, poor crowd with the sound of a baby 
 or two crying. The crowd bustles with startling realism, except when (over the course of the game) 
 you hear a hundred different beggar women (all voiced by the same woman) beg you for money using 
 the same four lines of dialogue. They really could've upped the variety of one liners and hired 
 more voice actors to give an even greater feeling of being in a huge city. As for the music: Movie 
 quality soundtrack. Enough said.
  
  
  It took me about five hours of gameplay to realize that this game is not finished and, because 
 of that, it really held this title back from being a tough competitor for Mass Effect and BioShock 
 for Game of the Year. FIRST: Count on the game freezing on you. More than once. When I say 'freeze' 
 I mean a serious freeze, not temporary. You'll have to restart the console. While the number of 
 freezes you'll encounter is purely random (in my experience it would freeze up on me a couple of 
 times once I first started, but then it wouldn't give me any problems once it was up an running) . 
 This is COMPLETELY unprofessional, and inexcusable. This glitch will inevitably piss of most players 
 to the point of taking the game back, and its a shame since there's so much amazingness to be had. 
 SECOND: There are other little glitches in the game, such as an NPC continually walking into a 
 wall ot Altair not climbing all the way down a ladder, but mechanically sliding back up to try 
 again. Again, this is inexcusable and I can't believe they released the game with glitches unresolved.
 
  Other little things are clear indication that this game needed another six months to a year of 
 development before being truly completed. Hopefully Ubisoft gets a lot of flack for this and they 
 treat the sequel accordingly.
  
  With this game, THE WHOLE IS GREATER THAN THE SUM OF ITS PARTS. When I look at the different aspects 
 of this game, there's a lot that shines and a lot that aggravates... yet when I look back on my 
 experience playing through it, the memory makes me happy because I thoroiughly enjoyed myself, 
 despite its shortcomings. RENT this game. If it's your cup of tea, then it'll definitely be worth 
 adding to your collection (if that's how you do things) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignius
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  It just seems like you do the same thing over and over again on every level. I haevn't finished 
 the game yet, but it just seems once you played through the first level, you've played through 
 the entire game. Although the game makes it seem less linear, in reality, there isn't very much 
 you can do outside of the story line besides running around collecting assorted flags.
  
  After a few hours, you become disillusioned with the gameplay style and realize it's just the same 
 over and over again with a mix of story line and different characters to assassinate. Even with 
 the unique style of control and movement through the environment, it seems rather limited in what 
 you can do after awhile.
  
  The game is still fun, but still leaves you thinking "that's it?" My expectations were probably 
 too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stove11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Like many others I was keen to get Assassins Creed on release date after watching every trailer 
 for it.
  
  I completed the game in one day which in my opinion isn't a very bad thing though its not great 
 either.
  
  Storyline: I'm not a big fan of the storyline on the game, Where I was expecting to be playing 
 a master assassin in the crusade era ( like the trailers suggested ) I kept reverting back to the 
 "Modern world" to listen to the second half of the storyline, I won't spoil the actual storyline 
 here but there were a lot of times I wanted to just play and kept having to "waste time" in the 
 modern world.
  
  Graphics and Glitches: The Ubisoft team promised us a great environment where the player could 
 travel around all the buildings and climb over anything you can see, while this was the case most 
 of the time there was the occasional "invisible wall". Also if you are heading some where that 
 they don't want you in you will be blocked by some digital text-thingy which blocks you going any 
 further, this ruined the realism for me and got me killed more than a few times while trying to 
 run from guards.
  The graphics were nice apart from a few things which could have easily been fixed like the way 
 the sword passes through your head when you run or the way that your masters pet bird's feet protrude 
 through his palm when he is holding it, this is forgivable though ... so all I've done is said 
 this game sucks... but for some reason it just doesn't suck. I think it's a very fun game despite 
 the let downs on graphics, storyline and game play.
  
  
  So whats good?
  
  The fighting in the game is fun, I like having to dodge, parry and generally not be able to take 
 a thousand hits. 
  
  Escaping from guards is good fun watching them try to copy your routes and eventually just start 
 throwing rocks at you.
  
  Rescuing citizens from bastard guards is good fun and watching your vigilante friends hold guards 
 down while you slice their throats out is a nice addition to the game, and most of all I loved 
 the way that all of the bosses in the game are human-like you can take these guys down with one 
 hit to the throat, or most likely you can run away from them because they have alot of bodyguards 
 ^^ either way is fine..
  
  Without wanting to ruin anymore for you all I'll close here with a personal rating of what I think 
 would be 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinz_17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, especially for PS3 owners. The HYPE is xtreme so those guys that rated this 
 game below 80% had just expected this game to be perfect that any flaw means a disaster for them...
 
  ... THIS GAME IS VERY GOOD!!! The Graphics is AWESOME and the gameplay is so COOL. It's worth buying 
 this game. If you have 360 or PS3, get this game guys.
  
  I'll rate this game to be the the No.1 game for PS3 this year followed by NBA 2K8 and Call Of Duty 
 4. 
  
  I'm still waiting for Metal Gear but having this game this holiday season makes my PS3 WORTH IT. 
 This game ROCKS DUDE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arillo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The game seems to be made in a fog, poorly saturated colors like the movie 300. I don't like this 
 effect and was very disappointed. The previews talked of a gorgeous world filled with detail, I 
 got a faded world that lacked color and realism. If I had know about the poor visual effects, I 
 never would have bought the game. Maybe this is the reason they never made a demo.
  
  The tutorial is lacking and only address the first few commands needed to start play. Hints appear 
 as the situation warrants to introduce new commands.
  
  The game plays good with the PS3 controller, have not reached any real battles yet, so I might 
 change my mind.
  
  AGR
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbarone
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Rent this game first. You will more or less get the entire experience within the first 3 hours 
 of playing the game. I really can't believe Gamespot gave this a 9. I will be the first to say 
 that the visuals are some of the most impressive I've seen in a game and the maps are huge. The 
 only thing that keeps me playing is the experience in exploration and seeing the sights. But the 
 repetition and lack of imagination is truly astounding. They spent all that time creating an amazing 
 backdrop only for there to be a complete lack of interaction and immersion. The thousands of npc's 
 that wander the streets in each of the cities might was as well not even exist. They serve absolutely 
 no purpose in gameplay. Here is what the game consists of (no exaggeration) :
  - Climbing towers to reveal sections of map (no challenge involved) - fighting guards to save citizens 
 - eavesdropping (no challege involved) - interrogation (following an npc to a remote area and hitting 
 the square button until he talks) - pickpocketing (holding the circle button while walking behind 
 an npc) - and the assassination itself, which barely differs from a normal fight. There is ultimately 
 no variety between these activities. Repeat this 9 times. I can't believe people are giving this 
 the scores they are. Very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADP0311
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a decent game. Incredible graphics, pretty good controls. However, the gameplay 
 is extremely derivative of games like Grand Theft Auto and it is extremely redundant to say the 
 least. Run around, climb buildings, save citizens, pick pockets, etc., over and over and over again. 
 Yes, you do it all in some pretty places, but after awhile even the rather cool fighting moves 
 Altair does get repetitive. I am about 3/4 through the game, and I am going to finish it for the 
 sake of completion, but I absolutely know that when I'm done it will be a trade-in. Oh yeah, did 
 I mention that I can't wait to be done.
  
  P. S. the game's story is totally asinine.
  
  P. P. S. the game is full of glitches and WILL freeze up on you fairly often. I mean freeze up to 
 the point where you need to restart your system. I just encountered the problem twice in less than 
 ten minutes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerman316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Right, there is alot of things too judge assassins creed on so im goin too make this as easy as 
 possible 
  
   creed. This game is definatley one of the best games youll 
 buy for either console but even though jumping of high towers and stabbing someone through the 
 neck is extremely cool and all you just cant help feeling that there is somthing lacking in the 
 game. I'm not sure if its the fact that the main story seems soo slapped in or that when you are 
 messing around it sorta' feels like your playin a darker version of spiderman 2 but after a while 
 you start doin the same kills that youv'e already seen b4 scalin the same towers.
  The fight system in the game is exactly what they said exept the fact that the whole thing is just 
 too easy scaling buildings is too easy you just hold on too X (PS3) or A (360) and run. the fight 
 system is the same you hold onto the right shoulder button and press the counter button with right 
 timing.
  The story mode seems as if its too up to you too no exactly what too do like where too go what 
 exact person too watch and when you figure it out its then too easy but it dosent give you enough 
 info on where too go or how too find out where too go
  All in all this game is excellent and i can tell you one thing GET IT. this is a game worth putting 
 in your collection.
  I'll finish up here cus there aint much too say else so goddbye and hope you enjoy assassins creed 
 more than me : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seamus_O_Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  But here it is. Oh my, what a game. I honestly don't get the bad reviews for this game. Everything 
 about AC is stunning. And those who knock the lead character's American accent are not paying attention 
 to the narrative. While it may seem somewhat out of place, it makes sense in the context of the 
 story. The visuals are unbelievable and the game play is painfully satisfying. Nothing beats thrusting 
 your hidden blade into the neck of an unsuspecting guard. And yes, after doing it dozens of times, 
 it is still incredibly fun. I love the investigative elements. I haven't seen any mention of the 
 fact that AC is probably the best horse-riding simulator ever produced. The combat is surprisingly 
 deep, despite it's supposed limitations. Of all the great titles to be released this year (COD4, 
 Bioshock, Halo 3) , Assassin's Creed is a pure, unadulterated gaming masterpiece. As far as perfect 
 scores go, AC has set a new standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  If you like shooters go ahead, but dont blame developers when you suddenly discover that theres 
 no creativity at all, thats correct, ofcourse im talking about those reviewers who gave to AC so 
 low scores. So, Assassins creed is full of surprises, its a fantastic game, with great gameplay, 
 average audio, outstanding visuals, and quit well done animations. Assassins creed is definitely 
 a must buy, fantastic combat system, i like that you can choose between weapons or techniques how 
 to kill your target. And ofcourse the story, its the best yet, theres something which Ubisoft didnt 
 tell you, but im not saying it either, you hav to find it out your self, maybe only a hint: the 
 story dosent only take place in old age (crusade) . And by the way, only a cold hearted human being 
 can give it below 9. Because of the AI, which sometimes is acting weird, i will give 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck603
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  In the game Assassin's Creed you are playing through the ancestor of Desmond. While it is a little 
 confusing it does add good separation from all of the action of the main story. While controlling 
 Desmond you cant do much but you do uncover an interesting back story.
  
  Story: Like said before your Altair an 11th century assassin sent out to kill 9 important people 
 throughout the 3 regions of the Holy Land Jerusalem, Acre, and Damascus. While most of the time 
 you will be hacking and slashing with Altair there are parts where you do control Desmond and make 
 him try to figure out why they are using him
  
  Game play: This game is a very stealth oriented game. You spend most of your time trying to stay 
 away from guard alerts while investigating your next assassination. An interesting part is the 
 scaling aspect that we've seen from games like the Prince of Persia series. While you don't really 
 have to make Altair scale as much it does add a fun aspect to the game. Another good thing is the 
 amount of land that you can explore now people complain about this but its a refreshing break from 
 the violence.
  
  Graphics: This game looks amazing it is one of the best looking games ive ever seen. Altair looks 
 good both from afar and up close and the textures just feel like you are there.
  
  Sound: I like most gamers have the complaint about Altair having an American accent but it is easily 
 overlooked by the fact that the music is amazing it gets louder as your into danger and its sound 
 when just roaming the city it completes the feel of the game.
  
  Overall: I would say that Assassin's Creed although i was skeptical at first as proved to be a 
 very entertaining game I give it a 9.5 only because of the few flaws that i have mentioned. The 
 story is short but the amount of other things such as view points, save citizens, flags, and Templars 
 will have you playing for hours past the story I sincerely hope that there will be a sequel to 
 this truly stunning game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tariq393
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  first i like to say that this game is amazing even i stiil didn't buy it but i played it on my 
 friend console and it was perfect second i'd like someone to tell me if i should play this game 
 in HD TV because i don't have one and i only have money for the PS3 which am gonna buy in couple 
 of days.. meaning do u recommend that i save some money for the HD TV then buy the PS3 or play 
 on my TV because i want to play this game in most perfect way and enjoy it in every aspects plus 
 am buying the PS3 because of assassins creed so plz someone advice me thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up a couple days ago. I haven't put more than a couple hours into it but it's 
 enough to see several glaring flaws. 
  
  First and foremost, the story is horrendous. A guy experiences his ancestors life through a machine 
 called the animus....... somebody call sci-fi channel one of thier b-movie writers is missing.. 
 It would have been perfectly fine if the story was just held in the 11th century, but no they had 
 to give it an anime plot twist. Should I quit playing this a half hour before the ending too? Some 
 times I wonder if they added the future into the game because htey couldn't come up with a hud 
 that wasn't high fantasy cliche.
  
  Second. This game suffers from a bad case of San Andreas. Remember how useless the countryside 
 was in that game. Same here, you spend hours exploring what amounts to nothing more than an area 
 for easter egg.... I'm sorry flag hunting. If you die out in no mans land, just like san andreas 
 it takes you a year and a day to get back to where you were. I love free roam games, in fact I 
 buy them almost exclusively, but having a wide open area for no reason takes all the fun out of 
 it.
  
  Third. The puppet system. The contextual X button is weak sauce. I thought that jumping around 
 this city would be something akin to Prince of Persia. I was mistaken it's more like holding down 
 the gas pedal in a racing game with occasional shots of nitrous. The only real input you have is 
 direction all the wall climbing, vaulting, etc is automatic.
  
  Fourth You have to sneak around everywhere unless your on the roof tops............ apparently this 
 guy has never heard of a disguise.
  
  The graphics are good but I thought by now they would have solved the whole clothing clipping through 
 itself thing. The sound is okay, but why does everyone in the game ahave a middle eastern accent 
 except the main character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillstewart
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Theres not enough you can love about this game theres so much to do, you never want to stop playing, 
 even after your finished the little optional seeking missions and the small country towns and towers 
 you can look around and cause trouble in are just a small portion of what you can love about the 
 game.
  
  
  To many times do you see spiderman climbing (Stick to walls go up) No this is the first game where 
 what you think is a ledge you could grab IT IS! Grab it and move on up, The fighting is very easy 
 and good to practise and learn up for the later bigger fights.
  
  Though the first 30 mins to an hour, they are quite longwinded and boreing, but after that its 
 almost non-stop action and infinite reasons to play along for mounths to come.
  
  If you have a PS3 This is the better of the two to get it for, if not, the X360 still lives up 
 to the hype but not as flawless as you would like.
  
  This is the first real hope for the PS3 to be the true next gen console.
  
  If you have Kids 
 with a PS3 get them this game, they wll not be disapointed, but if you dont have kids, Buy it anyway! 
 its one of the best games for a long time!
  
  You wont be Disapointed with your purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Picture a beautiful land back in the crusade ages where sword and steel is all that existed. And 
 then picture a total open world environment like earth you can walk and explore and then blend 
 it up with totally modified better splinter cell game you stir this in one big pot and you get 
 assassins creed one of the best stealth action games delivered to the ps3.
  
  Graphics: 8.6 out of 10 - while the graphics are luscious and great and give you a great feel of 
 realism they could of been a lot better specially due to the power of the PS3 they could of been 
 optimized better, but they are still a great touch to a great game. In some cases there is a bit 
 of anti-aliasing issues with the shadows and models but nothing that will ruin your gaming experience.
 
  
  Game Play: 9.3 out of 10 - if you played a game like splinter cell this is the type of game play 
 you will experience accept you are in a grand theft auto type of free world with splinter cell 
 abilities, climbing any obstacle any building. You can run around this world and pretty much have 
 the feeling you can conquer any thing in so many ways this game is truly a unique experience. But 
 there has been reports of freezes and fps lock ups the game play is sharp and is fun but not perfect 
 and stable to a level where it can be called flawless.
  
  Sound: 9.4 out of 10 - now there aren't any complains about the sound where they are very realistic 
 and give you a great realistic experience. There is not many complaints accept they are not perfect 
 they could have even been better but what we are given is truly great with a nice touch and great 
 experience.
  
  Story: 9.6 out of 10 - Out of all the categories in this game the story stands out the most it 
 has a unbelievable twist and builds a lot of suspense and mystery that not many games can deliver 
 to the extent that assassins creed has. Although you may find it a little confusing and hard to 
 follow it's an experience in gaming you won't see much and probably won't forget.
  
  Fun Factor: 8.8 out 10 - while the game is great and delivers a lot of things you wouldn't see 
 in a video game it also has a great fun factor that will make you say cool sweet awesome and will 
 flat out make you not want to put that controller down for anything. This is the case in assassins 
 creed for the first half of the game while the game is fun it does get repetitive after a long 
 while of straight gaming but the story makes up for this as you want to know what happens in the 
 end.
  
  Overall 9.2 out of 10 - The game delivers a new electrifying experience that you wont get from 
 many titles it has solid game play over par graphics a nice story and great sound to go along with 
 a snappy fun factor in my opinion this game is worth a buy and you should pick it up you wont regret 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the first ever trailer of Assassin's Creed, I just wondered how the hooey they could 
 turn that into actual game-play. Almost a year later, a game-play demo was shown and it silenced 
 any questioners. Now that it's here after months of teasing trailers and demonstrations from the 
 staff, can the hype machine live up to hype? I can confidently say YES, and more as this ground-breaking 
 game delivers with only a few glitches and minor problems to stand in it's way.
  
  Graphics: The first thing you will notice is how damn nice this game looks. The graphics are usually 
 very crisp, with only a few places where it looks only "alright". But for the most part, I actually 
 think I'm watching a movie. No joke.
  During the times where I'm about to die, I actually feel death really close to me as the screen 
 blurs with red and starts blinking. When Altair climbs and scales buildings, it looks just so natural 
 without any technical slip-ups or awkward movements. Every model of every person looks unique in 
 their own way. There's just so much detail, and when everything is lit up with excellent colors 
 and bloom, it's hard not to get attached to this game.
  
  Gameplay: Assassin's Creed just does NOT play like any game you've ever played before. If you think 
 that climbing buildings is hard, then think again, because scaling and climbing things just seem 
 like second nature. But the overall controls take a while to get used to, as you stay in stealth 
 mode by default, and do all of the fast and extreme things by pressing your right shoulder button 
 (R1) .
  People may tell you that the game is a lot like Metroid in how you lose all of your abilities and 
 then gain them back as you progress. I must argue because you regain your abilities and weapons 
 rather sooner than you may have thought. This lets you have the full experience in a hurry, making 
 this game not about making your character stronger as you progress, but stronger because you get 
 better as the player. 
  The Assassination is basically 3 parts. The first part is the investigation which is basically 
 finding out enough about your target to get consent from this bureau guy. By investigation, they 
 basically mean eavesdrop, pickpocket, beat up, or complete small tasks in order to get enough info 
 to get permission for the assassination. The third part is the assassination after doing some cunning 
 navigation to where your target is. Once you assassinate your target, you go onto the third part 
 - the escape. You basically have to whole city to navigate. You could try to take a certain path, 
 climb a structure, or stand and fight. This is where you have so many choices that no two people 
 will do the exact same thing. Once you escape, you get back to the bureau to complete your mission.
 
  The AI are not the sharpest tools in the shed, but they are tools indeed. They won't come at you 
 during a chase or a fight in a tactical fashion, but rather have one goal of getting to you and 
 trying to stick a sword in your spine now and then. The AI for the regular citizens are decent 
 and get the job done as beggars will pester you, drunks will push you around, and citizens will 
 crowd around and question what in the world you're doing on a 20 foot stack of crates. This all 
 creates a believable world of natural looking characters and world.
  With such a massive game, there are bound to be technical glitches now and then, but nothing to 
 hinder your game. The missions do get a little bland later before the actual assassination, but 
 all is forgiven because of the amount of freedom you have to do everything.
  
  Sound: I'm a sucker for games with a killer soundtrack. So naturally, I became sucked into the 
 musical score. Every song comes in at perfect timing with some orchestrated songs occasionally 
 having a techno twist to it. The character voices are very believable and the sounds made when 
 you go about your assassin business are very crisp. The mood is set perfectly with the perfect 
 song at the perfect times.
  
  Value: How long can this game bring you joy? Well after you finish the decently lengthed story, 
 you won't have any sort of multi-player waiting for you, but this game continues to deliver. You 
 have a number of different flag collections and each collection is quite hard to complete. You 
 have also 60 templars to assassinate scattered throughout the land. And who doesn't want to piss 
 off guards so you can feel the rush of running away over and over again? Definitely worth a buy.
 
  
  Story: Huge plot twist at the beginning, but I won't spoil it. Basically, you're in the holy lands 
 during the third crusade and you are a master assassin Altair. When you royally screw up a mission, 
 your master punishes you by stripping you of your rank, weapons, and abilities (how does he take 
 away tackling?) . So to redeem yourself, your master gives you a huge mission to assassinate 9 major 
 people who all have a role in the crusades. Throughout the game, you will uncover secrets, etc, 
 etc. But when you put the plot twist into account, you are just curious how people come up with 
 this stuff.
  
  CONCLUSION: After a year of shooter after shooter after shooter, it's refreshing to see a new kind 
 of game. Not just refreshing, immensely mind-blowing. Once you start, this game will have a grasp 
 on you. Ubisoft had an idea, stuck to it, and it payed off.
  
  ~Hazelnutman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo_Celica200
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  WOW alls i can say is WOW its different than i expected but also exactly what i expected the opened 
 ended process of being able to go anywhere and climb anything or kill anything. is perfect its 
 a fireball that take prince of persia gameplay and grand theft auto choices and free roaming to 
 grows it and makes it just that much better the attention to detail is amazing if you consider 
 that altier don't just stick his hands and feet in the wall and climb he acually uses windows and 
 ledges and banisters and polls ect. perfectly like you would have to in real life i was totally 
 impressed with this game and can't wait to take my next dive from the tip top of the next tower:) 
 im off to play assassins creed now so you know where i will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jontafin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game if you are into stealth kills or just slaughtering people but after a while 
 things start to become very repetitive and it feels that you are doing the same thing over and 
 over again. The fighting and killing are very fun especially with the hidden blade and the throwing 
 knives. Also the rooftop climbing and scaling walls, while it takes getting used to, is very fun 
 and addictive. But when doing all these things over and over again it gets very repetitive when 
 you have to save the citizens and get the viewing points, what I believe is this game's only thing 
 that sets it back from being one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  So, yeah, looks like I'm gonna have to edit my Oblivion review, because THIS is the best ps3 game 
 ever. It defines the word beautiful in every sense of the word. It shows the true power of a ps3. 
 If you need a new game, but not really sure what you want, you want this. I promise you. You want 
 this. 
  
  In the game, you can climb buildings as simple as you can sit your lazy bottom on the couch and 
 press buttons. You can assassinate anyone in the street. There are multiple cities that are so 
 big and beautiful on HDTV that I laughed and lost my breath. It is amazing. 
  
  IMPORTANT: When you buy the game, the first 30 mins to an hour are extremely boring, but are really 
 tutorials and scenes that set the story. Make sure you pay attention. It will serve you well. 
 
  And, yes, the ps3 is the best console to buy it on. Better graphics, and flawless gameplay. I 
 have a friend who has it for the XB 360, and he says his game freezes up if he plays for about 
 an hour. I have played it for 3 straight hours in a row. There. Buy the game. I promise you will 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0rdan_P
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt Assassins Creed is one of the most ambitious games to date, however it has been 
 talked about so much and has been so eagerly waited by so many (me included) , that it has made 
 it impossible for it to live up to it's hype. This doesn't mean that Assassins Creed isn't a good 
 game, it just all depends on what you're expecting from it. If your expecting a challenging game 
 with an interesting storyline then you won't be dissapointed, but if you've believed the hype and 
 your expecting something out of this world and a game worthy of the Gods, you'll feel let down.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed was one of the most anticipated games for the xbox 360 and playstation 3 in the 
 year 2007. With people finally getting their hands on the game, i think it partially lives upto 
 it's hype. Set in the thrid crusade you play as Altair an assassin who plays by his own set of 
 rules. But because of his actions in the begining of the game he is demoted and my learn the way 
 of the assassin again. Now this is why i call It Spider man takes on the crusades, like spider 
 man it you have to do the same mindless task over and over, but then again it is more fun than 
 spider-man, and they sold the game completely wrong, I finished the second assassination last night, 
 and by no means is it, kill your target when and how you want to, you have to f ollow a set of 
 guidlines, complete a few investigations and then yoru able to, you can A) either find out all 
 information and assassinate, or B) find the bare minimum and kill the target. The Visuals are something 
 to droll over though, and it was time for a new set of innovative controls that make for interesting 
 game play. Overall assassin's creed is a fun expierience but in the end, it just recycles most 
 of the same stuff over and over again. I am going to give it an 8.5 because it is an uber fun game 
 and is addicting and the storyline is somewhat immersive. But the real reason for the 8.5 is because 
 it's something thats been done before involving a center webhead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  You cannot expect anything more from a game then this, the gameplay is very very smooth. The enviroment 
 is amazing, you really get the feel you are walking trough the city yourself and nearly 1000 years 
 ago. I would buy this game just for the scenery! 
  In addition I would like to say the downsides that the gamespot review told you are a bit open 
 for debate. The way I see it the developers have developed the story in a way that you can replay 
 failed missions without losing the feel of the game. 
  I know this may sound as a spoiler but in the game you are a simple bartender reliving the memories 
 of your ancestor stored in your DNA. When you do things your ancestor did not do you will lose 
 sync with your memorie, for example kill an innocent, get hit, fall down huge heights and so on. 
 
  Anyways you can play this game in many different ways, run inside the city fighting off the guards, 
 kill more guards to get on the good side with people. Or just scout the area get information to 
 kill your targets. Eveyrthing you do affects your enviroment wich is a nice feat as well, kill 
 a lot of guards in example and they will start to recignize you and start attacking you, wich makes 
 the game tougher but if you are an action type also makes it more fun. Or you can be the subtle 
 assissin just going for the mission aquire the infor on the whereabouts of your targets then make 
 sure you are there and strike when the time is right and get the hell out of there. Your choice 
 really altough the game somewhat tends to say to you that you need to be the last one. But still 
 it's your choice. 
  Anyways graphics are awesome gamplay is awesome, cant think of anyone who would not like this game! 
 Now stop reading the review and run to store and beg the shopkeeper for a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepy0610
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  this game is rediculous! i love it. not just are the graphics beautiful but the gameplay is just 
 awesome the whole climbing every ledge and making everything interactive is the best idea ever. 
 im still not that far in the game but so far so good no dissapointments yet.. just that whole machine 
 thing is a bit weird i didnt expect it but its nothing that i hate. the cities look great and just 
 all the moves that are done look realistic. interacting with people, the horse galloping and turning, 
 actually turning its body lol (compared to dynasty warrior games which i like as well) , just the 
 whole game in my opinion is amazing and im glad i bought it the day it came out . 11/13/07 was 
 a day of happiness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnStang
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Worth the wait? I think so. It's something new and unique to the table.
  
  This game is quite something, it brings unique gameplay and flexibility. I really enjoy doing the 
 side missions and trying to figure out how to plan the assassinations. You really can play however 
 you'd like, depending upon your own style.
  Personally, I think the best part is just having fun and running along the rooftops.
  Graphics 
 are great, everything looks visually stunning. Gameplay and cinematics are seemless and interactive. 
 
  
  The tutorials are pretty good, and they introduce things again to make it easier to grasp each 
 ability.
  
  Check out some of the gameplay for yourself. Don't go off what other people are saying, each person 
 will play it differently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are a man named Desmond Miles. You were put in a machine that makes your thoughts 
 basically go back in time. You become your ancestor whos name is Altair. He is an assassin whos 
 job is to kill 9 men which are causing problems in his time. This game one of the best graphics 
 I've seen on the Xbox 360. The gameplay is very fun and addicting. You run around and climb to 
 get to certain areas. But thats just half of the game. You also have to assassinate your target 
 in order to progress in the game, but before you get to your assassination target you have to complete 
 investigations first. The investigations that you do are pickpocketing, eavesdropping, interrogation, 
 and help informers. Overall this game is a great game, but what you can't do is swim you will just 
 drown in the water. Overall this is a great game and I highly recommend that you should buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Run, jump, walk, hide, climb, and/or charge in, what ever way you want to assassinate your target. 
 A must play game for any platform. You can enjoy going to the roof tops and jumping roof to roof 
 to track your target, or walk the streets saving the people for the corrupt guards. The game offers 
 a wide amount of things to do per assassination that can keep you playing for hours and not even 
 knowing it. Even if you think all assassinations needed to be stealthy, it is not true, you can 
 pick to run in and cross blades with your target. Just know crossing blades with your target makes 
 you a target of the city guards. Most likely you will find yourself using Altar's ability to to 
 clime almost anything and use that to sit on a stoop and wait to swoop in for a stealth kill. Once 
 you do your killing blow a chase is on, run right away or stay a little to fight you will find 
 that the smooth and easily use able controls allow you to escape the guards sights without any 
 real problems. But if fighting is the way you would like to go, the controls and fighting system 
 is just a easy to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Magick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphically very pleasing on the eyes. The vistas are breath taking and the populace is very convincing. 
 
  
  Story so far is good and believable, but there are many holes, I guess this is do to the fact that 
 this is the first in a trilogy.
  
  Sound is ok, but the voice acting is so so .
  
  Game play is excellent and continues to make for an interesting time, but parts do become quite 
 repetitive after a while
  
  Over all I think that they pulled off a very good game, one of the better ones in a good while, 
 but I feel that they (Ubisoft) fell short in delivering to the hype that they helped to create.
 
  
  Rent or buy its worth the investment and if you really dont like it trade it in with in a few days 
 and you wont lose that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AASthemanAAS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely my favorite action game of all time. The action the killing everything 
 is incredible. To make this even sweeter, this game has never ending possibilities and everyone 
 has to know that there will be at least two more sequels to this amazing trilogy. I am looking 
 forward to the years to come to see if anyone can beat this game in this genre. In my opinion this 
 is the game of the year! With unlimited freedom to do what you choose and to whom you choose. This 
 game gives everyone a chance to play the game their way. Thats the way all games should be. I will 
 stand here and say that this game is definitely the best game ive ever seen and played!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladiator234567
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is kinda like a historic hitman but without guns and much of the fun.
  
  The good:
  -The graphics
  -innovative fighting system
  -Great voice acting
  -Free roaming 
 abilities
  -The story draws you in
  -Climbing buildings
  
  The Bad:
  -Gathering intel (mini games to learn about your target) get old very quick
  -Fighting also gets 
 old because its basically the same 4 or 5 moves over and over
  -Controls can be confusing and clumsy at times
  -Escapes get frustrating
  
  Overall its a 
 good game but towards the end everything gets too repetitive, but that being said you should at 
 least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagangstapimp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed.. without a doubt is one of the biggest video game masterpieces this year (along 
 with mario galaxy) . It is a must have for the Xbox 360 or PS3. It is so original and detailed and 
 is an experience like no other. Unbelievable graphics and impressive gameplay, you will be playing 
 this game for quite awhile even if you have finished it. You play as the main character Altair. You 
 get a stealthy type action game and you kinda get a sort of platforming feel to it. It's setting 
 would be 3 different cities, Damascus, Jerusalem, and Acre. Each city is amazingly designed and the 
 visuals will have you with your mouth wide open. Well I can keep babbling about how great Assassins 
 Creed is but I should let you find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alln2themusic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  If you aren't into the stealth/action genre, then you'll probably not find much enjoyment from 
 the gameplay here. Gameplay in these types of games is by far the most important factor. The unique 
 control scheme is what makes this game such a sheer delight to play. These ease with with you can 
 run acrobatically over the rooftops, climb anything and everything (with the exceptions of the 
 actual mountains and terrain in the Kingdom) that you can feast your eyes on in any one of the 
 3 large cities as well as the Masiyaf stronghold, makes the fun-factor in this game utterly faaaaantastic. 
 
  
  Another plus for me was the fighting. Where most hack n slash folks will not enjoy this style of 
 fighting in this game, it is a style which seamlessly blends with the gameplay (which is that of 
 patience, quick-response decisiion making) . You can swing away at your foes all you want, but as 
 you're trying to break the defensive blocks of one foe, be ready for a sword to the back from another 
 foe circling around you. Timing is everything and when you get it down, it is utterly amazing to 
 watch some of the animation kills that Altair does. 
  
  I've been playing the game for roughly 10 hours already and have gotten through only 2 of the assassinations 
 (now granted I do enjoy exploring and going to all the viewpoints to open up parts of the maps) 
 which tells you just how much there is to do and explore and accomplish with this game. 
  
  The next point to touch on is the crowd behavior. Ubisoft did such a phenomenal job making you 
 truly feel like you are in a city during a time of struggle. To the loan political activists speaking 
 out and drawing a crowd in a town square, to the betrayel and questions that the storyline brings 
 through eavesdropping and pickpocketting for your investigations. They also do a great job with 
 the random people roaming about and having them reacting to the environment around them. Whether 
 it be a political activist speaking and wanting to hear him, or standing in line at a merchants 
 booth, to beggers asking for money (and being completely annoying as they should be) , to drunken 
 fools pushing you around in the open (although it would have been nice to have the guards do something 
 to them if they are around when the this happens, maybe in the sequel) , to responding to dead bodies 
 on the ground, and the list goes on. 
  
  Gamespot hit it on the money when they said it is in the small details that Assassins Creed truly 
 shines. When being chased by guards and you start climbing high, they'll throw rocks at you to 
 try and knock you down, to the realism in the horses behavior and the control of the horse, to 
 the animations of everything in the game (with the exception of the some of the crowd movement, 
 but it's certainly doesn't detract from the gameplay at all) . 
  
  I certainly don't want to jabber on all day about everything that is great about this game, but 
 I certainly could. The only reason I didn't give it a 10, was for the simple fact that no game 
 is every going to be utterly perfect (and when I say perfect, I mean no clipping of any objects 
 on anything, no barriers, even if you wanted to climb over a mountain rather than riding a horse 
 around, or having Altair being able to at least have a basic swimming animation on the surface 
 of the water, even just to travel to get back to land, these tiny and minute details are the .5 
 points that keep any game from getting a 10) . Some may argue that those imperfections I listed 
 above don't exist in some games, and you're right they may not, but someone is always going to 
 be able to find a flaw or imperfection (even an opinionated imperfection) in any game, no matter 
 what style or genre. 
  
  Luckily though, these games we play are not simulations of what we know as reality, as real as 
 they may look, they are an extension of creativity, which is why gameplay will always be the cause 
 of a game failing or being hailed a masterpiece (this coming from somone who makes simulations 
 for a liviing) . Assassins Creed is real treat to play and experience and I encourage anyone who 
 likes stealth/action games to give it a shot and see if it makes as wonderful of an impression 
 on you as it did on me. Hope this review helped anyone struggling whether or not to get this game. 
 I only believe spending $60 dollars on a game if it has a high replay value and for me, Assassins 
 Creed is one of those games. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Lets go right to source of why i gave a great game like this a 8.5
  
  1 after the first kill of the 9 guys the AI gets so freakin cheap that well your holding blend 
 more often then attacking
  2 game freezes not mutch but when your attempting to kill a guy and it freezes the F word will 
 be comming from your mouth nonstop
  3 the save system is a damn MESS it saves you turnoff system come back on and your back out side 
 Akre SHI*!! you need to wait for check points FIRST!
  4 well that its all a memory yea you play another guy and well you play him a little but its acting 
 basically as a load system but its not the greatest idea
  Now lets talk good things about AC
  1 attacks are brutal and keep the game fun
  2 killing a 
 guy quick and running off then killing is buddy is like your actualy a guy stalking his prey
  3 voice acting is excellent
  4 counters are awesome 
  5 the storys done well
  
  (now i 
 know people will Disagree with this review because you love or dont have these issues with the 
 game but i did)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokeman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed to find that this game has some nerdy sci-fi spun storyline. But if you ignore 
 the sci-fi sections, the rest of the storyline is great. The gameplay and visuals are spectacular. 
 The game is kinda like a mix of prince of persia and MGS. Plenty of action styled like POP, but 
 the stealth and freedom of MGS. You can choose to sneak around or kill, you can choose to kill 
 big and loud or calm and quietly. The graphics are insanely smooth and fluid. The voice acting 
 is very nice. Basically the greatest game ever, if only they just left the sci-fi junk out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  It's finally here, only a year later, but it was well worth the wait. Assassins creed has arrived. 
 this is the future of stealth games. Everything in this game is sensational, from the graphics 
 to the combat system, i will get into that later. The graphics are out of this world, you are able 
 to be completely free, go anywhere and do anything. It's really fun to be able to stealth kill 
 anyone, and able to climb up onto the tallest tower and admire the enormous, beautiful view. Not 
 to mention it's just fun to be able to swan dive into a pile of hay. The combat system is sweet, 
 it's different but it's done very well, takes a bit to get used to but once you do it's feakin 
 awesome. The only couple glitches I have found is a few graphical glitches, and the fact that the 
 game freezes occasionally, it has frozen on me twice but other than a couple flaws it is fantastic. 
 but as long as there are software programs to make games, there will be glitches, expect that. 
 Assassins Creed is one for the true stealth fan, or for someone who wants something different. 
 In A. C. you can either use stealth, or hack and slash, so there is something for everyone. This 
 game kicks ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mantasm_m
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  From what I played so far, I would really say the game is awesome and worthy the 60 dollar price 
 tag. It is engaging, very interactive and addictive. You just want to Assassinate more corrupt 
 leaders after you kill the first one :) . The story is something new as well, not one of those overused 
 something slightly change stories a lot of current games tend to use.
  
  I really suggest everyone to get this game, you will not be disappointed. And if you have your 
 doubts then go and rent it, you'll surely want to buy after your rent period ends.
  
  I'm glad at least Gamespot gave this game the rating it deserves. Good job gamespot :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raflung
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  The best thing in this game is the story, very creative. I hope this is not the only "Assassin's 
 Creed"... I hope for more in the series. Everybody who has ps3 should play this game... If you 
 don't have it, please buy it. This game is highly addictive. There is nothing wrong with it, it's 
 one of the most complete games in history. Very similar to prince of persia but in fact, assassin's 
 creed is double the quality. This game has excellent details, if you see a movie of the XX century 
 you will see that everything is a match to the game. Great movements and strikes, MASSIVE FUN!!! 
 Worthe every penny... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainvector
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed, Assassin's Creed, what a game? The game is amazing simply put. It has stunning 
 graphics and addictive game play. The graphics is simply breathtaking, with detailed characters 
 and city designs. The game play is exciting and innovative all at once. It has a Prince of Persia/Hitman 
 feel to it, it's simply sensational. Although it has a Prince of Persia/Hitman feel to it, the 
 game play is very unique and original. The game allows players to choose whatever way (s) they want 
 to play the game, unlike other games which dictate how a mission should be carried out this game 
 takes you into a gaming world where you feel completely submerged. This game is worth playing no 
 questions about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger35010
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  First of all let me say that the graphics are top notch, controls are responsive, character's ability 
 to jump from ledge to ledge with no problem is outstanding, and I love the assassination kills. 
 Now.... lets point out its major flaws: unresponsive AI, tired of climbing eagle's spot, tired 
 of saving the common thieves (civilians) , tired of the lame ending and I HATE collecting flags 
 with no reward... thats like telling someone to kill 1000 people just to unlock a picture... its 
 pointles, and im tired of climbing all 12 towers of each piece of all three cities. Okay now that 
 I got that out of the way, gameplay time!!! You play as Altar through "Miles" encoded DNA... so 
 your given a task to kill 9 people but throughout the entire game you will feel as if your killing 
 the first target 9 times... there is a pretty good story line to it but all you do throughout the 
 game is pickpocket one guy, interrogate the next, spy on the next then kill your target... rinse 
 wash repeat nothing new to spice it up... I'm kinda map Ubisoft let such a goodgame fail as much 
 as it did but hey...99.9% chance of a sequel. This time dont F$%& it up Ubi... you really let me 
 down I'd rather play double agent right now... wait u published that too so why is this one so lacking??? 
 Im dissatisfied VERY!! Gamespot is very generous with a 9 but if you've already beaten it you'll 
 probably agree with me.. WHAT HAPPEN TO MY GAME OF THE YEAR!!??? btw all you people who gave it 
 9 or 10 probably didnt play for over an hour... dont review unless you've finished it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_s_mccray
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Despite the hype, the good graphics and the unique gameplay idea... This game is utterly boring. 
 The fighting styles totally sucked , there are not enough moves. The game is too easy and it seems 
 to be someone's weird remake of splinter cell. If you like intense action and blood shed stay away 
 from this game. This game also should be rated teen , I see no reason for the mature rating whatsoever. 
 The stealth action in splinter cell was great because you had so many options , gadgets, and maneuvers 
 but this game is far too simplistic for my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  So few games offer what Assassin's Creed does. The beginning I believe will catch many people off 
 guard or already have. The story is deep and compelling. The combat is like what many have said 
 before, the AI does seem to be lacking, however the way the battle system works seemed very fitting 
 and can provide a challenge with multiple enemies. The cities and overworld are massive, lively 
 and let you explore for those flags, view points, vigilantes or scholars leisurely. Sound is excellent, 
 whether in combat or just roaming around, it fits the mood of the game well. And of course, the 
 graphics can only be described as amazing, one of the few truly "next-gen" graphics in a game so 
 far. The best part of the game are the assassinations, which can be done on almost everyone with 
 little consequence. As well as Free-run; Altair could probably out-manuever Spiderman, he's that 
 freakin nice.
  
  Assassin's Creed is definitely the game I was expected once I knew about it. Jade Raymond and her 
 team did an excellent job and I hope a sequel is in the works. Props to that beautiful and talented 
 woman! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themitko
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game was number one on my list for a whole year. And waiting for it with such great anticipation 
 I expected all the things Ubisoft Montreal promised to be delivered. The demos they showed were 
 great and I wasn't worried that it would dissapoint, but once the bad review kicked in I got a 
 little worried. I still got the game. The first 2 hours I thought the game was fantastic. It was 
 new exciting and filled with huge beautiful enviornments. But after 4 hours of gameplay I was bored 
 out of my mind, only fun and joy I got was from jumping on buildings and killing random NPCs. I 
 couldn't continue with the story because it was really confusing. I asked myself, "Where is the 
 stealth" It was advertised as a stealth game but it seems like you dont really stealth in it. The 
 information gathering is a little boring. Its like being told to take out the garbage. Sometimes 
 you dont even want to do it. There was so much more this game could have given to the story and 
 the gampley. This game as it is now is a perfect base for an amazing game. Hopefully that will 
 be Assassin's Creed sequal. I will be keeping the game because running around buildings is fun 
 and the controls were very easy to learn. The game is fun dont get me wrong, once you get into 
 one of the three cities you will see what platforming means, but the story and lack of things to 
 do other than jump, climb, and get into fights and chases kills the value of the gameplay. It could 
 have had some more chalenginf elements like puzzles. I just can't get my head around how the people 
 think that the information gathering is fun, it's not, I understand it is a big part of the stealthing 
 but it could have been a little challenging. If only that part of the game was made different each 
 time with different gamplay elements then it might have been way better, but pickpocketing, listening 
 to a conversation, and roughing a guy up, is not enoguh variety for anyome excpecially after doing 
 it 9 times in a row. As for the alternate story gamepley it didn't really bother me. It kinda changed 
 the pace and made the game a little more barable by changing the setting and gamplay. Not that 
 it's actually "FUN" when you are playing the alternate story, it's more of an information gathering 
 session, but not likr the ones you do in the main game. My closing statement is this: I wanted 
 great things from this game, and there are greta things, I wanted fun from this game, and the game 
 is fun, I wanted variety and lasting appeal from this game, but there isn't any it gets old fast. 
 so I score it a 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setnickgo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  One of the Best of '07
  I'll be up front for ya. I've been tracking this game since E3 2006 and had high expectations. 
 And for the most part they were fufilled. In case you didn't know, Assassin's Creed it pretty much 
 a third person action/adventure that take place in the Holy Land in the year 1191ad. You control 
 an assassin named Altair that is stripped of his rank and forced to show his worth by assassinating 
 9 historical figures. The game also has futuristic elements in the storyline that help the game 
 feel like it's in this generation.
  
  Here's where I break up the different features:
  Graphics: Top notch visual pwnage as far as environment design goes and the human renditions aren't 
 that bad either.
  Gameplay: This game is two edged sword when it comes to this. The controls are super easy. The 
 environment is what stands out.. you can practically climb anything with a little skill. The actual 
 fight scenes kinda get old after a while... but let's face it.... what's the name in the title... and 
 that's the best part. Altair is just a bad arse... assassinating and fighting... and it makes you 
 feel kinda good when you take someone out.
  Sound: The music in this game is great. The voice acting is very good but sometimes I can't help 
 to catch a phrase every now and then that sounds just completely crazy.
  
  Considering how many generic First Person Shooter games there are and how high their scores are 
 usually..... this game is a Godsend. I give this a 9 just because there's no online functionality 
 at all and there doesn't plan to be and for some of the repetitive gameplay. So if you just wanna 
 have great fun at being stealthy, face paced, and just assassinating people, Assassin's Creed is 
 your ticket ^_^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Yes this was one of the first game that capture everyone's attention in 2006 E3 with the trailer. 
 That game is Assassin's Creed and even thought it's not exclusive to the PS3 it's just great to 
 have a game like this on the system. You'll be playing as an Assassin without saying any spoilers 
 in the first minutes into the game you'll find out what the game is all about. 
  
  You'll be playing as a character named Altair who works with a secret group called Assassin's Creed 
 and your job is to kill evil man that cause pain and war within the world. But first you're strip 
 from everything you once were before and must start from the beginning. You've lost the trust of 
 the secret group and the only way that they will allow you back in with full force is by you having 
 to kill 9 important figures. 
  
  The way you'll go about this is by roaming the land. You'll have to eavesdrop on people talking 
 in the city and you'll have to interrogate certain people and rough them up while you're at it. 
 As you progress you'll have to search the highest ground in the city so you'll lock hidden objectives 
 in the city. These are things that you have to do in order for you to get closer to killing your 
 marked men in the game. If you don't accomplish these steps first you won't progress in the game.
 
  
  Now that I've talk about the story and the format I'll move on to the graphics. This is one beautiful 
 game to look at. There's some pretty affects in the game that you just have to see for yourself. 
 The world feels so organic is not even funny. If you enjoyed the beautiful world of Oblivion than 
 you'll love this world of Assassin's Creed. The controls take a while to get use to but become 
 very easy to do once you get the hang of it. The animations and movement of Altair just feel and 
 look so natural it looks realistic. 
  
  If you have a PS3 there shouldn't be any excuse for you not to pick up this game. I'm not the type 
 to pick up a Prince of Persia type of game but I picked this one up and I LOVE IT. Assassin's Creed 
 as a lot of potential to be one of the best game out this year. I would highly recommend this as 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlatinumWolfe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Alright, all this waiting and reading previews and watching videos about this game is over. It 
 is finally here in the hands of the masses. I hoped that this game would not disappoint me in terms 
 of gameplay and it's fun factor. Once again I was not disappointed! The graphics are crisp and 
 done to perfection. You can tell this is great next-gen title. The environments feel as though 
 they are really living and breathing with it's inhabitants and many alleys and rooftops. At first, 
 all the menus and info bars can get confusing, but with a little time and patience it will all 
 make sense. As far as sound goes, the music puts you right into the action and the voice work is 
 top notch. The controls take a few minutes to get used to, but once you get it, it will become 
 second nature. As far as story-lines go, I haven't seen many that will make you want to keep playing 
 to see what happens next. Playing this game will make you want to play it over and over for the 
 thrill of stalking and killing your prey. The only little downfall of this game would be it's kind 
 of repetitive nature. But you will not really notice it unless you really hate this game or can 
 really immerse yourself into it. With all this said, Assassin's Creed is a must have for anyone 
 thats owns any console. And also, if you don't have it, Altair may come get you next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Ya know, every once in a while after i have a game reserverd for almost a year, i get a game and 
 i just sit there after playing it and say to myself "Whoa that game is really great". Its a great 
 feeling. Assassins Creed is probably one of the best action games i have played to date. its Almost 
 falwless and revolutionizing gameplay is something that will leave you hungry for more when you 
 leave it alone for a while. It has an astounding control scheme with amazing graphics and storyline. 
 Its Difficulty is just perfect not too hard not too easy. The game engine is great. Unlike other 
 sword fighting games where you can get hit like 50000 times before dieing. This game changes taht. 
 You can actually only takke a few hits before you die. Sword Fighting in this game is so realistic 
 taht you feel like your actually fighting. 
  
  Graphics-Truly Amazing very few glitches. It seems like Ubisoft took care of those before release
 
  Difficulty-just Right
  Sound-Great Voice acting and FX
  Gameplay-A absolutly perfect plot. Great addictin Storyliine
  
  Overall it si a must have title. 
 if you've played it you should know what i mean. if not get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geol337
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Assassins Creed is a pretty solid action game. Controls are smooth, the graphics are great and 
 everything has a nice flow to it. Combat seems to be decent enough yet simple, and the controls 
 are great. Its very easy to play, but with time you can master it. The terrain looks great, and 
 character design is excellent. My only real flaw with the game is that Altairs voice doesn't seem 
 to fit in very well. The graphics are extremely polish in every aspect. The killing never gets 
 old. All in all, its an excellent game and its about time we finally get to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmattm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed is a game that many people have been waiting on for a long time. This game was 
 originally PS3 exclusive, now multi-plat, is simply jaw dropping. The graphics are amazing, and 
 the game play is really good as well. I really like the sword play and the throwing knives. 
  
  Assassin's Creed so far has a good story behind it, with some interesting twists and unexpected 
 happenings, it will surely keep you wanting more. From what I can tell there is no frame rate issue 
 at all, I haven't played in 1080i though, only 720p. 
  
  The game should keep you interested until its over, personally I am already ready for a second 
 one and I'm only a couple of hours into it. It's overall a terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArtemisTheFoul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so it's finally out. Unfortunately, it fails to live up to all the hype. I won't deny 
 that the graphics are breathtaking, but the story is very, very slow to develop and there isn't 
 enough diversity in the character's movement. NPCs pop up as you approach them, and the stupid 
 Animus thing ruins it. Instead of being a brilliant action-adventure game that everyone was expecting, 
 Assassin's Creed turns out to be a mediocre, repetitive platformer. I don't plan on keeping this 
 game for long, it's an incredible disappointment. Oh well. I'm sure it'll get dozens and dozens 
 of 9 and 10 / 10 reviews, so this one won't matter much. At least someone's being honest. :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I am a huge prince of persia fan so when I play this game I see the same aspect of prince in this 
 game yet tweaked to almost perfection. This has to be the best sword fighting game I have ever 
 played. The fighting is set at a perfect pace and is not to hard yet not to easy. The way they 
 made it so you could clime nearly everything in the game makes it a much faster pace game considering 
 you can't just run from the guards without climbing and hiding. The leaps of fait are amazing the 
 cinematics the sound the feeling it gives when you jump from some of the tallest buildings at that 
 date. The fact that they went out and made it as historically accurate as possible and still make 
 it as much fun as it is shows what kind of game this is. I feel that when a developer goes out 
 of their way to make a game historically accurate they will put as much time into all other aspects 
 of the game creating a game to surpass all other games. I would have to say hands down a possible 
 game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  this is another game that i have to say what the heck are you reading this for go run an get a 
 copy you shouldnt be online reading the boards this game is great great great all around the board. 
 the graphics and the controls are good an it looks great on hdtv so if you have one boy you are 
 going to feel like ur in the game. anyway this is worth the 60 dollars keep it comming sony this 
 is what sony fans been waiting for good games. this game goes with the ps3 classics im makein heavenly 
 sowrd , cod4, motorstorm, and mlb the show 07 these games are the ones i think that are good and 
 made my list for classics an assains creed will be one you will see yall enjoy Assassin's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Assassin's Creed that has not already been said? For the first time in a 
 game, I feel as if my character is in a Real city, and not some abandoned ghost town. It's awesome 
 just exploring the cities and looking around to the detail that is put into how impressive they 
 look. Another first for me, I actually felt as if I was in Jerusalem. I mean, most games their 
 just stories to me, and I go though the levels, killing as much as I can, or doing mundane quest. 
 In this game I do whatever I want, explore as much as I want, and gain as much info on my target 
 as much as I want. 
  The game has a great combat system, and the kills are satisfying, the guards don't look too much 
 like one another, and but there in uniform. So it's not too bad with killing the same guards, the 
 guards to differ in different cities. The people within the town almost never look alike, which 
 has always killed opened ended games, and made them feel less impressive. Also the people within 
 each city look different to the region, very cool!!
  As for Frame Rate, I am glad I bought it on the PS3 because the X-box360 REALLY drops the frame 
 rate. I did have some frame rate problems, but that was only once, and I had a massive amount of 
 guards after me, and people were also on the screen, even than it didn't drop bad enough to not 
 make it playable (WOW for once a multi-platform game that runs better on a Sony PlayStation 3) . 
 
  All I can say is "WOW", this game is the real deal, and this game is what NEXT-GEN was waiting 
 for!!! This is what we all knew should be coming out for the next-gen systems, but wasn't. Now 
 for all us PlayStation 3 owners out there, let's hope that a game like this comes out, that X-Box360 
 Sheepeople can't play. :-p
  Nothing is to terribly wrong with this game; expect that at some times the graphics have their 
 normal hic-ups, for instance, the hands going into the chest of another person, or one of your 
 body parts going into some of the textures. This, however, are all normal hic-ups that have been 
 going on since the Nintendo 64, and first Play station days. I don't know why companies can't fix 
 this problem, but I guess it's just something that happens no matter what. It does not distract 
 from game play, and it's REALLY not that bad of a problem. 
  It's also a little goofy to be walking around a HUGE city, with guards and people everywhere, and 
 you knife a guard in the back, and because you did it in an assassination style, no guard reacts. 
 Even if you do it right in front of another guard. They will investigate it (even thou it happened 
 right in front of them) , and start asking who did this, and if you stay within the area, they will 
 come after you. 
  No problems thou take away from the Kill, when you get the person you're going for, the work you 
 put into getting the information, and the preparation you take to get the target within a split 
 second so he can't counter attack you, makes it all worth it. It's like you really have done a 
 job well done. 
  Also, if the scenery don't make your mouth drop when you ride unto a cliff overlooking the cities, 
 than something is wrong with you.
  This game is a must buy for any PS3 Owners out there. It's what the PS3 was built for, and for 
 once it beats the X-box360 in terms of playing the game better. GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  assasins creed is one of the best games ive played since devil may cry 3 se came out. its tied 
 for best ps3 game.
  
  gameplay 10/10
  
  graphics 10/10
  
  sound 10/10
  
  value 9/10
  
  tilt 10/10
  
  graphics: amazing. it sets a high bar for next gen action adventure 
 games. they r the best graphics ive seen on the ps3 so far tied with ninja gaiden and oblivion. 
 10/10
  
  gameplay: the best part of ac. the game is so fun and aventurous. it intense at times and the game 
 play is very close 2 devil may crys exept its not as good. it defietly on my top 5 list at #3 tied 
 with ninja gaiden aand behind dmc 3 and dmc 1. this game derves 2 be #2of e3!!! 10/10
  
  sound: spectacular. its better than the graphics which is hard 2 beat. the clases sound relistic. 
 definetly 10/10 for sound.
  
  value: theres value here but not as much as some games. id be playing this game for another year 
 or so like most games. but who cares its still one of my favs!!!! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enmanuel555
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  You can't beat this game is simply the best. Its so good you may even forget halo for the rest 
 of your life. The freedom is simply fun and the graphics are ground breaking. The game is a masterpiece. 
 The game play is ou of this world. The story is really cool and probably the best ever written 
 for a game. Its amazing how they were capable of putting so much game play, good graphics, amazing 
 freedom, and an awesome story all in one disk. The game has an attracting structure with the best 
 concept in the freaking universe. This is the bigest franchise afetr halo and thank good for creating 
 ubisoft and leting them make the best game ever ASSASSIN'S CREED. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
