-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baja: Edge of Control
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/bajaedgeofcontrol/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great course designs.
 Plenty of vehicle and event variety.
 Split-screen support for up to four players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The easy difficulty setting is a lie.
 Career mode lacks depth.
 Looks awful.
 Inconsistent frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: 2XL Games
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This off-road racing game does a lot of things well, but the PS3 version looks so bad that it's 
 tough to recommend. 

  Baja: Edge of Control from 2XL Games is an ambitious off-road racer that, while not necessarily 
 better than games that have come before it, does enough things well and introduces enough new features 
 to make it a good addition to the genre. Loosely based on the annual Baja 1000 race that takes 
 place in Mexico, Edge of Control not only features rally courses that are much longer than those 
 in other games, but also courses that are so rugged and treacherous that even driving in a straight 
 line can be challenging. Many of the races are endurance tests for both you and your car, and the 
 damage and repair management system adds a unique strategic element to longer events. The quality 
 of the visuals varies according to which console you're playing on. The Xbox 360 version looks 
 good and runs smoothly, the PlayStation 3 game does not.  

           Hill climb events are even more challenging on the way down.      

  From the outset, 
 you can choose to take part in races, rallies, and hill-climb events in a few of Baja's nine barren 
 environments. These are great if you're anxious to sample trophy trucks and other top-end vehicles 
 early on, but Edge of Control's main course is its Career mode, which you'll have to spend a good 
 amount of time with if you want to unlock the remaining locales, as well as additional vehicles. 
 What's unfortunate about the bare-bones Career mode is that it forces you to start in the lowest 
 of the game's eight vehicle classes, which would be fine, except that Baja Bugs not only lack the 
 horsepower of larger classes, but also the suspension, the grip, the brakes, the cooling systems, 
 and everything else that you might expect from a vehicle purpose-built for racing through the desert. 
 The result is that the game's slower vehicles are often the most difficult to handle and to get 
 across the finish line without sustaining significant damage. Unfortunately, you have to slog through 
 these events before you're permitted (or can afford) to race in more powerful classes.  

  If you don't opt to turn it off, which you shouldn't, vehicle damage is almost inevitable in the 
 majority of Edge of Control's events. This is especially true of hill-climb events, which not only 
 challenge you to scale some spectacularly steep inclines but also to come back down again. The 
 cosmetic damage to vehicles tends to be over-the-top rather than realistic, so you can expect body 
 panels to fall off before they have a chance to get misshapen. Losing panels won't affect your 
 vehicle's performance, but if you're playing in Career mode and have managed to attract a sponsor, 
 it will only pay you for the logos that make it across the finish line.  

  Collisions with other cars or obstacles will cause parts to fall off of your vehicle, but this 
 damage is purely cosmetic. Interestingly, the kind of damage that will adversely affect your vehicle's 
 performance is generally a result of your driving style rather than of any kind of error or incident. 
 For example, when racing toward a huge ramp, it's conceivable that by preloading your suspension 
 and getting some major airtime, you might be able to leapfrog vehicles in front of you to gain 
 a place or two. Landing a jump like that is unlikely to do your suspension any good, though, and 
 even if you don't end up with a wobbly wheel, there's a chance that you'll damage your oil pan. 
 Another avoidable though very common problem with the vehicles in Baja is overheating, which causes 
 a significant loss of power as your radiator packs up and starts throwing a trail of smoke in your 
 wake. If you ease off the gas when the onscreen temperature gauge moves toward the red, you can 
 prevent or at least postpone this problem, though in a race situation deliberately slowing down 
 often feels counterintuitive. Figuring out exactly how hard you can push your vehicle without breaking 
 it can be a lot of fun. It's frustrating to lose a race on the last corner because you pushed too 
 hard, but it's very rewarding to win a race when your opponents' vehicles are falling apart.  

 
           The vehicle you cross the finish line in isn't always recognizable as the same one you 
 had at the start.      

  One of the tips that appears during Edge of Control's occasionally lengthy load times would have 
 you believe that letting up on the gas is something that you'll want to do almost every time you 
 approach a corner. You're supposed to use the hand brake to turn and then, as you slide around 
 the corner, hold in the clutch to get your revs up so that when you release it upon exiting the 
 corner, you get a welcome boost of speed. It works, and it's really satisfying when you get it 
 right, but it's rarely necessary because most of the sharp corners are set into huge banks that 
 do a lot of the turning for you. This makes the nuanced controls entertaining for expert racers, 
 even though the courses are still accessible to novices.  

  When your vehicle is in need of some mechanic love, your options will vary according to the type 
 of event in which you're competing. Circuit races incorporate repair stops into their designs where, 
 by stopping for just a few seconds, you can get repairs carried out without losing too much time. 
 During rally events, repairs come courtesy of a helicopter that can be seen flying overhead at 
 all times. When you need to stop, you simply hit a button to radio the helicopter and, provided 
 its crew isn't already busy assisting someone else or eating ice cream (it happens) , it will land 
 somewhere ahead of you so that you can stop alongside it to get the same service you'd get at a 
 regular repair stop. Furthermore, if your vehicle gets a flat tire and is carrying a spare (most 
 start a race with one or two, but they fall off) , you can stop at any point during a race to change 
 it by hitting the repair button.     

   

  You don't have to spend any time or money repairing your vehicles between races in Edge of Control, 
 but there are plenty of opportunities for you to upgrade or replace them. Vehicle upgrades come 
 in a number of different flavors, including engine, power train, tires, brakes, suspension, weight/aero, 
 and cooling/plumbing. You don't need to know anything about the inner workings of modern automobiles 
 to figure out that throwing money at any part of your vehicle makes it better in the game. Complex 
 explanations of what every new part does are available, but the only thing you need to look at 
 is the performance gauge that fills up as you highlight more expensive options. On the other hand, 
 if you're someone who knows what "2.5-inch dual-rate springs on coil-over shock with remote reservoir" 
 means, you can go into the tuning menus to tinker with your vehicle's brake bias, gear ratios, 
 spring lengths, and other settings to get your ride just the way you like it.  

           Who cares how fast it is? Does it come in blue?      

  Given the level of detail that's 
 available in the garage between races, it's baffling that you're afforded no information whatsoever 
 when buying a vehicle. These purpose-built off-road racers don't come cheap, but when you're considering 
 your next purchase in Edge of Control, the only information you're afforded about each vehicle 
 is its name, price, and the colors in which it's available. There certainly appear to be some performance 
 differences among the vehicles in any given class, but figuring them out comes down to you, plus 
 a whole lot of trial and error.  

  Regardless of your uneducated vehicle choice, there's no denying that the driving in Edge of Control 
 is satisfying. Vehicle handling makes intelligent compromises between realism and gameplay. Bumps 
 in the road that can potentially throw you off course are far more common than in other off-road 
 racers, for example, but anytime you fly off a big jump, you're afforded some control in midair 
 so that you can try for something that resembles a comfortable landing. Course designs are impressive 
 for the most part, though there's some inconsistency in how you are permitted to cut corners; at 
 times, you'll get away with skipping quite lengthy sections of track, but at other times, you'll 
 be penalized and reset to an earlier part of the course for something relatively minor.  

  AI drivers are also an inconsistent feature in Edge of Control. For the most part, they drive realistically, 
 aggressively (even on the easier of the two difficulty modes) , and believably (that is, they make 
 errors) -- they'll even cut corners when they can get away with it. They'll often appear to slow 
 down if they get  too  far ahead of you, though. At times, when racing alongside you, they'll also 
 seem blissfully unaware of your existence and stubbornly try to go for their preferred racing line -- even 
 if getting to it means having to go through you.  

           The AI drivers are fiercely competitive, even on the easy setting.      

  Like most 
 racing games, Edge of Control is more fun when played with human opposition. There's split-screen 
 support for up to four players and online support for a starting grid of 10. All of the aforementioned 
 race types that appear in the Career mode are supported, as well as a Free Ride mode that you can 
 use to explore the game's massive environments and Baja events, which are rallies on courses so 
 long that they can take from one to three hours to complete. Smartly, when playing online, you 
 have the option to hit a button and have the AI take over for you temporarily, so calls of nature, 
 ringing phones, or screaming kids don't necessarily have to mean the end of your race. The last 
 two might even offer some welcome relief from the constant droning of engines that you hear during 
 a race -- there's nothing wrong with them, it's just that there's very little else going on where 
 audio is concerned. The mellow Mexican music played on menu screens and the like isn't horrible, 
 but you'll hear so much of it on a relentless loop that it inevitably becomes grating after a while. 

  Baja: Edge of Control for the Xbox 360 isn't a great-looking game, and on the PlayStation 3, it 
 isn't even a remotely good-looking one. The environments lack detail on both consoles, but they 
 look fine while you're racing through them at speed. The problem is that while the vehicles, trackside 
 objects, and even the horizon look relatively crisp on the 360, those on the PS3 have edges so 
 jagged that you'll question whether or not the game is even running at the right resolution. The 
 frame rate on the PS3 also isn't nearly as smooth as it is on the 360, though it's rarely so bad 
 that's it's detrimental to gameplay.  

  If you can get over the steep learning curve, the Xbox 360 version of Baja: Edge of Control is 
 an off-road racer that's definitely worth a look. The PS3 version is less easy to recommend because 
 while the gameplay is intact, you should not have to tolerate, much less pay for, the combination 
 of an inconsistent frame rate and horrible visuals.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ruiner000
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  20 minute long rally races in the desert with huge expansive maps in custom made buggies or trucks 
 or volkswagons. It's a different spin on the traditional racing game, but in tends to fall flat.
 
  
  Grip one, the difficulty, I like an exalarating race as much as the next person, but this game 
 borders on ridiculously hard, you can run a flawless race, have a record lap time, and get 5th. 
 And trust me, if you overshoot one corner, restart the race, and try again, you will not catch 
 up.
  
  Grip two, Multiple huge expansive maps. sounds great. Every hill, Every corner, every bit of it 
 looks identical. Sure it's set in the baja, a desert... you can only do so much, but I dont care 
 if you put 2 million miles of map in this game, there is still no variety. you unlock maps, and 
 you feel like your playing the same one. 
  
  grip three the customizing of your cars is pointless, you get better cars, better tires, better 
 engine, your placing is never affected, and quite often to afford the next class of car, you ahve 
 to run the same races you've done over n over, not even playing every 3rd map, the other 2/3rds 
 u feel greatful for 3rd place.
  
  this game just missed. it's a little bit of uniqueness in the area of repeatedtive racing, but... it 
 ends up being more repeatedtive then most. pure had more fun in the playing, and motorstorm looks 
 like it implimented the ideas that baja tried to have, you'd be better off going with one of those. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Well where to start? I love this type of game and had been looking forward to it's release with 
 a great deal of anticipation. The gamespot review put me off a little so I rented it first.... and 
 boy am I glad I did.
  I'll start with the bad things to finish on a positive note.
  Graphics: The opening sequence is excellent but the in game grahics are poor to say the least. 
 I've seen better on the PS2 to be honest. One of the first track you race has a muddy wet bit but 
 has got to be the worst bit of graphic display I've seen on the PS3. Oh yeah and the framerate 
 is distractingly poor in places.
  
  Gameplay: Controls are horrible and the vehicles feel very unresponsive. The AI can knock you off 
 line by looking at you and yet stay frustratingly in tact even when you ram them. This makes even 
 the opening round on "easy" to be quite tough to beat.
  
  On the positive side it's a great idea with plenty of customization options for the vehicles and 
 looks like being a lengthy title to complete. However there are many better titles for the genre 
 on the market with more on the way so do what I did and RENT IT FIRST!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CADMAN_3
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping that this would have been a pretty good game, but it's a huge let down from 
 the word go.
  The graphics are like looking at a bad PS1 game. I think even if this crap was released for the 
 PS1 it would still get a bad rating. The game controls are ok but should have been a lot better. 
 You'll find yourself getting mad about this game a lot.
  The vehicle selection is decent, but you can't change the colors and although you can change settings 
 you really don't notice.
  The tracks are cheesy and look just as bad as everything else in this game. It makes you wonder 
 what THQ was thinking when they released this game. They should have either sent it back or just 
 canned this game all together. 
  This isn't even a game you could wait for it to hit the bargin bin and buy it for your kids, cause 
 they would hate it and get bored with it very fast.
  It's just best to avoid this game all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of racing games but I just can't force myself to play this game anymore.
  
  I just don't know what the developers were thinking realising game with graphics that would be 
 ok on ps2 but not ps3 and xbox360 version isn't that much batter.
  
  This game should have been awesome, great idea but what we got in the end feels more like a kick 
 to the face.
  
  If you are a hard core fan and can over look, bad graphics, slow controls, bad frame rate than 
 you may convince yourself you like it.
  
  Game dose offer wide selection of car mod option, good choice of racing, it also offers a good 
 challenge as takes time geting use to controlling the car.
  
  The strange thing is it easier to control more power full cars later o in carrier mode.
  
  
 I wanted to like this game I wanted to enjoy playing this game but it's imposable.
  
  Please remember rent first 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtnjak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  [Important information for PS3 owners] I picked up this game the day it came out. I actually ended 
 up taking it back in exchange for a different disk the next day due to the disk stuttering during 
 menus and racing (I thought it was defective) . Since a second copy of the game resulted in the 
 same problem, further investigation lead me to conclude that the game, though not quite crisp graphically 
 as other racing games for the PS3, appears to suffer from what I can only guess as being a "memory 
 hog". Perhaps this is due to the games environment where the draw distances are pretty far compared 
 to other racing games out there. Part of the problem might have been that I was getting down to 
 between 5 to 10GB's of hard disk space on my 60GB drive so I cleaned house a bit and managed to 
 end up with about 15GB's free. This seem to help with the frame rate some, but I plan to purchase 
 a new larger hard drive to hopefully help out with virtual memory and hopefully make it run smoother. 
 Again, I'm not an IT guy, this is just my guess as to why the frame rate is pretty annoying at 
 times (sidenote: I'm also running it through a 52" BRAVIA LCD so I'm not sure if that factors in 
 or not) . If anyone has anymore suggestions or comments on how to smooth things out a bit more drop 
 me a line at mtnjak@gmail. com
  
  As for the gameplay itself. I always liked the ATV Off-road series and I like the big open world 
 environment of this game as well. The AI is pretty challenging and even with a jerky frame rate 
 the game is growing on me. Although after 20 minutes of racing through scenery that, at times, 
 has you asking yourself 'haven't I been here before' gets a little tiresome. 20 minutes is the 
 longest race I've tried so far. I couldn't imagine going for 3 hours. But I understand what 2XL 
 was going for with this game. They were trying to give the gamer the hybrid feel of a sim/arcade 
 racer in a big open world where races don't last for just a few minutes at a time. 
  
  I would definately recommend Baja as a rental for most people before you buy and if you're a big 
 fan of the original ATV Off-road series, probably a definate buy. It's too bad the PS3 version 
 couldn't run more smoothly though. I've posted a message to the Playstation. com forums (look for 
 'Baja game' and 'mtnjak') . I'll post updates if I end up getting a new hard drive and seeing if 
 it helps with the frame rate issue any.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
