-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battlefield: Bad Company
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/battlefieldbadcompany/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Blowing stuff up has rarely been this fun.
 Great collection of gadgets and vehicles.
 Massive 24-player multiplayer maps.
 Finally a fleshed-out single-player game.
 Excellent balance in player classes, vehicle strength, and map layouts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some enemies in campaign never graduated basic training.
 Conquest mode not available at launch.
 Graphics and textures appear grainy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,359 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Digital Illusions
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With its great multiplayer action and fleshed-out single-player campaign, Bad Company really isn't 
 bad at all. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Battlefield: 
 Bad Company Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good            Blowing stuff up has 
 rarely been this fun  &nbsp;      Great collection of gadgets and vehicles  &nbsp;      Massive 
 24-player multiplayer maps  &nbsp;      Finally a fleshed-out single-player game  &nbsp;      Excellent 
 balance in player classes, vehicle strength, and map layouts.                The Bad           
  Some enemies in campaign never graduated basic training  &nbsp;      Conquest mode not available 
 at launch  &nbsp;      Graphics and textures appear grainy.                      After The Fact: 
  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy Support    Posted: Nov 4, 
 2008 12:25 pm PT      EA recently added no fewer than  51 trophies  to Bad Company, including a 
 platinum one that can only be earned by obtaining the other 50. Some of the more imaginative trophies 
 up for grabs include knocking down 1000 trees, climbing to the highest spot in the game, and collecting 
 dog tags from 50 different players online. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev Update &nbsp;|&nbsp;  All 
 Updates (3)  &nbsp;|&nbsp;  Next Update &raquo;            

  In Battlefield: Bad Company, no one is safe. Not a sniper hiding inside a tower. Not a soldier 
 driving a massive tank. And definitely not you, as you bob and weave across a fiery sandbox of 
 destruction. If you thought the action of the Battlefield franchise was intense before, you haven't 
 seen anything yet. Thanks to a fleshed-out single-player campaign, Battlefield's trademark multiplayer 
 action, and a new level of destructibility, Bad Company is quite simply one of the most fun shooters 
 released this year.  

           This barn has seen better days.      

  With its Frostbite engine, Dice has created a warzone that is almost completely destructible. Nooks 
 and crannies that were once a safe haven in other shooters can be reduced to rubble with a well-placed 
 tank shell or mortar strike. Is a quaint Russian home standing between you and an objective? Blow 
 a hole in a wall and walk right through. The system is not perfect since not all buildings can 
 be completely destroyed. Some materials like brick may crumble to dust, but wood crates will often 
 withstand whole missile strikes. Frostbite has its foibles, but Bad Company still gives new meaning 
 to breaking and entering.  

  A good place for new players to enter is Bad Company's single-player campaign. That's right, a 
 Battlefield game has a bona fide single-player campaign and not a collection of multiplayer maps 
 littered with AI bots. You play as Private Preston Marlowe, recently reassigned to the 222nd Battalion, 
 B Company, which is a collection of misfits and castoffs that the Army likes to send into battle 
 first. B Company, in short, is expendable. You complete a four-man squad composed of Sergeant Redford, 
 a grizzled veteran who volunteered for B Company so he could retire early; Sweetwater signed on 
 to take advantage of a college scholarship without realizing he may actually have to fight; and 
 Haggard is a country bumpkin and demolitions expert who loves to blow stuff up. Together, you'll 
 fight your way into Russian territory and take out a number of well-guarded installations. When 
 the Army leaves you stranded behind enemy lines -- something about plausible deniability -- the squad 
 goes AWOL in search of mercenary gold. Along the way you'll rescue a flamboyant dictator that resembles 
 Saddam Hussein on ecstasy, and then make your escape in a pimped-out gold chopper. No, the story 
 isn't exactly the stuff of Stephen Ambrose, but the tongue-in-cheek humor and numerous unlockables 
 scattered throughout the campaign make it worth fighting.  

  Marlowe is a jack of all trades and can handle any of the weapons and vehicles in Bad Company. 
 Often he'll be in control of a mortar strike or laser designator that can lay waste to entire villages. 
 The designator is meant to be used on heavy armor, but it's hard to resist dropping 50-ton bombs 
 on lone troops just for the heck of it. There's a short recharge time so you don't inadvertently 
 start World War III here, but you'll never get tired of unleashing explosive mortar strikes on 
 our foes.  

  Your squadmates are full of friendly chatter during the campaign, but they never die and don't 
 work together very well at times. Whereas multiplayer requires you to coordinate with your teammates, 
 single-player feels as if you're truly playing alone, with three characters in the background that 
 only list new objectives and provide a little comic relief. They'll take out a few enemies, man 
 turrets and take cover, but you're doing the bulk of the work. This wouldn't be so much of an issue 
 if friends could jump online for a little co-op, but there's no option to do so unfortunately. 

  Enemy soldiers are not exactly the sharpest bunch and some have no problem standing in the open, 
 waiting for their own demise. Luckily there are so many enemies and objectives that the game never 
 feels easy, but the firefights would be even more intense if enemies more frequently made use of 
 cover, if only so you could blow it up. Marlowe comes equipped with an automatic health injector 
 that refills your life bar and can be used over and over again after a short recharge. Is stabbing 
 yourself in the heart with this panacea any more unrealistic than regenerating health as seen in 
 Call of Duty 4 and Rainbow Six Vegas? Not really. But it certainly feels cheap plunging that needle 
 into your chest every 20 seconds during an intense battle, something you'll surely do toward the 
 campaign's final few missions that border on ridiculousness. You would think that four Army oddballs 
 versus an entire mercenary force and Russian army equipped with tanks and attack choppers wouldn't 
 stand a chance, but you would be wrong, thanks to the handy health injector.  

  When you've got the hang of the weapons and gadgets of the single-player campaign, jump into Bad 
 Company's excellent online multiplayer mode. It's called Gold Rush, but it's really just a basic 
 attack and defend mode in which an attacking team tries to blow up crates of gold. If you're successful, 
 a larger portion of the map opens and the attackers push forward to do it all over again. This 
 has been done before in other games, but no one does it better than Bad Company, thanks to absolutely 
 massive maps that support 24 players, a vehicle list that includes tanks, jeeps, choppers, boats, 
 and Humvees, as well as laser-guided rocket turrets and artillery cannons. There are five character 
 classes in multiplayer and each has its own special abilities and unlockable extras that will make 
 you giddy. The specialist can lace enemy vehicles for demolitions experts -- their rockets will automatically 
 hone in on tagged targets. The sniper can utilize the laser designator to nullify tanks, and the 
 specialist can drop med kits, repair vehicles, and call in mortar strikes.  

  It's strange that the conquest mode in which teams vie for points on the map and drain enemy tickets, 
 a mainstay of the Battlefield franchise, is absent. The mode will purportedly be made available 
 as a free download at some point, but it should've been in the game right out of the box. That 
 said, you're not likely to get bored of Gold Rush anytime soon. The maps are perfectly balanced 
 with defensive turrets and offensive weaponry, and often matches are decided by the smallest of 
 margins. This is the kind of game where you call your friends to let them know you somehow sniped 
 an enemy chopper pilot or dropped a missile on the final gold crate on a map for the win. The game 
 would've benefited from more vehicles; there aren't nearly as many on each map as you find in Battlefield 
 2, so teammates will often fight over fun toys such as choppers. But with its persistent ranking 
 system and unlockable weapons, Bad Company is surely the most addicting multiplayer shooter since 
 Call of Duty 4.  

           Choppers, tanks, golf carts. If you can drive it, it's probably in Bad Company.      

 
  Be sure to crank the volume up to 11 -- Bad Company has some of the finest sound design out there. 
 A sniper shot echoes perfectly through the mountains, while indoor firefights are so loud you may 
 want earplugs. Visually the game does not fare as well. While it's by no means ugly, there is a 
 strange graininess on each texture. Even looking into the clear blue sky in the first scene of 
 the game, you'll be amazed at how fuzzy it looks. Of course, the destructible environments and 
 exciting explosions make up for any graphical shortcomings.  

  Battlefield Bad Company is the most fun, addictive shooter released so far this year. While far 
 from perfect, the intense sandbox warfare is something that you have to experience. Dice calls 
 it tactical destruction. We call it explosive fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (174 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 1994_soldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  BF: BC is a really nice FPS with a great multi-player the graphics are great the sound is good and 
 i just love the frostbite engine and it makes the game more realistic i mean to the fact that nearly 
 everything is destroyable it keeps the action and keeps you from getting bored and keeps the player 
 constantly on the move which is just great. but the story line was a bit dissapointing the game 
 is easy even on the hardest difficulty its easy and the story itself has no motivation or a clear, steady, and 
 independent story. but the amazing multi-player makes up for all of that the multi-player is just 
 amazing its full of action and the continious explosions and non-stop gunfire there are multiple 
 classes which you can choose from and a wide range of weaponary you can unlock by playing online 
 and there are medals and dogtags for doing certain feats in the game and there is alot of armory 
 i mean all what you can think of armored  alltilary guns 
 BF: BC is good game which i think is really intense i give it an 8.5 for its really good actions 
 and choices.
  THANK YOU FOR READING 
  CANT WAIT FOR BATTLEFIELD: BAD COMPANY 2:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Good first person shooter. Modern weapons. Tanks, boats, dune buggy, several armored 
 vehicles, even a chopper. Destructable environments are very fun.
  
  Positives: A decent story. A very good online experience with medals to give you something to try 
 for. Game supports trophies. Replay value (I've played thru 3x now) and spent countless hours online 
 late at night.
  
  Negatives: Online can be a bit explosive. What i mean is that with all the tanks and planes and 
 bomb drops it gets a bit rediculous. I also hated that you can spawn next to your squad members 
 because you will kill one guy and then another will be behind you and your dead. Or your sneaking 
 up to stab them and someone spawns beside you to kill you before you get him. Also I hated that 
 there was no delay before they can shoot you when you spawn. You wait the 15 seconds before being 
 allowed to respawn and then you die before you know who shot you. I am a level 25 (highest rank) 
 so i dont suck. And finally, i hated that i couldn't skip the movies during the campaign. Ive played 
 the game 3x so i really dont care about the story line anymore and i just want to play so let me!
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Yes the negatives may be a lot greater then the positives but for some reason I 
 still really enjoyed this game and would highly recommend it.
  
  
  Rent or Buy??
  This game is in the bargain bins for 15 or $20 so go pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone2_09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  "Bad Company BattleField" is a FANTASTIC game; but in my point of veiw its to simular toModern 
 Warfare" but does that make it good? well yes it does! but the only problem is that all the awsome 
 things are well kind of not as cool because you have seen them on Modern Warfare so your just meghhh 
 but the little exclusive things like DIMOLISHING BUILDINGS with your granade launcher is awsome 
 no other game that i no of does that. You can reem done fences and shot down doors but most of 
 all you can dimolish building walls :) overall the game is great.
  
  the charectors are somewhat weird but they dont really do anything but say WOW did you see that 
 expoltion or omg check that out, its funny but they dont do anything but that and speack through 
 movies. It would be better if they supported you and were more involved in the story line.
  
  i like to play a little campaign befor I tackle the multiplayer mode, the multiplayer mode 
 is crazy! alltough it did take adges to download on to the ps3 326 mb. The story mode is a great 
 and should not be over looked. your squard mates allways do something stupid or funny that will 
 make you lough. there is allways something to do like look for gold or blow up a building ect but 
 if you like going rembo like the new street fighter still or the new stealth game play like mgs4 
 the game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is one of the best FPS games to hit next generation consoles. With the 
 destructible environments and variety of vehicles and weapons no online or 1 Player game will ever 
 be the same. But with all this innovation there are still the flaws......... for the PS3 version 
 the flaw is the useless mics and unstable servers online. Here's the biggity break down.
  
  1 Player Game - 8
  
  The 1 player portion of Battlefield Bad Company was surprisingly entertaining 
 and longer than I had expected it to be, which is always nice when you feel you are getting your 
 dollar's worth, especially in these dismal financial times. The story and characters will keep 
 you engaged and motivated throughout the campaign and will regularly provide you with some laughs. 
 The maps and environments in this game are highly detailed and expansive and the variety of vehicle 
 and foot combat strike a surprising balance. One level will have you engaged in tank battles, while 
 yet another will have you tearing through river valley in an attack chopper living out scenes from 
 Apocalypse Now. The one thing that resonated throughout all of the game and all the combat varieties 
 is balance. No obstacle is ever too easy or too hard to complete and the way in which you complete 
 your goals is entirely up to you. There are no set paths and no rules. If you want to shell a town 
 with mortars until all the buildings are rubble and all the enemies are snuffed out you can. If 
 you'd rather rush in guns blazing Gung Ho style you can also do that as well. It's the sense of 
 freedom that makes the game fun, but it's the set objectives and story that push you forward to 
 your goals. I have recently played some FPS that had very cinematic and intense gameplay. On top 
 of all this it's FUN! The game never becomes frustrating and never loses it's fun factor..... a 
 solid game in the 1 Player department.
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  The visuals in BF: BC are very well done considering the size and scale of the game. The vehicles 
 and buildings are very well detailed, the water looks great and explosions and building damage 
 looks great. We have to understand that visually this game was not going to be as polished as Call 
 Of Duty 4, but the sheer size and destructibility of the levels is something to be cheered. The 
 visuals are not as photo realistic as in other shooters and there is no blood..... but what the 
 visuals do accomplish is translating the chaos of the modern day battlefield. From convincing explosions, 
 to kicked up dust clouds and wonderful smoke and fire effects this game delivers a visceral experience 
 in an ever changing and ever dynamic gaming experience. 
  
  Sound - 10
  
  The sound in BF: BC is unmatched in a shooter as far as I'm concerned. Echoes and reverberations 
 of your gunfire play off the sided of buildings and valleys giving an audio signature to your surroundings. 
 Artillery batteries can be heard rumbling in the distance announcing the shells inevitable arrival 
 on your dug in positions causing you to run in fear from your foxhole. Tank rounds whistle and 
 cut through the air as they wizz by you. Bullets tick off the bricks of the buildings and tink 
 off the concrete you are using for cover. Every gun sounds as it should, especially the heavy guns 
 mounted on vehicles and choppers. Air Support chimes in as they announce the drop of laser guided 
 bombs on the armor you have targeted. Inside the choppers you hear radio chatter and lock on warnings...... all 
 little details that further delve you into the convincing battlefield experience.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  They variety of gameplay scenarios in BF: BC is unmatched in any shooter, especially 
 in the online portion of the game. There are 5 different soldier classes (Assault, Recon, Demo, 
 Specialist, Support) each with their own special abilities..... like Snipers being able to target 
 enemy tanks and vehicles with a laser designator, or the Support class being able to heal team 
 mates, call in mortar barrages and fix vehicles. You may, as I have come to like a few classes 
 for different situations in a round. I like to run with RECON and SUPPORT depending on the situation. 
 Recon is good when a team is farther from a position you are defending and Support is better when 
 they are up in your grill, as you have a heavy machine gun and the ability to heal yourself. On 
 top of all this is the vehicular aspect of the game..... Tanks, Choppers, APCs, Jeeps, Hummers, 
 Light Armor, Boats....... expect some Tank battles as well as Air to Air Combat. As well as all 
 this you still have Artillery Guns and Stationary Weapons like Grenade launchers, Rocket launchers, 
 and heavy machine guns at fortified positions and bottle necks...... so remember to duck and cover!
 
  
  Online - 6
  
  This might be the strongest and weakest portion of BF: BC for the Playstation 3. There is no finer 
 team military game on next gen systems than BF: BC. That being said there is also no other game 
 with such a variety of technical issues holding it back from being the best team shooter period. 
 The first and most glaring problem is the mics not working. In a team tactical shooter communication 
 isn't just a nice feature to have, it's a feature that effects the way the game is played. Part 
 of the fun is missing due to the fact that you can't communicate information to your squad mates. 
 In a game that really features and ever evolving battlefield I would like to think communication 
 is a MUST! It would be nice to call in chopper support if you were pinned down by sniper fire, 
 and as the chopper lays down rockets and mini gun fire into the sniper's den you are able to advance 
 out of danger. But no.... you won't get that here. The mics are useless and it takes the community 
 aspect of the game away because in a sense you are playing a fancy 1 Player Game in which those 
 around you and those in your squad are silent partners. The other disappointing aspect of this 
 is that even if the mics did work properly you still are only able to talk to your other 3 squad 
 mates and not the entire 12 man team. Very unforgivable....... this was a standard PS2 feature...... can 
 I say Socom? The next Item up for complaint is the unstable servers. I routinely get booted from 
 games as do a large cross section of people I play with online, this included east coast USA to 
 west coast USA as well as eastern, central and western Canada... so it is not an isolated problem 
 with one Internet Provider or region..... as far as I assume it's the lackluster EA Servers and 
 shoddy game support...... no different from the mic and connection problems that plagued NHL 08 
 in my opinion. Nothing is more frustrating as a gamer to anxiously await the arrival of a shooter 
 of this magnitude through the months and months and delays to finally get to play a product that 
 is marginally stable at best. EA has the resources and the funds to correct these problems..... there 
 is really no excuse, especially when the PS3 is it's biggest profit machine in Q1 of 2008. It's 
 time for them to step up and deliver for their paying customers, there is really no excuse. The 
 final online gripe, as with every other shooter out there sans Socom is the party and lobby systems. 
 When are games seriously going to look at SOCOM's Clan/Party system. There is really no excuse 
 for a game that supports 12 vs 12 play to only allow me to invite 3 of my friends. Why can't I 
 round up 11 of my friends and go tackle another team of 12 players? Why can't I create a private 
 room with a map rotation of my choosing? Really simple basic needs in the eyes of online shooter 
 gamers that rarely if ever get delivered to us.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  Make no mistake, Battlefield: Bad Company is a Grade "A" FPS. The destructible environments alone 
 are truly a technical achievement to be welcomed and applauded. The environments and how you use 
 your environments are really what lend the air of unpredictability to this shooter and set it apart 
 from all the other shooters on the market. The mix of foot and vehicle combat as well as the variety 
 of soldier classes and weapons ensure that no two games are ever the same. With this being said, 
 there are a lot of online shortcomings and problems that keep this game from reaching the stratosphere 
 of and elite next gen online shooter. Lets hope Dice, Electronic Arts and Sony are working tooth 
 and nail to correct these problems and deliver the caliber of game we all know Battlefield can 
 truly be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksburg
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game was recommended to my by a friend, I was a bit skeptical at first because in the past 
 he has fallen a bit short with his recommendation.. Not this game, he was right on. 
  
  I like to play through story portion of a game before I tackle the multiplayer mode, like I believe 
 most do. I've read reviews that site that this games "bread and butter" is the multiplayer. The 
 story mode is a great time and should not be over looked. Your squad mates always have something 
 to say that puts a smile on your face. There is always something to look for, a new gun or gold 
 and everything can be blown up!
  
  The multiplayer modes are a lot of fun and each gives you a little different feel to the game. 
 You get to play the game with different kits, each with it's own advantages and disadvantages. 
 Support is my personal favorite, but don't lock yourself into just one, try them all and each should 
 be used in different conditions which is great. 
  
  As you play you get to move up through the ranks as you get kills, heal squad mates, and support 
 your team to victory. As you rank you get to unlock new weapons adding to your list to choose from. 
 There is a bunch of vehicles to drive, tanks, personnel transports, boats, and a helicopter. This 
 game has something for everyone. 
  
  There are two things that disappointed me about the game. One would have to be how little your 
 squad mates really matter in the battle as you go through the story mode. They are a fun group, 
 but could be more involved in supporting you through the battle. The other thing would have to 
 be more multiplayer game types. While "conquest" and "gold rush" are a good time, a few more game 
 types would add to it over all.
  
  Great game that I'm sure will just be better in the next installment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wittywizard603
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  Well, let's get the obvious points behind us: This game allows you to blow up walls, we know, this 
 was pretty much its only advertising point, the characters, while not many, are humorous and are 
 definitely individuals.
  
  Now seriously.
  First off, we have the building destruction. Now this is a great feature that will hopefully be 
 edging its way into games everywhere. Now while this is a great feature, it is quite flawed by 
 the fact that there are only three -  five buildings copy pasted everywhere (maybe with a lick 
 of paint) , you can destroy an entire 3 meters of wall with a handheld drill yet three hand grenades 
 can at best break a window and most strangely, internal walls and roofs seem to be made of pure 
 indestructibility. But overall, this is only a taste of what an engine like this is capable of.
 
  
  As for the story, its most certainly not your usual war game story, hell I've never heard of a 
 bad company. Each character is well made, you have some different personalities that still realistically 
 could get along in the same squad. Disappointing though that you have three riflemen and a demo 
 man, but hey this is just the way I could imagine it being. Annoying though that the size of your 
 entire journey would account for about 16mm on a map of West Asia (for you empirical readers, 16mm 
 is not much) . But the most important thing to remember is that it is not set in WW1 or WW2 (Praise 
 *Religious icon*) .
  
  Game play wise, it makes a brilliant balance between believable wartime combat and the over-the-top 
 style most games (GoW1/2, KZ2) seem to love. The controls are quickly intuitive and allow you to 
 do what you want. Although it is disappointing (for me at least) to have a squad combat game where 
 you have no control over your team, this is yet again done to follow the story. While the afore-mentioned 
 environment destruction is fun, it means that taking cover is like hiding behind and particularly 
 tuff wafer. 
  
  And last but not least (and also because it makes up for about  the game) the multi-player. Here, 
 think of BF2 or maybe BF2142, now take out the advanced squad mechanics and about half the players. 
 Replace the serious mood with (somewhat) lighter mood of wartime looters and you pretty much have 
 something close to BF: BC online. There is a great experience system, maps are well done (of course 
 they are just modified versions of the story maps) and play is balanced for the classes and player 
 types and skill.
  
  Not much else to say about a game except for the fact that I found it to be quite entertaining 
 and I spent a long time trying for lots of trophies for the thing. So overall I have given it eight 
 and a half gold bars.
  Please be sure to check out some of my other reviews.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada_konke
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:19 am PT
Review:  To start with, the humor in this game deserve hats off. Kept me giggling from start to end, through 
 scouts and firefights. All characters equally blended in their own notorious way in order to become 
 a team. The mission where you play as a lonewolf was the hardest from the lot as you are pampered 
 throughout the game by their support and backup. The best part of this game is the destructible 
 environments. If you don't want to take the front door to hunt your enemy, just point you bazooka 
 at the back wall and Kaboom, Open Sesame!! The feedback given by the DualShock3 is mind blowing 
 too. The game had a couple of framerate issues as well. If only the game had cooperative or offline 
 multiplayer like in the old versions of battlefield, it would have aced the base. Lets hope Bad 
 Co. 2 has all these extras added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing this when it originally came out, I tried it out again now that they added trophy 
 support. What a great game, so much fun blowing stuff up!
  
  The controls handle very well, and the gameplay was very well done, pretty simple and straightforward, 
 but at the same time so much fun..
  
  The game is very immersive, I really felt like I was one of the guys in the squad of misfits. It 
 had a good sense of humor and kept me really involved in the story. I liked listening to the dialogue 
 between the different characters, as well as all the actions and motions they were doing in the 
 cut scenes. Really good direction by the team in motion capturing the different characters movements.
 
  
  Plus, one of the few games that gets it right when you get killed, auto-respawn at the last checkpoint 
 and get on with it. I love it!
  
  The visuals were outstanding, I couldn't believe the scope of the levels and the range you could 
 see. The different sounds were very lifelike and well done also.
  
  Really looking forward to a sequel on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the demo, I thought to myself, okay, okay, this could be an okay game if they 
 really tried. Then I got the game and though to myself this game is like a 5 year old trying to 
 act 20. They have many profanities in the story and multiplayer, but they don't cross the line 
 to M level cursing. If you're going to make a game with a lot of swearing, even more so an army 
 game. You just have to put in F-bombs. Nowadays it just isn't realistic without them. But as I 
 played this game I started to grow more and more interested in the characters and the story. Let's 
 start with the characters and what is good and what's bad about them.
  
  Preston Marlow (You) : This character dosn't really seem like he should be in bad company. He never 
 swears from what I can recall, he seems embarassed to be stuck with these weird people at the beginning 
 of the game. He seems like a nice guy. . . a nice guy who gets a lot of blood on his hands throughout 
 the story.
  
  Sweetwater (Nerdy Comic relief) : this is the nerd who wound up in the army, he is very funny in 
 his arguements with Haggard and Redford over how he never shuts up and Truckasaurus Rex. He does 
 have a slight conflicting personality, he says that he never wanted to be in the field yet he is 
 probably the most bloodthirst person on the squad other then your character of course. I had one 
 experience with a commie backed into the wall and was about to kill him when Sweetwater runs up 
 shoots the guy until there wouldn't have been much left if it were real life
  
  Haggard (Stupid Explosive Loving Hick, Probably my favorite character though) : Haggard is the funniest 
 character in the game, from his stupid comments that only he could take seriously, to his single-handedly 
 invading a neutral country Haggard does exactly what he is meant to do, be retarded, there's not 
 much more to say for this loveable character.
  
  Sergeant Redford (The tough guy who actually seems like he might be from the military) : Redford, 
 the leader of the group, excells at making fun of Sweetwater and his catchphrase is even Sweetwater. 
 . . Just Shut UP!!!
  
  The graphics are better then I thought they would be and even though they probably arn't the best 
 graphics, they're definitely contenders for the top twenty.
  
  The voice acting really makes the characters come alive, and soon you actually start to feel bad 
 for your little band of misfits as the army mistreats them and uses them over and over again.
 
  
  If there is really one thing that I can actually consistently complain about it's that the main 
 bad guy, The Leigonnaire, is never really seen, you fight his private mercinary army more then 
 almost any other enemy, but you only see him once or twice for about 5 seconds, and the ending 
 of the game where you have to fight someone you've only heard rumors about and completely pone 
 him.
  
  Oh well, the game itself covers up even this fairly major flaw pretty well.
  
  The gameplay has been complained about, and I understand that, but here's the deal, if you don't 
 play on hard or even normal first, just try easy first to get used to the controls, you'll do just 
 fine, don't complain about the controls when you're playing on hard, because hard, is really really 
 hard.
  
  Online Gold Rush mode is really fun, squads are a nice touch and you can quickly grow close to 
 your squad mates if you work well together. One time, My entire team left except for two of my 
 squad mates, this left the three of us up against twelve level 25 or very close to it gamers. (25 
 is best) Through all the helicopter, artillery, sniper, assault rifle, missle launcher, and tank 
 fire. Our small ragtag group of 3 ended up winning the entire match. Our base couldn't quite say 
 the same, the buildings had been barraged by so much heavy fire, there was only a foundation left. 
 The ground was pockmarked with black trenches from the artillery, Some areas were only black. It 
 was a great pride filled victory.
  
  This game is immense fun and the more you play it the funnier it gets. I highly recommend it to 
 first person shooter lovers and comedy lovers too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgwii
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  i just finished beating this game on the easy diffuculty and loved the ride. I will start with the 
 good which is most everything. most shooters today present themselves in such a serious fashion 
 and bad company is very refsreshing. so few games these days can be funny and taken seriously and 
 this one is hard to take seriously too but its one of the closest ive seen in a while. The humer 
 in this game is so underapriciauated and i feel i need to adress it but it is definetly worth expierenceing 
 yourself so im not going say anything but that you will find this game hilarious. the plot of this 
 game is also solid but i dont want to spoil anything so anything that i put in brackets might spoil 
 it for you. it is about i belive a world war three in which you are fighting the russians. although 
 i belive russians may find this game a little offensive it dosnt really say much other the that 
 your fighting them. (however your squad later finds a organisasion of mercanaries with a large 
 amount of gold and abandon the army to look for it and consequantly invade a neutral country and 
 make the war a lot bigger.) . the ranging of vehicles and weapons in this game just add to the fun 
 as they are so numerous and varied ranging from shotguns to snipers to automatics and from golf 
 carts to helicopters to tanks. you also have some pretty cool gadgets like mortar strike and air 
 strike designaters and something i will talk about called a chemical despenser. the chemical despenser 
 is a needle which heals you. although it must recharge it is a little unfair and makes it a little 
 to easy at times although is in my opinion a good alternative to call of dutys system which you 
 just take cover and your back to normal in no time or just having no healing whatsoever. that is 
 pretty much it for the good so here is the bad. as i said before the chemical despencer should 
 take a lot longer to recharge. my second complaint is that the enemys in this game are so unpredictable. 
 sometimes they are relentless and wont let anyone pass and sometimes they dont pull the trigger 
 until your a foot away from them although this doesnt really matter as much as you might think 
 because killing enemys is not the biggest aspect of the game. also the single player campaign seems 
 to be a bit short although the online play more than makes up for that. but before i talk about 
 the online play i also have one more complaint. there is no splitscreen option so this game is 
 not the best party game. now i will talk about online play which i thought was a bit big to include 
 with the rest of it. the online play here is as good as you will find on the ps3. it is a little 
 derrivative of call of duty but still great. the rankings are the most fun part of it which go 
 up with the more skill you get. my only complaint about the online play is that conquest and goldrush 
 are the only two modes and goldrush seems like it should be more of an extra. so no team death 
 match or anything like that. overall bad company is a great game and definetly worth it now that 
 its gone down in price so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is very much the kind of army I could imagine Eurogamer inhabiting. Comprised of all 
 the ne'er-do-wells, workshy fops and insubordinates that you wouldn't even want on your paintball 
 team, we'd be the guys any sensible army would send out as cannon fodder to lull the opposition 
 into a false sense of security. Of course, what would transpire is that we were only pretending 
 to be shot-shy slackers, and, when put in life-or-death scenarios we'd rise to the challenge and 
 kick everyone's arse.
  
  Placed in this no-win situation in DICE's latest console-oriented take on the Battlefield series, 
 you find yourself filling the role of the improbably named Preston Marlow (no doubt inspired by 
 DICE's two favourite English branches of Little Chef) . This unassuming, down-to-earth rookie is 
 joined on his adventures by three rather clueless but usefully invincible Bad Company squadmates: 
 Sarge, Sweetwater and Haggard. Afforded precious little respect by your superiors, when things 
 don't quite go to plan, you and your knuckle-headed trio decide to chase a trail of mercenary gold 
 in the misguided belief that they'll be able to bag all this tasty loot for themselves. Set across 
 seven sprawling campaign missions, the single player portion of Bad Company is an unexpected treat. 
 Building on the sense of open-ended freedom we've come to expect from the Battlefield series for 
 years, DICE has finally managed to distill all the good ideas of its multiplayer-focused titles 
 to often breathtaking effect. The key weapon in distinguishing Bad Company from the legion of samey 
 first person shooters is evidently its beautiful and versatile Frostbite engine. By offering the 
 level designers immense scope in so many areas, it's the first shooter to emerge in a long time 
 that demonstrates a significant evolution of the genre.
  
  For a start, the pre-release boast about "90 per cent destructibility" isn't that far from the 
 truth. Not having paid an awful lot of attention to the hype, it was quite a shock to discover 
 that you can't simply duck behind walls, trees and other cover points and expect to be able to 
 hide from an incoming missile like you've been able to do in pretty much every FPS ever. In Bad 
 Company, the chances are that the tree you were hiding behind will fall on top of you, or building 
 you ducked into will be reduced to a hollow shell, while you peer ruefully through an enormous 
 cloud of brick dust and smoke to get your bearings and find your next tenuous cover point. This, 
 of course, has major implications when you're on the offensive, too. Finally, you can flush out 
 enemies from their sneaky camping positions, knowing full well that a well-placed grenade or rocket 
 will cause pandemonium. Gone are the days of ridiculously impregnable sandbags, fences and thin 
 brick walls, replaced by a much more physical environment that you can blow the crap out of. Just 
 as significant is the Frostbite engine's ability to render vast, sprawling, vivid environments 
 that boast arguably the most detailed, convincing outdoor scenes on a console title to date. Significantly, 
 that famed Battlefield freedom has finally been translated into a coherent single player campaign, 
 where your choice of route can have a distinct bearing on your chances of success. Governed by 
 a linear succession of objectives, the route you take to get there can often be genuinely up to 
 you. Be it stealthily on foot, sniping everything from afar or storming the gates in a tank, you 
 simply use whatever hardware's at your disposal and set about taking down everyone in your way, 
 in whichever way you can. With gunships and motorboats occasionally upping the ante further still, 
 the moments when Bad Company is firing on all cylinders are thrillingly epic.
  
  Wisely, Bad Company never takes itself too seriously, either, avoiding the inevitable 'So Macho' 
 territory of four super-serious steroid-pumped leathernecked marine jocks Hooyah-ing their way 
 through another appallingly scripted journey into cliche-ridden tedium. Full of surprisingly warm 
 humour, you're never left in any doubt that this lot are in the Bad Company ranks for a very good 
 reason, though at no stage does the storyline descend into parody, either. It's a fine line that 
 DICE successfully negotiates. It's a fool's (gold) errand where the fun comes from seeing what 
 ludicrous scenario they can stumble upon next rather than yet another eye-rolling save-the-world 
 trudge into sterility.
  
  With so much experience of crafting Battlefield titles down the years, it's no surprise that everything 
 feels exceptionally polished. Whether you're steaming along in an APC, piloting a helicopter or 
 dodging tank shells in a speedboat, the handling is always intuitive and satisfying. Likewise, 
 the multitude of weapons feel (and sound) absolutely spot-on. In a genre so saturated of late, 
 it's the little things that often jar, but in practically every sense, Bad Company feels like the 
 product of a developer inspired to make something that pushes things forward. That said, in the 
 process of making bold decisions, there are a few controversial choices that DICE has made which 
 might not gain universal acclaim. The most obvious is the curious, bold decision to spawn players 
 back into the single player game, as if you've got infinite lives. Evidently a legacy of its multiplayer 
 roots, there's an inescapable sense that you're cheating your way through the game. Safe in the 
 knowledge that you'll simply respawn a few paces back, you'll continually chalk off a few enemies, 
 get blown up and run back to continue the battle - except on a few time-sensitive, mission-critical 
 occasions when the game deems it necessary to enforce checkpoints if you fail.
  
  Near-instant respawning is a design decision which certainly cuts down on re-loading time (and 
 a fair amount of frustration) , but it does smack of an idea based on fixing a lack of balancing 
 than anything. The truth is, if the game didn't respawn you, it would be mercilessly difficult 
 and almost certainly very frustrating, so it's hard not to consider it a controversial decision. 
 Equally questionable is your ability to endlessly heal yourself by doing nothing more than injecting 
 yourself with some sort of magic potion. Fair enough, recharging health and endless medipacks are 
 an equally ludicrous game mechanic, but it does feel faintly bizarre to have to constantly press 
 L1/LB followed by the right trigger/R2 in the heat of battle. Frankly, given the option of a cheating 
 health restoring fudge, recharging health does the exact same job without constantly requiring 
 the player to juggle equipment when you'd rather have your weapon to hand. There's also a sense 
 that the enemy AI isn't especially dynamic or adaptive - just irritatingly accurate. Having completed 
 the game on the hard difficulty setting, it's especially noticeable, with enemies capable of picking 
 you off with unerring accuracy the split second you move into their line of sight from improbable 
 distances (interestingly, the problem is still apparent on Medium) . Somewhat disappointingly, there's 
 never any evidence of teamwork on their part, with no big chases ensuing, or surprise flanking 
 - just a continual procession of entrenched enemy to pick off one by one. Squad AI, too, is often 
 noticeably inert, with frequent instances of your team mates failing to take the initiative in 
 glaringly obvious situations. Worse still, despite your squaddies being specialists in different 
 areas, there are a number of occasions when the game still forces you to deal with situations that 
 they would have logically dealt with. The sum total of this inherent lack of flexibility is that 
 the further you progress, the more predictable and transparent the whole experience becomes.
  
  Bad Company is still very entertaining if you take it at face value. It has a huge amount going 
 for it if you try not to think about it too hard, but you sense that the shackles still restrict 
 it from being a true single player representation of the mighty Battlefield experience. The most 
 obvious restriction is the way the game binds enemy behaviour to a tiny local zone, when the scale 
 and scope of these sprawling maps suggests the potential was so much greater. For now, though, 
 we must be content with the freedom offered by the immense destructibility, the removal of arbitrary 
 'corridors' funneling you through the game world, the choice of weapons and how you get to your 
 eventual destination, rather than how convincingly the game reacts to your actions. Needless to 
 say, the game's multiplayer component removes many of these issues at a stroke, allowing you to 
 get stuck into a truly rampaging 24-player Gold Rush match. As detailed at considerable length 
 by Dan during the beta, the premise of defending or attacking crates of gold is riotously entertaining, 
 extremely lag tolerant and a huge amount of fun - largely as a consequence of the sheer destructibility 
 of the environment. Having dipped into a test server last week, and engaged in some 'real-world' 
 online action today, basically everything Dan observed in the beta still holds true, so there's 
 no need to go over old ground here. In summary, the savage fury of the experience will either be 
 very much a Good Thing, or something to send you scurrying for something a little less chaotic. 
 Personally, I had a lot of fun, but you can expect to die a lot in the process of learning the 
 ropes.
  
  As is always the case with Battlefield games, the bewildering degree of choice available to you 
 in terms of vehicles, loadout and routes available to you presents an almost vertical learning 
 curve to the unwary, but comes into its own once you figure out a strategy and can rely on like-minded 
 team to figure out a strategy. Initial sessions are absolutely insane, and it's quite likely that 
 it'll remain that way for at least the first few weeks until a community builds up and begins to 
 figure things out. Later, remember, the Conquest will be downloadable for free, so there's plenty 
 to extend the lifespan of the game long after you're done with the Story mode and have had your 
 fill of the eight maps available in Gold Rush mode.
  
  Once you've experienced the various highs and lows that Bad Company has to offer, it feels like 
 an immensely polished, ambitious effort that will build up a strong following for all the right 
 reasons. The single player portion, while never less than hugely entertaining, stops short of true 
 greatness thanks to a few fundamental design shortcuts which offer easy health restoring concepts 
 seemingly at the expense of balanced AI. Some of this is irrelevant in the online mode, and the 
 profound implications of a massively destructible environment make it a unique proposition in online 
 gaming right now - albeit a riotous chaotic one. Riccitiello needn't have worried.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshMiester
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  If I had a chance to choose between Resistance, Call of Duty 4, and Battlefield: Bad Company. I 
 wouldn't hesitate to pick Battlefield: Bad Company. Join Redford, Haggard, and Sweetwater in B- 
 Company fight against the Russians along side the US army. This game is packed with amazing graphics, 
 cool weapons, good selection of vehicles, and best of all, good humor. 
  You have committed a crime and you have two choices, jail or Bad Company. You choose Bad Company 
 and you and three other men (Redford, Haggard, and Sweetwater) are pitted against the Russians 
 and are also ordered to fight with the US army and follow all orders given. But instead of that, 
 you find yourself a better reason to fight, the fact that there is gold.
  Blow up buildings, obliterate Russian mercenaries, and keep gold for yourself. Drive a golf caddy, 
 fly a helicopter, cruise in a boat, launch missile. If you would love to do it in reality, you 
 can do it in Battlefield: Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltjg_urbas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:05 am PT
Review:  From the very beginning the storyline of the game catches the player's attention. Who wouldn't 
 love a game involving a company of misfits in the Army who go in before everyone else and take 
 care of the relaly tough jobs. The enormous arsenal of weapons available is a great bonus for the 
 game and the added side story of the gold hunt makes the game keep growing on you as you continue 
 playing. The graphics and sound are pretty good. I haven't had a chance to play online yet, but 
 I'm sure it's just as good as the single player campaign. I would definitely recommend this game 
 to anyone who enjoyed playing Mercenaries or Call of Duty 4. Bad Company offers a gaming environment 
 where anything is possible. Any vehicle can be used and if it's broken, just pull out yor power 
 tool and fix her up. The map doesn't constrict you too much. There's still the red zone where you'll 
 be bo, bed to death, but for the most part it follows the same free roaming spirit of Mercenaries. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindibudd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  I am a Battlefield veteran, having played 1942, Road to Rome, Secret Weapons, Desert Combat (mod) , 
 2, Spec Ops, and 2142. I love me some Battlefield. Now when I saw Bad Company for consoles, I was 
 skeptical because I was not sure how well it would be adapted for use with a controller, but I 
 downloaded the demo and shot a chopper out of the sky with an RPG. At that moment, I had to own 
 this game. Bad Company is both multiplayer and single player and I will deal with the latter first. 
 The single player campaign does a good job of getting you familiar with the way the different weapons 
 and vehicles behave so it is worth it to go through for this reason alone. The story isn't all 
 that interesting so just think of it as boot camp. Now onto multiplayer! This is what I call a 
 real sandbox game. There is no story in the multiplayer, you just flat out blast other players 
 away or get blasted yourself. You can do any number of things, from driving a tank to flying a 
 chopper to pounding the sand with your assault rifle. It is about as fun as you can expect it to 
 be. The rewards system is rock solid and you can pick and choose the weapons that suit your favorite 
 playing style as you level up. Then if you get bored playing the Gold Rush multiplayer variant, 
 you can switch to what I call Real Battlefield with the Conquest mode. Because Battlefield games 
 were born on the PC, Bad Company is going to be compared to those iterations and maybe unfairly 
 at times. Yet I can say without a doubt that this is incessantly amusing and a real pleasure to 
 play when you get the hang of things. Pros: Excessively fun multiplayer battles with up to 32 players 
 and all that entails. Cons: No parachutes from Choppers. No lying prone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4NZEL-709
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best battlefield games ever great story great comedy great multiplayer the only 
 thing wrong is the story lenght it is very short, you wil be able to beat it in 6 hours in medium 
 and 4 in easy but to finish it with all trophies and collectables thats about 10 hours.
  Gameplay: Awesome very fun and very entertaining especially blowing stuff up and listening to what 
 the others say sometime loads of weapons loads of fun.
  Multiplayer: One of the best large maps large amounts of weapons and great fun if you are playing 
 with your friends and driving over pepole BTW if you are a good sniper in FPS games this will be 
 fun its super large maps make it even more fun sniping 
  Story: Funny entertaining and especially short could have goten a 9.5 if it were longer.
  Overall: 
 Great game a must buy recomend Gold edition About 10 or 20 bucks more.
  Enjoi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Battle Field Bad Company is a classic war game. This game has many aspects that make it stick in 
 your head for a long time. The storyline flowed easily and had comedy mixed in with action and 
 mischeif. The graphics and sound were also one of the best of its time.
  
  The one thing that makes Battle Field stick in your head for a long time is that it was the most 
 realistic war game of its time. ( I think it still is ) The fact that you can blow through walls 
 with an RPG or grenade launcher and make a path through cities instead of using the roads makes 
 it fun to stalk your enemies on online multiplayer. Also, you can blow a hole in the roof of the 
 house where an enemy Demo-Man is hiding so you can take him out quickly. The sound and great graphics 
 also surrond you and make you feel like you are actually in the game and out on the battle field.
 
  
  One other major aspect of Battle Field is it's addictive 2-24 online multiplayer. What makes it 
 so addictive is how there are 25 different ranks and you're always in battles trying to earn points 
 and rise up to the top rank! There are two different online modes with eight maps each which gives 
 you a varity of choices. There are also 5 different classes and there are about 55 weapons in all 
 on multiplayer, 11 weapons for every class. There is also a variety of 20 trophies for the online 
 play and about 120 in game awards!
  
  One last subject is the awesome story line! With seven fun missions you're always occupied and 
 the story line runs flawlessly with no bumps or off topic subjects. This game also supports tophies 
 with 2 possible trophies for every one of the seven levels out of 51 trophies in all. There is 
 an even balence of comedy, war action and mischief spread throughout the game.
  
  To wrap it all up, this game is a classic war game that has great graphics and sound. It packs 
 a lot of fun whether it's fighting your friends on one of the many online maps or if you're fighting 
 your way through small towns while chasing a load of gold on story mode, it packs a punch and keeps 
 you wanting more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  Featuring one of the most abitious and innovative multiplayer suites prior to the outstanding Call 
 of Duty 4, Battlefield 2 was one of the greatest multiplayer shooters ever produced. To gauge just 
 how successful the game was, virtually every modern warfare shooter produced since Battlefield 
 2 borrows significant aspects of its arsenal and gameplay gimmics, Call of Duty 4 included. This 
 leaves virtually any further iteration of the Battlefield series that is set in a modern environment 
 open to massive scrutiny by anyone who has played the outstanding Battlefield 2. Bad Company improves 
 upon virtually almost every aspect of the previous console iteration, Battlefield 2: Modern Warfare, 
 an abysmal game that had few redeeming qualities and only impressed the poor souls who had not 
 played the glorious PC version bearing almost the same name who knew enough to realize Modern Warfare 
 was a broken, utterly watered down bastard child of the namesake title. However, even with all 
 of its improvements, Bad Company still doesn't even come up to par with Battlefield 2, a game released 
 almost 5 years ago. 
  
  IT ACTUALLY CONTAINS A SINGLE PLAYER COMPONENT:
  
  To gauge exactly how bad the previous console iterations of this series was, one of the prime draws 
 of Bad Company is simply the fact that it has a single player campaign to play through. No previous 
 Battlefield game had ever featured a single player campaign that not only had persistant characters, 
 but also an engaging storyline that makes sense. While Bad Company has an incredible cast of characters, 
 the story is almost non-existant. The player is led to believe that he has been busted down to 
 serve in a misfit company of outcasts and screwups, however, this same company, throughout the 
 campaign, completely annihilates the Russian Army in its path, including its special forces units, 
 and eventually destroys a group of mercenary Legionaires, dubbed by one of the protagonists as 
 "the deadliest army in the world." This is funny, considering you completely lay them to waste 
 in an almost laughable fashion. The story basically sees this indestructable group of misfits chasing 
 after the Legionaires' gold stockpile in an attempt to get rich while going AWOL, then repeatedly 
 getting knocked right back into place by the U. S. Army, until finally, mission accomplished, unrespected, 
 they are right back where they started, cue the inevitable sequel. 
  
  While the characters are all engaging, will make you laugh constantly, and are probably the best 
 cast to be seen in a shooter in recent memory, virtually nothing else about the campaign draws 
 the player into it as effectively. The environments in this game, with a few notable exceptions, 
 are all bland, completely devoid of detail, and generic. Yes, one of the greatest draws to this 
 game is the fact that you can destroy virtually everything, but the problem here is that it has 
 a laughably limited impact, and the environment lacks any realistic detail in allowing you to destroy 
 it. You will make your way through a wide, sweeping vista of rolling countryside, only to find 
 it populated with zero civilians. You will blow holes into countless houses, only to find nothing 
 in them at all except possibly a few ammo crates or some makeshift cots. Also of bizarre note is 
 the fact that you cannot open doors, just destroy them, rendering them inconvenient barriers. The 
 enemies are also another sore-spot. While I give EA props for using Russia as the main antagonist, 
 the troops you encounter are completely devoid of sense. They are incapable of using cover, will 
 not try to flank you or use any tactics, seem not to care about their comrades or their own lives, 
 basically running at you or standing still until you kill them. This is also a uniform tendency 
 regardless of what enemy class you encounter, the only difference being on harder difficulties 
 or when facing Legionaire troops, enemy fire inflicts more damage on you. There are a number of 
 hidden collectible weapons and gold deposits strewn throughout the campaign maps, offered a low 
 degree of replayability... However acquiring these objects offers no real long-term gameplay benefit 
 to the player, if your collected arsenal could be drawn upon prior to missions it would offer a 
 definite upside to picking them all up, but as it stands you start each mission in the campaign 
 with the slate wiped clean, armed with the basic M4. 
  
  The Frostbite engine's destructible environments are a definite plus, they give a sense of weight 
 to the conflict going on around you and you will immediately notice with disdain other shooters 
 that don't feature this high level of destruction. However the destruction just doesn't feel right. 
 The player can destroy a wall with a rifle-propelled grenade and the enemy soldiers shooting at 
 you from behind it will still be standing there firing when the smoke clears. Tank rounds evaporate 
 walls they make direct contact with but neither travel through to the other side nor leave the 
 kind of destructive mark you might expect.
  
  The sound is also top-notch, Bad Company sounds better than virtually any shooter produced at the 
 time of this review. With the exception of the silenced compact assault rifles, all weapons uniformly 
 sound meaty, powerful, echo appropriately outdoors and are muffled indoors. Explosions sound fantastic, 
 the ambient natural outdoor effects are excellent, and vehicles all sound exactly like they should 
 in regards to their real world counterparts. The soundtrack is also phenomenal, hopefully the same 
 orchestral group that did this game will be back in the next iteration, as they do great work. 
 
  
  
  
  BAD COMPANY MULTIPLAYER, A CRISIS OF IDENTITY:
  
  Bad Company's multiplayer suite, however, for the first time in virtually all iterations of the 
 series, is definitely not up to par with its single player campaign. Succinctly speaking, multiplayer 
 is not even up to par with most shooters available on the PlayStation 3. Multiplayer graphics have 
 been 'dumbed down' quite a bit to ensure no framerate or latency hitches in the large-scale 24 
 player games, to the point that this game absolutely cannot compete with graphical benchmark titles 
 like Call of Duty 4, Gears of War 2, Call of Duty: World at War, and the upcoming Killzone 2. Most 
 of the animation is stiff and awkward in comparison to these titles as well, as if the player motion 
 capture was not very streamlined by EA's dev team. Sound is also bizarrely inconsistent, as oftentimes 
 an enemy will shoot you with a weapon that, by all means, should either produce tracers or a lot 
 of bullet report and you will die without any audio indication of where the enemy fire came from. 
 Tank rounds will rip past you and obliterate a structure behind you, yet it lacks the visceral 
 audio cue of having happened. 
  
  The menu system is absolutely the worst of any Battlefield game yet produced. Outside of a game, 
 you can only see your rank by going into the LEADERBOARDS section of the menu, and the game offers 
 no real report of your performance outside of this function. You can view what trophies, patches 
 and awards you have received but they offer no real gameplay benefit and are implemented in such 
 a haphazard way as to render them pointless. The statistics the menu displays are also broken, 
 they do not update automatically from match to match, and you will often play hours of this game 
 only to have absolutely no idea of how you are doing overall. Squad support is finally included 
 in a console iteration of Battlefield, allowing players to spawn on their fellow squadmates instead 
 of at specific waypoints or locations. However, you CANNOT choose which squad you want to belong 
 to, meaning, if you join a game and your squadmates are snipers and you are not, or, more importantly, 
 if your squadmates are all absolutely terrible players, you will probably never want to spawn on 
 them making squads an irrelevant part of your experience. 
  
  The meat and bones of why this game fails: the basic shooting in the multiplayer component of this 
 game is, while well-intentioned, bad. Battlefield 2 allowed the player to toggle multiple fire 
 rates in their firearms, and while the player damage was definitely underexaggerated, it still 
 managed to provide for a level of tactical finesse while providing a degree of realism. This also 
 allowed player classes that typically were designed for a specific role, ie, the SpecOps class, 
 to excel both at close quarter combat while in full auto and then provide an ability to snipe while 
 in single shot, while lending a degree of freedom in terms of gameplay. Bad Company only allows 
 full auto fire, pidgeon-holing every class into a specific role, distance, mid-range, or close 
 quarters while offering no chance of attempting anything else with that loadout. Specialist caught 
 a Rifleman in the open at range? Specialist is toast. Rifleman caught a Demoman in close quarters? 
 Rifleman is gone. This type of rigid system can work in games like the Call of Duty series where 
 players are confined to limited spaces, but in the Battlefield series the 'limited spaces' are 
 wide-open battlefields. 
  
  Player movement speed as a result of these wide-open spaces is unrealistically fast. The regenerating 
 health system of the campaign is gone, replaced by a lifebar; player health as a result of this 
 is extraordinarily high, players can withstand an inhuman number of body and multiple headshots 
 before dying. Furthermore, because players move so quickly and take so much damage, the amount 
 of ammo every weapon can hold (the exception being Sniper and Demoman weapons) is ridiculously 
 high. Be prepared to see 50-round assault rifle and submachinegun magazines as a commonplace situation 
 in this game. Combine these two factors with a shooting system that basically allows players to 
 hold down the trigger but still spray accurate fire and you have a mindless sprayfest that takes 
 very little skill to excel. Theoretically the player can bring up his ironsights to take more accurate 
 shots, but because player health and movement speed is so high as well as incredibly accurate from-the-hip 
 fire and you have a sitting duck yet precisely aiming fool. Aiming down the sight only provides 
 results when you have caught a target completely by surprise at a distance, likely with his back 
 facing you. What this all means is that a single player can simply take an entire recently-spawned 
 squad by surprise and mow them all down with bullets to spare, reload, hide, and repeat the massacre 
 again. Regenerating health would have allowed for lower player health numbers, lower ammo counts, 
 less bullet spray, and essentially, opportunities for players to live longer (or shorter, depending 
 on your view) . 
  
  There is also a plethora of unlockable weapons with which the player can utilize for his specific 
 class. However, because there is such a small difference between these firearms, and considering 
 the constantly running while spraying-and-praying gameplay, the differences between these unlockable 
 guns is mostly irrelevant. The vast majority of these weapons don't feel any different when you 
 are shooting them and they all produce the same results, so a player who is using the default weapons 
 of a class can expect to see the same results as a player who is using an unlockable weapon of 
 the very highest rank. For example, what is the point of working your way up to unlock an XM8C 
 with the specialist class if it offers only a few slight improvements and weaknesses compared to 
 the default SCAR-L? Moreover, each class has a "magic" unlockable weapon that does a slight bit 
 more damage than every other weapon available to that class, for example the Specialist gets the 
 UMP and Recon gets the M95 Barrett; these guns outkill virtually every other weapon in their class 
 and are widely used because of it, therefore what is the point of doing anything different? 
  
  Also at odds with the basic shooting aspects of this game are the vehicles, which are all excellently 
 balanced. There is a rock-paper-scissors system going on between vehicles that works to make none 
 of them feel too overpowered, although a skilled helicopter pilot can pretty much lay waste to 
 an enemy team in ways that haven't been seen since fighter pilots decimated entire teams of players 
 in Battlefield 2. It is odd that vehicles play such a limited role in a majority of the Bad Company 
 matches that are played; tanks never make the player feel like they are in a massively-upgunned 
 armoured vehicle but rather in a moving target while an invisible clock ticks down before a JDAM 
 or a well-positioned anti-tank mine or rocket knocks you out. The destructibility of the environments 
 also works against the multiplayer game in the same ways as it does the single player games; these 
 maps are all completely devoid of basic detail, mostly just groups of empty houses with some trees 
 that will soon be knocked down on a few hills. 
  
  This destructibility also unbalances the infantry classes: rifleman come equipped with grenade 
 launchers that can tear apart any structure while also having excellent long-distance firepower. 
 Riflemen can therefore destroy all the cover or obstacles that short-range or single-shot classes 
 like the Specialist, Demoman, and Recon classes all thrive within and then gun them down from a 
 distance with a high rate of fire. If the player is any of these poor classes and has no cover, 
 he will be easily dispensed with. Furthermore, the only players that can heal other players is 
 the Support class. The Support class is also the only class that can dispense ammo and repair vehicles. 
 This is absolutely ridiculous. This puts way too much responsibility on the shoulders of one class; 
 unless a Support player is fully committed to 'supporting' others versus achieving the highest 
 possible score, a team is going to be hurting for health, ammo, or vehicle repairs. 
  
  CONCLUSIONS:
  
  These reasons are primarily why this game fails in multiplayer; the devs were 
 so concerned about maintaining balance while also keeping this game accessible to the casual gamer 
 that the inevitable result was a bland, boring experience that pales in comparison to a wide variety 
 of other shooters currently on the market. To be sure, dedicated Battlefield fans will love this 
 game and play it for hours, but for either that casual gamer or that tactical shooter fan this 
 game offers no perks to keep it spinning in their PS3. This is also a game where experience is 
 extremely important; knowledge of maps, class abilties and limitations as well as constant teamwork, 
 are all key to success. Good players will always want to play with other good players, those that 
 cannot keep up are run over rough-shod. This puts this game in a bizarre place, on the one hand 
 those that coordinate with one another constantly win because of that coordination, on the other 
 hand the core gameplay is so dumbed down and devoid of skill that a single person with even basic 
 shooter abilities can minorly derail this well-coordinated effort (but never enough to win a game 
 without that coordination) . Battlefield is straddling a very thin line in a bizarre way with Bad 
 Company; it is time for the series to drastically depart on a direction to either highly-accessible 
 or highly-tactical gameplay, the middle-ground between the two absolutely does not work. Finally, 
 simple upgrades to both the menu system and the in-game options (like a squad menu) would have 
 massively improved this game's multiplayer experience, but without them it fails. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is an fps. You may be thinking "oh no, not another fps", but battlefield 
 really is unique.
  
  The Good:
  - Brilliant online play capable of holding up to 16 players
  - Weapons feel comfortable and controlable
 
  - Scenery is most destructive to date
  - Story is fun, but funny as well
  - Vehicles feel natural
  - Weapons are realistic
  
  The Bad:
  - Online lag can at times 
 ruin the game
  - Game is prone to breaking online (gun disappears, cant shoot etc)
  - Short story
  - Very very easy (not online though)
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game is certainly 
 worth 20 quid, no more though. It keeps you coming back and trophies are well thought out. The 
 story makes sense and the online is pretty decent, although would be nice to have more game modes.
 
  
  Rating:
  | | | | | | | | | -
  (9/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrumahBoy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  Bad Company adds a new style of gameplay to the ever changing world of First Person Shooters. Most 
 FPS games say they offer destructible environments, but none truly affect the actual gameplay as 
 well as BF: BC does. They implement it so well that you can play the same part over and over and 
 still get a different outcome. Like instead of dashing into a house full of mercenaries, try blowing 
 a hole in the wall with your grenade launcher then picking off the remaining survivors with your 
 gun. Very simple additions add such dramatic gameplay, especially in multiplayer when you are on 
 the defending team protecting the crates. Try camping in the corner of a building with a tank blowing 
 the walls around you to pieces!
  
  However, BF: BC has been getting bad reviews an slammed for "bullet time". Now I don't mean Matrix/time 
 bending bullet time. I mean the speed of the bullet. In some games (that will remain nameless) 
 bullets go unrealistically fast, have no drop rate, or even a deceleration rate over large areas. 
 BF: BC though displays these variables that most unexperienced players (in that field) do not like, 
 who then hammer the game repeatedly in that same area. Realistically speaking, you must "lead" 
 (pronounced 'leed' not 'led') your shots while sniping.
  
  Despite a couple flaws that I don't ever hear anybody complaining about, like the very short amount 
 of time it takes for a broken item to disappear (for ex: a fallen tree) . Or maybe even a couple 
 issues I have with the destructibility of things. given the extensive amount of time put into this 
 factor, I would have thought after about 5 minutes straight of shooting a building with a tank 
 that it would finally collapse (but it doesn't) .
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  *A 
 side note, this is the same review from my old account. I just updated it to my new one.
  
  Also along with all of the above, you must also take into account all that they did to improve 
 the game since then. They have added new trophies, modes, and umm stuff... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  battle field bad company. the latest in the battlefield series. so whats so bad about this company...
 
  
  a few days ago i was in EB getting my next ps3 game when i noticed BF: BC i decided to get it i 
 went home and discovered an amazing sleeper hit in my opinion...
  
  i decided to do multiplayer first eventually i went quite far in the ranks so far Ive got the: 
 M16, auto injector, remote explosives, new sniper and mortar strike and maybe some more i forget. 
 after playing BC and loving the multiplayer i knew i would never do single player until i went 
 on Home and swore a few thousand times and got banned form PSN for a day. i decided to do multiplayer 
 on hard. it was fairly good and i was surprised at how deep they went for a war story like this. 
 sure the jokes were hit or miss but unlike other games you sorta connect to them. Sweet water the 
 shy support guy, haggard the guy that likes things to go ''BOOM'' and sarge the guy taking care 
 of the BC. you play as Preston Marlow a shy guy as well and you definitely connect to them i remember 
 one level where i was by myself trying to save them and i actually felt sad that they weren't there. 
 I also like the way when you die you come back straight away. okay so it aint realistic but instead 
 of starting ALL over again you just come back and ready to fight. Now on to the sound and the sound 
 in this game is amazing. Grenades going off haggard shotgun firing, you machine gun going off and 
 sarge giving order and maybe a tank rolling in. it just sound amazing. in my eyes every game should 
 sound like this. The gameplay is all so something to marvel at 99% of the environment is destructible 
 and it can be very strategic. bad thing is when 99% is destructible you cant find any ''real'' 
 cover so dying happens alot in multiplayer and in single player. 
  
  Even though some jokes were hit and miss the story was good (not great) multiplayer was amazing 
 and the graphics were very good BF: BC was an amazing game in my eyes
  
  Story:8.5
  Multilayer:9.7
  Graphics:9.2
  Sound:9.5
  
  (do the average of those scores equals 9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3d3c3ption
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield B-company (a. k. a. Bad company) is about four guys that are in the war and you play 
 as a guy named Preston, and on their battles they run into some mercernaries that gets paid in 
 gold bars. So they journey off to their crazy adventure to find the gold and do something with 
 it (to find out about the story you're gonna have to play the game) . The gameplay is kinda fun 
 that you get to blow up some stuff did I just say some stuff I mean A LOT of stuff I mean the house 
 has a huge wall for your new entrance in the building, a big crater on the ground, trees broken 
 down, etc. and the graphics are pretty awesome and if you have an HDTV it's just have a way better 
 graphics and have a clear view of things in the game. the musics are sorta ok it sounds like rock 
 and some sort of a jazz thing in it, and the cutscenes in the game are not that bad but sometimes 
 short or long I think. The multiplayer was kinda 50/50 ( good and bad can't talk about it sry : ( 
 ) . Now for the bad news. everytime you look inside the building, there's nothing in there no chairs, 
 pictures (some of them) , the buildings are the same, and not only that when you get killed, you 
 sound like the enemy's voice when he dies that didn't sound right well you'll get the point. and 
 the trees if you knife the trees few times or snipe the trees they could snap easily, not to mention 
 the boxes when you run into one and keep on running with the box, it breaks. another thing about 
 the box you could actually here the explosion of the box that was kinda awkward. My overall: Well 
 it's still a great game even though it needs to tweak a few problems that I said about the bad 
 news 
  So I gave it an 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Music: 10/10
  Blues-Jazz type theme to it, great, really great.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  REALLY realistic sound, if your about to die or hear a very loud explosion, you hear ringing and 
 you squad yelling and bullets being shot.
  
  Gameplay: 8.8/10
  The single player can get really repetitive, although I am amazed that this battlefield has a single 
 player story. The 90% destructible environments are very interesting. The problem with the single 
 player is, that its mainly, get to this spot, regroup at the smoke. It can get really repetitive. 
 When you get onto the multiplayer, you get blown away, it is really fun, has trophies, and no lagg. 
 You can choose to do Gold Rush or Conquest (Conquest came with an update) and Conquest is better 
 (personal opinion) but Gold Rush isn't bad. Gold rush is practically attack and defend the gold 
 crates, conquest is... capturing bases. Look it up. Great Game, I recommend Battlefield Bad Company.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  The Graphics and style of the game are great, It can appear grainy at some times though.
  
 
  Value: 8.5/10
  
  Replay Value: 9.0/10
  
  PROS:
  90% Destructible Environments
  Lots of vehicles to choose from and drive
  Multiplayer
  Sound
  
  CONS:
  The frame of 
 buildings aren't destructible
  Single Player
  Can't play for too long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:24 pm PT
Review:  There has never been a better time to start playing battlefield. With about 40 weapons and gadgets 
 plus 5 different kinds of vehicles available, there is an almost an infinite amount of ways to 
 destroy your enemies and accomplish your missions. The biggest and best addition is the new FrostBite 
 engine, which lets you blow through any wall, door, fence, etc. that you find in the game, however 
 the building frames and certain objects are indestructible. This system realistically teaches you 
 that cover is not permanent, and when there's a tank 20 feet away, your crummy wall isn't going 
 to do much in the way of protection.
  
  You, playing as a guy named Preston Marlowe, the quiet guy in a group of four that includes a crazy 
 Redneck addicted to blow the crap out of stuff a typical nerd and your commander, a relatively 
 calm fellow, who joins to get past his jail sentence faster. You four misfit soldiers are part 
 of a very unelite section of the military-Bad Company. You four soldiers are sent on seemingly 
 impossible missions against Terrorists and the Russian army on a crazy story involving humor, greed 
 and some great action. 
  
  The story however is not amazing, but does give you a chance to try out all the cool weapons and 
 vehicles while eliminating huge herds of enemies. Although there are many weapons, the missions 
 really force you to fight, almost like a kamikaze warrior most of the time fighting almost impossibly 
 hard gunfights, and you will only be able to tactically pick your enemies apart for short periods 
 of time, though the giant maps often let you circle around your enemies and shoot them from behind. 
 There aren't many missions in the game, but because of the many side missions that you are forced 
 to do to eventually complete your task, missions can take up to a few hours to complete. Luckily 
 you are aided by many checkpoints, a health injector that you can use an infinite amount of times 
 and an infinite amount of respawns.
  
  The giant maps are displayed beautifully, with extremely detailed graphics, and characters and 
 vehicles move realistically and are also detailed and look quite good. Although this is true, this 
 extra step in detail causes the graphics to suffer abit in the visual clarity, though it still 
 looks quite good.
  
  However, as good as the graphics are, they are nothing compared to the truly sweet audio. Your 
 explosions and gunshots echo like never before, and even using 5% of your total available speaker 
 loudness is enough to provide you with ear candy like no other game.
  
  But all of that aside, what you really want from this game is the multiplayer. Though there are 
 only two game modes in the multiplayer mode, they provide you with lots of fun. There is a typical 
 Conquest Mode, much like the one available in the Star Wars Battlefront series as well as a Gold 
 Rush Mode which was the mode originally available with the game. Gold Rush is a mode that splits 
 up the players into attackers and defenders, the attackers trying to destroy the Gold Crates, while 
 managing their reinforcements and defenders defending the crates. These modes combine with all 
 the gadgets and vehicles that are available on and offline. Also featured is a leader board, which 
 was recently extended and a well thought-out ranking system, with plenty of unlockables. The main 
 complaint, is that the online game lacks a lobby which makes it a pain in the ass if you want to 
 play a game with some friends. Though there is a system of finding your friends online and a game 
 filter that will allow you to play the game you want.
  
  Bad Company is a great improvement from past battlefield games, as it features a decent story and 
 awesome online play. It is also one of the most realistic games, because of the FrostBite engine 
 that allows you to break through almost any wall you want. Many vehicles and gadgets push this 
 game that extra step, beyond just having good graphics and some of the best audio around. An 8.4 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelofDeath466
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Before I got my PS3, I always heard people going, "Dude, when you get a PS3, get Bad Company!". 
 So, once I got my PS3, I got Bad Company.
  
  This game is probably one of the best first-person shooters on a console (besides COD4) . The highlights 
 of this game are:
  1. Graphics. These are probably some of the best I've seen.
  2. The Environment. The entire map: 90% of it -- DESTRUCTIBLE
  3. Awesome single-player story. 
 It combines action, comedy, and danger all into one.
  4. Great multi-player. Online is probably one of the funnest parts of the game.
  5. The whole 
 animations. Whether its reloading a gun to injecting yourself with medicine, this game captures 
 just about how anything would be in the real world and put it into this game.
  
  Unfortunately, this game has some downfalls:
  1. No local multi-player. I was a little dissapointed 
 that I couldn't play this with my friends when they came over to my house.
  2. The enemy AI. Sometimes, it seems as if they have absolutely NO CLUE as to what they are doing.
 
  3. Single-player feels a little repetitive. You get a call from someone at the base, you go do 
 it, regroup at some red smoke, repeat. This can get a little boring.
  
  Aside from this, overall it's a great game! Something that I absolutely LOVE about this game is: 
 There is no such thing as cover anymore. If I was running from a tank, and I ran into a house, 
 I could no longer think, "OK, now that I'm in a house, the tank won't shoot!". Just when I felt 
 safe, the house was obliterated and the tank starting shooting again. 
  
  That's right. You get to MAKE your own doorways. If you are in a helicopter or a tank, no one can 
 hide.
  
  Overall, 9/10. If you love modern combat, awesome graphics, and exploding things, then this game 
 is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiL_E
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:23 am PT
Review:  single player mode for battlefield badcompany review ps3
  
  battlefield bad company at first i thought was just another boring army time shooter with the same 
 old guns and same old bad guys, well its not in fact its a first rate shooter with great landscapes, 
 good graphics, a cool storyline etc 
  
  battlefield is about a bunch of misfits who were ment to go to prison but were sent to badcompany 
 to serve for their country. Their are four characters you, redford the segent, sweetwater and haggard. 
 The campagin last for about 8-12 hours give or take i didnt really time it when i played it. 
 
  
  The game is very enjoyable. The wide open landscapes are fun to explore the guns are cool and fun 
 to shoot. My favourite part of the game is that many things can be blown up like the buildings, 
 trees , tanks, cars, boats all explode. The vechiles are fun to drive and normaly have guns or 
 rocket luanchers on them you can also pick a radio station to listen to when ur on ur way to ur 
 next battle. Their is a range of weapons like machine guns, shotguns, handguns, greandes with a 
 smily face pin, rocket launchers , sinper rifles and most of the machine guns have grenade luachers 
 on them. Thier is also alot of other things drills to repair your car , health injeter to heal 
 ur self , c4 and a russian remote which lets you do an air attcak whenever u like.
  
  The games cut scences fit it well with the gameplay and don't go for to long. The storyline is 
 interecting but im not going to tell you what happens.
  
  overall battlefield bad company is a very good fps it will give you much enjoyment. im sorry i 
 couldnt review the multiplayer because at this time i don't have the interent on my ps3. =] 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is essentially a Kelly's Heroes-esque story set in modern times. You join a group of 
 misfits who go on a search for gold. Along the way you get to shoot lots of guys and blow stuff 
 up. What's not to like?!
  
  What makes the game good is how well it is all done. The story is funny and just interesting enough 
 to make it worth while. The acting is very good with lots of subtle humor going on. The graphics 
 are very good. The environments are very destructible that not only adds to the tactics but gives 
 more realism as well.
  
  You get a nice selection of weapons throughout the game as well as the ability to man various vehicles, 
 tanks, and even a helicopter. The missions are reasonably open ended so you can approach them in 
 various ways (stealthy, guns blazing, etc) .
  
  I like the healing system and the fact you could drop from a three story building without getting 
 hurt. Some may not like these but they speed up the game and help you avoid going down flights 
 of stairs over and over.
  
  While Bad Company does not push the shooter genre in any way it is a fun game with good, fun action 
 and some well done humor. If you like shooters you will certainly be in good company with Bad Company. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is Dice's first venture with the Battlefield series on the PS3, its also 
 a good first venture, its just a pity some flaws in the game prevent it from reaching an ever elusive 
 ten out of ten score, because the sad thing is, it had the potential to do so.
  
  Battlefield Bad Company is the first in the series to have a proper story as such, you take control 
 of Preston Marlow, a man who was put in Bad Company for hijacking a helecopter. BBC does a great 
 job of letting you connect to you're characters, something that is a rarity found in first person 
 shooters. Haggard, Sarge and Sweetwater are all people that you grow to like almost immeidiately, 
 due to their interactions with each other, both in the game and in the cutscenes.
  
  The story itself is fun as well, and doesn't take itself too seriously, the premise is that a bunch 
 of mercenaries called the legionnaires have been hired to fight in a war in the middle east against 
 america. The rumour is that the Legionnaires are paid with in gold, which intially sparks an interest 
 in Bad Company, with the prospect of being able to get their hands on some gold, everyone decides 
 to try seek out a pay truck for themselves.
  
  While the story takes a back turn, the missions certainly don't, you are given a whole host of 
 missions to do, something that again differs from most shooters, where you are told to - go to 
 this place - shoot these guys - repeat. In BBC you have to defend tanks, buildings, blow up bridges, 
 fly out a VIP out of a hot zone, all sorts of tasks.
  
  The Graphics in the game are awesome, both from a visual and a technological standpoint. There 
 are no occasions during the game where the frame rate will suffer, even with 20 enemies onscreen 
 and explosions going on everywhere you look. The explosions are a real treat, debris blasts apart, 
 and fire billows in the building that once was, before you unleashed your grenade launcher on it 
 to kill a few troops.
  
  The gameplay is also good, however it's not without its flaws, the shooting feels lacking, though 
 its hard to pinpoint what, it just doesn't give you the same satisfaction that you get online and 
 when you play on COD4 or R6V during the single player.
  However 92% of the enviroment is destructible, trees fall down, pretty much entire structures are 
 demolished, rocks can be blown apart, as can bridges, regardless if they are important for your 
 advancement, which i found out as i blew up a bridge only to find out i then needed to cross it.
 
  
  One of the reasons the shooting in the single player feels slightly lackluster is probably due 
 to the AI within the game. Some of them clearly never graduated basic training, while you'll see 
 some amazing feats of agility from the enemy, like rolls into rooms and other acrobatic feats to 
 avoid gunfire, it's also common to see some enemies just running into a wall or standing in open 
 spaces waiting for you to pick them off.
  
  The other frustrating thing is that for enemies that are meant to be so intent on preserving their 
 own lives, they sure stand next to a lot of universally known explosive red barrels. Which isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing, because the explosions are incredible, but it just becomes common practice 
 in single player to look for a redbarrel near the enemy and just shoot that instead of wasting 
 ammo.
  
  My final frustration with Battlefield Bad Company is the method in which you heal yourself, gone 
 are 'boring medikits' scattered about and 'unrealistic ' regenerative health. Instead you are given 
 an injector device that restores you to full health whenever you use it, however this doesn't annoy 
 me, its the fact that you can use this unlimited times with only a 5 second wait untill you can 
 use it again. Making all firefights feel cheap as you never really feel like you are in any danger 
 because as soon as you are low on health, you simply pop out an injection and voila, full health 
 again.
  
  However the vehicle battles are especially good in single player, especially if you are vehicleless... 
 They are tense, its always fun to hide behind a wall only to find that there is no wall there three 
 seconds later and the tank's cannon still pointing in your direction. These lead to exciting battles 
 with your team, however a minor greviance is that your team are pretty stupid and you can't order 
 them about, however dice makes up for this by making your team mates invunerable and crack shots, 
 which again makes some fights feel really pointless as by the time you've killed one enemy the 
 rest of your team has slaughtered the rest.
  
  On the brightside Dice has struck gold with BBC's multiplayer, the fights are large, lag free and 
 on really well planned maps. There are two modes, Attack and Defend (known as Gold Rush in the 
 game) and the other is the return of Battlefields classic Conquest. Both these modes are great 
 fun and offer a wide variety of tactics to deploy. 
  
  All the classes are evenly matched up, and every two levels you gain an unlock point so you can 
 unlock another weapon or item for you're item class, best of all is in game you can change your 
 class when you die, meaning that you're never stuck doing one thing unless you want to be. 
  
  Overall, Battlefield's Bad Company is a good start to the franchise on the next gen consoles, 
 its just a pity that the AI in single player really stops the game from fufilling its potential, 
 However its Lag Free intense multiplayer battles make this a must have game for PS3 owners looking 
 for a multiplayer war game, and a must have for just about anyone looking for a decent multiplayer 
 shoot em up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viking_1298
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company is a fun game where it takes place in Russia and best of all you can blow the crap 
 outta anything around you. Even the tallest buildings can be brought down as long as you have enough 
 grenades. Sure there's shooting people but the real highlight of the game has and always will be 
 blowing stuff up. Also the character voice acting is some of the best I've heard as well as some 
 of the funniest. There are a few characters that were flat out outrageous. My only complaint was 
 the action which is a little too extreme. Luckily healing yourself is easy but it's also a little 
 too easy so dying isn't all that simple. So despite the extreme action it's still an easy game 
 even though I believe I'm only a little over halfway through. Anyway there's nothing else wrong 
 with Bad Co. even though getting out of situations ain't all that tough it's still a kick*** FPS 
 with plenty of humor mixed in an otherwise warlike setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  Intro - Game Information
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, 
 the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: *** (Mild)
  Bad Language: *** (Mild)
  Fear: * (None)
  Sex: * (None)
  Drugs: * (None)
  Discrimination: * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
 
  
  Age Rating: 15 years and over (Contains war violence and mild language)
  Number of player: 1
  Multiplayer: 2-24
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: NO
  
  
  I - Quick Review
 
  
  The Good: 
  
   Visuals 
  The visual design
  
   Controls
  The feel of the controls in game-play
  
   Sound Effects
  In game sound effects
  
   
 Voice Acting
  Voice acting is very important in brining a character to life. The wrong voice acting could determine 
 whether a character will be great, or annoying. In this cares, this game has great voice acting.
 
  
   Online Play
  Just because a game has multiplayer features does not mean it will be good. Some online multiplayer 
 features can be disappointing but in this case, this game has a great multiplayer feature.
  
   Funny
  A game that will make you laugh.
  
   Trophies 
  If you like trophies.
  
 
   Just Right
  Not to easy and not to hard.
  
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is a fantastic 1st person shooter with a great online multiplayer feature. 
 
  Read on to find out more. 
  
  
  
  II Plot Review  8/10
  
  You play Preston Marlowe who always wanted to be a soldier just like his father and couldn't wait 
 to get out there and fight for truth. After getting a transferred to Bad Company, he got more than 
 what he was hoping for. 
  Welcome to the 222nd Army battalion, B-Company. This is where the army rakes together all the insubordinates, 
 hellraisers, and troublemakers that won't fit in any other unit. When the Rangers and Deltas are 
 too expensive to waste, these guys are the first once in and the last to leave. 
  They're called "Bad Company" a mismatched bunch of rejects selected to serve their country as cannon 
 fodder. This isn't the kind of outfit a lot of soldiers would join voluntarily. Getting transferred 
 to "the B" is a punishment and a way for the generals to put all their rotten eggs in one basket. 
 
  There are four members in bad company including you. Sergeant Samuel D. Redford (Squad Leader) , 
 Private Terrence Sweet-Water, a Technical and Communications Specialist and Private Haggard, an 
 Explosives Expert. Being in bad company means one thing, expendable. They get all the dirty jobs 
 while the other units get the easy way and look good for the press. 
  On a mission only selected for Bad Company, (Expendable) you and your team discovered a gold bar 
 next to a body of what they thought to be a Russian Soldier, but it turned out the dead body was 
 a Mercenary. Thinking that if they could find more gold bars, it could solve all there problems, 
 IF. 
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  9/10
  
  The graphics are amazing; the skin texture on the characters as well as on the background is outstanding. 
 Some surface texture may be slightly off with loading time but the game still look amazing. From 
 the smoke, to the details of a wall being blow off is just amazing.
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  9/10
  
  Game-play is excellent both on story mode an online multiplayer 
 mode. Through out the story mode you will be fighting Russian as well as Mercenaries looking for 
 lot of cool collectable weapons and gold bars. Online multiplayer is great, but you only have two 
 online modes. Gold Rush, which is basically like, search and destroy. If you're the attacker you 
 must find the other teams gold storage box and destroy them. If you are a defender, then you must 
 defend. The other is a new content to Bad Company "Conquest" which is like capture the flag. Even 
 though there is only two mode so far, the online multiplayer is great because the maps a really 
 massive instead of it being really up close all the time. On multiplayer you will have to upgrade 
 your character by playing more online game and killing more players. Upgrading you character will 
 unlock new weapons and will also give you the option to buy new weapons. The game-play really is 
 excellent an even though it's in 1st person view it looks and feels real in terms of movement and 
 the way you reload and heal yourself. 
  
  
  V - Sound Review  9/10
  
  The sound effects, WOW. Really it's just mind-blowing. The sound when you fire a gun is just amazing. 
 This is a game that need surround sound. Explosions, the sound when you reload your weapon, even 
 the sound of your heart beating then your low in health is amazing. 
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  8/10
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company will probably take you about 10hours 
 to complete depending on your gaming experience. There is replay value. Playing online or even 
 playing the game over again to collect trophies and awards. 
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  9/10
  
  I loved the game and I still think it's great now. 
 Great online multiplayer and single player mode. Collecting the trophies is really satisfying and 
 the over all game is fun to play. The single player story mode is funny and has a few good funny 
 moments. Only thing I thought would have been good was an online story Co-Op mode, but you can 
 win them all. 
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  8.5/10
  
  If you like 1st person shooter game or War type FPS game and online games, Battlefield: Bad Company 
 is an awesome game and I would recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the greatest videogames to date, and if it is not already in your collection 
 you MUST GET IT NOW! It is the most innovative and original game I have ever played, and by far 
 the best Battlefield game on the market. The singleplayer campaign although short is challenging 
 and fun enough at the same time to keep you hooked and is a good intro to the gameplay style you'll 
 experience while playing Bad Company. The core of this game is the multiplayer, which is highly 
 addictive and before you know it you will be Level 25. The guns are awesome and realistic, the 
 graphics are some of the best I have ever seen, and the destructible environments are awesome and 
 new! While some people obsess over games like Call of Duty, which don't get me wrong are some of 
 the best games, they lack the innovation and uniqueness that Bad Company has. Get this game now! 
 HOW MANY TIMES DO I HAVE TO SAY IT?!
  
  Note: Get the Gold Edition because you will have weapons you won't be able to get until you are 
 lvl 25 in the normal edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IplayEA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the battlefield games (on the PC) for a long time now, some have been better 
 than others and I couldn't wait for this first edition on the PS3. I was hesitant to think it would 
 be other Battlefield game after the disappointment i had with 2142 and their only other game on 
 a non-PC console (Battlefield: Modern Combat) but this definitely does NOT disappoint. With a great 
 Multiplayer addition to this game and a vast singleplayer you will be addicted to this game. The 
 graphics are outstanding and the 90 % (?) damage rate to any establishment is a great addition 
 . The online consists of 8 or so levels (many have been added by download) with 22 players at a 
 time. The level determines how intense the action will be and what weapon to use. This game is 
 VERY similar to the computer game Battlefield 2. A must buy if it's your style of gaming. 
  
  Pros: Graphics, Online Mode, Campaign, Replay factor, Damage feature, intensity.
  
  Cons: 
 Some levels of online play become dull, Single player is far too easy, minor defects. 
  
  For ages 14+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- 10
  Controls- 9.5
  Sound-10
  Online-9.5 
  Overall- 9.0
  
  Graphics- Wow, these are amazing graphics. All of the maps and characters are amazing, there is 
 nothing wrong with them.
  
  Controls- The controls are very simple, the same as COD (Call Of Duty) . But, sometimes when you 
 think you shot the man, you didn't. So, thats the only flaw in the controls.
  
  Sound- The sound is awesome. You can here the men screaming to the gunshots to the rockets. All 
 together it's awesome.
  
  Online- Is okay, not the best but still, can have up to 15 players in a death match, or some other 
 games. 
  
  Overall, anyone who thinks this is a bad game, your wrong. I encourage everyone who is thinking 
 about getting this, to get it. Hope my review helped (sorry for it being so short, I'm kind of 
 in a rush)
  
  _seannyboy357_ 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicboy129
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  After playing BF2, i was exited to see how the new installment of the series would turn out, and 
 to tell you the truth, it surpassed my expectations. This isn't a perfect game, but a hilarious 
 story, fun characters and surprisingly addicting multiplayer, it more than makes up for its short 
 comings.
  Lets start off with the single player, which is the new addition to the series. The single player 
 takes you, Preston Marlow, on an adventure of a life time. you are suddenly thrust into B-Company, 
 or Bad-Company, where the army puts all of their mis fit soldiers to do suicidal missions to help 
 the real army divisions. The characters are fun are seem human because of their behavior (not on 
 the battlefield) and you get really attached to them. The story has a somewhat satisfying ending, 
 but it seemed to me that it could HINT and another battlefield game following the story, but I 
 could always be wrong. I do have my complaints though, one of them is the sometimes brain-dead, 
 yet deadly AI enemies. They seem oblivious to the grenades you throw at them sometimes (with the 
 exception of when they yell 'grenade, take cover') . Yet they are deadly because they seem to know 
 where you are and have a pretty good aim. This seems to take away the possible stealth mechanics 
 that could have been in the game and fit pretty well, but when i tried to sneak in to an enemy 
 camp unnoticed, knifing enemies from behind, when I came to about 4 meter away from the AI, the 
 whole camp turns around and rains fire on me. Also, the lack of a very appropriate co-op is somewhat 
 noticeable, but it doesnt really hurt the game, because it didnt really do anything wrong. There 
 is also loads of re playability in the campaign since there are gold bars hidden in the levels 
 and collectible guns you can pick up collecting these will get you achievements or trophies so 
 it encourages you to go in and find all of those hidden items.
  On the subject of multiplayer, in this game, it is GREAT. With the addition of conquest mode in 
 a patch, it only got better for me. The new game mode that launched with the game, called gold 
 rush, never really got stale, and it is still fun for me today even though I've been playing for 
 months. Conquest is back from the other BF games, and it is as good as ever! with greater maps 
 than BF2 it sets the table for exiting tug-of-war type battles over key places, which are, oh so 
 satisfying! Another hook in the online portion of the game is the great military ranks that you 
 earn for getting points in battle. For everything you do (a lot like CoD4 or R2) you get points, 
 be it, assisting a kill, or healing a teammate. To raise your military rank (private, general etc.) 
 you accumulate a certain amount of points. Ranking up will also earn you an unlock credit, which 
 will let you unlock one of the many weapons or gadgets (like C4 and a remote to call in artillery) 
 to use in the game. This really makes the game addicting and it kept me hooked till i hit the level 
 cap of 25 (took me a while) .
  The graphics in this game are really great; especially with the highly talked about Frostbite Engine, 
 which lets you destroy parts of the environment for a 'tactical advantage'. this really works well 
 in both single and multi player modes since it really gives you that feeling that enemies can come 
 from anywhere. This is apparent when, say, capturing a base in Conquest. You feel pretty confident 
 in you little house while you capture an enemy base when BAM!!!
  The wall behind you blows into tiny pieces and an enemy comes and pwns you right there. But the 
 only downside to this engine is that not all of the environment is destructible. for example, you 
 can really bring a whole building to the ground but you can't take down every wall and roof it 
 has. This isnt really bad but it would have been nice to see a tank shell take down a whole house 
 after a barrage of artillery. The attention to detail is also noticeable; for example, when taking 
 over a small military camp on the way to an objective you may find milk cartons and food boxes 
 on the floor of their barracks.
  The sound of this game is absolutely fantastic. From the musical theme for every level with piano 
 sounds accompanied with violins and an orchestra, to the great gun sounds that really make you 
 flinch every time you hear it. Online, once you hear an NPC voice say 'Grenade' you know you have 
 to run like hell, and sometimes, when you see an enemy tank rolling by, it almost becomes instinct 
 to duck behind a bush and wait for it to pass. its all just really great.
  BF BC really gives you your moneys worth in terms of value and enjoyment, the single player will 
 keep you wanting to see what happens to Marlow and the great multiplayer will have you coming back 
 for more, even after you finish the single player. there are minor complaints here and there but 
 this is really an experience that many should not miss
  -vic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curranh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I thought the entire game was great, the campaign short, but the online has a great set up. The 
 maps are extensively large and fun to play in. I enjoy how you can unlock new weapons from credits 
 of upgrading in rank. The gun selection is good but not great, there is a wide variety of guns 
 that you can use to your advantage for specific situations which really helps out. The search for 
 gold in the campaign causes you to explore the terrain more. The AI could be brushed up more for 
 future references. Why, in online, does the enemy, either the Russians or Americans, have to destroy 
 the gold crates if their objective is to recapture or steal the gold? The gadgets purposes in the 
 game are awesome but annoying too. But over all the game is good but could be improved on in some 
 certain areas.
  -curranh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canana
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Overseveral years, and many other titles, the Battlefield series has become known for offering 
 an excellent multiplayer component to the detriment of a single campaign able to keep the fun for 
 many hours. However, with the arrival to the market's most recent chapter in the series, Bad Company, 
 DICE is committed to change this pre-conceived idea. 
  
  Theplot line of Battlefield: Bad Company rotates around a distinct four man squad of military 
 mavericks during a imagined war in Russia against the United States. Thesquad consists of Private 
 Preston Marlowe, the game's protagonist, Private Terrence Sweetwater ,Private George Gordon Haggard 
 Jr., a. k. a "Haggard"and Sergeant Samuel D. Redford. Every soldier has its specialty, the classes 
 in this game are: Assault, Demolition, Recon, Specialist, and Support, each containing a main weapon, 
 three secondary weapons, and a knife.
  
  
  
  Thegame engine allows 92% of the environment to be destroyed, including  
 In addiction, the game features lively lighting to connect with the dynamic environment.
  
  Fortunatelyfor your physical health, the artificial intelligence of the enemy promises not to 
 win any Nobel prize in the near future. Bad Company does not hide the desire to entertain the player. 
 The whole single campaign of Bad Company is an internal struggle between the quality values and 
 the fun irrational factor. Believe me, when the fun is so well established, the lack of some basic 
 features take a long period to become noticed. 
  
  
  If you want to play Bad Company online, you have to connect the console to the network due to the 
 lack of local multilayer. In Online mode, the work of DICE gets wings and flies autonomously and 
 so leave the habit of playing against 23 "artists of the trigger" invading your state of mind, 
 taking a few weeks until the disc comes out of the console. 
  
  The Multiplayerin Battlefied: Bad Company supports up to 24 players. Gold Rush was the only multiplayer 
 mode available in the original release of Battlefield: Bad Company. The structure of the game is 
 an Attackers vs. Defenders scenario. The eight primary maps are Over and Out, Harvest Day, Ascension, 
 End of the Line, Valley Run, Deconstruction, Final Ignition and Oasis, each one with destructible 
 environments, and vehicles. One team must defend two crates filled with gold while the other team 
 tries to destroy the crates. TheConquest game mode returned to Bad Company, it was the general 
 game-mode in many of the previous Battlefield games, and involves decreasing the opponents by scoring 
 kills and capturing flags. The Conquest pack included modified versions of the End of the Line, 
 Ascension, Harvest Day and Oasis maps. A new map pack featuring more conquest maps, and trophies 
 for both offline and online play, was released on October 31, 2008.
  
  
  Graphically, Bad Company is beautiful in its ugliness, that is, in explosions and the amount of 
 scenario that is likely to be destroyed, raising the technique bar achieved by the Swedish studios. 
 Another high point is in the modeling of characters and weapons, and even scenarios in the open. 
 However, the interiors of many buildings visited not cease to cause some disappointment, lacking 
 of details. 
  
  
  Not all explosions sounds like the same, and Bad Company is here to prove. Shoot, throw grenades, call 
 air support and you will hear the difference. On the way, you will notice the voices of your fellow 
 squad members shooting some lifting strap in the game as those who throw mud at a wall: sometimes 
 it works, another comes out completely on the side. 
  
  
  Battlefied: Bad Company is far from being a bad game, especially if you have the console connected 
 to the network. Bad Company is the ideal game for anyone who enjoys First Person Shooters where 
 the most tactical movements stays out. In a parallel comparison, Battlefield: Bad Company is for 
 video games, such as the summer blockbusters are to the seventh art .
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I knew that this was a good game when it first came out, while all of my friends took the time 
 to go buy it, i was busy playing Call of Duty 4 because i had just gotten it. I wasn't going to 
 buy it only for that reason but 5 months later and here I am reviewing this game. No I didn't buy 
 it, i actually borrowed it off one of the same friends that had bought it on release.
  
  - Storyline -
  
  Anyways, it's a great game. Simple as that. The storyline is a bit to the 
 short side but with over 10 hours of gameplay, it's an average length. As you may already know, 
 this storyline concept is actually quite original. Since when has there been a funny shooter? The 
 characters are very funny throughout the story but their stupid one-liners can get old very, very 
 fast. It seems like EA had a very tough time blurring the line between the funny voice acting and 
 the intense, first person action. The mission based action is extremely intense but once you finish 
 a mission it kind of abrubtly goes into a very funny, jokingly cutscene that I think draws the 
 player away from the great storyline that could've made this game so much better.
  
  - Graphics - 
  
  Wow, the graphics are pretty insane especially the water textures and the 
 large open worlds. That's pretty much all I can say about the graphics other than their not the 
 best graphics but they are defenitely not the worst either.
  
  - Gameplay - 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. The guns actually have a distinct feel to them and feel as to actually 
 have some sort of weight. Without the destructable environments, I think this game would have failed 
 miserably. The environments are so fun to play around with when you can blow up and destroy almost 
 every wall of every building. The controls are spot on except for the fact that you can't actually 
 lie down to avoid gun fire. The thing that reallt surprised me was the sounds. The sounds are absolutly 
 amazing, the echos and distingquishing sounds of the guns make it all that much better.
  
  - Multiplayer - 
  
  Multiplayer is great except for no splitt-screen mode or co-op mode. The 
 only thing in the multiplayer that dragged this game down was the stupid EA servers. THEY ARE CRAP. 
 I haven't been able to connect into a game for about a week now even with a 100% wired connection 
 which i had to set up hoping to actually play online. If you buy games only for online play, i 
 wouldn't suggest buying this game but otherwise this is a good first person shooter that deserves 
 a rent.
  
  
  - Overall - 
  
  Good story, Average Graphics but horrible online servers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgordonfan24
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a ground-breaking success. With nearly 100% destructible enviorments 
 and a strong multiplayer mode, this game is a must-have for all FPS fans!
  
  Let's start with singleplayer mode. The story is the following: You take control of Private Preston 
 Marlowe, a soldier who is sent to B-Company. B-Company is where all the troublemakers in the army 
 are sent to serve as cannon fodder. Preston's squad members are Sergeant Redford, a man who loves 
 fishing and transferred to B-Company to shorten his term in the army. Haggard is a red-neck who 
 loves to blow the crap out of everything near him. Sweetwater is a nerdy, cautious soldier who 
 prefers playing it safe. The SP mode sends you through eight, large and highly-detailed maps. Each 
 map has a different expierience. One has you fighting through a middle-eastern city (Level: Ghost 
 Town) while another has you flying a chopper (Level: Air Force One) . But no matter what difficulty 
 you're on, the enemy AI is extremely stupid. Enemies don't react to changes in the battlefield 
 and tend to stand in the open. The story is confusing and tends to be cheesy, but it's fun! Overall, 
 the singleplayer mode is well-done, but with a few changes it could have been more enjoyable.
 
  
  Now for multiplayer. Bad Company's multiplayer mode is incredible. With real life enemies/teammates 
 and a large selection of maps and two game modes, this online mode sets an example for future games. 
 With a large array of vehicles (Helicopters, humvess, light/heavy tanks etc.) , each battle is bound 
 to be unique in it's own way! There are two modes: Gold Rush and Conquest. Gold Rush is an attack/defend 
 a base sort of mode. One team must destroy a base to move forward, while another must kill all 
 enemies to win. If you're new to the game, this mode isn't as good as Conquest when it comes to 
 learning how to play. Conquest mode puts you on a battlefield with many bases. Your objective: 
 Kill all enemies and/or capture all bases and take out all surviving hostiles. This mode offers 
 small and big maps just like Gold Rush. A noob friendly mode, taking Conquest for a spin in the 
 beginning of your time with the game is a good idea, but doing a round of Gold Rush first is a 
 good idea. Overall, the online mode delivers but comes up short on a few things like splash damage. 
 
  
  
  In conclusion, Battlefield: Bad Company is worth your $59.99 (or whatever price you pay for it) . 
 With an entertaining singleplayer mode and an incredible multiplayer mode, not trying this game 
 out is an awful mistake! My Rating: 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nydiego08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  this game has nothing to envy 2 cod4, some minor problems with mics but who needs them anyway. the 
 reason i gave this game a 10 is because so far i spend 9 days playng this game and im not tire 
 of playng yet , therefore it deserves it, no other game has made me play for this long. the single 
 player is nothing special but not bad either. this is a must have game. they are only a handfull 
 of good games for this generation and bc is one of them . gta4 overrated ,mgs4 good but more of 
 the same.
  
  has a really high replay value !!!!!!. each class is very balance assult, demo, specialist, recon 
 and support. it has 2 modes of playng gold rush & conquest. i personally like gold rush cause is 
 more strategic and fast pace , in gold rush u play as a defender or attackera as a defender u have 
 to protect the crates and as a attacker u destroy them. conquest maps are too big and is boring 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  When i started play campaign it was torture, i seriously hated myself for buying it, its like playing 
 a game on PC before windows was created.
  
  The minute you go online, all the disappointment will vanish and suddenly the game sucks you down 
 this black hole.
  
  The weapons are decent (old) but it'll do the job, with eh cheats u'll get better weapons.
  
 
  The aiming is not that easy, less than 15 shots wont even scratch the other soldier.
  
  The really good things about this game are the online setting, all you need to do is press on quick 
 match and u'll keep on playing for 4 hours straight and upgrade your rank
  
  The crates idea of defending and attacking is good and could get you playing for a longtime and 
 the maps are very well designed but strangely driving the tank and is really good and it could 
 really help to get inside the enemies base... usually tanks never last but not in this game
  
  Overall its a good game but not sure how soon i'll get bored... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Origin-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a first person shooter that continues the series of battlefield action 
 now with a new single player twist. Although the game has a new single player story never seen 
 before in a battlefield game, doesn't mean that the multiplayer aspect of the game is pulled down. 
 Infact the multiplayer is just as fun as it is on the pc predecessors. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  - Singleplayer: The story mode sets you off with a group of other soldiers that happen to be 
 the delinquits of society back home. These characters give the single player experience a much 
 better tone. Instead of what the single player mode could of been, like in battlefield 2 where 
 it was just skirmish matches, they actually implented a solid and FUN single player mode. The story 
 is simple... your on the battlefield fighting Russians for a reason no one really knows anymore 
 and your company (bad company) are sent in to do the dirty work for the army. Simple yet fun to 
 follow and fun to play.
  
  - Multiplayer: The multiplayer mode is really why you want to buy this game. Simple objectives 
 set in wide open maps make it easy to follow along where the conflict is. Objectives and spotted 
 enemies are clearly spotted on your map making it easy to jump in the fight. You have a wide range 
 of weapons to unlock and vehicles at your desposal to blow up enemies, get behind enemy lines and 
 pretty much cause as much chaos and destruction as possible! 
  
  Graphics and Audio: The visual aspect of Battlefield: Bad Company is perfect for the type of game. 
 The way everything looks is in perfect perportion to the battlefield. Vehicles look real and look 
 really nice when they blow up. That brings me to the most important visual aspect of the game, 
 the explosions! They really mastered the way an explosion should look and sound. They aren't too 
 big but at the same time they really leave an impact on the other team. Blowing up walls, vehicles, 
 enemy objectives look sound and feel great. 
  The sound of the battlefield is filled with radio chatter, gun shots and explosions afar. All the 
 weapons sound like your really leaving a mark but at the same time, none of them sound alike hearing 
 the echo of the after shot in the backround.
  
  Conclusion: Battlefield: Bad Company is a definite buy with it's all around fun and entertainment, 
 you're shooting and exploding fix will be filled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  (multiplayer review)
  I am a long time Battlefield player. I started with 1942 and moved onto battlefield 2 and 2142 
 after that. I picked this game up not expecting it to be as good as the Past PC games that I've 
 played. 
  
  I have a few hours of multiplayer under my belt and I have to say it is really fun blowing up the 
 environment, I used to get annoyed when I was in a tank and someone could just hide inside a house 
 to avoid me, but in this game you can just blow that wall down and take him out. You can also run 
 over trees and other objects. One key feature that was in other battlefield games that they didn't 
 add in this one is the ability to "prone", so as a sniper your only options are to stand up or 
 kneel down. The battle maps seem a bit smaller than the past games but that is probably due to 
 the 24 player limit. 
  
  In multimplayer you can choose to play good old conquest or a new mod called gold rush. In gold 
 rush you have the attacking team and the defending team. The attacking teams objective is to blow 
 up crates of gold and the defenders objective is to protect the crates. This sounded a bit boring 
 to me but when I tried it out I actually enjoyed it very much. Conquest is the same as the past 
 games, several flags are scattered throughout the map and each team fights to control them unit 
 one team runs out of reinforcements. 
  
  In conclusion, I've never been a big fan of console shooters but this game has very enjoyable multiplayer 
 despite the lack of certain features from past games. It is fun to play a few rounds to get away 
 from other games or events in your life for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Battlefield has had many games with in it's series. from Vietnam to 2142. never having a story 
 mode or true single player experience. but it always drew people in to it's violence and shooting 
 while keeping people to want to play more.
  
  Bad Company came out and it looked new and fresh. as a new trend setter for newer games with destructible 
 surroundings, and being a new Battlefield game; it had nothing to lose.
  
  The story for the game was a little disappointing personally. it never hooked me in to replaying 
 the single player campaign again, which was quite sad. but what did make it fun was that it helped 
 people play better in multi player. it had fairly basic and easy controls that anyone could pick 
 up the controller and enjoy. a story about 4 men in a war going off to find gold seems more or 
 less desperate for comedy relief. but it worked. the 4 men were humorous and gave the game more 
 life. And for the graphics in the game, they were not the best, but were descent.
  
  Multi player on the other hand is bewitching if you will. it is addicting and has people wanting 
 more. with it's trophy system it has people working to gain as many as possible while gaining ranks. 
 and it can be difficult at times. yet can be simple if you have the right skills.
  
  Not the best game. but is still real good. as a single player i recommend playing it before multi 
 player so you can get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow1787
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I basically got this game for it's multiplayer game. Some friends of mine have Bad Company for 
 360 and every time I'd go over I would totally own any match I was in. So of course I said "I've 
 got to get this game!". I got it for PS3 and multiplayer is so much more difficult on PS3, but 
 still a ton of fun. (My friend says it's harder because it's the only good multiplayer FPS for 
 PS3, while everyone on 360 is playing Halo)
  
  I haven't touched the single player mode yet (though I've played the demo) , multiplayer is just 
 too much fun, and worth giving it a try.
  
  Being able to unlock achievements, guns, and moving up in rank is always a cool goal to shoot for. 
 The mechanics are very good, controls work great. And the environment is just unbelievable. Seriously, 
 the destruction of everything rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polymetalalloy1
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Single player is occasionally fun when your squadmates are not irritating the sh#t out of you with 
 their bad jokes and you find some nice environments to destroy, but the bare-bones FPshooter physics 
 of the game are laughably poor. Gunning the enemy is a shoddy and unsatisfying experience, even 
 if their corpses do look great flying through the air after a grenade. This game was about 1/10 
 as good as CoD4 Modern Warfare!
  
  Multiplayer seemed fun initially but then lag and the crapness of vehicles proved crippling to 
 the experience. Even when in a big f*ck-off tank there was no real feeling of accuracy or scope 
 to the shooting. The classes are wildly unbalanced, basically you can only do anything if in a 
 vehicle or as demolitions. Vehicles in FPS's are rarely a good idea, in Halo they were fun sometimes 
 but in this they handle badly and feel too impotent. 
  
  If you wanna actually try shooting in this game forget it, just stick to the awkard explosive weapons 
 and watch pixels fly. In addition, the 720p visual setting looks like crap next to CoD4 on my ps3 
 and HDtv, very grainy. Finally, one of the biggest problems I have with Battlefield: Bad Company 
 was the irritating amount of sprinting you are forced to endure over dull landscapes while waiting 
 for something to happen. Granted, this usually occurs when you miss an obviously-placed vehicle 
 but still seemed ever-present if you want to try and use some skill as a footsoldier, in single 
 and multiplayer.
  
  This ultimately feels like a game for people with low-levels of skill at FPS games, which is fair 
 enough, but if you savour the sound of a tricky headshot in games like CoD4 then give this crap 
 a very wide berth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  So, the first next-gen Battlefield has finally arrived to our PS3. What do I think? Definitely 
 a mixed bag. With a boring single-player this is surely created for online playability. But how 
 does the online play compare to the audiences high-standards for first person shooters that are 
 popping up left right and center.
  
  Well, the online play CAN compete with the likes of Call of Duty 4! Though using low-blows such 
 as tanks and heli's it doesnt seem like a fair contest gameplay-wise. The combat is meaty and all-out. 
 But with the lack of a hardcore mode which it desperately craves it falls a bit short. You can 
 empty 25 shots of an MG36 into an enemy and he's still standing. Whereas if you whip out a pistol 
 and shoot em twice it's as if they've never stood a chance. But with the freedom to pick a class 
 with it's own special advantages it feels as if you're bringing your own tactics to each game. 
 But the question is ; could BF : Bad Company really reach the level of the likes of CoD4 or Halo 
 3? No. It may have some small niggles but all round it's still a great and enjoyable game but doesnt 
 quite grow up to be the same height as it's big brothers. Thx for reading!
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thx for reading! Please give me your opinion on it 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  (since i am to lazy to do a spell check, you will have to decipher this pretty well)
  
  The game opens with talking about private Preston Marlowe. he meets his squadmates, haggard, the 
 funny one, sarge, the leader, and sweet water the smart one.
  the game delivers an explosive single player campaign, witch his freakin halarious, and has a large 
 area to explore. i could see it being a movie. Keanu Reeves as preston, will smith as sarge, jack 
 black as haggard, and Samuel Witwer as sweet water
  
  unfortunately, the online has some serios LAG  
 witch really F***ed up the otherwise fun experience experience.
  
  i would personally buy the game just to experience the single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_FAN_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, where should I start. With Singleplayer, i guess. The Singleplayer gives a little brief tutorial 
 and gets you in the mood to blow stuff up! There are seven missions, with a fun and happy ending. 
 The graphics are super. with a few grainy textures but that hardly takes away from the fun, because, 
 the graphics are near Call of Duty 4 Perfection. Explosions handle really nicely, and they look 
 great. Sound effects, no comment. It was like they recorded the real thing shooting. When in a 
 house you can hear the echos of the gunshot, which is very good. Compared to Call of Duty 4, Bad 
 Company scores. Ok, time for Multiplayer. Well, the multiplayer is true quality. It is so very 
 fun with the vehicles and the large maps. You can approach from any direction, except out of the 
 red border. There are five classes, Assualt with a Assualt rifle and grenade launcher, and a syringe 
 for full healing (unlock) . Then comes Recon, with a sniper and pistol, and a laser designator (unlock) . 
 Specialist comes next, with a silenced SMG, a tracer gun, and C4 (unlock) . Support, with an LMG 
 and Medikits, with a Motar Strike (unlock) . Finally, Demolitions comes last with a shotgun and a 
 rocket launcher, with some anti-tank mines (unlock) of course!. Conquest has been released in August 
 and is a very good idea, aside from gold rush, the only other variation of game mode. Conquest 
 has only 4 maps aside from the many gold rush has, and i would like to see more maps for conquest 
 to be added. Its not as pick up and play and as short as Call of Duty 4, but it is a game that 
 takes a little bit time settling into. When you do, you'll start getting headshots with that sniper 
 before i can say "BAD COMPANY RULES"!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  What set's Bad company apart from other modern shooters is alot. To start, the gameplay is unique. 
 Rather than being a tactical or run and gunner, it makes it what you want it to be. You can grab 
 and auto-shotgun and wreak havok or take an XM8 and pick off you're enemies. A whole new dimension, 
 that makes the game, is that everything can pretty much be blown up. Sniper giving you problems, 
 blow up his cover. Tanks on the other side of that river? Blow the bridge. And so on. 
  
  It's also played on a battlefield style map. You're restricted to a certain area at a time, but 
 you can complete the objective in a number of ways. 
  At you're disposal are Tanks, boats, armored cars and the occasional helicopter. There are parts 
 where you're stranded with 2 tanks either side, equadistancing yourself to the nearest ammo cache 
 to reload you rocket launcher.
  
  The story follows you as part of bad company, a group of misfits and outlaws, used as cannon fodder. 
 You're (like usual) the new guy. You also have a demo guy named Haggard, Sweetwater you're support 
 gunner and Redford you're captian kited with a M416.
  
  The game doesn't take itself seriously. For example, the manual tells you why everyone was demoted 
 to bad company (if noly the chopper was landed a few meters to the left, no one woulda noticed 
 right?) . It can't be compared to COD4 or Rainbow 6, but its just fun. It goes on to give you a 
 50 round mag for every gun, even the m16 which we all know carries 30. But leave this aside. You 
 need to just fun all around. It even throws in cliches like the escort mission and the 'shot down 
 in a heli with only a pistol beside an enemy camp'. Still fun though.
  
  The multiplayer is a battleground search and destroy mix. One team has to destroy gold crates, 
 one has to defend. Depending on the map this can be good.
  
  All in all, it's a solid pick up for anyone, and the online community is still kicking.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarine08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things I can say about Battlefield Bad Company, but in a couple words I can describe 
 it as INCREDIBLE. The graphics are some of the best I have ever seen, the gameplay is great, and 
 the destruction is priceless. The single-player in my mind is just an opinion, but the multiplayer 
 is where the game makes a name for itself. Honestly, I have only played the single player twice 
 and got through a couple levels. I think the single player is alright, not bad, not great. Just 
 okay..... However, the multiplayer makes up for it. The multiplayer is great, it's intense, some 
 what fast-paced, and it takes some time to get use to, but when you get good the gameplay is mind-blowing. 
 One last thing, the destruction is great, and it brings a new kind of gameplay to the table. You 
 can blow up walls, doorways, and wooden fences, etc.... The only thing that you can't do is totally 
 blow up a house or building to the ground, but this is not needed. Overall, I would give this game 
 a 9.5 out of 10. I strongly suggest you get this game. It is AMAZING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombfanatic
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  the campain was way to easy. it failed to prepare u 4 online. the campain was funny as hell. the 
 missions were to easy. your teammates did no work, requiring u to fight the entire thing. had the 
 game had squad controls it could have been better. the campain was to easy. the helicopter mission 
 failed to help piloting skills
  
  the multiplayer sucked. the heavy amount of lag heavily hurt the enjoyment. u are often killed 
 during lagging. the classes were unfair. there was little balance of class uses. the heavy amount 
 of n00bs hurt the enjoyment. the lack of a host lowered ability to allow more personalized matches. 
 the unfair game modes hurt enjoyment. the campaign failed to prepare players for this. the maps 
 were extensively different. u barely got the map u wanted. the helicopters were to sensitive. the 
 lack of people using headsets removed needed teamwork. the lack of manners in people pisses u off. 
 people often steal ur tanks, humvees during personal repair. people are morons in the game. people 
 risk heavy friendly fire to get objectives. people arent careful and are often rammed resulting 
 in friendly fire. players mainly fight for personal gain. the reward system is undoable at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company starts out by introducing the characters and controls. Once you get the 
 objective to blow up a couple explosive crates, you just go WOW! As the crate explodes, it rips 
 a part of the house behind to crumbling ruin. This kind of destruction is inthe game from that 
 first moment to the end of the game. The singleplayer hits all the right notes on story telling, 
 but is pulled back from complete perfection due to its lame AI. The enemy AI might leap for the 
 cover to survive, but most of the time they'll just stand there as targets for your onslaught. 
 Other than this minor failure, the singleplayer is fun all the way through. 
  
  The multiplayer brings the same degree of destruction to the battlefield as the singleplayer. It 
 is annoying in some games when you need to go around the building and risking dying. Here the best 
 way is to go through buldings. With the Frostbite engine, the multiplayer gameplay is always alive. 
 The game's two game modes are Gold Rush, in which the attacking team has to destroy sets of two 
 crates (the number of sets depends on the map) , and Conquest, the classic Battlefield mode that 
 has you capturing flags (Not like CTF) . The weapons you will use vary a whole lot here. You get 
 5 weapons to start with (10 if you buy Gold Edition) , bur you can get more by gaining ranks and 
 using points to unlock new weapons. The maps have different feels to them, some are vechiles based 
 and some are infantry based. This gives a good balance of both. The only real flaws in the multiplayer 
 are visual, like flickering screens and trees. But all together the multiplayer is a solid and 
 fun experience.
  
  The singleplayer and multiplayer together make a perfect couple. They make a game that is fun to 
 play over and over again. The game has a few minor flaws, but this game still is must-buy for FPS 
 fans. That gives Battlefield: Bad Company a 9 out of 10. See you guys next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IvanTarutin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  B-company. War. Russia. Usa. Destructable buildings. Good sense of humor. Nice graphics. All these 
 things that i have just counted are in this game. This is a whole new battlefield game. Because 
 it's the first one which has great storyline and strong multiplayer. In this game you play as one 
 of idiots which have been sent to the 2nd army batallion or something like that, whatever. AS you 
 continue playing you will open new weapons and maps and gold. One of the greateast things about 
 B-Company is that almost everything is destructable and of course the vihicles which you can use 
 everytime, everywhere. This is a great way to get yourself relaxed after bad day, You just, fire 
 and enjoy. The game itself is not quite hard as you can use mortars, RPGs and other things that 
 destroy environment and bad guys. So, you better get your copy today, and i tell you, you wont 
 regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company - Singleplayer
  
  Story :
  
  Singleplayer mode is about 8-10 hours long. You're Preston Marlow, a nice guy who went to Bad Company 
 for doing some crazy stuff with a chopper. You join your squad, Sergeant Redford, the hardcore 
 ''shut the hell up'' sarge, Sweetwater the nerd who carries big guns, and Haggard, the man who 
 likes to blow stuff up.
  
  You start working for the military, but soon, you find mercenary enemies that are actually paid 
 with gold. Its up to you to find the rest of the story ^^
  
  Graphics/Sound - Battlefield is by far the best SOUNDING game i have ever played. Whether its shooting 
 silenced guns or a heavy tank, everything sounds so real, it adds a whole new level of violence 
 to the game, because it really sounds like it hurts. Echoes inside houses, and through open ground 
 are perfectly made, and you always smile after your big tank canon blows up a house. Yes, you can 
 blow up everything, well, almost. Walls, roofs, trees and ground can be thorn apart, but, sometimes 
 they will in a place you didn't want, or they just wont explode. Just sometimes.
  
  Now about graphics; character models, weapons, vehicles, water and certainly explosions look awesome, 
 but some dust and sparkle effects are a bit rusty.
  
  Gameplay - The new destruction engine makes gameplay alot different, and fun ! You wont go around 
 a house to take a guy out, just bust that thing open with your grenade launcher; or, you will just 
 go through forests with your tank, ripping apart trees. Controls are FPS based, just some differences 
 between crouch button and little details. Multiplayer -
  
  This is the best part of the game in my opinion. There are 8 maps, and 2 modes - Conquest ( taking 
 flags in different map zones ) and Gold Rush - One attack team blows up gold crates, the other 
 defends them until the attackers have no reinforcements. Everytime 2 gold crates in one base are 
 blown up, reinforcements grow up, defenders move to a further base in the map, and so on, until 
 they cannot go any further.
  
  It may seem not much, but all the vehicles ( heavy/light tanks, jeeps, boats, helicopters, and 
 a whole bunch of fix machine gun and grenade launcher spots ) , plus the intense battles that can 
 last very long, will make you real addicted to it. There are 5 different classes - Assault (assault 
 rifles)
  Demolition (bazookas, shotguns and mines)
  Recon (sniper)
  Support (LightMachineGun, medikit)
  Saboteur (can't remember name xD - Suppressor Guns/C4)
 
  
  All the classes can unlock their own gadgets ( Mines, C4, airstrike) and weapons, but in the end, 
 everything is balanced : Tanks aren't invincible, snipers wont last forever, and helicopters will 
 go down after a while.
  
  So, Battlefield Bad Company is a great game, good for FPS fans, nice multiplayer and awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioSoldier3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Single player
  The single player is around 8 hours or so. Which is the average length for games now. Enemies are 
 smart and will blow up the walls around you making it hard at times. At the same time you can blow 
 up their walls. No longer do you have to run around looking for the door. If it's not near you 
 blow it up. Single player can be funny at times and adds a unique element to the game. This is 
 the first battlefield game to have an actual single player. You follow a quiet guy named Preston 
 who did a bad deed and is sent to Bad Co. There you meet up with three others and are on the front 
 lines vs the enemy. You four only care about gold. SINGLE PLAYER SHOULD NOT BE YOUR REASON TO GETTING 
 THE GAME.
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer should be the main reason you get the game. Bad Company has two modes Gold Rush and 
 the popular Conquest. Even though there is only two modes you will see that they are FUN. You never 
 get bored playing them. Gold Rush there are attackers and defenders. The attackers try to blow 
 up the crates while defenders try to prevent this. The game can get really intense. Conquest is 
 all about seizing different bases across the map. There are five classes: Recon (Sniper) , Assault 
 (Assault rifle) , Demolition (Rocket launcher with shotgun) , Specialist (SMG and C4s) , Support (Medic 
 with LMGs) . There are also vehicles including helicopters and boats!
  
  Overall
  If you are looking a game for multiplayer this is the perfect game. You will be hooked for months! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Lots of games have explosions -- with all the conflict and war being represented on various video 
 game machines these days, I'd almost be willing to wager that there are more games that have explosions 
 than games that don't. As a result, most standard destruction has become passe. Punching an exploding 
 barrel just doesn't have the same thrill that it once did. That's why someone is always out there, 
 working in secret on games that give explosions the respect they deserve. Sometimes, though, these 
 games focus too much on the explosion, and the gameplay suffers as a result. So it's nice when 
 all this stuff can co-exist. Battlefield: Bad Company has great-looking bangs, but the reason they're 
 so thrilling is because they do more than just damage all nearby players, enemies, and vehicles. 
 These explosions dig big divots in the environment, knock down fences, and blast holes in the sides 
 of buildings, making them an exciting and useful gameplay addition that helps make the whole game 
 better.
  
  
  The mercenaries are where the story strays from the standard war tale and presses firmly into "Three 
 Kings without all the messy political messages" territory. It seems that the mercenaries are part 
 of a private army run by a man known as the Legionnaire, who only conducts business when gold is 
 involved. With truckloads of gold around the region, your team quickly eschews duty, goes AWOL, 
 and gets into the gold hunting business. The game tells most of its story through in-engine cutscenes, 
 where the members of your team really come alive through a combination of clever dialogue, quality 
 voice acting, and terrific visuals.
  Between its easy-to-enjoy multiplayer and the romp that is the single-player campaign, Battlefield: 
 Bad Company is an easy game to like. It looks great, has fun characters, a load of interesting 
 weaponry, and works nicely whether you're playing alone or with a squad. The campaign lasts long 
 enough to feel fulfilling, and the multiplayer kept me coming back once that was complete.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: semo_almashaer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  l'k; dsjf'lkjf lkdjsfa'l; kfj 'sdlfkj a'sl; dkfj 'lskdff kfmjas; ldkfjg; lkdjs; ;dlkjf; alksdjf asd; lkfj 
 ;alskdfj sad; lkfj ;asldkfj asd; flk jasd; lfk asldkf laskdjf asldkfj laskdjf asdlfk jalsdkjf'SDF 
 KJ'; edlfk s'dlfkj a'dkjf LK'JFGKJ D'FGLK JDF'GKLJ A'; LGK 'SFGKL 'F; LGK 'SF; DLGK 'dlf; gk 'sld; fkg 
 df'g; hlk h'; fglhk h df;'lghk lkf; g'hlk 'dfgl; hk 'gfh; lkdf; ghlk f; ghl k; flg ;fglhk ;lkfgh ghk slfkgjh 
 kjsfgkj lksjfg sfklgjh lksslgkhj lkdjgk jlskgj slkfgjhl kfglkh jlkgfjh lkfgjh lkgfkh jsgklhj iovj 
 ifgji jghoi jmrtkmh rkmr mrlkgmh ijmghm lktgmh imjyth ihj irjthijfgkmh lkfgh jlkfgmhbl km jgf ldkfgj 
 egj irtjhgiop rlkghj lkfgjh fglkhbj lkgjhe gergkj pokjg poertkgh opfgph lfkjgh kljglkh gklhmj hkfgh 
 lkjflkghk jflkghj kflkghj klfjghkl lfkgjhklj lkjgflhkjl jfkgjh rijih igjhi jkjhklfgmhlk mlfkgmhlk 
 mlfkgmhlkmfgkhm km lkgmh lkglkhm igmh oiflgkmhk mlfkgmhklm lkfmgiohj fghj kmfghlkm lkfmghlkm lkfmhlkm 
 mhlfkmghijhfhlkm lkfmghlkm lkfmhlgkm lkfgmhlkm lfkgmhlk mlfkmhlk mpoifgjh klmfglkhm lkmhlkgm lkmflgkhm 
 lkfmhl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Plot - You play as Preston Marlowe who's been shipped to the armys Bad Company, for misbehaved 
 soldiers that are "expendable". You are put into a squad of 4 which are yourself, Sgt. Redford, 
 Private Haggard and private Terrence Sweet-water After doing many objectives for the army you start 
 finding gold from Mercenaries and the squad starts getting greedy which leads them to becoming 
 AWOL and the US army abandons your squad and your squad is left to rot and so now they're left 
 they are trying to find the trucks of gold that they've been finding.
  
  Singleplayer - The singleplayer is my favourite part of the game unlike multiplayer you won't always 
 get blown up by a wuss in a tank and if you do you'll respawn at your last checkpoint and you don't 
 have to kill all the enemies again. Though sometimes when you're under attack by a helicopter it 
 takes bloody forever to take it down.
  
  Multiplayer - I rekon the multiplayer is very frustrating when your on foot and just shooting at 
 all the ground enemys and killing em all you're all like "well this is pretty fun" but no then 
 some noobcake tank comes and blows you up and spoils your fun. There's only 1 game mode and it's 
 pretty lame. You play as an attacker or defender, the attackers objective is to destroy the defenders 
 crates of gold, the defenders objective is to defend the crates of gold from the attackers. ON 
 both teams you're always thinking "i don't care about the stupid gold crates i just wanna kill 
 people" but that's pretty hard when you got other serious pro gamers doing the games objective 
 and the noobs that just wanna have fun killing people has their game spoiled when the pro gamers 
 complete the games objective.
  They could have improved the multiplayer if they made some Team Deathmatch without no vehicles 
 or something.
  
  Gameplay
  Destructable Environment - the destructable environment is pretty frustrating seeing as most of 
 it's your cover and there's not much use of cover when someone's gonna blow it up.
  Vehicles - the vehicles are pretty good but when you're under attack by em it totally sucks.
 
  Combat / Gunfights - the combat is so fun it is really satisfying to take out your assault rifle 
 aim and just shoot your enemy down from a distance, or just blow em up with your grenade launcher, 
 either way it's awesome.
  Health / Healing - The way to heal on this game is no doubt very fake. In order to heal you take 
 out a needle and pump your heart full of the drug that's inside it and when you keep on running 
 out of health you're gonna be using it alot and you'd might think "this needle thing is so fake 
 i mean won't you start seeing things if you used to much of it ?" you can use a medic kit like 
 on Battlefield 2142 but that's only on multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Well i've picked up some good games in times where i've looked for others. When looking for GRID 
 i picked up paradise (seems like the best decision ever) , and i got army of 2 when lookin for bad 
 company... and then when looking for BiA: Hells Highway i picked up bad company. And its one hell 
 of a game! The game is well and truly in its own league... although you might think that "okay 
 i can blow things up... but i aint gonna get to the enemy that fast!" it really really revolutionized 
 gaming warzones. Fact is it doesnt only help you (Flanking a machine gun using a grenade launcher 
 it really satisfying and much better than bullets piercing through the wall. 
  The single player mode is really deep and has some pretty good comedy in it, and multiplayer is 
 crazy... the fact is its so simple but executed so well, thats what makes the game so good.
  I gave the game a 9.5 because at some points in time your kinda disoriented with where to go... 
 seing as the sweeping country side and alley ways of the city tend to be confusing when your only 
 given a general direction to go in. And reloading is abit on the slow side... other than that everythings 
 "a" okay.
  Its a game you need to get in the break before october and november and guarenteed you'll come 
 back to it later, its really addictive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctcy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  For me, I've never played a single Battlefield series before this game. And I find it fun. the 
 thing I liked most about this game is that it doesn't take itself too seriously. the characters 
 are funny, the storyline is entertaining, the whole idea of a modern combat pirate squad is quite 
 different from your usual tactical fps battle games - COD4, Bros In Arms, medal of honor etc. So 
 its a nice change. I'm a fan of COD4, so don't get me wrong, I'll probably pick up brothers in 
 arms hell's highway too (it just got released couple of days back) , but I find bad company a nice 
 change from the usual pace of most war shooters, where most of the characters are usually patriotic, 
 gung-ho or part of some elite fighting unit - Marines, SAS, Airborne etc. So to be part of a bunch 
 of rejects from the Army, and going off on an adventure to find gold is pretty cool. of course 
 with the frostbite engine where we can let it rip by blowing things up helps too! really helps! 
 nice touch. And the online multiplayer stuff is pretty cool too!
  
  Good job Dice & EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1i95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  this game is an overall great 9.5 and has the best multiplayer which has many modes  
 and support) and the single player campaign is small but very exiting and fun but has some tiny 
 tiny tiny mistakes (that you will only find if played again and again) for example when playing 
 you can see that you have no feet and has very poor water animation and when you enter a vehicle 
 there is no animation and your B company buddies suddenly fly into the vehicle you are in and your 
 buddies do nothing but run around and shoot the air enemy also does not have a good AI (too easy 
 to kill) but the best thing about this game is you can destroy everything, seriously everything! 
 has many great weapons and more weapons can be unlocked, also and has mortar strike and much much 
 more! everyone who likes FPS games needs to have this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFG1995
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  battlefield bad company is one of the best games i have ever played on PS3. the destructable enviorments 
 rock and the the firefights are some of the best i have ever seen. the online has a great ranking 
 system. the weapons are really strong and the C4 blows everything up. i like the way you can use 
 the motar strike. the controls are easy to use and the vehicle handling is very responsive. the 
 only mistake it made was the lack of story missions, dont get me wrong the stoy rocked but i only 
 wish there were more missions. i had a great time playing online i killed alot of people. i like 
 being an attacker better than being the defender because i love blowing stuff up, especially if 
 it makes someone mad in the proccess. battlefield is an EA legend so if you love first person shooters 
 buy this game TODAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time since I have been playing video games that, I have mixed feelings about 
 a game. Don't get me wrong, this is a very good game. I was impressed with the visuals but, not 
 blown away with the game play amd story. So, as a result, I didn't get the same "rush" as when 
 I played games like Rainbow Six 1 & 2 or even COD4. There were something about them that made you 
 go WOW. I didn't get the same WOW feeling.
  
  I did like the buildings being blown up. I liked the enemy AI. I didn't like the lack of control 
 though on your group. It would have been nice if you could direct them to go to a specific spot. 
 Also, since they basically moved on their own, in an open fire fight, they never died. I noticed 
 how some of my group members were shot at even by a tank and, they got up and, kept shooting. Not 
 really realistic. I didn't think that it was realistic them collecting the gold bars. Aren't they 
 heavy? And, when you see the ending it makes you wonder what was the purpose of collecting them 
 anyway.
  
  I never tried on-line as by the time you are finished playing games like this in general, another 
 one seems to be creeping up on it's release date; like Hell's Highway, so your attention begins 
 to turn to the next challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdrummer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This games story campaign was completely stupid and a pointless part to the game, (just stick with 
 online battlefield team) . The online saved it for the most part, the online was fun, but annoying. 
 It was really hard to snipe with all the fog, and it takes two freakin shots with a sniper rifle 
 to kill them! And you had to press like two buttons just to get to your grenades, and it takes 
 way too many bullets to kill somebody. The games online mode got pretty annoying, the same thing 
 over and over again, and even the new game mode didn't help it much either. I guess what I'm saying 
 is Battlefield should stick with the PC. There were times that I wanted to play BF BC cause I could 
 be very tactical online, blowing stuff up, and being able to make my own cover, but even that got 
 boring after awhile, cause once people figured out that tanks are powerful everybody would use 
 one, and you were screwed unless you were a demolitions class, which i rarely was i was usually 
 an assault, or sniper, but i still like the game even with its obvious flaws. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanticFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Bad Company. You're in for a hilariously fun filled ride that includes nearly completely 
 destructible terrain and a campaign that's one of the best written fiction scripts that you'll 
 hear.
  
  The campaign focuses around gold. The USA is at war with Russia, and you're a soldier that has 
 recently been transferred to Bad Company on account of a certain misdeed, which you'll come to 
 narrate in time. Bad Company is basically a squad where the screw-ups go - not the screw ups as 
 in people who freeze on the battlefield, but the screw ups that *accidentally* set fire to the 
 largest ammo dump east of Berlin. Fun group of guys. Each of your 3 squad mates has a great personality 
 and they will constantly be chatting, even if they're not the main focus of attention.
  
  BC also never resets the battlefield when you die - you simply respawn as if it were mutiplayer, 
 and your squadmates retreat back to you (warping if they are too far away) . You'll find that this 
 allows you to really have fun with the game, and take it just as serious as you'd like it to.
 
  
  The multiplayer is squad-based combat, which allows you to do two things - 1) have your friends 
 on your squad 2) when you respawn, you're allowed to respawn at the location of your squad, which 
 provides for a more immediate return to the battlefield. There are two game modes, Gold Rush, and 
 Conquest - both are a lot of fun to play.
  
  Perhaps the single most impressive feature of BC is the completely destructible terrain. No wall 
 or building will stand in your way - there are very few objects you cannot destroy, and as you 
 will always have some sort of grenade or explosive, you will stop thinking about the fact that 
 there's a wall in between you and him. Cover can quickly disappear, meaning you have to be smart 
 to choose places that can take some serious abuse. It also means that you can team up with squad 
 mates in MP to, say, take out a wall while the other mate is continually firing a machine gun. 
 Cover disappears with bullets following. It's rather effective.
  
  All in all, BC is a fantastic game, and I will continue playing it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is solely one player but still great fun with friends. The graphics are great along with 
 the game play. The single player campaign is certainly something to look at. Unlike other FPS games, 
 it really seems to actually have a story that actually plays out like a story instead of world 
 war 2 or something, or some terrorist organization. But anyway, overall it's really great. There's 
 a ton of weapons but some you only get by doing some dumb thing online witch is pretty stupid but 
 their not all like that. It's a really solid game and their aren't many cracks in it. The online, 
 again, is the best part. I'm sorry but if you have this game and don't have Wi-Fi. Your missing 
 out. On online you can either be attackers or defenders. Obviously the different modes speak for 
 themselves meaning if your attacker you attack and if defender you defend. It's really terrific 
 all in all, graphics, game play, sound (though you might need some good speakers to really here 
 it the best) . It's definetly a game worth getting. (please feel free to track me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall
  
  Was impressed for the first 5 hours but from the start in the back of my mind i was feeling is 
 this going to chance i am sorry to say now it doesn't. 
  
  You are a highly trained soldier trained in... EVERYTHING! there is no weapon you can operate, 
 no vehicle you can not drive or fly... after all that training....... DID THEY FORGET TO TRAIN 
 YOU HOW TO OPEN A DOOR? You want to enter any building with shut doors you have to blow your way 
 in
  
  Opposing forces never miss you your ability to stab your heart with a needle every time you get 
 full of holes to instantly heal (kinda like an x-man who shall remain name less *cough* Wolverine 
 *cough*) After all the times you stab your heart through the game your heart should be like Swiss 
 cheese. 
  
  One huge plot hole is, all that gold you will discover through the adventure in huge metal boxes 
 where is it all kept? The shooting is very little fun the inability to hide from the shots makes 
 it frustrating when fighting out side of vehicles a pain. You also seem trained at repairing, calling 
 in air strikes and Your team mates, you'd do better having a post box as back up at least you can 
 hide in the street that way.
  
  After all it's faults it still can be a laugh i couldn't get a good enough connection to the online 
 to comment fully but what i did see is a bit lag luster
  
  Recommended if you can get it on a sale
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sivus_2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  The Battlefield Franchise has long been admired for it's unique Gameplay and Multiplayer Features. 
 DICE has taken a major step to Introducing the Franchise to the Next Generation Consoles and is 
 quite successful in doing so.
  
  The Game starts of charmingly with user-friendly menus, Catchy Jazz Music and Large Bright Environments. 
 But the main feature that many fans are interested in is the destructible objects.
  
  Armed with a Standard Rifle with an Underslug Grenade Launcher the game gets the player to jump 
 right in and feel right at home, with villages and towns blowing up on the first level. And even 
 manning an Artillery Gun to support the frontline. You'll start blowing things up left and right 
 like a madman, and when you hop into a vehicle just adds more to the mayhem. 
  
  The Characters are easy to relate to except for the Preston Marlowe (The Player) but thats probably 
 for the player to give it's own personality (Although he talks unlike most others)
  
  The Introduction to a Single Player Campaign to the Battlefield franchise is something new for 
 fans, and is played out really well with the same Sandbox Style play.
  
  The flaws with Single Player can really be the AI having Super Senses, being able to spot you from 
 behind their backs when your 20 feet away. And having the perfect Accuracy of a Sniper except armed 
 with a Machine Gun. Of course these are but Minor Flaws and can sometimes be easily overlooked.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is what makes the game shine. The first Game Play mode made availabe "Gold Rush". 
 One team Defends pairs Gold Crates from being Destroyed by the Opposing Team. For every Pair Destroyed 
 the Defensive Team Retreats to another base to yet defend another Pair and so on until they reach 
 the final 2 Gold Crates.
  
  The New Conquest Mode has just been made available which is basically the same as the standard 
 Gameplay of Capturing Control Points from which you can spawn from after being captured.
  
  The Game is well Balanced and can often send you to have total PWNAGE run-throughs, Or just being 
 killed numerous times.
  
  The Player Ranking System is slow but the wait is worth it when you get to unlock that weapon you've 
 been eyeing for so long. Although this makes it hard for New Players as they may not have all the 
 gadgets Experienced Players have causing Balance Issues.
  
  Overall this game is great. Worth your money for $50-60 American. Only Flaw is the Super Sharp 
 AI Senses and lack of Replay Value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazin900
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  AMAZIN graphics, great visuals and amazin multiplayer which is I think the best multiplayer i've 
 played which is addictive. Helicopters and vehicles and tanks all have to pbe played not to mention 
 other kind of weapons which have to be used as well but the main thing is the great visuals, the 
 addiction of blowin stuff up, and great gameplay. the unlockables r awesome and r worth playin the 
 game in ranked multiplayer matches which is really fun when playing with ur frnds when they r in 
 ur squad and there r alot of things which have to be noted which is blwin the stuff up, everything 
 blows up from bulidings to fuel tanks but mainly everything is a great fun to play with but on 
 my opinion the multiplayer is WOW and the visuals loook amazin not to mention the campaign is very 
 fun to play and the whole is destructible which is a great deal in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxNoobhunterxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Like some people say, there is no such shooter as a battlefield shooters, since they are the best 
 in making online games.
  
  But Let's never forget that the game is made by: EA, and EA is also known for having cheap servers 
 and alot of problems in them.
  
  But let's get to the point, the graphics in this game are awesome, everything looks real, it looks 
 like your really in a war in which you can use everything around you to escape, to make shortcuts 
 or to kill campers.
  
  The explosions are awesome, but let's get to the point, you probably want to know about destruction 
 right? well, it's limited, about 87% of everthing around you can be destroyed including the ground, 
 ow yeah, we sure do like it when stuff blows up!
  
  The singleplayer is really good but this is a new feuture in a battlefield game, it has a storyline 
 but the singleplayer is actually short. But online is really, really, really adictive. The singleplayer 
 can be seen as a tutorial but not a tutorial like in unreal tournement, but more like a call of 
 duty game which let's you destroy everthing and makes you believe that using doors is fore the 
 weak, why not blow it up right. 
  
  The online is quite good and you have alot of weapons, but to bad you can't customize your weapons 
 nor can you customise classes, and this can be really frustrating, examples: 
  
  assault is the only class which lets you heal yourself, but it can't do anything towards tanks. 
 
  
  demolition class lets you place mines and use rocket launchers to destroy tanks, but it can't heal 
 itself. 
  
  recon class lets you use a device which can bomb anything with a rocket falling from the sky, this 
 class also let's you use a sniper, but all the good snipers are bolt action (google it) and + it 
 can sometimes take you more then one shot to kill anyone.
  
  Specialists have the ability to use C4 to blow up stuff and objectives, but it has a few problems, 
 you don't have the ability to use iron sight on the specialist guns so you'll have to use your 
 so called 'crosshair' to kill. you can't heal yourself and the gun's are totally weak accept for 
 a few.
  
  The support class gives you the ability to heal your comrades, repair vehicles and use a device 
 for an artillery strike, but it also has a few problems, it's guns have low precision, most of 
 it's guns have high recoil and most of them aren't good enough.
  
  So that's the problem with the classes, but the online also has a few issues, like the xbox360 
 version, the xbox360 version has pretty much the worst servers ever, most owners can't play online 
 but luckely enough, it's gonna get fixed, the ps3 version doesn't have this problem but does have 
 issues.
  
  NOw the question, should i buy it or shouldn't i? well, if you are someone who likes to play online 
 and own noobs, go ahead, it's worth it, it's also worth it for casual gamers. buy it if you're 
 an fps Junkie like me, or buy it if you are a battlefield fan. There are alot fo reasons to buy 
 this game, so go ahead, blow stuff up and with stuff, i ofcourse mean the noobs online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbrown42684
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best FPS Online for the PS3, I have always played Battlefield but on Computer 
 and I think they made up for the first version of the console game. With the addition of the snipers 
 Laser Designater (coolest weapon in the game) it makes the game stand out. 4 different weapons 
 for each class and huge maps capable of driving around in Tanks, Transport, Boats and Helicopters 
 makes it really fun. One thing I first questioned but dont mind anymore was the inability to go 
 to the prone position but then again I like it as well so you dont have people camping in the prone 
 the whole game. A huge set back in the game though is you cant milk a grenade thats my only negative 
 well that and the single player but seriously the Battlefield games prior were never meant for 
 single player. All in all this is a must have for the PS3 and is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je12342
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  awesome!!! a bit grainy in the graphics department but it has u keep coming back, but the single 
 player ai is 2 easy and makes u finish the single player mode without even a sweat unless u want 
 2 play the multiplayer. yeah the single player isnt perfect but the multiplayer is astounding and 
 each class has a real sense of u in it like assault all rounded weapons to kill many enemies. The 
 classes are assualt, specialist, demolition, support, and recon. The recon class gives you the 
 oppurtunity to kill from afar. demolition gives you weapons with many damage but it has less acurracy 
 exept for the rpg. support gives you a nurse that has medical and mechanical equipment with a handy 
 mortar fire that lets you destroy buildings. And finally specialist, it has suppresors on every 
 gun to make a silent death and c4 todestroy walls and tanks and the latest tace gun, this let you 
 tag tanks and makes it ahoming beacon. this gives hundreds of hours of gameplay and sit on your 
 couch and have gatorade in your hand because you'll be playing this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Des431
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  BFBC is an amazingly fun FPS with an owe inspiring sandbox landscape. I myself am a sucker to physics 
 so this game stood out to me above the rest. Which is why I brought it and I'm very glad I did 
 so.
  
  The first person campaign is very short (like in CoD4) but none the less fun. The whole game centers 
 around this search for gold. Your squad has found that the enemy has allot of gold and, as any 
 sane man would do (or is it insane) they charge single handedly into the sights of the most feared 
 army in the world. All to find the millions of pounds worth of gold. It is a bit unrealistic how 
 just four basically trained men can get past and through the whole russian army, and more! But 
 ahh well. Just adds to the comical value of the game. If you get a little bored during a mission 
 why not take a detour. And try to find one of the several crates of gold or collectable guns lying 
 about on every map. Just so the game takes a little longer to fully complete. The enemies seem 
 to have no problem with standing out in the open. Just waiting for that bullet to come their way. 
 Once I managed to reload before shooting a enemy standing right in front of me! This makes the 
 game surprisingly easy. As well as the fact that when you die you don't lose progress. You simply 
 re-spawn at the last saved point but everyone you've killed is still dead. If you are a dedicated 
 fan of FPS's like me then you'll find this game quite easy to beat in a week or two. That isn't 
 to say the campaign isn't incredibly fun though! 
  
  This is mainly because the main theme of the game is, to blow stuff up! With the ability to destroy 
 almost anything, beautiful explosions and plenty of stuff that will explode when shot. This game 
 is perfect for any pyromaniac or explosion enthusiast. Which I guess are the same thing at heart. 
 Exactly why I brought this game.
  
  The game also has much more humor than a regular FPS. Your squad makes quite allot of really bad 
 jokes but the humor in the game is quite good. Just the way that the people in your squad act so 
 unprofessionally is funny. After all the whole aim of the game is to blow stuff up while laughing 
 and having fun along the way.
  
  The online play is as expected, excellent. The reward and level system almost perfected in CoD4 
 is very good offering a great variety of classes as well as weapons and gadgets to be used in battle. 
 Ranging from health jabs to heal your self to tank locking missiles. There could be a few more 
 unlockable weapons for each class. But you never play for one class for too long anyway. Every 
 time you gain a level (done by killing people and winning games) you get an unlock point. You can 
 use these to unlock a weapon of your choice. Medals and badges can be won by doing specific things 
 during a battle. Such as get a 6 kill streak. Or do a jump in a vehicle. 
  
  So all in all BFBC is a very fun game. With a short single player but that's made up in the amazing 
 multiplayer. And, explosive gameplay XP
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazam360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  The game would almost be perfect but the graphics are kind of grainy and it only has two multiple 
 player modes. And the good part about it is that almost everything is destructible and it has a 
 full story with numerous guns and pretty much every other weapon. So overall I think this game is 
 everyone should get this game instead of call of duty:) BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN 
 CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY 
 IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD 
 BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY 
 FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER 
 THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD 
 COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR 
 BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN 
 CALL OF DUTY FOUR BATTLEFIELD BAD COMPANY IS BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY FOUR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I love this game, like it alot because its like the best multiplayer shooter with vehicles and 
 stationary weapons.
  
  I was really really impressed by the sound effects in this game aswell.
  
  Graphics were great. 
 You can see quite far in the distance in some maps which I thought was impressive not having so 
 much fog. Destructible buildings is a great addition aswell adds more freedom to the game.
  
  Ya and somehow EA and DICE did it. They somehow made the game less annoying to play. I always 
 used to get frustrated with the other battlefield games, they were great fun, it just didn't feel 
 fair sometimes and getting shot just as you respawn was so very annoying, which is usually the 
 reason why I'd quit the game.
  
  "Anyways they fixed the game and made it less frustrating to play" that was my main concern all 
 throughout the series and now that that is taken care of, what a fantastic multiplayer shooter 
 man. 
  
  Its a great game.
  
  Worth every penny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  I long ago had discarded this game as a purchase, being so blinded by COD4's stellar multiplayer, 
 but a case of extreme summer boredom led me to a change of mind and I'm glad it did.
  
  The battlefield series has been cloned time and again over the past years with occasional succes 
 (SW battlefront) but frequent crapfest as well.
  
  This game comes to show that DICE created the formula and no one knows best how to work it.
  
 
  The multiplayer has reached a pinnacle of fun, engaging and addictive gameplay that crowns above 
 all of the crowd.
  
  The diversity in classes, weapons, gadgets and vehicles guarantees that no battle will ever play 
 out the same, and the rank progression and awards that can be received keeps us coming back for 
 more.
  
  There is also a nice variety in maps, the only shame is that there is only one game mode at launch, 
 but it is a very nice subsitute for the usual conquest in my opinion, with a more objective based 
 approach, where one team attacks a sucession of bases poushing back the defenders along an expanding 
 map, while the defender attempt to exhaust the attacker's tickets.
  
  Technically, I must admit that the hyped frostbite engine isn't all I expected.
  
  There are 
 some nice effects and textures all around, and the character models are amazing, but the overall 
 presentation is disturbingly grainy, and at least to my view, it doesn't look at all like an art 
 direction option, it looks like true sloppiness.
  
  The destructible environments are also very nice, particullarly enhancing the multiplayer experience, 
 but soon we also realize that it is quite rigid, with very strict break points on buildings that 
 some times don't exactly match where an explosive round hit the building at all.
  
  The opposite goes for sound. The SFX are the most real I have heard on a FPS, and the dynamic sound 
 system that alters the sound volume and characteristics according to the environment and overall 
 soundplain helps much.
  
  Music is nice, not amazing in anyway and the voice acting is very well delievered with many genuinely 
 funy moments in the single-player campaign...
  
  Oh that's right, there's also singleplayer!
  
  It's the best singleplayer experience of any 
 battlefield game, that's for sure, but make no mistake, that essentially means its average instead 
 of a joke like usual. The gameplay feels a bit off in singleplayer, there's too much mutiplayer 
 flavour in it, but it's the story and the interesting characters that sell the singleplayer. This 
 said, the game would do perfectly well with only the multiplayer component.
  
  But I have just a wittle bit of ranting to do:
  
  SOUND AND GRAPHIC GLITCHES
  
  Yes, plenty 
 of them are too be found, and its a shame that they give an overall soild game and look of unpolish 
 that could have been avoided
  
  REATRDED AI
  
  If you want a fully fleshed singleplayer experience, don't just populate it with the usual retarded 
 bots. Actually, they're smarter than the usual battlefield bots, but by today's standards of enemy 
 AI they really do a crappy job at killing the player.
  
  In the end, its a masterpiece multiplayer experience, that goes one step further in also bringing 
 single player to the series, but that could also have received a few more layers of polish.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  The single player was fun but short. There were plenty of weapons to masacre your enemies with. 
 The graphix were awsome and destructable enviroments are the coolest part I think it just makes 
 it that much more emmersive. For example if you are in a building and a artillery battery hits 
 it the building crumbles. In most games before this one it just hits the building and explodes 
 no damage to the building though. The multiplayer mode is always fun and there are plenty of people 
 on and playing so not it's not hard to find a game. There could have been better party control. 
 As well as a way to see your badges on the uniform once you get them. The vehicle controls were 
 spot on for me vary comfortable. I thought the weapon mechanix worked well also with the realistic 
 recoil gives the beginner something to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  A truly amazing game. In what other game can you shoot a rocket at a wall and kiss the wall good 
 by? not many.
  
  lets get to the point. Battlefield: bad company is a masterpiece. Great single player, wondrous 
 multiplayer and dustructable environment like never seen before make that statement true and makes 
 this game a must buy. The sounds in this game are the most realistic Ive ever heard. graphics are 
 great and beautiful, i have no idea what gamespot is talking about when they say it is grainy. 
 The multiplayer is just breathe taking. despite the fact that there is only 2 game modes, you will 
 NEVER get bored of it. Every game is full of excitement and fun no matter which game mode, which 
 map and weather you are terrible at the game or the best. You WILL have fun playing this game.
 
  
  The single player is nothing special, but great fun. the humor adds great taste to it while finding 
 collectables and gold bars adds to the fun.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matteocurmi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  What keeps me playing this game from time to time that its got jokes, blowing up, and the awesome 
 multiplayer.
  
  Lets start from the jokes. Your team 'Bad Company' is always arguing, complaining (in a funny way) 
 and solving their plans with a little game called rock, paper, scissor. This all adds up to one 
 crazy team.
  
  Second. The Blowing up. This is one of my favorites.
  When playing Call Of Duty, or Medal Of Honor, do you ever feel like, I dont know..... Blow Stuff 
 up? Well welcome to explosive heaven!! This comes in handy a lot of times, when I'm cornered , 
 all I do is blow the wall behind me and run. And you might want to thank EA they
  included the blowing up in multiplayer also.
  
  This is the third. The multiplayer. EA is actually 
 not letting this be some kind of extra feature and concentrating real hard to keep players busy.
 
  
  
  So, I just want to say to say that EA made no masterpiece, but it will keep you laughin and playin 
 for a while :) 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venters
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  So I've been playing this game off and on now for about 2 months now.
  
  The campaign mode is pretty straight forward, nothing that you haven't seen before in other games.
 
  
  What makes this game different is the destructible environments in multiplayer. Right now there 
 are only two modes in multiplayer. The normal fare for Battlefield veterans with Conquest that 
 was released a few weeks back. But I personally didn't care for that mode since alot of the players 
 that I came across in it treated it alot like FFA deathmatches.
  
  No the mode that I played mostly is called Gold Rush. Its like a mix of a few different MP staples 
 in that there are objectives that you have to rush out to attack with one team composed of attacks 
 and the other team defenders. But instead of returning said objective to your base or holding it 
 for a period of time. You as the attacker is supposed to destroy the objective to renew your tickets.
 
  
  I like it. Its fun just wish more people would watch your backs more often in MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Springs12118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  The game is already great, would be totally awesome with some improvements:
  Online multiplayer mode:
  - squad invitation system: way to complicated!! every player needs 
 to be invited seperately!
  
  - and multi player voice chat: totally stinks as only working properly for max 2 rounds. Have to 
 run VoiP in parallel to be able to coordinate games with mates
  
  - Visual modifications on players would be nice, too, perhaps similar to RSV? - Also, cover mode 
 from RSV or Ao2 could be integrated, too..
  
  - Team score rather than individual scores would redirect the efforts away from improving personal 
 kill/death ratio to everybody supporting to reach team target (both conquest and gold rush modes)
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, despite all the before mentioned, that game is a definitely to be qualified 
 as a drug, highly addictive, made me work my way up all the way to Battlefield Commander and still 
 going at it every night!
  
  
  Single player mode:
  nearly as good as the multi player, thanks to large maps, increasing difficulty levels and freedom 
 to choose any weapon around or to drive any vehicle availabe. Unfortunately the team mates only 
 serve for entertainment purposes, cracking jokes in the video sequences, not really a big support 
 when it come to fire fights with AI. Solid I'd say
  
  I guess there will never be a perfect gamem but this is damn close :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fergocricket93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I viewed Bad company's 1st trailer, I was hooked on this game. I couldn't wait for it 
 to be released. It was well worth the wait. Bad Company is set in a futuristic war between the 
 US and Russia, occurring in Eastern Europe. You play as Preston Marlo, with three other guys; Sweet-water, 
 Haggard and Redford. You have recently been transfered to the 222nd army battalion's B company 
 nicknamed Bad company. Getting sent to this company is usually because of bad behavior. Instead 
 of being sent to jail, a person is sent to B company to be used as cannon fodder. The gameplay 
 itself is simply stunning. You can run around as an infantryman, commandeer troop transporters, 
 supply trucks, armored cars, light tanks, heavy tanks, golf carts and even helicopters. The controls 
 are easy to handle as well which is a bonus. Many video games can be ruined because of terrible 
 controls. In the game, you are able to carry a primary weapon, grenades or grenade launcher, a 
 knife, a health injector, and others such as rocket launchers, laser designator, Mortar GPS transmitters, 
 and even power tools which can revive vehicles. Find yourself low on health? Just switch to your 
 handy injector and press R1 to stab yourself in the chest and regain to 100% health. Not very realistic, 
 but anyway. Visual-wise, the game does very well. The graphics are not absolutely perfect as the 
 image is sometimes grainy, and sometimes glitches. But generally that is good.
  Now the important thing that sets this game aside. The environment is 95% destructable. Houses, 
 walls, fences, vehicles, trees, bridges can now be destroyed. You can either call in artillery, 
 or use your trusty grenade launcher or shoot an inflamable object. Buildings cannot be demolished 
 but can be basically ripped apart. The game is beautiful. One small glitch is where you can use 
 the power tool to grind holes in the walls. Do the same thing with leaves and they too make the 
 grinding noise and some can withstand it. Strange?
  The sound effects are also brilliant. The noise of the weapons, being shell-shocked, the environment 
 being destroyed, vehicles and the voice work is all superb. The multiplayer is also smashing. It 
 is very strong, up with call of duty 4. There are 2 game modes; conquest (capture the flag) and 
 goldrush (attack and defend bases and gold crates) . The weapons are all great as is the fact you 
 can take screenshots. The online maps are huge and are fun to explore. I highly recommend this 
 game to anyone who wants to play a realistic game like never before.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dulichild
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Overall this game was an instant must have. An awesome addition to the series, but wait. It wasn't 
 the best in its series. The respawn time is horrible. It's one of the reasons I just can't stand 
 the gameplay for over an hour. There are mostly good side like... a bgger arsenal. You can repair 
 vehicles with a tool and kill people with it at the same time. There's the occasional preset classes 
 like medical. includes medikits (a good way to get points) and everyone has 'nades. Campaign is 
 so boring I just couldn't take it. Online was awesome though. So anyway back to online multiplayer. 
 The part of blowing holes through the wall gets boring fast and other than I gave Battlefield an 
 8.0. ... NOT FINISHED... the leveling up is like taking a porcupine and shoving it in your PeeHole. 
 The total level ups saddens me. THERE IS ONLY 25 LEVELS. Which means you can only unlock 25 extra 
 weapons and secondaries not including the Find All Five. Another Defect. ON PS3 its so damn hard 
 to get these to work on PS3. I rest my case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimeboyyyyy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I could play this game online all night long. And I occasionally do.. The ability to make your 
 vantage points is blow the hell out of hell good. The fact that in the online mode you can have 
 5 different classes for every situation. Although assault isn't the greatest class, it still is 
 a decent and sometimes useful class. The variety of maps and weapons says hello Call of Duty 4 
 online!! The single player story blew my mind and was surprisingly hilarious at the same time. 
 This game kept me entertained and laughing as it still does. There is a good quantity of vehicles 
 and weapons that could appeal to any person. They include tanks, helicopters, Humvees, boats, buggies, 
 artillery guns, guided rocket stands, turrets, and finally the uber-powerful AA guns. The game 
 packs so much action into one game it should be illegal, and don't think I forgot to mention the 
 kick a$$ graphics. So if your still looking at those cheap porn sites get off your perverted aSS 
 and run out to the store and by this game. Don't have a car then you probably should stop reading 
 this review, or looking at those cheap porn sites, and get a car so you can get off your perverted 
 a$$ and buy this game. EA deserves to kick back and give themselves a big cuban cigar and beer because 
 they deserve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumahboi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company adds a new style of gameplay to the ever changing world of First Person Shooters. Most 
 FPS games say they offer destructible environments, but none truly affect the actual gameplay as 
 well as BF: BC does. They implement it so well that you can play the same part over and over and 
 still get a different outcome. Like instead of dashing into a house full of mercenaries, try blowing 
 a hole in the wall with your grenade launcher then picking off the remaining survivors with your 
 gun. Very simple additions add such dramatic gameplay, especially in multiplayer when you are on 
 the defending team protecting the crates. Try camping in the corner of a building with a tank blowing 
 the walls around you to pieces! 
  
  However, BF: BC has been getting bad reviews an slammed for "bullet time". Now I don't mean Matrix/time 
 bending bullet time. I mean the speed of the bullet. In some games (that will remain nameless) 
 bullets go unrealistically fast, have no drop rate, or even a deceleration rate over large areas. 
 BF: BC though displays these variables that most unexperienced players (in that field) do not like, 
 who then hammer the game repeatedly in that same area. Realistically speaking, you must "lead" 
 (pronounced 'leed' not 'led') your shots while sniping.
  
  Despite a couple flaws that I don't ever hear anybody complaining about, like the very short amount 
 of time it takes for a broken item to disappear (for ex: a fallen tree) . Or maybe even a couple 
 issues I have with the destructibility of things. given the extensive amount of time put into this 
 factor, I would have thought after about 5 minutes straight of shooting a building with a tank 
 that it would finally collapse (but it doesn't) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Normally verbose, I am going to make this short.
  
  Game just isn't any fun. Now (it should be noted) I don't play online so am reviewing the single 
 player game.
  
  Dying happens FAR too often (and I am a FPS veteran who has been playing the genre since the original 
 Doom) . Healing is necessary every twelve seconds. 
  
  Classic stuff (Far Cry anyone) . Enemy is miles away, BAM three shots to your head. Arrive at the 
 scene, no sniper rifles. Sigh. The enemy just happened to identify you and kill you from a mile 
 with guns effective at much shorter distances. 
  
  The super healing device is idiotic (but necessary about every other step)
  
  Mini-games (artillery) 
 aren't any fun. Decent voice acting and story (I guess)
  
  VERY dissapointed and traded it in pretty quickly. It just wasn't something I looked forward to 
 playing. No wow moments at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infamousdcgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  As a casual gamer, it was great to get away from all this serious crap games like Call of Duty 
 4 are running. Not to say that it's bad, but it get annoying after awhile. There are five things 
 that make Battlefield: Bad Company great. 
  First of all, it's hilarious. your teammates are idiots and the whole point of the game is stealing 
 gold. Second of all is the bad ass vehicle work. from golf carts and dune buggies, to helicopters 
 and motorboats you'll love BBC's offroad vehicle freedom. Third is the amazing destruction. There 
 are few limits to what you can destroy in this game. Fourth is the unbelievable sound. That's about 
 all I can say on that part; you'll have hear for yourself. And fifth is the incredible freedom 
 of how you will attack your objective. Blaze in with a tank, or call in an airstrike, whatever 
 you want; It's your choice. The online mode is fun, if a bit repetitive. But since I'm writing 
 this review a little late, I'll mention they did ad a free new game mode. Well, I'm running out 
 of space. I guess you'll just have to buy it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingClank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I admit it, when i first played this game, i was pretty impressed. I didn't expect the story mode 
 to be that great, due to the multiplayer, but it was pretty decent. I was able to enjoy the online 
 for quite a few months, but i have really lost interest in this game. The amount of problems i have 
 experienced have really put a damper on my game experience. The lack of teamwork is really rediculous. Even 
 with the conquest mode, it has hardly any lasting value. The addition of destroying parts of buildings 
 is really cool, but other than that, this is a very typical shooter. It is the same as any other. You 
 go around trying see who can get the most points and completely ignore the point of being on a 
 team. If you like going around shooting enemy soldiers and destroying buildings this game is for 
 you, but if you like an enjoyable gaming experience, go get Warhawk or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemears
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Advantages: 
  -While I was playing the storymode from the start, the graphics and gameplay introduction felt 
 quite dull and felt like playing an early 21st-  Then once 
 I was using more different weapons, going to different maps and using a variety of different vehicles 
 like a chopper for example, it then got to me that the graphics and gameplay felt alright.
  
  -A few of the characters are funny and stupid like haggard for example, know wonder the group 
 on your sideas well as you are in B company or as in Bad company.
  
  -Story line and clips are well planned out and aren't excesive unlike Haze for example, but that 
 games rubbish anyway.
  
  -Gold Rush is the only but very fun online multiplayer feature, where there is an equal 11players 
 on either side out of 22 being an attacker or a defender of the gold crates, and there is many 
 buildings, hiding places, wide variety and large maps to take advantage of, plaus many vehicles 
 and weapons to use on your side of the Battle field.
  
  -A bit of tactics to workout yourself.
  
  -Opposing teams and enemies are and speak in russian.
 
  
  -Graphics of destruction on buildings are wicked and real.
  
  Disadvantages:
  -Only has one online feature.
  
  -You can't choose where to pick your scene when youe've finished 
 story modes.
  
  -Stealth missions seem ridiculous, stupid and not the sort of game for it.
  
  -Gun handling 
 is a bit rubbish, because it's like Resistance.
  
  -Graphics around some are quite grainy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_gamer007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I won't talk about single player because it just isn't good enough.
  
  
  Game's really great. All the weapons have the right feel to them. The destructible environment 
 works really well and very cool gameplay mechanic. The new Conquest is a great change of pace and 
 really addictive. Bad Company may not be a graphical masterpiece but, the sound is absolutely astounding. 
 The sound, at least in my opinion is some of the most realistic sound design within a videogame 
 to date.
  
  The vehicles within Bad Company are very important. They help as transport across the very large 
 maps and I mean very large! The maps in the game easily make it one of the most versatile maps 
 in any FPS. Great for fire fights, tank battles. artillery strikes, sniping especially. My two 
 personal favs for the Gold Rush mode are Oasis and Harvest Day and for Conquest Oasis and Ascension. 
 
  
  Both Conquest and Gold Rush are interesting and very addictive modes. Conquest mode places several 
 flags around the map and each team is trying to secure those flags and kill all the enemies. Gold 
 Rush divides the players into 2 teams; Attackers and Defenders. Attackers attack the crates trying 
 to destroy them all in order to win. Defenders must prevent this from happening buy defending the 
 crates and killing all attackers. Gold Rush is interesting because eventually the Defenders will 
 go on the offense and start bombarding the Attackers base and order to kill the Attackers and lower 
 their tickets to zero. 
  
  If your looking for some FPS summer fun, look no further cause in your in Bad Company now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game was always and still is compared to one game only, Call of Duty 4. Why? Because the games 
 are similar, But there has to be one that is better and in my opinion is Battlefield. Single player 
 is very action filled, Plenty of shoot outs, and it can be difficult at times. The online has recently 
 released a new game mode called Conquest Mode, Which is added to the other game mode, Gold Rush. 
 Gold Rush is where the "Attackers" must activate the bomb on the "Defenders" Gold Box. If that 
 box is successfully armed and blown up, Then that adds a new Area of Operation, Where defenders 
 have to defend and attackers attack. The game is won by Destroying all of the Defenders Gold Boxes. 
 So? Should you buy this game? Yes. It has everything, From Various weapon and Item unlocks when 
 you rank up, Tanks, Choppas, Buggies to escort you to the postion of choice, While you blow up 
 or shoot down a few Opponents along the way. The sounds on this game, Are amazing. Every gun shot 
 or Explosion, Is a real sound made by other players. There are NO fake background sounds in the 
 Single Player Nor, Multiplayer. The "Frostbite Engine" makes it possible to Destruct 80% of the 
 enviroment around you, Which makes the online modes even more Intense and action filled. From Motar 
 Strikes, To Shotgun Montages, To Assualt Rifle Killing, This game is one of the best FPS shooters 
 out on the PS3 at the moment, Buy It!
  
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Story - 7/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Multiplayer - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  First Person Shooters are by far my favorite gender of game out there today, but i am extremely 
 picky when it comes down to the game itself. After playing Battlefield: Bad Company nearly non-stop 
 for 2 months i can say it is one of the best shooters I've played. The Destruction, and the huge 
 sandbox maps make the game, not only inventive but addictive. You really feel like your on a battlefield. 
 Though destructible environments aren't new to the gaming world Bad Company does destruction the 
 best hands down. 
  The Graphics have their goods and their bads, the environments all look extremely well done, and 
 the weapons and explosions look unbelievable, the only thing i really didn't care for is the fuzz. 
 The game has this fuzzy feeling to it best described as little black spec's that buzz around the 
 picture, for me isn't horribly noticeable on my 19 inch flat screen, but can be a small pet peeve 
 for gamers with larger television sets as it becomes more noticeable. 
  The Destruction is definitely as i said earlier what makes this game stand out most of all. If 
 its Watching that enemy tank burst into flames, blowing a hole in the brick wall to get to that 
 gold, or shelling the enemy base with artillery, it all is beautiful and extremely fun. You can 
 even blow a hole in the ground itself and make a trench to snipe from. Some things like picket 
 fences, and sheet metal also feature a penetration mechanic which can be your best friend or you 
 worst enemy. As Great as it is not everything is destructible, you can't bring a building crumbling 
 down on your enemies and most interior walls and some roofs cannot be destroyed. This doesn't really 
 take away from the game experience in my opinion but it can be a bit disappointing at times.
  The Sound is Great. The rumble of explosions, the sound of gunfire in the distance, the crackle 
 of burning tanks, its all done perfectly of all the things in this game i can say this was the 
 only thing i couldn't find any problem with. I don't like to use the word "Perfect" but it really 
 is. I recently bought a Sony 5 point surround Home Theater System and the combination is Unbelievable. 
 My favorite Sound is hearing the whistle of a tank shell as it zooms past you and explodes behind 
 you, it defiantly makes you feel like your completely immersed in the battle from all angles and 
 gives the game yet another dimension to your experience.
  The game play itself is very smooth, but it does take some time getting used to, the sensitivity 
 was really high when i first started but a quick adjustment in the settings makes it a easy fix. 
 In Counter Strike and Call of duty 4 it doesn't take many bullets to kill your opponent but in 
 Bad company unless your driving a Tank or using a Shotgun or Bolt Action sniper rifle be prepared 
 to spray a lot of bullets into your enemies before they drop. Though this may take getting used 
 to there is plenty of ammo crates placed around the map and the mag sizes have been "exaggerated" 
 in places. The Standard Assault rifle carries 50 round magazines instead of 30 and The Sub-Machine 
 guns carry 60. So feel free to blast away. The Destruction also does need getting used to as wall's 
 which were once your best friend in other shooters are not as protective as they used to be. Breaking 
 those old habits takes a while, but once you learn about the destruction you can use it to your 
 advantage.
  My biggest disappointment was the single player story mode. The story itself is really funny and 
 I really like the plot and all the characters bring their own feel and mix to the plot which makes 
 the story feel real fun, But the A. I. is horrible. Either the bad guys can't aim or their Mark 
 Wallburg in Shooter. Sometimes is seems like that don't even care that im pointing a gun at them, 
 most just stand out in the open and let me pop shots at them and make no attempt to run for cover. 
 As funny and entertaining as your Squad is they might as well not even exist, i think maybe sweetwater 
 killed one bad guy in the whole time i played through the story. The Final battle not only is lame 
 but it didn't leave me feeling like i had accomplished anything big, instead i kept saying "that 
 was it?"
  Online is really where your going to spend most of your time as it is what make any battlefield 
 game a battlefield game. The pace of the game play is the perfect speed. Not too Fast and not painfully 
 slow. The Ranking system is well balanced as well. i didn't feel like i blew through the ranks 
 at the same time i didn't feel like it dragged in palaces either. 
  There is a fairly large selection of weapons available for use and there all well balanced (however 
 i would have liked more, and some sort of customization would have been nice) . 
  The "find all five" program to unlock the extra weapons in the game wasn't as easy as EA said it 
 was. If you didn't pre-order the game there is no way for you to get the sniper rifle, and if you've 
 never played a battlefield game before then you can't get the Extra Assault rifle. The other weapons 
 are easier to obtain but it can be difficult and confusing in places. Getting the Uzi and The M60 
 are the easiest simply get rank 4 on the demo to get the Uzi and sign up for the newsletter online 
 to get the code for the M60. To get the Auto Shotgun you have create an online account with EA 
 and Link your Play station or Xbox Live account to your it, THEN check you stats online. Honestly 
 i would have rather fronted 5 or 10 bucks to get the weapons so i wouldn't have had to deal with 
 the mess that it is to get the extra guns in the first place. The other BIG complaint is there 
 is NO Clan Support! why they didn't add it i don't know.
  The game mode Gold rush is really fun as it keeps the combat in certain areas and almost constant 
 which means no more searching for enemies for hours. The other new game mode is the conquest though 
 i haven't played it much is a bit slower and more spread out in places, but it is still a fun alternative 
 to gold rush and the maps look and feel different, which makes them seem like completely new levels. 
 
  Overall i really think Bad Company though not perfect is a great shooter and one of the better 
 ones out on the market today despite some mostly small complaints. If you have the money, i say 
 its well worth $60 bucks. Hope you liked the review SEE YOU ON THE BATTLEFIELD!!!!!!! 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  STORY 
 
  
 
  
 
  OVERALL SCORE 9/10 A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  The game Battlefield: Bad Company, nothing can be spared. You can destroy everything from trees 
 to buildings. Being able to have anything from grenades, grenade launchers to tanksmakes this 
 one of the best shooters of the year, but not the best, not even close.
  
  The sound is pretty awesome. The sniper's shots echo. The explosions are nice. The loudness of 
 the gunbattles inside of buildings are loud and enjoyable. But on the other hand, The graphics 
 are a little grainy and aren't the best. But I do not mean the graphics are bad, they just aren't 
 the best.
  
  When you want to get into a building and you think the enemies are watching the door just go around 
 the side and blow a hole through it and walk through. Sounds fun because it is. The sad part is 
 you can blow through a wall and but you can't destroy some wooden crates. Yes I know kind of lame. 
 But this game gives you the first ever lawbreaking, "breaking and entering" you have ever seen. 
 But the downside of it is you can't completely destroy a building. I know you expect from this 
 game is a building crumblelike a cookie. You can only destroy ouside walls. You can't destroy 
 destroy inside walls. The first thing I did was get on theroof of a building andtry to shoot 
 myself through the floors but nothing happened. You leave a building with only wall supports. I 
 wish you could make it crumble to just bricks and ashes but you can't. But it is still fun to shoot 
 buildings.
  
  This is an alright campaign actually, but not really a great story. You are playing as Private 
 Preston Marlowe who is assigned to the 222nd Battalion, Bad Company, which is a crew of idiots 
 from their characters to the poor AI of them. They do nothing. They are composed of Sergeant Redford, 
 a veteron whoenteredthe war so he could retire early. Haggard, a country boywholoves to blow 
 stuff up, and last ofnot least, Sweetwater who signed up to try to get help with college as in 
 a scholarship who didn't know he would have to fight in a battle. So this crew is composed of a 
 4-member crew including you. Toghether, or should I sayjust you because the AI is pathetic, will 
 have to fight your way into theRussian Territory to take outa number of enemies. The Army will 
 leaveyou all behind enemy lines andyou will spot a number of gold scattered throughout the mapsin 
 cases. You will rescue a dictator and then escape in a helicopter. This game is not a serious game. 
 It is a type of comedy game with unlockables scattered throughout the map from new guns to gold 
 like I said earlier.
  
  You, Marlowe. willbe able to control any all thevehicles which will be able to unleash hell on 
 enemies. So also the enemies will be able to unleash a whole espionage of vehiclesupon you as 
 well. They are sometimeshard to destroy when you don't have anyvehicle either, so overall more 
 realistic. Also don'tworry about yourteammates because they can't dieso you can try to use them 
 but it is a waste of yourtime because they won't do anything to help you. Now to the enemies. 
 They are just as bad as your teammates. They stand in the open and just let you shoot them. Sothe 
 fights are notthat intense like other games.
  
  Do to the cheap health needle type thingthat you stab your chest with ispretty weird. Like you 
 would really stab your heart everysecond. During the game especiallyon harder difficulties, you 
 will be using this likeevery second, especially toward the end.
  
  Now to the Multiplayer, which is the best part. It has large maps and up to 24 players online withvehicles 
 online as well. Their are 5 classes for online. It is a more realistic type of movement to the 
 attacks. Say they blow your base (or gold crates up) your team moves back and more of the map opens 
 up so it feels like yourbeing pushed back into the map. So altogether the Gold Rush mode is fun. 
 This is a fun game to have just for the muliplayer.
  
  But altogether it is a fun game to enjoyby destroying everything in your pathand have fun, and 
 just go get it even if you don't like online. But if you're a fan of online it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ticklethis275
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Bad Company has added a new game mode. Conquest.
  
  For you CoD4 players Conquest is basically Domination. You take a base and you can respawn there, 
 but an enemy can take the base away and their team respawns there. There is one flaw and that the 
 time it takes to take a base in extremely small so bases come and go. Normally on games takeing 
 a base takes a fire fight and some tanks. This is sometimes the case in Conquest but not normally 
 the fun gun fights are when you lose a base and the 6 or so enemy come. (I was playing and I was 
 in a tank with a base that had just been taken, I was teh only one and I rammed my tank into a 
 tank an enemy got in, then I jumped out and called an airstrike on myself, litterally 2 seconds 
 later I was knifed, but my job was done) When playing with a lot of buildings it is keen to know 
 where team members are and are not. This is very crittical when calling an airstrike. (learned 
 it the hard way) Its crittical when calling and airstike because when a base is taken there normally 
 are both friendly and enemy in the flag area. NEVER airstike your own base unless it is in deep 
 sh**.
  
  All in all Conquest is a good game mode for in-your-face action and very little getting owned by 
 tank action. Its a game for both new and senior soilders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company has its goods and bads like any other game. The graphics are great but 
 have a strange type of gritty look to them. When I first started to play Battlefield I had some 
 difficulity seeing it with its strange graphics. Your squadmates arent the most helpful as they 
 can sometimes stand 2 feet in front of the enemy and unload an entire clip on them and still not 
 kill them. Although it is nice that they dont die so you dont have to babysit your squad. Your 
 squad always seems to have somthing interesting or humorous to say making the playing experience 
 that much better. The enemy isnt that great either they will sometimes stand in the biggest opening 
 possible just waiting to get shot. You use a small health injector to heal yourself which is much 
 needed due to the mass hordes of enemies that you fight with your small army of 4. Overall though 
 the singleplayer is great fun to listen to and just fun to play with the variety of different objectives 
 and collectibles to complete. The multiplayer is where it shines. The 24 player action with tanks, 
 jeeps, and helicopters adds the the variety of combat as all battlefields have done in the past. 
 Its a little strange playing the multiplayer without the classic conquest mode but that is soon 
 to be released Aug 7th. Overall its a great shooter and any battlefield veteran wil love it. If 
 you havent played any battlefields than what are you waiting for!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiewi12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Just though i would write a very brief review to say how amazed i was at the standard of the battlefield 
 game. I think it's raised the bar and has renewed the battlefield name. Furthermore, i bought the 
 game expecting quite a few battlefield regular glitches but so far have found none. 
  
  Campaign mode - Clever plot to this game with resonable fighting to go alongside. (it's not just 
 movies and then you fighting the same old battle in a different setting)
  
  Online - The online capabilites of this game could keep you going for months. Although there is 
 only an attack and defend type mode playable, with a conquest mode soon to arrive, you never seem 
 to become bored. With ranks to progress through and new weapons to unlock with experience points 
 this mode is unique. However, it would have been nice to have the ranks in campaign mode giving 
 more variety and insentive to play the game again on a harder difficulty. 
  
  In my opinion it's a great game which tests both novice's and experienced gamers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5g_Ghost
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  the difference between this game and cod4 should be way more than just 0.5 !!!
  
  i dont think there will be someone bored enough to like the characters' jokes.
  
  sounds were 
 good, but there is a problem with gun sounds, it seems like i was just hearing the echo of the 
 gunshot. thats the biggest problem in this game in my view.
  
  the story is so selly, and at the end, they just decided to turn and take another path, under the 
 eyes of the whole army (a convoy actually) with lots and lots of gold.
  
  there is a variety in weapons, but the truth of choosing them pair for pair was annoying.
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  The 2nd battlefield title exclusive to consoles, to most battlefield fans, it is a worth waiting 
 moment. With new graphic and physic engine that gives you a highly destructional enviornment, sounds 
 amazing. Nevertheless, this is the first battlefield that offers players a single player campaign. 
 While we waited in anxiety to play this game, DICE has totally let us down.
  
  I must admit the graphics and physics DICE had been worked on is great, blowing holes in building 
 is really fun and cool. The story length is also fine, approximately 9 hours of gameplay which 
 is pretty standard. However, the multiplayer is totally crap. Regarding battlefield franchise as 
 the best multiplayer game, badcompany is the worst of the series.
  
  Battlefield series used to support up to 64 players, but bad company only support 32 players, which 
 makes the entire game a lot more boring then ever, and the map selection stinks, with only a few 
 good maps available. The ranking and unlock system is totally garbage. It is too easy to reach 
 the highest rank, and there's only a few weapons available to unlock.
  
  In conclusion, badcompany has overly focuses on it's single player campaign, ignored the fact that 
 people loves the orginal battlefield multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a very fun game, I'm writing this review for the single player part 
 of the game. This game is not only for the hardcore Battlefield fans, but for every FPS-Gamer out 
 there.
  
  The graphics is pretty good, not extremely good, Call of Duty Modern Warfare has better graphics 
 for example. It had very corny and and noisy graphics, but it didn't matter, the game was very 
 fun and the graphics was, after my opinion very good.
  
  The game features Dolby Digital and DTS, the sound effects is very good. If you have a surround 
 system you will have a treat playing this game.
  
  The controls is easy to learn, and the difficulty is just right. The history in the game is very 
 funny and can be compared to the movie Three Kings. The dialog between the characters can be very 
 hilarious some times.
  
  I recommend this game for everyone out there who like FPS games! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistonite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is simply put one of the best Multiplayer shooters on the market for the PS3 to date.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  The graphics do have a "Film" on it which is described in the gamespot 
 review but overall this doesn't bother me too much. The explosions are well done expecially when 
 a building is crushed to bits. The environment is also nice, although water-earth overlap looks 
 a bit fakey. Sound: 10/10
  The sound in this game is probably some of the best in any game to date. It really makes you feel 
 as if you are on the Battlefield with your fellow squad mates: a snipers bullet can be heard whizzing 
 by your head, shots can be heard hitting your helmet, explosions far in the distance by artillary 
 fire.... everything.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  The most important part of any game's expirence is the gameplay, and BF: BC executes it perfectly. 
 The multiplayer expirence is GREAT, and solo play is fun for the player that dislikes the online 
 world. To help you throughout your journey you are given a wide variety of guns, vehicles, and 
 other fun goodies that enhance every aspect of your expirence. Although I did find out that some 
 unlock weps are worse then the ones you are first given which is a bit silly but not that big of 
 a deal. You are given the choice between five well balanced classes, each with their own +/- in 
 certain situations. Controls are well done although I would like to have seen a parachute option 
 for the helicopters when you are shot down or are low on armor (I believe this is coming in a patch 
 though) . Did I forget to mention how much fun it is to blow up walls/other obsticals if you dont' 
 feel like walking around them? Cons: EA ranking 7/10 Very few. My only complaint is EA. EA's servers 
 can lag up sometimes and their customer support isn't that great. Also full stats can only be viewed 
 online after linking your account to your EA. com account which can be a pain (in my case) but its 
 worth it. Also another con would be no clan support currently, meaning that they don't have a "Create 
 a clan" option... this doesn't bother me much since I'm not interested in being apart of a clan.
 
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  This game is a must buy for all FPS fans. In my mind BF: BC is much better then CoD4 due to the 
 fact it isn't all about getting the most kills but instead trying to destroy your other teams gold 
 crates. Also BF: BC's maps are larger and the vehicles provided make the FPS expirence much more 
 thrilling then just running around shooting people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dongalos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  i was a pc gamer till i bought my playstation 3 about 2 months ago and I've been an avid player 
 of battlefield 1942, battlefield 2 on the pc
  
  This is made by the same people who made the PC battlefield games and 
  Bad company on the PS3 
 is similar to Battlefield 2 in setting and environments BUT everything on the PS3 is much more 
 user friendly than what i've experienced on PC which always has more options to fiddle around with.... I 
 think thats a good thing its easier to use
  
  Single player campaign in Battlefield bad company is meh, some people found it funny but i thought 
 it was more offensive just because they were trying to be funny and killing all these people with 
 no remorse during that whole time and it just felt wrong... plus the A. I sucks, I'd be hiding in 
 a house sniping and shoot enemy A. I at a field distance away and they somehow know where i am.... lameeeee
 
  
  Multiplayer makes this game, really does feel like a war and the sounds are incredible.... like 
 all battlefield games it has tons of vehicles, huge levels BUT newly introduced is Destructible 
 environments so that sniper who likes to hide in a house all the time.... BOOOOOOOOOM goodbye sniper 
 hiding spot
  
  GOOD:
  + Big Levels
  + Lots of Vehicles and things to use
  + Destructible environments
  
  BAD:
  - A. I. are psychic with sixth sense powers to know where 
 you are after you shoot at them
  - Microphone doesn't work properly all the time online
  - Lots of little bugs and fixes they need to do, like DICE/EA does with PC version they release 
 it early with bugs and patch it later. booooooooooo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Personally i didnt find much of a difference between this and the Xbox 360 version, didnt realize 
 the change but it was still realy fun!! The brutal weapons, insane vehicles, 24 person online and 
 the good singleplayer make to be a great game. Im not the kind of guy to make a long review because 
 i like to get straight to point and long ones are usually boring (unless its writen my Jeff or 
 other of GBs reviewers =D) . It dosent really matter which console you get this game on, its great
 
  
  
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you 
 and get to the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read 
 it because they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Fun 8/10
  Replay 8/10
  Single+Multiplayer 9/10
  
  
  Overall = 42/50 
 = 84% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi-kaho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you DO NOT have you internet huck up and your not planing on it dont buy this game.
 
  Now Singe player mode, not as good as they could have done, to short and some of the missions 
 are weak.
  So play the single player just to get used to controls, then play online. Much more exicting and 
 more experience people (single player mode, the enemeys are so sucky) for a medium match.
  
  Online- as online goes you got 5 diferent class choces (such as demolition or assuilt) which 
 includes different weapons like Assult gets an machine gun with a gernade lancher on it or recon 
 with sniper rifles and pistols. 
  
  Online Ranking- as you finish each battle you get a score depending on kills, objectives, awards 
 (you get from doing serten things like "kill one tank of the same kind your in") . then you get 
 the points added on to you score to rank up.
  
  If anyone has Q's mail me online. user name-" Kakashi-kaho" (no qoutes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: extrasafeivy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield caught my attention after downloading the videos on the store coming up to release. 
 The added demo was also a great addition to figure out the game and get a grip of what it is all 
 about.
  
  I love this game, I like the variety in weapons and vehicles, the different classes and the many 
 unlockables, the huge maps and the different styles of play each map gives you.
  
  Many people have compared Battlefield unfairly to CoD4. Those who have played on the same maps 
 day in and day out on CoD4 are obviously the diehard CoD4 players and compare it straight out to 
 it and I feel many do not like the change. Many that have criticised the game have only either 
 played on it briefly , and some not at all, therefore their opinions are really no good. 
  
  What I would like to know is what people would have thought of this game if it had arrived 
 before CoD4 and I can probably say many of those who rate it poorly would have loved it. Its like 
 playing MGS4 and not being able to play anything else in the genre as nothing can beat it, CoD4 
 is obviously the best in its genre but does that mean you only stick to that one game? live a little 
 and play some different games.
  
  Bad Company has a very good storyline with some very enjoyable characters and it provides you with 
 something a bit less serious than that of CoD4. The maps are huge and different approaches can 
 change how battles commence. The only issue I have offline is the sniper cannot be used efficiently 
 enough as enemies popup rather than generate from the beginning of the game . 
  
  The online can still have its issues but I have seen a significant improvement in recent days and 
 the unlockables mixed with the dog tag collectables, patches etc make it very demanding and keeps 
 the replayability to a high just as Resistance did in its day. The maps are huge and I think although 
 there is only one game mode it is very balanced and doesn't get boring due to the area to explore 
 etc.
  
  I loved playing CoD4 but sold it after I unlocked everthing the once as it became repetitive and 
 that was rather quick. I also love Battlefield and will continue to play until it becomes too repetitive 
 but the unlockables can be very demanding at times and with a little bit of fortune here and there 
 they will come.
  
  I think the game is one of the best in its genre alongside CoD4 and should be considered for purchase, 
 it is hugely different to CoD4 and its definitely good to have a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegulatorUDT
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  for a modern realistic fps, 5 shots to put someone down is NOT realism. Nothing is more annoying 
 than playing a game where you unload a clip into your enemy who you have painstakingly and carefully 
 gotten the drop on and the bullets seem to bounce off as your enemy turns around only to kill you 
 and leave you wondering if you are shooting a bb gun or a slingshot. The best thing this game has 
 going for it is the vehicles. Blowing up tanks and shooting people out of hummers is fun, for a 
 short time. Any game where a carefully placed direct hit from a sniper bullet only takes away some 
 life from your opponent is a recipe for frustration. If this game played like hardcore mode in 
 COD4 it would be 4x a better game, but you can only take the frustration of shooting your enemy 
 first, and more often, without them dying before you wonder what the hell you are doing and put 
 COD4 back in because you like REALISTIC military games. RENT IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  i never knew having a job would be so much fun. especailly when you basicly just run around and 
 blow stuff up. 
  in battlefield bad company you play as a new comer in a 4 man squad. they do basic military things. 
 they may not be the best company, but they are your company. and they have basic human nedds like 
 we all do.... money.
  your 4 man squad ends up going AWOL in search of gold. dont get me wrong they do go into combat 
 and kill and blow things up, they just do it for their own reasons. that makes the story different 
 than most military games now out. of course the graphics are great and the explosions show them 
 off in grand style. litteraly being able to blow a building apart is wonderful. 
  there are lost of realistic wepaons in the game and all of them are real good. this game by far 
 has the best gun sounds of reloading and shooting i have ever heard. the driving part of the game 
 is fun, but not too hard. of course you get to drive tanks. the comedy part of the game is definetly 
 unusual. and its great. there are a lot of wide open spaces in the game to explore. the battles 
 are intense and very intertaining. 
  the online part of the game is very fun and can actually be very addictive. this is one of the 
 game that can actually compete with call of duty. 
  as far as bad things go; the story mode is short. not much replay value in the story mode. 
  
 over all; this is a solid game and a different experience as far as military games go. you should 
 really give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ArchAngeL-777-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I dont play these games for the single player, so I will only speak of the multiplayer aspect. 
 Having played Battlefield 2 and 2142 on the PC, I was skeptical about the gold rush mode for Bad 
 Company. To my surprise, it is a very welcome addition to the series. There are 5 different playable 
 classes, each with a unique style of play that allows for a variety of experiences. With 25 ranks 
 and 20 unlocks (not including the "Final Five" program) , there is plenty of progression in the 
 game. The weapons each have a different feel, so you can use which suits you best.
  
  As for the destructible environments, I can't say enough about them. They are FANTASTIC. The battlefield 
 is constantly changing, so you can't expect to approach things the same as the game progresses.
 
  
  Of course there are a few annoying things about the game, like the mics not working for many. Also 
 there is a phenomenon called Dog Tag Lag that has been acknowledged by the devs. Apparently if 
 you get a certain amount of dog tags in the game (your reward for knife kills) , you can experience 
 lag that can work for or against you. 
  
  Overall its a great total war experience. Imagine Warhawk with more detail and attention to the 
 ground aspect. Once they provide us with classic conquest mode, this game will be truly complete.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played BF since 1942 on PC I especially liked BF2 and all the expansions. This is a great 
 game but still no where near as good as the PC versions. Where is the commander? instead there 
 is single artillery Gun that any one can control or hoard, even enemies. The other Bfs have players 
 vote for the commander which had access to more than just a big gun. Also where are the other online 
 modes (only goldrush!) Server support is lousy 25%-30% of the time I try to play online its either 
 really laggy, tells me no servers available, or lost connection. I play Warhawk all the time and 
 never have an issue.
  
  That is most of what I dont like about the game. With that said I can say I actually like this 
 game a lot and bought at launch the ranking and award system and especially dog-tags (knife kill=u 
 get that players dog tag) system is really cool. Graphics are really good and the audio is killer 
 for those with Home audio theater. Playing with friends with voice while in chopper, tank, light 
 tank, boat 2 man or even 3 man squad is great. The amount of fun and addictiveness in this game 
 definitely off set the hangups. this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chokwow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I got told about this by a friend at work after I asked him to recommended me a game. He said it 
 was awesome and all so I got all excited, after dropping by the game shop on the way home to pick 
 it up I threw it in the PS3 to give it a spin. Damn it! My gaming drought is still in season, I 
 still haven't been able to get into any games lately and this is no exception. 
  
  The game seems to follow the same boring building layout with little indoor urban action, the environments 
 feel 'empty', the explosions aren't that cool after all, there is no blood effects, the gun shakes 
 when you move which sorta gets really annoying (maybe just me) . 
  
  Online is boring; there is only one game mode (Goldrush) which is ok, but come on give me some 
 damn variety. 
  
  The weapons are a bit odd, not the traditional sort (some might consider this a good thing though 
 but not me) and quite frankly I'm sick of seeing the XM8 in my games lately (MGS4 too) ok it looks 
 a little cool but it was canceled years ago. Oh yeah and weapons come in pairs which I find a bit 
 annoying.
  
  The story is a bit silly, and the jokes aren't funny (only one or two) . I was expecting an epic 
 boss battle with 'The Leggionarre' but I got nothing! The enemies stay in the same spot for most 
 of the time and never use tactics. 
  
  The vehicles are ok at best, the chopper's are really 'bulky' and to be honest there really isn't 
 much variety to be had here.
  
  Overall I thought this game felt half baked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is the lastest and the best fgame in the Battlefield series that was loved 
 by many gamers and then was forgot after the realease of Battlefield 2 modern combat. But now its 
 reborn buy the great game Battlefield: Bad Company. In Battlefield: Bad Company, no one is safe 
 not even a sniper in some kind of big building or a solider in a tank and definetly you are not 
 safe. soliders are lurking around and if they find get preapared and SHOOT!!!! Thanks to a fleshed-out 
 single-player campaign and one awsome multiplayer battlefield is the best on the playstation. A 
 good place for newcomers in these kind of games you should start the single-player campaign. Other 
 proffesional FPS gamers imediatly jump in the multiplayer mode. Your squadmates are full of friendly 
 chattering in the campaign that is a bit stupid its a war you are supposed tom be scared but no 
 prob its just a little thing. Overall this game is the best FPS on the playsation 3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Tasteless. Most faces look like they were hit by a frying pan. Enemy reactions and AI 
 is solid, but environments in which you shoot them are bland and grainy. Explosions, and effects 
 like smoke and fire are great though.
  5/10
  
  Voice acting: so darn annoying. Man oh man, i could not stand the sound of some of the voices and 
 cheesy jokes. It gets more serious as the game goes on, but it is hard to find any humor in these 
 horrific voice overs. 
  5/10
  
  Controls: faster then they should be. Sometimes, they make you sick while looking at the screen. 
 Driving sequences are very fun and smooth as well. 
  6/10
  
  Addictive?: The quest for gold is very fun, and one of the highlight aspects of the game. With 
 all of the collected gold, comes unlockables and specials. 
  10/10
  
  Overall Gameplay: quite solid. This is because of its generally ok controls and the quest for booty. 
 But, this is a run of the mill title and doesn't deserve anything less than a
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Bad Company is the best of the series, and what makes it so good? In my opinion, it'd have to be 
 the characters and voice acting. They are so well done, they make the game that much better. The 
 story is great too, and the graphics are amazing. Any fan of shooters should have this game, and 
 it would probably win Game of the Year if Metal Gear Solid 4 wasn't standing in it's way.
  
  The general story of going AWOL just to get some gold is pretty funny, and it's made funnier 
 by Haggard. That character is one of the funniest I've seen in a videogame in a long time. I'm 
 about halfway through the game, and the best part is when Haggard exclaims, "there's gold in them 
 thar hills!" while firing his shotgun in the air.
  
  The fully destructible environment is awesome. I play the game just to shoot stuff sometimes, and 
 it's always fun to use a grenade launcher just to put a giant hole in the wall. The one knock against 
 the game is that some parts are a little tricky, and can get very frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zander18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is a great game that challenges Call of Duty 4. I wouldn't say it is better 
 but very close. The two main features that really made me like this game was the ability to destroy 
 90% of the game (Houses, tanks, helicopters, bridges etc.) . Also anything you lay your eyes on 
 is destructable. The other thing that really made me want to go back and play this game is that 
 any type of transport in the game you are able to control. There are many types of tanks, armored 
 cars, helicopters even golf buggies. I have proably left out a few but to be able to drive and 
 control these vehciles wepons is a great thing about Battlefield Bad Company. 
  The only bad thing about the game is that it is too easy. I finished the game on the hardest difficutly 
 without too much trouble. 
  9.5 out of 10!!!!! A must have game......
  This review is based on the PS3 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendharpz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I was really hyped up awaiting the release of this game and the hype has paid off as I believe 
 that every penny was worth buying this game. It's a short campaign but makes up for it with the 
 missions being lengthy and full of action and plenty of humour. The multiplayer is highly addictive, 
 action packed and crazy with lots of challenges to do and plenty of weapons to unlock and vehicles 
 to use to your advantage. but sometimes a few problems with lag. I have to say that blowing up 
 stuff has never been so fun! I recommend buying this game. The graphics are great but a bit grainy. 
 Don't believe the bad reviews people are giving it. Especially the cod4 fans who have been playing 
 too much cod4. There's so much more to do online then cod4. I personally think that this game is 
 much better then cod4 eventhough people will disagree but it's my opinion. So don't criticize me 
 for my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  Once again I have updated my review. Since this game has been patched, it absolutely rules, i now 
 award it 8 out of 10. The single player is great, once the bugs are gone. Sadly there are still 
 some real bugbears with the squad system in multiplayer, but this is still one of the best shooter 
 experiences currently on offer.
  
  
  
  
  UPDATE:
  Since the below review I have been playing more of the single player game and I have noticed more 
 terrible bugs. If a vehicle tilts to more than about 30 degrees on a map it falls straight through 
 the floor taking you with it. If you jump out in time you have to walk all the way across the level. 
 This happens VERY frequently. This is an obvious clipping bug and constitutes a broken part of 
 the software. There is no way that this game should have made it out of the testing department.
 
  
  On top of that the golf course level looks frighteningly similar to the latest Tiger Woods offerings 
 from EA. I have a suspicion that they have lifted a level straight from Tiger Woods and tried to 
 bolt on objects from battlefield to save time/development costs. This obviously has resulted in 
 collossal clipping issues.
  
  I for one am going to take a stand now and never buy an EA game again. If you want to contact me 
 in order to form an EA boycott group then please email me through contacts on my gamespot account. 
 EA have to start being answerable for their shoddy releases.
  
  PREVIOUS REVIEW
  The great part of bad company is the fun fast paced multuplayer battles. This has always been the 
 case with battlefield. The single player in this game is also very good however. The action is 
 continuous and the huge open plan levels let you freely chose how to achieve objectives. Character 
 acting is quite fun and entertaining and noteworthy.
  
  The guns are great too. Good variety and well balanced. Graphically the game has the kind of slightly 
 grainy presentation that first appeared in haze. It's a great alternative to the super shiny textures 
 often used in games today.
  
  But here's the catch. This game has some collossal bugs which almost completely ruin it for me. 
 The sound in the game is great, loads of environmental effects and good sampling. The problem is 
 that the sound glitches and ends up sounding like everything is underwater and is accompanied by 
 a crackling broken speaker effect. This will continue until you restart the game. It is horrible 
 and completely distracting. Changing settings has no effect on this.
  
  Add to that the frequent lockups requiring a machine reset during multiplayer games and you quickly 
 have a tiresome excuse for a finished game. At the critical point in a battle suddenly everything 
 freezes and a machine reset is required to even get any life back into the system.
  
  Now, I have checked with friends and these are problems affecting everyone. EA however -strangely 
 enough- have not acknowledged this on their website. If they cared one iota about their customers 
 then they would be trying to support them through this. I guess eventually it will be patched but 
 EA's reputation wont be.
  
  So all in all, a massive letdown. If I wanted a beta I wouldnt have paid for the game. EA have 
 no excuse for releasing shoddy product in this day and age and the producers/creators of this very 
 good game have been totaly let down by the team who ported/coded for ps3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joramHH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Bad Company has a lot of good points but don't expect it to replace any of your other FPS games 
 anytime soon.
  
  The voice acting is done well though with the plot line it is thoroughly tongue-in-cheek. I was 
 laughing constantly through the first half of the campaign but after awhile it started to slow 
 down. No problem, I just concentrated on getting the mission done quicker. There are several chapters 
 and while you could zip through them rather quickly I found it quite enjoyable to wander the map 
 and find unlocks and gold bars (though to be honest I never quite figured out the point) . So it 
 took me up to two hours per chapter. The story line is very entertaining with a couple twists in 
 the middle and at the end. 
  
  The maps are large with an ever unfolding map as you progress in the chapter but with vehicles 
 or even walking it rarely takes more than a minute or two to hike across. Well, if there weren't 
 things popping out of the woods to shoot you at least! 
  
  Everyone talks about the destructible terrain and yes it truly is fun to blow the crap out of stuff 
 and listen to some of the snarky comments as it happens. You can't completely raze a building which 
 may lessen your satisfaction a little but it's a small point really.
  
  The vehicles are very easy to use though I prefer the zoomed out view in most cases to increase 
 my battlefield awareness (pardon the pun) . 
  
  The weapons are entertaining and allow for a wide variety of playing styles. I personally preferred 
 the assault rifle most as a good balance between long range accuracy and rate of fire. But I also 
 enjoyed the sniping and the light machineguns as well. Didn't find a whole lot of enjoyment out 
 of the sub-machine guns or the shotguns but each to their own.
  
  There were only a few things I didn't particularly care for. 
  
  I tried a couple different 
 settings but there was some weird sound echo while inside buildings. It got real loud and echo-ey 
 at times but it wasn't constant and theoretically there is a setting for that but it didn't matter 
 what I switched it to. 
  
  I also didn't like that the horizon is rather close. That is, you can fire, even your assault gun, 
 further than you can see. This is mainly a problem if you like the stealthy sniper type as you 
 have to wait till you are so close you truly have to take it agonizingly slow as not to alert the 
 enemy before you stumble upon them. Thankfully, there's often voice cues from your AI buddies that 
 often, but not always give you warning when enemy is around.
  
  Even on my HD tv, the resolution seemed a bit grainy and there were occasional artifacts or even 
 stuttering at times. Not a whole lot but I did notice.
  
  The AI is braindead for the most part though it does surprise you at times. Made it enjoyable but 
 don't go in expecting a real challenge unless you are seriously outnumbered.
  
  Leave you with my MP impressions. I have made it up only 7-8 levels (out of 25) and I find it interesting 
 but not revolutionary. There's only one game type currently and while well designed, it can get 
 old. Thankfully there's enough maps that you can get some variety. Some are quite wells designed. 
 I had fun on one where I sat back at basecamp and used an artillery piece to blow the enemy away 
 until the last objective which was hardened. You have to time it right or you can kill your own 
 side. 
  
  In the BF tradition there are medals and other weapons to unlock. All are fairly balanced though 
 so there's only a few that you may even desire. But there are other extras that you most certainly 
 would want (like to heal as an assaultman or the mortar strike as a support class) .
  
  All in all I found it a good fun game worth my money though it won't be replacing any heavy hitters 
 like COD4 anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunlun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  July 13, 2008 - What separates Battlefield: Bad Company from other first person shooters we've 
 seen on consoles? Simply said: Destructible environments. Don't feel like running around the building 
 to get in? Blow a hole in the side with a grenade and go in through your new entrance. Battlefield: 
 Bad Company has a decent length, slightly easy single single player campaign mode, but the real 
 fun is in the online multiplayer mode.
  
  In the single player missions, you play as Preston Marlow, a private in a squad of four army misfits 
 (including yourself) . Your squad is called B Company, but is referred by everyone as "Bad Company" 
 due to the trouble making soldiers that are comprise of it. There are seven missions, each mission 
 takes about 45 minutes to an hour and a half to complete. There is a list of collectibles you can 
 find all over the map as you play through the missions, the collectibles consist of guns and gold 
 crates. It was rather disappointing that with a four man squad, there wasn't a co-op option available.
 
  
  The story was actually pretty interesting at first and kept me wanting to play more to find out 
 what happens next. However, as you continue on through the missions, the game just seems to drag 
 on. Although you can tell the developers tried to make the missions as varied as possible, with 
 different objectives and using different weapons and vehicles, it seems repetitive at times, especially 
 as you are on the last couple missions. The ending does leave the story open for another Bad Company 
 game.
  
  After trying out single player, multiplayer mode is next to check out. Playing online is by far 
 way more fun than playing the missions. There are eight maps to play on (those who completed single 
 player will be familiar with them) and they vary in size from small to really big. Everything goes 
 in multiplayer, you can drive cars, tanks, boats, helicopters, blast apart buildings until only 
 the frame remains... It's great fun and where the most enjoyment out of this game comes from. There 
 is a leader board that you can access on the Battlefield website or in game. Moving up on the leader 
 board requires ranking up, ranking up requires getting points, and getting points requires killing, 
 destroying, and winning. There are 25 ranks to earn and after reaching rank 25 there is an ability 
 level ranking which tells people how good they are compared to others their rank. Ranking up will 
 also allow guns to be unlocked in multiplayer, eventually every gun will be unlocked if the top 
 rank is achieved. (Note: Every gun that can be unlocked through ranking up is available, there 
 are five more guns that need special ways to be unlocked, but not through ranking up in the game.)
 
  
  As of right now there is only one online game mode available, Gold Rush. In Gold Rush the attacking 
 team tries to blow up the defending team's gold crates, and the defending team tries to protect 
 their gold crates as long as possible until the attackers run out of reinforcements. To accomplish 
 the objectives it definitely requires some teamwork, usually the better team wins in this game, 
 not the team with the best individual player. DICE has announced that a new online game mode (Conquest 
 mode) will be available in a patch soon, so that's something to look forward to.
  
  The graphics for the game are excellent, character models are done well and everything just looks 
 very polished. The sound in the game is absolutely fantastic, probably some of the best ever sound 
 effects in a video game so far. 
  
  Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is a very fun and entertaining game. First person shooter fans 
 should enjoy it, especially messing around with the destructible environments. The single player 
 is a little lacking, but the multiplayer more than makes up for it. Playing online will keep anyone 
 coming back for more to rank up and unlock the new guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is a game that has its ups and downs. The game puts you in the body of 
 Preston Marlow, the newest addition to B Company. All the rejects get sent to this division. B 
 Company, nicknamed "Bad Company" by those within is sent into a country in Eastern Europe to do 
 something or another. Anyway, Marlow becomes part of Redford's squad, which is comprised of Sarge 
 (Redford) , S. water and Haggard. These guy will help you through the entire game.
  
  The story of the game is pretty simple, Sarges' squad is sent into to help, they find a mercenary 
 with gold, and then go AWOL to find and collect the mercenaries gold. Along the way the story has 
 its twists but overall the story is somewhat bland. It's really the characters that make the story 
 good. The characters are extremely humorous, and they are always saying or doing something that 
 will get a laugh or 2.
  
  The weapons are quite balanced. There are 5 different sets of weapons, each with its own secondary 
 weapon. So, the game can suit many people's gameplay styles. The weapons themselves can be taken 
 by any dead soldier or you find them in buildings. What I liked the game actually marked off weapon 
 locations on the radar. The 5 different sets are rifles, shotguns, SMG's, LMG's and sniper rifles. 
 Along with these weapons is are other things that can picked up and used, such as a rocket launchers, 
 mortar strike, laser designator, and C-4 explosive.
  
  But one thing that really ruins a shooter like this for me is the auto-injector. This will increase 
 your health back to full no matter what. But there is a certain time that has to pass before it 
 can be used again, but I don't think its short enough. A FPS should not have a thing like this; 
 I know it has a health bar that starts at 100 and drops. But I think finding a med kit would make 
 this game better and more challenging,
  
  The enemy AI is somewhat dense. They do use cover and flank occasionally, but most of the time 
 they just run right around a corner smack dab into the barrel of your weapon. The squad AI is a 
 little better and they do help out, but it doesn't approve that much. But I have to say, they do 
 make good decoys for you to flank the enemy position.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. But sadly, they are not as good as they could be. They do well with 
 destructible environments, but they said that almost 100% of the environment is destructible, but 
 I found many things that would be destroyed not getting destroyed. But the character animations 
 are well done, and cinematics are great. There is some tearing at times, but overall they are good.
 
  
  Now for the online portion of the game. I would have to say it is repetitive, but that is due to 
 it having only one game mode. But that is changing soon with a new mode being patched soon. Like 
 the single player side, the multiplayer weapon system is quite balanced and is set into classes 
 that can fit all styles of play. The maps are also balanced and some favour defenders and some 
 favour attackers. The multiplayer could use some enhancements like a lobby system and maybe a private 
 match option. But instead everything is run by EA Servers, which do have the tendency to be laggy 
 or even cause the game to freeze, forcing you to restart your PS3. The game runs on a rank system 
 and offers unlocks at certain ranks. One interesting feature was the Dog tag system. If you were 
 to kill someone using the knife, you take their dog tag and you keep it in a collection. It doesn't 
 give you anything; it was just a interesting feature.
  
  Pros: destructible environments, lots of humour, balanced multiplayer
  
  Cons: bland story, 
 auto-injector makes the game too easy, somewhat dense AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreke
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If you want to make holes in a house with a grenade launcher and have fun doing it... Well that's 
 about all you do in Battlefield : Bad Company. This game gives you freedom, and an assigned mission 
 at the same time. The good and the bad is...
  
  The good : 1. Allows you a lot of freedom 2. You can blow up just about anything. 3. Awesome graphics. 
 4. You can repair your own vehicles.
  
  The bad : 1. Spaces in between mission are to long, and full of talking. 2. Trying to hard to be 
 funny. (sometimes funny) 3. you get stuck in some places. (hard spots)
  
  From calling mortar strikes to knifing enemies this game has got some impressive ideas and make 
 this game a joy to play. Overall I think this is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maleficus-lupus
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: If you're expecting a great storyline, get it out of your head now. As stories go it's 
 pretty standard: A bunch of misfits, (Haggard, the explosion happy greedy redneck. Sweet-water (note 
 the name as properly written is censored for some reason, but that really is his name!) the standard 
 geek who lusts after the military radio operator which he's only ever heard, not seen. Redford: 
 the gruff Sergeant who transferred in just to get out early. And Preston, the main character, who 
 seems to be a standard grunt with a large penchant for Vehicles, he got transferred their because 
 of something to do with a helicopter.) They end up being sent out, going AWOL, then sent out again, 
 then cut out because of plausible deniability. The other members aren't there for anything but 
 comic relief and telling you where to go, mostly they just stand back immortal and killing a single 
 enemy out of the twenty you manage to kill. On the other hand they are rather funny at times, and 
 the main enemy of the story is a rather cool looking and sounding with an impressive cool headedness. 
 *grins* I'm not going to mention Sedar except in passing, cause he's just too funny ruin.
  
  Multi-player: Graphics: Really good, the environment is almost fully destructible, if you end 
 up fighting a tank or a bunch of rocket-men, expect what ever cover you're using to be nothing 
 but a skeleton. There are tons, and I mean TONS! Of explosive materials lying around, usually the 
 ubiquitous red colour. Most of the time the enemy is not QUITE close enough to be killed by shooting 
 the explosives, but they provide good explosions and are an excellent way to get rid of the enemies 
 cover, once the smoke clears anyway.
  Sound: Pretty much the best I've ever found, the chattering of the guns is unique, you can always 
 tell the difference between a soldier, a medic, or a demolition man's primary weapon. The rocket's 
 and tank weapons are sounds are superb, and you can always tell from the sound of the engine when 
 any vehicle is getting closer. The difference between firing inside and outside is excellent, the 
 extreme echoing effect of firing a machine gun inside a house leaves you wondering why your ears 
 aren't ringing, and the way the sound effects change seamlessly when you leave a house or wander 
 into a part that's been demolished makes it all the more better. Speaking of ringing in your ears, 
 that's what you'll often think is really happened to you once your character has been hit nearly 
 point blank by an explosion, and the greying out when your character is badly hurt makes it even 
 more disorienting, as it should be!
  Game play: Truly sweet, you can feel the difference between each weapon and you'll sometimes end 
 up debating whether pure rate of fire or just damage are better. The zooming in for all guns allows 
 increased precision and realism. The sprint mode allows a character to get to cover quickly and 
 the characters normal pace is a pretty decent speed as well, the crouch mode allows you to remain 
 in cover, as well as giving you more precision. I really wish however that you could roll out of 
 cover like I've seen some of the enemies do, that's bloody cool! The vehicle controls are all simple 
 to use, and you can switch view points by simply clicking the R3 button. The radio is a fun enough 
 gimmick that I wish I could have it in the tanks and Helicopter. I also wish the golf cart was 
 available on the multi-player maps, it's fragile as anything, but it's got a good turn of speed. 
 Also, the helicopter is difficult as hell to master at first, but after you get used to it it's 
 truly devastating.
  Gadgets: all the gadgets are truly useful, though I have no clue about the motion sensor frankly. 
 The medics mortar strikes are wonderfully devastating. The Sniper's laser designator makes you 
 wish you could use it on more then vehicles. The Demolition's Mines are perfect for static defence 
 and their Rocket's are perfect for fighting armoured vehicles, though useless against helis unless 
 they've been tagged. the Specialist's C4 makes for perfect ambushes and their tag trackers make 
 enemy vehicles lunchmeant! And Assault's Life-2 is absolutely necessary for when some of the idiots 
 who play as medics ignore you.
  Classes: each different class is different enough to make one specialised, but are also good enough 
 they can fill other roles decently if you really have to. The Assaults with their assault rifle 
 and grenade launchers make for perfect rush tactics, and their guns are decent enough to make decent 
 sniping weapons if necessary. Demolitions Rockets are perfect for taking out enemy vehicles and 
 they can blow holes in walls from long range to remove enemy cover or give access to the inside, 
 their hand grenades and shotguns make them perfect for inside fighting and it is NEVER a good idea 
 to fight one close up. Recon's bushy regalia make them blend in almost perfect with under brush, 
 and their sniper rifles are powerful and accurate, make sure to kill them before they manage to 
 lock on to your vehicle or you'll regret it. Specialists are made for ambushing people, they're 
 primary weapons are all designed fro spray-and-pray tactics, and their extreme rate of fire combined 
 with silencers make it so you're often dead by the time it doesn't make a difference going to sights 
 or not. Support is a good all round character perfect for healing fellow players and vehicles, 
 while laying down a hard rain on the enemies heads, it's best to use them to provide covering fire 
 and healing, always make sure to check if those who come up to you need healing, if they're hanging 
 around in your face they need help! and they might shoot you if you don't, I certainly will.
  
  Overall:
  All in all it pretends to be nothing that it isn't, nothing but guns and great 
 combat all the way round, everything else is just to support 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is pretty much a first for the Battlefield series. For the first time 
 BBC (don't get that mixed up with the British Broadcasting Company) gives an almost interesting 
 single-player campaign.
  
  Game play offered by Battlefield: Bad Company is something that veteran FPS gamers will enjoy. 
 If you are not a veteran at FPS player you will still enjoy the semi-destructible environment both 
 in the single and multiplayer arenas. The semi-destructible (it is not totally destructible because 
 some wooden crates won't become splinters after being shot at by a 17-pounder shell/rocket) offers 
 many different possibilities to the game. For example, you can either enter a building through 
 the main door or just make your own. However, the graphics of the game are not top of the line. 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warefare offers more details to the game environment, though it does not 
 have the destructable environment feature. There are many gun options in the game, however they 
 are not custumizalbe. Pretty much all the guns sound the same, and they don't give any obvious 
 noise upon impact. The most notable sound effect in game is the sound of things going "boom". Bad 
 Company allows players to blow up many things and have fun doing it. Furthermore, the soundtrack 
 of Bad Company is both unique and enjoyable. Who doesn't like listening to southern blues while 
 shooting and blowing up holes behind enemy lines.
  
  This single-player campaign is a bit different from other FPS games. For instance, the script is 
 quite entertaining at times. It will give a few laughs. The story however has many holes. To tell 
 the truth there really isn't a story to the single-player campaign. The B- Company goes around 
 killing Acta Non Verba mercenary troops then takes their gold. The cut scene used once gold is 
 acquired is cool the first time. Only the first time. The characters have unique personalities 
 but are immortal and are not very good combat comrades. Sure they don't die but they don't kill 
 a lot either. It feels as though you are the only one that can finish the mission while the other 
 guys are made just for the pretty talk.
  
  Battlefield is known for its great multiplayer. BBC continues that streak. There is a variety of 
 maps both large and small. Players can use jeeps, dune buggies, tanks, motorboats, and helicopters 
 while playing online. In game medals offer personal goals for players. Instead of spraying and 
 praying players can kill the enemy with the intention of getting some glory and shiny medals. The 
 different classes offers variety in the sense that each class has its own special ability and set 
 of weapons. However, the feature of customizing classes would be more of a convenience. 
  
  Overall Battlefield: Bad Company offers a great game. I recommend this game to veteran Battlefield 
 fans. However, veteran FPS players should first rent the game before hand. You guys might not find 
 this game as pleasing as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warefare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaTigre69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield games have long been known for their addictive and fun online multiplayer, and for 
 their not so great singleplayer campaign. Bad Company attempts to change that, and it succeeds 
 to a certain extent. The campaign involves the player in the story much more than before, through 
 the use of dialog and cutscenes with the rest of your squad. By doing this, personalities are created 
 for your squad. There's the typical military hardcore guy, the nerd, and the guy who just likes 
 to blow stuff up. Then there's you, the guy that does everything. Which brings me to how the squad 
 actually performs in combat, or rather, how they don't perform. Most of the time, they just sit 
 back and let you do the work. It's obvious that the squad was put in for comedic relief, rather 
 than actual combat value. However, this is not a bad thing at all. The game is better of without 
 you having to manage your squad, because although your squadmates hardly ever kill someone, they 
 never die either. Most of the time, you won't even think of them until another cutscene, or if 
 the sarge offers some advice. The only thing that I really wish had been included is co-op. The 
 squad was already there, why couldn't they have let your friends join in and play as one of the 
 other three squad members. Alas, we will never know how much fun could have been had crushing the 
 Russians with your buddies.
  
  Now for the online multiplayer, and the more technical aspects of the game. Multiplayer is just 
 like most other Battlefield games, striking the perfect balance between vehicles and infantry. 
 Gold Rush is a fun mode, and most of the maps are fun and balanced. The game will only get better 
 when they offer conquest as a download. As far as graphics are concerned, Bad Company has nice 
 explosions, and good, but not amazing graphics. What is amazing is being able to put a hole in 
 anything. Many times, I was inside of a house trying to get to my next objective as fast as I could, 
 when I came upon a dead end. No problem, just punch a hole in the wall with your rifle grenade, 
 and make your own door. Enemy taking cover behind a wall? Use your rifle grenade, and suddenly, 
 the wall is gone. The key to being successful in this game is to never stop moving, because there 
 is no permanent cover. Another amazing thing about this game is the sound. I was playing on my 
 crappy TV speakers, and every shot and explosion sounded perfect and absolutely beautiful. All 
 you people with surround sound are going to be absolutely amazed, and even those of you like me 
 who don't will still realize how good the sound effects are.
  
  All in all, Bad Company offers the same great multiplayer that you know and love, while also serving 
 up a much improved single player experience. If only that single player experience was capable 
 of being enjoyed with a friend, then this game would truly be amazing. As is, Bad Company is still 
 a game I suggest you get your hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  If you like FPS games this one is definitely for you! This game is very fun to play and your squad 
 is very comical. They will have you laughing through the game which is very different from most 
 games. Most games take a serious approach. But this one aims at comedy and it pulls it off. It 
 fits this style game very well. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are above average but not the best out there. Explosions are beautiful and 
 guns are very detailed. which makes this a gorgeous game.
  
  Sound: The sound of this game is some of the best I have heard of any FPS title. The guns sound 
 almost identical to real gun shots and the explosions sound awesome too. So overall the sound really 
 stands out to me.
  
  Replay Value: I think this is a game you could probably play for a long time even a year or so 
 after release so replay value is very high.
  
  My Overall Score: 8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is definitely the best military first person shooter I have played since 
 Call of Duty 4. The graphics are gorgeous and the voice work is brilliant. The characters are hilarious 
 the comedy in the game is cleverly delivered. I found myself laughing out loud while playing but 
 don't worry the combat and action are very serious and exciting. You get to use some really neat 
 vehicles and weapons. The sandbox like setting is very interactive you can throw a grenade and 
 blow a hole rite in a wall of any building and make it much easier to take out your enemies. The 
 explosions are the best I have seen in a game yet and the sounds of the weapons are also the best 
 I have heard to date. There is also a multiplayer that is really done nicely. If you are a military 
 shooter fan or just like FPS. You definitely need to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a very fun and addictive game and you can blow up almost everything 
 in the game. In this game you play as Preston Marlow you also have a squad with Redford, **** Haggard. 
 In this game you can blow a hole in almost anything and there are also many different guns in this 
 game. But the thing that really puts this game over the top is the multiplayer the multiplayer 
 is very fun baecause up to 24 players can play which is very fun. In multiplayer if you rank up 
 you can unlock new guns or other things. The bad parts about this game is that all of your enimies 
 look the same and your squad can get repetitive at times there are not many levels but they are 
 all very long. In this game I really like the funny commentary by your squad and the nonstop action 
 that occurs while you are playing. If you like war games with a suprisingly good story than you 
 should give Battlefield Bad Company a try and you will enjoy this very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I tried hard, super hard! I'm talking hours of hard work only to be really disappointed by EA's 
 newest and so called "Amazing" game in the Battlefield series at least for consoles. Now I am a 
 huge fan of Battlefield and think it to be a great war game with great strategy and teamwork. Well 
 Battlefield Bad Company basically takes everything Battlefield was and makes it more simplified, 
 not that it's a bad thing it works out but with all the flaws and glitches that I came across in 
 the game I can't help but feel let down by the whole process.
  
  First off single player is super easy and won't take you longer then either 8-12 hours to beat. 
 And as always the story isn't deep or great it's actually a step above the usual go out and kill 
 enemies with no real objective. Well the objective in this game is your a sergeant who has a renegade 
 company and your set out to steal gold from the enemies you fight against and make a profit off 
 it so you can retire and maybe buy that beach home in Malibu. While it's fun to see buildings blow 
 apart and even the voice acting a huge step above with your Company of men, the game still feels 
 like a multiplayer training program set to help you for when you head online.
  
  Which is where my problems come in hand. Dear old Multiplayer and how bad it was! Firstly i loved 
 the level up system and getting new guns and attributes, it isn't COD4 but it's a start and that 
 bad. My problem came with the fact that there's only one multiplayer mode Gold rush! All you do 
 is get your squad to either defend gold crates from incoming enemy teams or you attack the gold 
 crates and get points for it. What about TDM or CTF or even DM, or Zones but all you get is one 
 mode and one coming on the way. My other problem was the constant lag i got when i joined up in 
 a server. Many people told me I don't have a good inetrnet connection but I have an amazing ISP, 
 and every other game works fine online. Another problem was voice chat I could only chat to squad 
 members but you could never tell if you were talking or not. And only 8 maps in my opinion worth 
 a rental and not the full retail price at all. 
  
  I'd say check this one out when it comes to a lower price and maybe when all the bugs and kinks 
 are fixed out from it, as of now I find it hard to recommend for 60 bucks, but if your looking 
 for something new and want to try something a step above COD4 it's a good game if you don't run 
 into any lag like i did.
  
  In conclusion Bad Company got a Bad release and should've been pushed back to later on in the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gign_fr
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  bad company is a disapointment, i was expecting a game with more detail a better gameplay and yes 
 better graphic. all over the game is dull. The lack of life in the story make the game kind of 
 boring to play. yes you can destroy the house and the tree, but the house are empty there is no 
 furniture, tv or objects you would expect in a house. The environement is too simple, it doesn't 
 feel like a real world at all. The gameplay is pretty sloppy and again not very realistic. If i 
 shoot at an enemy with a 50 cal it will take an awfull amount of bullet before i kill him. Again 
 it supposed to be a complete destruction environement but i don't thing the level of destruction 
 is that great. There are that many things anyway to blow up. The multiplayer is slow an innacurate. 
 You can barely see the enemies which make it very frustrating. Also the fact that i have to empty 
 a clip at an enemy to kill him. My favorite is the fact that even thought you shooting a 120 mn 
 piece of artillery to enemy and unless you are right on target you don't kill him. One would think 
 that if you shoot with a tank at house where an enemy is hiding you would blow him away, but no 
 ! Not in bad company. Still to this day call of duty 4 is the reference in multiplayer gaming and 
 single player mission.
  Did i mention that even the weapons do not feel real at all, their graphic are not representing 
 the reallity as well as their sound and of course their power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I must admit: I didn't expect this game to turn out THIS good. In fact, I've been waiting for Alone 
 In The Dark, which was released simultaneously with B: BC, much more than B: BC, and AITD turned 
 out to be a let down for me : (
  
  About 2 weeks after its release, I decided to give the B: BC a go. And boy, was I up for a surprise! 
 I liked the game from the first minutes of playing it. In fact, the longer I player - the more 
 I liked it. Everything in the game is top notch: graphics, sound, voice acting, story, presentation 
 and style.
  
  I was also pleasantly surprised by how much both versions - 360 and PS3 - are alike! The only difference 
 I could find is lack of bump mapping on the ground in PS3, which doesn't affect the overall game 
 appearance by much, as you really have to pay attention to notice this difference. There's also 
 slight frame tearing noticeable in the PS3 version, mostly during cut scenes.
  
  The GameSpot reviewer mentioned some "strange graininess" of the image in the game, but he's wrong: 
 it's not a glitch or technical issue, it's a movie film effect, which purposely adds the graininess 
 in order to simulate a movie and make the image look more realistic.
  
  The sound is not like what you used to hear in most of the games. It seems to take into account 
 everything: distance to a sound source, obstructions between you and the sound source, and where 
 you are at the moment (in a room or outside) . If, for example, you shoot an explosive crate or 
 barrel in a distance - you'll hear the explosion sound with a slight delay. The farther the explosion 
 is - the longer the delay is, the more muffled it is. Sounds very realistic!
  
  The graphics is also excellent, with very solid framerates, which never seem to slow down by much 
 (an issue most PS3 games are suffering from) .
  
  Voice acting is excellent, dialogue is very nice and interesting and keeps you want the characters 
 to talk more, because it's always funny :)
  
  Humor plays a large part of the story line. While most games today are about some global issues, 
 like galaxy wars or destruction of the world, this game is... about stealing gold, while simultaneously 
 fighting a war :)
  
  One thing I loved about the game (especially after Alone In The Dark) is controls: they're absolutely 
 the best! Very responsive, very tight and solid!
  
  Which only adds more fun to playing the game: you get to shoot, you get to blow stuff up (and that's 
 even more fun in and of itself, since most of the environment in the game is destructible) , you 
 get to drive various vehicles, you get to drive a boat, and you get to pilot a helicopter. Whatever 
 you do, you will find the controls acting just as you'd want them to.
  
  All in all, I think of all the games I've recently played, this one definitely deserves a solid 
 10! This game, along with CoD4, is a good example of how the first person shooters should be made!
 
  
  UPDATE: Since my original review an update to the game came out, which added Trophy support to 
 the PS3 version. I've decided to play it again, from scratch and boy, the game feels just as fresh 
 as the first time! I think this game is one of absolutely the best first person shooters ever made! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shippuuden95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Battlefield : Bad Company, is (to me) dissapointing, but before i go onto the bad things, i will 
 talk about the good.
  The destructible enviroments are great fun... for a bit, i think it might just be a gimmick to 
 sell, but the problem with this is... it get normal, this may sound very harsh, but it just does, 
 you get over the fact, and realise you have just payed money for a game with one gimmick.
  While the multiplayer is very fun, it doesnt rival COD4's gunplay, but the main thing for multiplayer 
 is the vehcles. The vehcles are very fun, but sometimes (from experience) you find yourself losing 
 in a heavy tank, versing a light tank, this is what i would like to call bad vehcle balancing, 
 but the jeeps and helicopters work great and really make the game shine.
  Now onto the bad.
  The single player doesnt feel right, with no stealth, for some reason i was 
 versing about 20 enemies all at once, with no explanation, just to get some (SPOILER) gold, this 
 really does show the game isnt very deep, but it isnt ment to be, and that is one of the main problems, 
 you have just payed 40 for a game, and you have expectations, but the expectations fall straight 
 away.
  I think the main reason it has been getting good reviews is because of the multiplayer and the 
 destructible enviroment gimmick, but unless you are a fan of shallow games with vehcles, this is 
 the game for you... 
  BUT THE MULTIPLAYER AGAIN IS FANTASTIC, so 7.5 cos of the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is EA's latest battlefield entry. In this game it's focus on the destruction 
 of walls, roofs and make hiding less safety as it looks.
  
  By now you should have known it's a first person shooter, just like COD4, but it's slightly different 
 as it's more open-area shooter, or some people call it sandbox. As so, there's tons of things to 
 do, driving tanks, flying an helicopter or just play as a soldier.
  
  This game is more focused on multiplayer, it's a lot of fun. Single player is great as well but 
 thats not the focus here for Bad company, just like MGS4 is focused on MGS4 and not MGO.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are great, you can adjust the sensitivity and the invert controls as 
 you want. This game supported Dual shock as well, which should enhance ur experience but for me, 
 i'm still on the older controller since i can't afford one dual-shock at the moment.
  
  The single player takes u as a new recruit to the army. The government, instead of putting you 
 to jail, has u serve the army and lessen ur jail term. You get to team up with a group of ' a little 
 funny ' 3 men, they're like you who are there to lessen their jail term, as such the title of this 
 game is Bad Company.
  
  The single player isn't that short, nor is it that long, the normaly difficulty is quite challenging, 
 sometimes i do die and redo before it get it right. My complaint would be my squad, i'm not the 
 lead but i seems to being one, my team never initiates unless i do so first, but the enemies are 
 pretty good at spotting u and accuracy are sharp.
  
  The other portion of the game is the multiplayer, it's a lot of fun to begin with, you get to choose 
 from 5 classes of soldiers, mainly the assult, the support, the heavy destruction and snipers. 
 Each class has their own weapons, with snipers having their own camouflauge suit.
  
  The game is spread across 8 huge maps, the only mode available as of this review is Gold Rush, 
 which is basically two teams, with one trying to get the gold crates and the both defending the 
 gold crates. It may seem boring with just one mode but the fact is, it's a mix of TDM and CTF into 
 one mode, Ea will be release more games modes and gold rush should keep u occupied until the patch 
 comes. 
  
  Quality of multiplayer wise, it's good, but sometimes i do suffer some stoppage of game from some 
 hosts. There isn't any custom joining of game, all are random, so if you want to play with your 
 friends, do team up together first before entering a game. The server is global and u play with 
 everyone who has a copy regardless of the region of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  It's a little hazy graphics, but other than that , it's all good, somewhere near COD4's standard. 
 The frozebite engine is great, the wall breaking all over seems realistic and add an epic feeling 
 to the overall game.
  The graphics isn't jawbreaking, but it certainly won't turn you down, EA always has it's standard 
 at graphics.
  
  Sound:
  Impressive DTS format. A lot of game only give u DD max, but DTS is actually a better format than 
 DD, better bass and surround. There's plenty of sound options here, so if you feel voice are muffled, 
 do turn them higher.
  
  Occasionally, enemies or ur teamates during gameplay do shout, i find it great because it makes 
 the game lively. Each and every things that breaks be it walls or glass, it's nicely sounded. Even 
 the echos of the 4 walls when ur in a room shooting sound dead accurate and precise.
  
  Gold Edition:
  There's a special edition available, it costs $3 more than the normal edition 
 in my country, it add a few things, 
  Firstly, the 5 weapons u would only get when your level 25 in multiplayer, since u have the gold 
 edition, ur entitled to those weapons since lvl 1 multiplayer.
  All 8 tutorial guides for the multiplayer maps are included, which talks about the map landscapes 
 and tactics you can employ.
  Another is the making of video and a small poster include inside the game.
  Worth it or not? 
 absolutely, it also include a special cover which has carved wordings and looks pimped.
  
  Verdict:
  If you have good internet connection and is into multiplayer or if you have played 
 out COD4, this is the game to get, it might not be an AAA release but some of the elements found 
 in the game are unique like the destruction engine. 
  The Single player won't disappoint you as well if you're looking into it. I'm not sure if EA's 
 going to release add-ons. But for me, it's a worthy purchase, i got a Stress Granade free for my 
 purchase too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is another shooter that wants attentions much like all the shooters we 
 were blessed with this year and last. It has striking similarities to cod4, other battlefields, 
 and Warhawk. The games main focus is the multliplayer but they also added a singleplayer and its 
 supposed to be more heavily focused on the singleplayer than other battlefield and it is but in 
 the end the campaign is no better than halos and cod4s. The only objective in almost the entire 
 campaign is to get from point A to B and kill everything in your way. You are armed with an injector 
 that just automatically gives you health on the spot and takes 7 seconds to recharge. It makes 
 the game feel less '' EPIC '' and just destroys any realism or balance in the singleplayer. Overall 
 the singleplayer is worse than halo 3 which also wasn't that good and fails to deliver on being 
 long or varied in anyway. It is the first shooter that didnt leave me wanting to finish its campaign 
 and ive been gaming for a while. While you command a wide array of vehicles they have nothing different 
 than other games with vehicles. There is a tank, helicopter, boat and hummer. They all play out 
 like there supposed to but the helicopter does not have a machine guns to its side. Instead it 
 shoots missles and has a grenade launcher. The aiming on it can be difficult because it inherits 
 gta 4s helicopter shooting mechanics where there is no rectile for you heli which just makes the 
 game more frustrating and difficult but balances it because of the helis power. 
  Multliplayer is what bfbc is all about. The games has fairly balanced guns and classes but there 
 aren't many differences between them at all. They all do there job and act properly like the shotgun 
 doesn't kill someone far away from you. The classes are varied but one thing that really bugs me 
 is that when you kill someone they drop theres class so you can't pick anything they have. All 
 you can do is exchange classes which is very stupid
  but does balance the game more. I could ramble on about how this game isn't what should have been 
 done with ......... and ......... but ill keep it short.
  Don't bother buying this unless your bored of mgs4, cod4, gta4, or any other fantastic game. The 
 singleplayer is bad and the multliplayer is not better than cod4 or even warhawks so just rent 
 it and max out your multliplayer rank like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company represents developer DICE's first true attempt at crafting a single player 
 campaign to complement the classic Battlefield multiplayer, and for a first attempt, it works out 
 very well. The story might not be on par with the best in video games, but I don't think anybody 
 really expected it to be. Instead, the tale of four Army good-for-nothings going AWOL on the trail 
 of mercenary gold is a fun and funny excuse to blow a lot of crap up. And I mean a LOT of crap 
 gets blown up. Before the end of the campaign, lead character Preston Marlowe will get his hands 
 on rocket launchers, laser guided airstrikes, and much, much more. The constant influx of new weapons, 
 gadgets, and vehicles makes the campaign mode a ton of fun to play from beginning to end. My only 
 gripe with the campaign is that your true enemy, the Legionarre, is never really introduced or 
 explained, and because of this I never really felt much animosity towards him. All told, the campaign 
 seemed to last somewhere between six and seven hours, and it was all good fun.
  
  Once the single player mode is over and done with, it's possible to shift full attention to the 
 real meat of any Battlefield game; the multiplayer mode is the real standout in Bad Company, despite 
 the high quality of the campaign. There is only one mode available at launch (although the classic 
 Battlefield Conquest mode should be available for free download soon) but it's a ton of fun. The 
 new mode is called Gold Rush, and it's really a pretty basic attack and defend gametype. The cool 
 part about Gold Rush is that as the attacking team advances farther, new parts of the map open 
 up that the defending team must protect. With all of the vehicles, gadgets, and weapons available 
 from the campaign, and support for up to 24 players, multiplayer can get pretty intense. The one 
 pitfall that the multiplayer succumbs to is the lack of customizable classes. Battlefield afficionados 
 know that this feature is not included in any game in the series, but it would still be a pretty 
 nice feature to have. As is, the five different classes are superbly balanced, and each has its 
 own role in the battle. 
  
  Battlefield's multiplayer has a ranking system similar to the one in CoD 4, where players gain 
 10 points for each kill. It is also possible to gain points for helping your team mates out, destroying 
 vehicles, and completing objectives, to name a few. This system allows players to eventually unlock 
 progressively cooler items and weapons, effectively making progressing through the ranks very addictive. 
 To put it simply, Bad Company's multiplayer is the best that I have experienced on console, PC, 
 or handheld, and it will only get better as more content is made available. 
  
  All of the intense action taking place in Bad Company is supported by DICE's very own Frostbite 
 engine. This allows environments to be destroyed realistically in an impressive display of particle 
 effects. Most buildings can be destroyed until nothing but the frame remains, trees can be shot, 
 stabbed (lol) , or run down, and much more. The destruction adds a new level of tactical thinking 
 to the firefights, which is very welcome for the genre. It is even a huge factor in multiplayer, 
 probably moreso than in the campaign. Want to destroy that bridge to impede your enemy's progress? 
 You can. Is a sniper wiping out your team? Just launch a rocket or grenade at his roost and watch 
 it crumble. While the destruction is really cool looking and never ceases to be fun, it's not quite 
 exact. Look closely enough and you'll notice that the buildings all have scripted areas at which 
 they will explode, so the game isn't quite destroying the exact brick that you aim at. It's not 
 a problem or anything, but I'm just pointing it out.
  
  Despite all of the destruction and chaos happening onscreen, Bad Company looks great and runs silky 
 smooth. Everything on screen screams next-gen, even if it doesn't quite look as good as games like 
 Uncharted or Bioshock. The sound is some of the best that I've ever heard. Guns sound different 
 when fired inside a building as opposed to outside in wide open spaces, with each shot echoing 
 off of the walls. Vehicles sound realistic, explosions are monstrous, and the voiceovers are convincingly 
 funny. 
  
  Overall, Bad Company has a great single player campaign that is certainly worth playing through, 
 but the multiplayer is really where it's at. It's intense, fast, and most importantly, a lot of 
 fun.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: Smooth and responsive.
  Graphics: 9/10: Impressive models and good looking environments complement the rampant destruction 
 nicely.
  Sound: 10/10: Some of the best in any shooter. Bad Company has to be heard to be believed.
  Entertainment: 
 9.25/10: The best multiplayer around, and a very good single player game. The overall entertainment 
 factor may depend on how much you love the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I really love the ranking system on here and the trophies that you can unclock on your account 
 on their official website i think thats a great idea. I love the damage on the game and most of 
 the stuff blows up. Yet this game is still not far out better on shooting. It still takes up full 
 clip on the guy to kill him because you have so much hp and armor. If it would have a gaming mode 
 such as cod4 the hardcore matches where you 1 shot 1 kill with anything now thats what i call progress 
 in shooting games. I was going to buy thing games because it so great on the ranking system and 
 damage yet it still has bad shooting engine of 29 shots aimed and fired and 1 kill. I would like 
 to see some one take 29 shots and then run off. It does go up to 18 people but for the size of 
 those maps i think it sould of been like 24v24 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  oh my god!!!!!!!
  battlefield bad company, easily best game in the serious and my god its amazing! Im a great call 
 of duty4 fan and this game owns it!!!!!!!
  the mission are really fun different things to do, and great humour in the game,
  Bad company 
 online is really fun to, i love running people over in tanks! lol
  there are great weapon selections from snipers to shotguns and your assault's which own!
  There 
 are hard to level up levels which make me play it even more so i can get to the top rank so addictive!! 
 10/10 this game easily deserves it, and a must have!!!!!!!!
  the graphics and realism blow me away absoulate amazing!!!!! when you run the screen sways side 
 to side like real, great sound effects do, and everything is so real!!!!
  also being able to destroy things is wicked to!!!!!!!
  if someone is hiding behind a wall , why 
 not blow the wall down lol
  i do it alot,, thanks for reading,
  
  please give me feedback =D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey39470
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've seen so far on the ps3. It ranks right up there with Resistance 
 and Haze in my top three. If it had a co-op campaine mode it would be a perfect 10. You can loose 
 yourself for hours just calling in air strikes on any and everything. Weapons are exellent and 
 accurate. Great visuals and smooth gameplay make for an enjoyable experiance. What little online 
 time I've spent was somewhat enjoyable. I kept having problems with it kinda like skipping, but 
 it wasn't that bad. Maybe just my connection. It's hard to fathom that they put a four man squad 
 and didn't put in a co-op mode. I would like to see a team deathmatch and other online modes added. 
 All and all a very good game. I give it a 9.5 now and if they give us a co-op mode as DLC a perfect 
 10. This game is a must have for any serious FPS gamer. Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shblier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun, the best part about it is that you can blow up buildings, trenches, treest 
 etc. and the pyshics are pretty cool for that. However, it gets a bit lame when you find out that 
 you cant anctually blow small buildings to the ground by taking out the house structure. Some parts 
 of buildings will not crumble while all the other parts do, thus keeping the house up which i think 
 is a bit lame. The graphics are pretty good though it looks as though everything is spotted.. graded 
 and fuzzy but its a style i guess, they are meant to look that way. The single player is extremely 
 easy and drags a bit at times. Multiplayer is fun, i enjoyed it more than the single player. All 
 in all its a good game, just nothing really special. Call of Duy is better but get this if your 
 burnt out of it and love those type of first person war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukimurasanada3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I have never had a battlefield game before cause i never really played the online stuff. But this 
 game changed that. The story is fun, gameplay is awesome, and the characters are so funny. And 
 that's just the single player part.
  Multiplayer is fun, and i have heard that the previous ones where just like that, so no real surprise. 
 It's so much fun to play with others in this fun game, even though some games it feel like you're 
 the only one doing anything.
  This new style of shooter, which completely opens up the world, is the destructibility. It is so 
 much fun to blow up a cover spot for someone and watch their body fly. Then again, you have to 
 watch where you are 24/7.
  There are some things about this game, like the AI and some of the controls, which give it a lesser 
 rating, but these are minor.
  Get this game. You can play this for days on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nylon4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, it is so fun to destroy things and it could be a good strategy if your smart 
 enough, the vehicles are great and so are the weapons. online play is great and makes you work 
 with your team to capture bases and achieve victory. The story is funny and entertaining. Graphics 
 are good and almost everything is destructible. the are a lot of maps and they are nice. the looked 
 stupid but, when I played it was better than I thought. The destruction never gets boring. It is 
 one of those game that you like to play for hours. The characters are great and have great dialogue. 
 I hope there is a sequel. Has a great ranking system and point system. All the classes are useful. 
 They are all used for a specific situation. Strategy is the most important aspect of the game. 
 Games like this rarely come around. I give this a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Battlefield has always been a strictly multiplayer online thing, even suggest the idea of a single 
 player modes and you'd recieve a "OOh no, we can't do that?!", so here we are, the first Battlefield 
 game in the long running series to properly target those loners who like to play games alone and 
 by themselves with no one. 
  
  The surprising result is that Bad Company isn't that bad and succeeds in what it was trying to 
 do, yes it might not distract you too much from Call of Duty 4, but isn't it time we tried something 
 else? And this is your answer. Bad Company is literally an explosion of glorified destructibility 
 with everything else slightly tagged on, but don't let this think it's a bad game, becuase it really 
 aint.
  
  The big draw here, and the stars of the show isn't the cast of crims who have been set to a rather 
 pleasant and quaint looking area they car a "warzone" its the massive explosions! The destruction 
 on offers is in all honesty the best I have seen since Black on PS2, no next-gen can, at this moment 
 in time, match the carnage this game offers. It's insane. Almost everything can be destroyed: walls, 
 gates, tanks, sanbags, fences, trees, everything and all extremely realistically. It's something 
 like 95% of everything, and I emphasise everything.
  
  The great thing about this destruction, is that is does change your approach and tactics used within 
 the warzone. You know cover doesn't last at all in the game, so you have five seconds tops to go 
 from cover to cover before it's abbliterated, it really does keep you on your toes and moving. 
 Another thing is that been given the option to blow a gaping hole in a house, you can walk straight 
 threw it, and get to you objective quicker, going in a direct line. It sounds simple, it is, but 
 it is genius.
  
  The gun feels manly and powerful with all the exact clunking and ratatating you'd expect, but they 
 do feel a little over-powerful when blowing up a wall, whereas enemies in this game must be made 
 of titanium as all weapons respond weaker when shooting a baddie. I mean they do die, just not 
 as quick as you'd expect. Plus when you do find something that isn't destructible, it does sadden 
 you a little inside. Like if I took out all the supports of that church would the spire come crumbling 
 down? How awesome would that be?
  
  Ignoring the explosions, and the graphics are fairly good, not breathtaking but above average, 
 there are some nice dust and lighting effect and the characters are animated fairly well. Cutscene 
 however aren't what you'd totally expect half the time as you're tied to one point as your commerade 
 blether on. Not really that thrilling.
  
  Vehicle sections handle very well and are all very easy to drive and very balanced, as your buds 
 hang out the windows shooting stuff that comes by, they are fairly intelligent in situations like 
 this, but about 90% of the time you will have to fufill the objective or push towards the next 
 point as your team mates are about as bright as Crash Bandicoot. 
  
  Musically, its very interesting, with chirly harmonica and brass melodies as opposed to the classical 
 whir and the rousing symphatic tones of Medal of Honour and COD, however, it is very in keeping 
 with the games "comedic" front and themes and makes for a welcome difference. Dialougue is engaging 
 if a little on the dumbed down side, though compared to Haze, these guys looks like rocket scientists.
 
  
  Unlike the Battlefield series, multiplayer and online take a back seat with only one online option 
 Gold Rush. Fortunately, this is fanatstically well paced with Attackers and Defenders and makes 
 for some good play as you hunt down or protect a case of mercenary gold. Conquest Mode is promised 
 as free DLC later down the line.
  
  Overall, Battlefield: Bad Company is highly successful in what it set out to do - create an explosive 
 single player experience that was familiar to those Battlefield multiplayer vets, though there 
 are some persistant nuicances, Bad Company is definately explosive and definately a worthwhile 
 single player experience. A great alternative to COD 4 at last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrBigZiggy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Pros: Be aware, this is addictive Swedish crack. State of the art in game sound, amazing quality.
 
  
  Cons: No 1080p support. No kill cam so you can get your revenge on those god forsaken snipers.
 
  
  
  This game is like Call of Duty 4 but taken to the next level. Everything about the game is amazing. 
 There are some minor glitches but I am sure that Dice will sort them out soon.
  
  The trophy and dog tags makes you keep going at it which adds to the experience.
  
  Blowing 
 things up gives the multiplayer battle a new twist making it harder for snipers when offensive 
 players like myself enter the battlefield.
  
  Although its a hands on first person shooter with loads of action, it gives plenty of room for 
 smart tactical play which in the end makes your team the winning one. All guns and vehicles are 
 very balanced and you get the feeling that this game has been polished, A LOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great fun, pure and simple.
  
  The Single player storyline might not be the best that we have seen but it is still quite entertaining.. 
 The scripts are good and voice acting too. As for the campaign It is fairly good. The campaign gives 
 you enough fun with all the weapons , vehicules and gadgets which you can use use in the multiplayer.
 
  
  Now the real part. As you all probably know the fun in this game lays in the multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 is just fast pace fun. Your really feel like your playing a part in a huge war going around you. 
 Everything blows up , you hear machine gun bullets everywhere , this is truly war =) . Everything 
 is so fluid, you have nice graphics nice maps and the sound effects are just realistic.
  
  My only complaint on this game would be the lack of weapons, modes and maps. The selection is really 
 small and you can really feel that you are going to be cheated soon enough when the developpers 
 release an expansion pack really soon. I mean come on.. You have about 12 multiplayer weapons. 
 7 maps and 1 gameplay mode. They really could of done better on that point.. at least include a 
 Team Deathmatch.
  
  But Overall this game is just pure addicting fun that i recommend to any PS3 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoferman_PS3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I have given a Battlefield: Bad Company Gold Edition (because thats the one i own) a 10/10 score. 
 Now i can understand that many people will disagree with me but i think the main reason why i have 
 rated this game so high is that it is very much my kind of game. I love these kind of games and 
 i especially like the online mode with the open maps.
  
  The online mode in all the Battlefield games have always been there main selling point and this 
 one is no exception with large maps and a cool new game mode. The unlocks, ranks and awards constantly 
 keep you addicted to try and improve. The in game form arrow which if you have the game most people 
 will know about keeps you trying to improve and with the introduction of the famous conquest mode 
 from previous battlefield games the online mode will just keep getting better. The developers of 
 the game EA and Dice are constantly listening to what its customers have to and appear to be looking 
 to keep improving features in the future.
  
  The Game has slightly grainy graphics which has been very much attacked by gamers but everything 
 else makes up for that including:
  
  Sound: The explosions can make you jump out of your seat. Especially with the correct sound system 
 and a high volume level
  
  Destruction: Gives you different tactical options
  
  Gameplay: Hours of endless fun
  
  They have also brought in a single player mode which i have 
 not completed yet but is great fun with an enjoyable story line and some comical characters.
  
  Overall i think that the game was worth my money and i would recommend it to any war game fans. 
 It just keeps getting better and better and i will enjoy this for a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  If you want to feel like your in a war this is the game for you.
  
  Singleplayer is actually really good the maps are vast, the story is fairly good and involving. 
 And you want to find out what will happen next at certain parts. The layout of the maps is also 
 good and everything is well placed. The characters are good and humorous.
  
  Multiplayer well 22 players is good, its running on dedicated servers which is good, all in all 
 the servers are usually running smoothly but expect the ODD time if your unlucky to experience 
 some lag, this has only happened once to me in the week i have been playing obviously happens when 
 a rush of people log in i expect they will keep expanding servers. Gold rush is good although in 
 an update they could slightly improve the spawning its not bad or anything but it could be made 
 a little better as spawning in the base where the attackers are aint to good! There releasing a 
 free update soon of the conquest mode so that should pretty much have the multiplayer at a good 
 varied standard.
  
  Visuals: 9
  emphasis that the grain is an effect called movie grain usually also featured optionally in mass 
 effect. The visuals are good, so is the draw distance frontlines FOW had a short draw distance! 
 The gun, car, characters are modeled very well. Good use of HDR and dynamic shadows.
  
  Sound: 10 
  Apart from the destruction this is the second greatest achievement in the game the 
 sound is immense best in a game so far.
  The 3 things that make the sound so good are:
  1. Very well recorded real sounds that are varied so if i fire a gun it want be monotone sound 
 it will vary.
  2. The fact that pretty much all sounds best heard with a gun react with your surroundings so when 
 i fire a gun in a big valley it will echo. But if you change your environment and go into a building 
 with concrete walls it will echo even more. 
  3. If im in a car with engine going and a tank fires a shell right next to me the sound of the 
 car will be blended out smoothly and the tank firing sound will be the sound thats loudest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  The frist impression you get of bad company is that you are in for a bumpy ride. the gameplay is 
 good to macth any modern frist person shooter in the market today, with intesne fire fights, explosion 
 all around you will the shock that leave you felling out of control you know that at the end of 
 it you are exshated and like "oh S$$$" or "f$$$$$G h$$L" or "Damn"
  
  the single player campian is worth playing, the characters you play iwht are funny and interesting. 
 Hagger the texan redneck that likes to blow things up and is currupted by gold, sweet-water, the 
 square whos Gun is bigger than his B$$Ls but is use fool, and sarge, the no nonsence sargent who 
 keeps everyone in check. the levels are cinematic and excting to play, the charecters you meet 
 are halerious and the stroyline is well thoguht...... but the game is short and can be completed 
 in 1 1/2 days.
  
  the mutiplayers is fun and a epic as the single player but for only 1 games mode which is not even 
 the basic deathmacth is included, but gold rush is fun but for how long...........
  
  THE GOOD
  Fast gameplay
  good sound effects
  The "oh S$$$" Factor
  Funny LOL
  
  THE 
 BAD
  Short
  Empty mutiplayer
  slightly annoying enviorment
  
  overall : IT FEELS DAMN GOOD TO BE IN BAD COMPANY NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Battlefiend game I have played that actually has an enjoyable single player experience. 
 I've had this game for about a week and I haven't even gone near the multiplayer yet, though I've 
 heard good things. Bad Company follows the adventures of B-Company, 222 Battalion, US Army, also 
 known as Bad Company. This is where all the misfits and troublemakers go. Bad Company is the team 
 that is always sent in first - they are there to do a job, but are fully expendable. Anyway, the 
 game involves doing a series of missions for the US Army against a fictional European country supported 
 by the Russian Army, who themselves are supported by a group of mercenaries who pay all their soldiers 
 in gold bars. The aim of the game is to kill as much as possible and earn a pretty penny for yourselves 
 at the same time. Killing is made easier by 90% destructable environments. Soldier hiding behind 
 a wall; pop out the grenade launcher and blow him and the wall up at the same time. Use that new 
 hole in the wall as cover to kill other enemies. Blowing stuff up in Bad Company never gets old. 
 The second mission of the game gives you a device that can call in mortar strikes. After I got 
 this, my gun hardly got drawn for the rest of the mission; take cover, call mortar strike, watch 
 house and enemies inside blown to smithereens. Endless fun. The supporting characters are entertaining 
 in both cutscenes and idly in the field. On the downside, you have to do pretty much everything 
 yourself, as your squadmates are next to useless. Also, the graphics are good, especially when 
 stuff is blown up, but everything is a little grainy, which is a touch frustrating. On the positive 
 side, the sound effects and music are very good, with guns, bullets and vehicles all sounding good, 
 and the accompaning music sets the scenes well. I'm looking forward to finishing the single player 
 campaign and seeing you on multiplayer soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord_rulz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:40 am PT
Review:  Before i got this game, i thought this would be like COD4 + vehicles.. Right?
  Well it was just that but with some added extra's that were mind blowing. Like you just wanted 
 to scream... OMG!!! SWEET! What i mean by that is the amazing SRS effects and the atmosphere you 
 get from the awesome sound effect. If you like me and enjoy SRS with a heap of loud explosions 
 and bullets wiping past your soldier then this game delivers on a top notch level! That was one 
 of the most mind blowing features i first noticed when i enter the multi-player scene. Another 
 great feature is the destruction that is a new and upcoming feature in new gen games to come. I 
 remember back in the day of early ps2 with Red Faction and the destruction in that.. Back in the 
 day that was awesome as to play around with, yet the FPS games have came a long was since then. 
 Back to what i was saying, even though the destruction is great and all, I reckon they need to 
 add / fix up some few things in the multiplayer section. This includes (in my time i have devoted 
 solely to online) 
  - They could add full out collasping of certain buildings etc. I mean how the hell can a house 
 keep standing on just some skimpy infrastructure, its kinda weird and out of place, not to say 
 that the destruction is bad or anything. 
  - Also i have found there is no Latency or Ping feature in the online.. Now how the hell are we 
 supposed to tell how laggy we are if we cant see it. They could add some bars like in COD4 or even 
 better would be some kind of ping reading (ie lower numbers = better latency) , they really need 
 to incorporate that into one of their patchs. 
  - Also a need for some variety in weapon load outs would top off the game. Add some scopes, suppressors, 
 bipods, Laser dots, Night/thermal vision, smoke/flash grenades etc. Alot of different weapons have 
 already been added that have made their spot in the gungame Hall of Fame. ( ie m60, m16, ump, uzi, 
 m249, SPAS15, ak, barret snipers etc) But just the added feature of some extra's to deck out your 
 beast would be sweet and add the satisaction of designing your own custom weapon. This feature 
 would bring alot more strategy and variety in the way the game in played which would also strengthen 
 the online community in itself.
  
  UPDATE 23/1/09 : Since the latest releases of patchs they have finally released Conquest mode and 
 a variety of new maps for the mode aswell. They have also incorporated Trophies into the game. 
 Though they still havnt added a ping system for the online section.. Which imo really needs to 
 be done. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  this game ticks all the right boxes it exciting, original (in terms of story) charming and funny.
 
  the game is like any old fps as you play the new guy in you're squad. you're squads name's bad 
 company because instead of sending people to jail they get sent to do the dirty work of the army. 
 But it takes a turn when you discover that theres gold so the game turns into you chasing after 
 some gold but it so smart at story telling that you are always intrested. one problem is that the 
 story mode is short but this is made up by smart gadgets and a great muliplayer. it has huge maps 
 and full destructablity which makes you fell a bit more in control instead of like call of duty 
 where you have to do something.
  Battlefield bad company is one game that shines through the mould of normal fps and seems unique.
 
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igetyourdogtag
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company was well worth the wait. It had everything you expect in a great multiplayer 
 first person shooter. The unlocks give you something to shoot for, and the gold rush mode is fun, 
 new, and action packed. However I was kind of disappointed with the lack of clan support, ability 
 to choose what server you want to join, and the fact that conquest mode isnt included in the box. 
 Also the find all five weapons are very very unfair because if you didnt preorder the game, for 
 example, you cant get the sniper. Even if you want to buy it, if you didnt preorder the game you 
 cant get it.
  
  The single player was fun for the first hour, but after a while, pumping youself with the life 
 injector constantly just isnt fun. The lack of AI from both allies and enemies was also quite a 
 letdown. They would just stand in the middle of a field and wait to get shot.
  
  Even with a few flaws in the multiplayer and a bland single player campaign, bad company is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007sarodim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  the online is terrible since theres friendly fire on and noobs just always blow you up but single 
 player is full of laughs and destruction as you fight through the streets of russia and the middle 
 east shooting mercs. the game can be pretty easy since you can heal yourself with this needle and 
 syringe thing that fills you up to full health. the game itself felt very different from the other 
 games and it felt more like cod4 instead of bf2 so i lost my memories of playing bf2 at 6am. i 
 got the game yesterday and it seems to be a long game. thankfully, the knife is here and its still 
 a 1 hit ko. like bf2, you can drive cars and now you can listen to the radio. its a awessssome 
 game and you shouuld buyyy itt cuz its good and worth ur 60 dollars. goodddeee people
  
  alalalalllaalala peanut butter jellyy ea is going down the draain gta iv is fuun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Welcome to B-company! This game steps far away in terms of plaid fun. Even difficulty selection 
 is fun here. Storyline is not too long itself, but missions on normal difficulty are about 1 hour 
 long. Here you find all you need to learn about multiplayer - how to fix, fight, heal, destroy 
 and other. Missions are plain fun. You following a bunch of guys on the routine war. At least it 
 was routine before they find their own greedy goal. Characters are looking live. We have even collectibles 
 here. 
  Graphics are strong, grain filter is not the minus - it adding a sense of film.
  Only problem is mighty sound engine. Might is a problem because sometimes it will expect sound 
 to fade out on a second - two. I bet it will be fixed.
  Online is only 8 maps for now. They big enough to not become boring fast. Award system is great, 
 anyone loves awards. Classic conquest mode is coming soon to boost online experience. Servers are 
 bit laggy but not often. More often they get populated by jerks. Example - you controlling an artillery. 
 Somebody from your own team can kill you and take it. Those who play support don't even try to 
 support you. But all this can't stop me from thinking what this is greatest online game with great 
 potential is here. And make difference between this and Call Of Duty. Here you on massive war. 
 In CoD - just getting involved in Spec Ops operations. Battlefield gives you a perfect sense of 
 war. Try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokuya
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  In my life of FPS experience nothing gets my blood flowing more than the "ratta-tat-tat" of a light 
 machine gun as it rips into your foes. That is until Battlefield: Bad Company was released. Now 
 with more firepower than ever before, you will be reeling over in your seats as you see tanks blasting 
 through entire buildings in a no less than awe-inspiring way; as you see helicopters turning your 
 beloved pine forest into a lumberjacks dream in less than a second; and as you obliterate even 
 the strongest of attacker with air-to-ground guided missiles. This game is no ordinary shooter 
 - this is war as it was meant to be played.
  
  So, the story begins with you as a newly transferred soldier into "B-Company", living the high 
 risk, low fame job of a meat shield. From here you are shown the basic controls in a fast but easy 
 to follow tutorial style mission. Now from my experience on PS3 games, this takes a long and boring 
 2 hours as I can never quite get to grips with these new fangled controllers. However here DICE 
 have created a very intuitive and FPS standard layout allowing you to pick up and play just minutes 
 after leaving the Xbox360.
  
  While you're in this mini-tutorial, you are also given the chance to see the powerful damage physics 
 when ordered to blast your way into a building. Here, we get a good glimpse of the destructibility 
 of the world around you. Everything, from the structures to the forests and to the very smallest 
 fences; break accordingly with how you attack. Nothing in this game is safe from the devastating 
 arsenal you get thrown at you.
  
  Yet, even with these extremely destructive environments and awesome visuals there is one thing 
 that makes or breaks a game - the sound. A good example of this is 'Bioshock', which although beautiful 
 - seemed lack lustre due to a bad sound library. Luckily for us, Bad Company does not fall into 
 this category and I would highly recommend buying a good sound system just to appreciate this properly. 
 The only problem that arises with the sounds is the shear mess of them. Although it does add to 
 a very enthralling experience, drawing you into the combat, after 3 hours of non-stop playing, 
 the never ending drone of machine guns get quieter and quieter as your ears slowly fill with blood.
 
  
  So from an audio and visual point of view this game really does stand up as a real "must have", 
 however as with all games there is no use in covering up holes in the content with large sheets 
 of artwork, thus I move onto the 'new' features this brings to gaming.
  Firstly, the damage system; I feel I must mention this as it's been a while since somebody deviated 
 from the Halo regeneration style of play. In Bad Company, you do get regeneration (on the single 
 player or assault class online) however it is done through the use of an unexplained drug you inject 
 into yourself, which obviously takes time to re-fill. Thus you cannot escape death from merely 
 hiding behind a crate and waiting for your life to return. But instead, heal yourself to prepare 
 for the next section. In my opinion this patches the gap between health pick-ups and superhuman 
 invulnerability and may be the way forward in gaming.
  
  Secondly, as you probably know, there are many different types of vehicle at your disposal and 
 you probably also know that this has been a major selling point of the battlefield games. However, 
 one large worry that hung over the game was that vehicles and multiplayer do not mix. In general 
 vehicles are always too strong to be fair in multiplayer games, especially when a tank can blow 
 up the very house you hide in. Yet somehow (possibly by some divine intervention) this is not the 
 case. This time, even with 12 person teams, the use of tanks does not over-run the battle due to 
 a well equipped and planned out infantry system whereby AT mines, C4 and rockets amongst other 
 things can all be turned against these metal plated beasts.
  
  With this in mind, I would very happily recommend anybody with a love for fun and yet slightly 
 serious gaming to give this a go.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Battlefield bad company is an amazing game that was well worth the wait and has a great value. 
 In the game you are a member of Bad Company, a squad of military failures sent to do useless tasks. 
 The game has a great story where you hunt down a legionnaire and steal his gold. First the game 
 has excellent graphics which are just as good as Call of Duty 4. The environment in the game is 
 great as well. The trees and plants move in the wind and if you shoot one they will fall down. 
 The explosions were great too. Every time you shoot a house, fence, or any structure with an explosive 
 weapon they blow up and it looks just like it would in real life. Also if you shoot and explosive 
 barrel they blow up as well. The weapons in the game are great too. There is about 30 weapons in 
 the game and they are all great. The vehicles are awesome as well. You can drive anything from 
 a golf cart to a helicopter. The game also has and extremely addictive multiplayer that is a lot 
 of fun.
  So, if you ask me Battlefield: Bad Company is definitely a contender for game of the year and is 
 a must own for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  well lets start with EVERYTHING BLOWS UP!
  the fat guy is f-ing funny its just a great game.
  but back to the multiplayer ive just been 
 playing the online ALOT MORE then the single player. this is just a fun game to play BUT if u and 
 ur friends all got a ps3 n online hookup THIS IS WAT U WANNA DO.................. BLOW UR FRIENDS 
 A NEW 1.
  OH let me get to wat I didnt like and it was that i got a lcd tv n the graphics look like well 
 ok the graphics are good but how it looks in my tv it looks weird i cant realy xplain its just 
 if u got n hdtv n U CAN xplain PLS DO SO n let me know how u descrived it. but back to the good 
 well the game is just plain GOOD FUN n VERY entertaining. THE MORTAR is GREAT for killing online 
 it takes a few secs to relaod but its WORTH the wait once u get on u WONT wanna get off I LOVE 
 destroing soldiers just trying to run to cover hahahaha yeah i guess im alittle too into this game 
 but if something realy interest me then im gonna show it so i hope to see u guys online under my 
 scope n wen u notice me ITS GONNA BE TO LATE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod4_MADDOG104
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  well lets start with the main problem, its made by EA which means to many servers, terrible website 
 were i can not check my stats.
  well now i've cleared that up bad company sets a different standard to shooters now previous battlefield 
 games already used the tanks, helicopters and all that stuff and is nothin new to battlefield fans, but 
 what ea has done by introducing DICE's new frostbite engine is defently a enjoyable expereince 
 none the less. DICE's new engine means that alot of what you see on the battlefield is  
 which gives it its real edge againist other games and makes gameplay on and offline very enjoyable. 
 online there are a total of 8 maps and lots of guns you can unlock by using unlocked credits, when 
 people were happy to here that no guns had to be brought the find all five program leaves some 
 guns almost impossible to get. if u had brought the gold edition then 5 guns that needed to be unlocked 
 at lvl 25 were already unlocked for you to use straight away, the multiplayer modes is gold rush 
 were the attackers must destroy the gold crates and the defenders must defend them, conquest the 
 other game mode is set for a free downloadble soon. now then while multiplayer is the best bit about 
 badcompany story mode can still be injoyable as well as u are put in the b unti for all the armys 
 miss match troops your in a four man squad and fight your way through some very good looking enviroments 
 so over all a 9.0 and in all catergories i give..........
  
  graphics 8/10 gameplay 9/10 story 6/10 guns /8.5/10 so if your a fan of battlefield get this and 
 still if your not but like the sound of it get it still 
  message me for any other details 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASRCSR
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  BF BC is one of the greatest First Person Shooters I have played in awhile. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone that likes to blow up things and shooter things. It's a whole new way to play 
 the game with destructible environments. The multiplayer is really completive and the campaign 
 mode has a great story. All the classes are evenly matched and there are a lot of great vehicles 
 like hummers, boats, helicopters and dune buggies. The maps are great and you don't have to worry 
 about being snipered all the time. The only thiing bad about this game is in online there is only 
 gold rush mode, but conquest mode is coming soon and if your won team kills you in online they 
 do lose a lot of points but there is no way right now to vote them out. Also don't buy a headset 
 just for this game because not many people talk in a game. In one round i say about 2 or 3 people 
 have it. This game is better than Call of Duty 4 because of its great multiplayer. It is a MUST 
 have for any war, FPS, or explosions lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I love this game more than COD4 for one reason its more fun and contain many weapons, fantastic 
 gameplay although the graphics are modest ,anyway im a ps3 gamer since the first day the console 
 came out to the market ,i played many games but one game have them all ,Battlefield is the best 
 game i played online , the most thing i love about this game is the online mode where you have 
 many ways to kill your enemies.
  
  The controls are just fine easy and simple although aiming is little bit hard but once you get 
 used to it everything will be just right. the only thing this game miss is a jet fighters, imagin 
 dogfights and flying with F16 its awesome.
  
  playing this game is a great experince you dont want to miss ,i cant say more than i just cant 
 stop playing it all day long ,although i have MGS4 but this game is fun and fun is what gameing 
 is all about .
  
  if you dont miss this game you will regrade it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nos4atus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been an avid gamer since I was a sperm. I have played all iterations of the Battlefield franchise, 
 and had at least a modicum of fun on each of them for their own individual reasons. Having said 
 that, this is the first in the BF series in which I really felt like I got my money's worth.
  
  The Campaign mode. Since this is a new format for DICE's take on a single player experience 
 within the BF world, I was pleasantly surprised at how complete and engaging this is. It has everything 
 you would want in a Campaign mode with two exceptions. Co-Op, and a reason to care about dying.
 
  
  Ok so no need for an explanation for the lack of a Co-Op option, but suffice it to say, this game 
 cries out for one at every turn. You all know the drill. What's better than manning a tank's main 
 cannon while driving it into a house? Well the quite obvious answer is hearing your buddy say, 
WTF are you doing man !!? as he's manning the machine gun of said tank that you are driving 
 into a house. The same can be said for the other vehicles in the game, but you understand what 
 I mean. This is not the only reason that Co-Op would have been great. I suppose we can get the 
 camaraderie we are looking for in the multi-player portion of the game, but it would have been 
 so much better in the campaign.
  
  The fact that the game is quite easy to finish can really only be attributed to the mechanic that 
 once you kill an enemy..... he remains dead regardless of if a grenade or another enemy kills you 
 mere seconds later. While this might sound good for those wishing to whip through this game, I 
 had so much fun with the Campaign mode that I would have enjoyed a bit more challenge to prolong 
 the experience. It's not much of a complaint, but it is worth bringing up. If you're not online 
 and set up for multi-player, this may be a reason to rent.
  
  Now for the reason you've come to know and love Battlefield games. Multi-player. DICE has always 
 done such a good job with it's multi-player on it's previous BF series games, and Bad Company only 
 builds upon that proven formula to bring a game that most all FPS fans, and especially fans of 
 vehicles meet combat games, will appreciate. 
  
  There is so much to like about BFBC that I don't know where to begin. As you are familiar with, 
 playing humans is much less predictable and mundane than killing endless AI, but it's really becoming 
 a whole different beast now that the destructible environments are present. It changes your strategy 
 and makes for a new tactical level of play that has not been presented in any game before this 
 to this extent. No longer can your foes take cover behind drywall and camp until you run it to 
 see where he is. Just blast a hole in the wall ( drywall, concrete, brick, etc ) and I guarantee 
 if the resulting cratered explosion does not take your foe down, he's not going to try and hide 
 there for much longer if he wants to live. Drive a tank right into a house and take the wall down. 
 Just blow it all to smithereens! It literally is a blast and sets the bar for the future of FPS 
 titles to come. One thing about the destructible environments that I think needs to be said. It 
 does not feel gimmicky and is not the only draw to this game. It just really sets it apart from 
 others. You'll notice other aspects aside from buildings and trees. Craters in the ground make 
 the terrain more treacherous to traverse in all land based vehicles. I also wasn't aware that you 
 could blow up a bridge, and to my shock, amazement, and detriment for that particular match, I 
 succeeded in stranding my M1 Abrams on one side of a creek making me exit and wade through the 
 water to get on the other side. It's not too hard to see the strategic value of this new level 
 of destructibility.
  
  Keeping with the trend of "leveling", BFBC has their own ranking system which works very well. 
 I always feel rewarded and absolutely love the medals popping up on the screen when you complete 
 the criteria necessary for earning them. It really makes you want to log more and more hours to 
 get everything unlocked. 
  
  The sounds in both the Campaign and Multi-player really are something to marvel over. It sounds 
 like a battlefield right in your living room and really pushes the envelope for realism and immersion. 
 From a personal point of view, I believe that sound effects, score, and dialogue contribute to 
 a high percentage of an overall game score and can make or break a game in one fell swoop. This 
 game sounds spectacular.
  
  The graphics seem to be something that is constantly debated in many of the reviews I've seen. 
 While not looking quite as realistic as COD4, this game has it's own visual style that is just 
 as endearing in my opinion. Never once did I think that the graphics should be improved.
  
  The combat is fun and engaging, the vehicles are fun to drive, the chaotic explosions, and graphical 
 presentation really push BFBC to the forefront of FPS games and make the decision on where to put 
 your hard earned buck to work an easy one.
  
  I hope this review has been beneficial in deciding whether or not to pick this one up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Battlefield Bad Company is the first battlefield game I have ever bought and I must say I have 
 found it thoroughly enjoyable so far. I have not yet completed single player, but will say that 
 the story is very believable so far, and multiplayer is very absorbing.
  The single player campaign in BF: BC has you joining a squad of 3 other misfits who are fighting 
 yet another war for the US army. However, once they stumble across a huge stockpile of gold they 
 decide that there are better reasons to fight the enemy than patriotism! The story itself is nothing 
 too special but it is the characters that make it a great one to play, with your three squadmates 
 all having good chemistry between them - making them very realistic. A character who you are introduced 
 to roughly half way through the game i guarantee will make you laugh out loud - but i will not 
 spoil it for you!
  Multiplayer is excellent and draws you in so that the quick one hour mess around becomes a whole 
 day of online play. I bought the Gold edition off Amazon. co. uk (for the same price as the normal 
 one so take a look!!) which gives you some very nice extra weapons to begin with - plus some videos 
 which give you tips about the best way to play on each map. I also logged onto findallfive. com 
 which is another way to get some bonus weapons which i recommend. The gameplay itself is very good 
 and much better than the monotonous demo which I think everyone is sick of now - especially after 
 being forced to play the rather dull Oasis map over and over again! You will be pleased to hear 
 that there is a good variety of maps in the real thing and they are all a lot of fun to play - 
 voice chat has been fixed also. The destructability of (nearly) everything is still in of course 
 and is as fun to use as it was in the demo - a feature which should now be made standard in all 
 shooters (hence the "innovative" classification) .
  Overall, BF: BC is a very good game for people who enjoy a single player campaign with great characters 
 and a satisfying plot, and is an excellent game for the online enthusiast. This is a brilliant 
 start for the series' debut in the next-gen world of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  War never takes itself lightly. Sometimes the soldiers do. Of course, I'm talking about the latest 
 Battlefield game from DICE and EA, Battlefield: Bad Company.
  
  Preston Marlowe finds himself headed to B Company, where the US Army sends all of their "loose 
 cannon" expendable soldiers. He meets up with his squad, Sweet water, Haggard, and Redford. The 
 four of them are just trying to get by the next few days smoothly, so that Redford can retire in 
 peace. They find themselves battling Russians in a very cliche fashion, but get sideswept on a 
 quest for gold. The story is told all through in engine cutscenes and conversations during action. 
 At first, Bad Company's tale appears to be really average, but it quickly fastens up, and in the 
 end, it's a satisfying adventure about personal gain.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll be witness to a surprisingly hillarious performance by the script and 
 voice actors. Even during moments of intense war, the soldiers of B Company constantly make light 
 of the situation, joke around with each other, and tell stories about their odd families or desires. 
 It would seem to hurt the intensity of the battles, and although it does a slight, it actually 
 helps out the overall enjoyment of the game. It's unique to see such a funny lineup in a first 
 person shooter, so congrats to the developers for taking a chance. The story wouldn't be as acceptable 
 as it is, if it wasn't for the hilarity. You get attached the the characters because of this.
 
  
  Most Battlefield games are pretty simple shooters. You're a soldier, you're put in a wide open 
 sandbox area, and you're given guys to shoot. The twist with Bad Company is the destructibility 
 of the environments. You usually have a grenade launcher attached to your main weapon, or you have 
 smiley face pinned grenades. Also, there are barrels and boxes of explosives set up in all the 
 right places for some reason. People could wonder "why are there explosives everywhere?", but they 
 really shouldn't because it's fun to see things go boom. Now, when an explosion goes off, if it' 
 close enough to a buliding, that part of the wall will crumble in a satisfying fashion, with bits 
 and chunks of rock flying everywhere in a convincing cloud of smoke. The frostbite engine does 
 a good job of making you think that the scripted destruction is all organic, and it's a neat effect.
 
  
  The destructible environments aren't just for show, however. It is an important gameplay function 
 that you'll use all the time throughout the campaign and in multiplayer. Sometimes when there's 
 an enemy in the window, and you can't get a good shot at him, you can blow a hole in the wall, 
 and kill him from behind, if the explosion itself doesn't get to him. You can just obliterate any 
 sort of cover that your opponents can use. It's not just a gimmick, it's an important gameplay 
 mechanic.
  
  However, your enemies can do the same to you, so it's balanced on both sides. However, it's very 
 rare that they'll do that to you very often due to the fact that most of your enemies, save a few 
 who are seasoned veterans of war, have less than desirable AI. Usually, the AI is decent, but sometimes 
 they'll refuse to shoot at you, or get stuck in a loop of functions, like pop up and down. The 
 rest of BC doesn't fare too well against them. You'll find that most of the damage will be done 
 by you, the player. The AI isn't necessarily bad, it's certainly good at times, but it does leave 
 a lot to be desired often.
  
  Visually, Bad Company sets the bar high in a lot of places. Buildings all look great, although 
 they all share similar indoor features. The game runs well at all times, even with all the commotion 
 going on. Destruction definitely looks incredible, you've never seen anything like it in a shooter 
 before. Lighting is great, at all times, even at night. With the exception of some pop in with 
 the grass, and a grainy look, Bad Company is one of the best looking shooters yet this generation.
 
  
  In addition to the incredible script and voice acting, Bad Company sports some of the best gun 
 sound effects and explosion noises around. Just about every sound effect you can think of when 
 describing war is here, and it's here well. Preston's ears even ring when there is an explosion 
 nearby. The attention to detail with the sound quality is astounding, and it puts you right in 
 the middle of war.
  
  The orchestral score is well done and suits the tone well, although the lack of tunes is a little 
 bit disappointing. The soundtrack, on the other hand, is full of really cool jazzy licensed songs, 
 which you hear throughout the game, either in the menu, or on any of the radio stations in the 
 game.
  
  There is a large variety to the weapons. There are a lot of different kinds of weapons, such as 
 snipers, assault rifles, machine guns, shotguns, just about anything you can think of. You'll use 
 a handful of them throughout the campaign, and they all have different attributes such as rate 
 of fire, firepower, or reload time. Certain weapons are better in different situations, and the 
 game gets that down properly.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no weapon customizing to be heard of. After seeing such deep options in 
 Call of Duty 4, it's a real downer to see that not even remotely present here.
  
  Along with the loads of weapons, you have a lot of cool gadgets at your disposal. There is a laser 
 designator, which locks on to any weapon or vehicle, and once locked on, you can control a missile 
 which comes down from the heavens. You have a mortar strike, a variety of rocket launchers, and 
 a health replenisher. The health replenisher is a needle you can jam into yourself every so often, 
 and you'll have it the entire single player campaign. You need to unlock it for online. It makes 
 the game a little simple, but it's really useful for getting through some tough parts.
  
  After all, this is a Battlefield game. Bad Company features huge, wide open levels, which are all 
 played sandbox style. The vehicles in the game are all a blast to drive, whether it's a tank, jeep, 
 armored car, dune buggy, helicopter, whatever. They all handle properly with smooth controls, and 
 a lot of different turrets and other weapons on them. The whole sandbox feel translates rather 
 well into online multiplayer. You have a nifty little radar that shows you where to go, although 
 you can use any route you want to get there. It's really unique, and no other shooter that I can 
 think of does it this well, if it does it at all.
  
  Sometimes, this can be a very frustrating shooter. The wide open levels often have a lack of cover 
 to use, especially when any cover you do have can just be shattered. Sometimes, it just comes down 
 to whoever started shooting first, will live. It really lessens the experience at a few times in 
 the game, and it's just a bad design choice, to not have more sustainable cover. Often, you'll 
 find yourself up against a tank, with nothing to do but run.
  
  What sort of balances this out, is the lack of a death penalty. When you die, any damage you've 
 done, anyone you've killed, any ammo you've used, and buildings you've leveled, will stay the same 
 once you've come back. The game doesn't make you redo things, as much as it does respawn you back 
 on the map. Some people won't like this, but I thought it was helpful, and kept the game light and 
 not so harsh. It fits the theme of Bad Company well.
  
  The single player campaign is a solid 7 hours of explosions. It can feel repetitive at times, but 
 things change up often enough to keep that from becoming an issue. There's no coop at all, which 
 sucks, considering there are 4 members of Bad Company, all with bad AI. There's good replayability, 
 as you can return to any level you've finished, on a different difficulty. There are a lot of collectibles, 
 although I'm not too sure what they're for. The story is also good enough to bring you back later 
 down the line.
  
  Aside from the fat single player campaign, there is multiplayer online. It's probably what you 
 should buy the game for. There's only one game mode, Gold Rush, but it fits the bill well, and 
 it's a blast to play.
  
  MP holds up to 24 players on EA's servers. There are different classes that you can take up, such 
 as on the assault, recon, engineer, demolition expert, and specialist. Your team benefits from 
 working together. There are two sides, Attackers, who have to destroy gold crates, and not die, 
 and Defenders, who have to defend the crates, and kill the attackers. The two sides balance well, 
 and the game mode is unique and cool. It's kind of like Attack and Defend in Vegas 2.
  
  Multiplayer is intense. It works well, and it shares the same gameplay features as single player. 
 You feel as if you are on a team, all sharing the same goal. It's much different from team deathmatch, 
 where everyone goes off and kills. Here, you need to work as a team to succeed. With the sandbox 
 like gameplay, and the vehicles which fit 4 people, that is heavily evident here. Multiplayer can 
 be very addictive, and it's a great compliment to the great single player campaign.
  
  However, Gold Rush is the only game mode. Maybe in the future, the original conquest mode from 
 past games will be available. For now, Gold Rush is good enough and is addictive enough to get 
 you by. The lack of cover from single player isn't much of an issue online, since everyone feels 
 the same way, so gameplay really feels more revamped and intense online.
  
  The weapons unlock system is very neat, and gives the player freedom. Everytime you rank up, you 
 get one unlock point, which gets you any weapon that is available for unlock. The player gets to 
 choose which weapon or item to unlock, and it's a nice touch that brings some depth and motivation 
 to play.
  
  I found all the issues I usually find with EA's servers. You can't choose which map you want to 
 play on, which is a shame, because you may dislike one or two of them. Also, lag occurs fairly 
 often, considering EA uses their own servers for all their games. It can get a little sad sometimes. 
 Luckily, the lag isn't everywhere, and you will enjoy most of your online games immensely.
  
  There are a few bugs and glitches you might run into, such as a tank you're supposed to defend, 
 suddenly becoming an enemy tank that's invincible, people shooting at you during cutscenes, where 
 you can't do anything, and sometimes the hit detection is off. It doesn't wreck the game, but the 
 game would benefit without them.
  
  Battlefield: Bad Company is fairly simple, but it's hidden depth and complexity is very noticeable 
 at times. A cool story, addictive multiplayer, and the fact that there are no decent shooters this 
 summer, are the reasons you should pick it up. It's not the best Battlefield game ever, but it 
 is an excellent shooter with unique ideas that are all pulled off well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Single player
  -----------------
  
  First of all the single player isn't that great. You play mostly on your own. Those other guys 
 just run after you like you're kind of a hero. If they feel like it they will help a bit. Its fun 
 and nice for the newbies + very easy to play ! 
  
  
  Multiplayer
  --------------
  
  I think a lot of peoples problems with this game will be that they love COD4 and want more of the 
 same, now I also enjoy call of duty 4 but find the maps way too small... in BC the maps are huge, 
 I played the Gold Rush game last night and got completely absorbed by it. I liked the way it places 
 you in squads, there is much more emphasis on playing as a team, (reminds me of the new Quake Wars) 
 you can obviously go off and do your own thing. The effects of terrain damage are brilliant, running 
 while being shot at is great as the ground around you gets churned up making for a very real experience. 
 The fact you can jump in and use the various vehicles is brilliant. A lots been made of the fact 
 you can destroy 90 % of the environment like walls, buildings, trees etc... Woohaa let's clean 
 out the ghetto in a way. Also the stats you can view on your on-line profile on ea are awesome 
 .
  
  EA is having some problems with showing your stats on Bad Company
  
  here is mine:
  
  http://badcompany. ea. com/myprofileps3/thomasje10/
  
  after registration 
 you will need link your ea id 2 your ps3 on-line id. After this you'll see in your navigation "my 
 soldier" it won't show just take my link and put your ps3 id after it like this http://badcompany. ea. com/myprofile/ps3/put 
 your ps3 id here
  It will surely work (:-)
  
  
  As you can tell, I love it. 
  Y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cage00
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  So... although I have only played one other Battlefield game (Battlefield: Modern Combat) from what 
 I have seen from that game and from what gamers have said about the other titles I feel it is safe 
 to assume that Bad Company is a cut above the rest. Graphic wise I'm sure compared to PC and other 
 next gen console games it is not the best but it quickly makes up for this via huge maps in single 
 and multiplayer. The graphics are very detailed with awesome explosions but a strange haze over 
 everything does take away from what it could have been. The sound is amazing to say the least. 
 From chunks of concrete crumbling to shooting in a building reverberating BC accomplished the sounds 
 of combat like never before. The game runs very smoothly frame rate wise as well. Even with explosions 
 and bullets flying everywhere I experience pretty much no lag at all and this goes for multiplayer 
 as well. (Assuming you have a decent connection.) This game is a action packed balls to the wall 
 shooter. The single player campaign isn't ground breaking but I got sucked into it very fast and 
 had a hard time putting my controller down after the first hour of playing. This time around you 
 and your three wise cracking buddies are abandoned by the army and go off in pursuit of gold to 
 make up for the betrayal. Your squad mates are pretty much there for comic relief than anything 
 else. Yeah maybe every now and again Haggard might drop someone but, they will pretty much spend 
 their time getting in the way of a fire fight or wander around the battlefield like lost puppys. 
 This is not all that bad because I actually was disappointed whenever they dropped a baddie because 
 I wanted that kill myself. So don't depend on your mates for really anything because although you 
 are the new guy they pretty much make you do all the work. I don't know if this was intended to 
 be funny. It comes off like, "hey new guy do all the work while we lay low so we can make it home." 
 The maps are huge and offer some variety. Your not really doing the same thing over and over which 
 is a nice change of pace from most FPS's. I'm still not sure as to whether or not I really like 
 the whole health system or not but you will sure need it considering baddies will pretty much ignore 
 your squad mates and always shoot at you. Also one annoying thing is that tanks seem to always 
 know where you are no matter what you do which can be frustrating. If you do die you are put at 
 your last saved checkpoint but all the damage you've done and guys you've killed stay that way. 
 I'm not real sure how I feel about this either aside from that it is different. BFBC really shines 
 in multiplayer. Although only gold rush is available it's an awesome mode where you're either the 
 attacker or the defender of gold crates. It's a really back and forth game where the difference 
 between victory and defeat are usually very close. The wide selection of guns, vehicles and destructible 
 environments make it in a league of it's own. Overall BFBC is a must have title for the summer. 
 Oh and don't compare it to COD4 because it isn't that kind of game. It's BFBC. So love it or hate 
 it, because it does it's own thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The Game Is A Good One Its a bit disappointing that there is only one Game mode online and that 
 it lacks i think they have released it too early i hope they will make an upgrade to stop it lagging 
 but now the annoying thing is that it has no subtitles some people are deaf or just cant understand 
 right this is maybe the only game i know that doesn't have subtitles on them sad but i'm not deaf 
 it just there are deaf gamers out there. the main problem is its a sandbox but if you go out into 
 the red bit BOOM your dead thats what a sandbox is no a sandbox means freedom to go anywhere yes 
 gta did that but all you get is a small place in BFBC the radio is not as good they are with EA 
 where is the good music not this stuff i like the music on the background on the menu thats good 
 the soldiers are easy to kill but online its like they are cheating But the game is good online 
 could be better but so its an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XScimmia
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, okay. Destructible environments, I have heard that before. Do you remember 'Red Faction', 
 I do, "Geo-Mod" technology in that day meant, you MIGHT be able to put a dent in the rock wall 
 to MAYBE circumvent the enemy defenses. DICE's Frostbite Engine takes terrain deformation and destructible 
 environments to a level I have never seen before, and honestly I don't think anyone else will get 
 it this right for a long time to come.
  
  I would like to start with the single player campaign. Its a little funny. And if you set it on 
 the hardest difficulty it MIGHT prepare you for Gold Rush. Needs an offline Co-Op, it would add 
 an entire new level of re-playability. That is about all I have to say about Single-player. Pretty 
 darn funny.
  
  Alright the meat and bones. Gold Rush is the multi-player game type. The only multi-player game 
 type at release, but don't shake you head yet. Conquest will be released via DLC, free, TBA. In 
 the meantime however Gold Rush is all you will need, and has kept me QUITE enthralled for hours 
 at a time. In case you don't know, Gold Rush pits Attackers against Defenders, battling over Gold 
 Caches, hence Gold Rush. It does sound simple but it gets complifun fast. Attackers start and rush 
 for the first defending base, which has two gold caches (each defending base has two caches) . Wait 
 lets go back. Attackers have limited tickets, or respawns. Defenders have infinite tickets, but 
 their survival hinges on the survival of the gold caches. If the defenders are successful at stemming 
 the onslaught of attackers until their tickets reach zero they win. Easy... In the event that the 
 attackers successfully destroy both gold caches; they regain a percentage of tickets, and at certain 
 defense positions or cities, they advance their spawn point and attacking position. In order to 
 destroy a crate you must either; plant a bomb (all classes can, by holding prompted button near 
 cache) , or through 'conventional weaponry' such as bullets, grenades, tank shells, and even knives.
 
  
  The finer point of Gold Rush are best left for you to discover. I have my own tactics I would not 
 share with just anyone. But everyone should know that this game OOZES adrenaline, to date there 
 has been no greater joy than while running toward a building, (which houses my current objective) 
 as my semi fresh squad members spawn behind me, without missing a step I shoot a M203 Grenade into 
 the wall and all three members of my squad jump through the debris to systematically demolish the 
 enemy team camped facing the door. Plant the bomb and defend against wave after wave of Defenders 
 trying desperately to disarm the final bomb. Yet to no avail as the bomb explodes, and I hear silently 
 in unison from my daughter and my wife, "whoa".
  
  Those moments make this game worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJMD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  About: The Game, EA Introduces to us a new MOD, Gold Rush, You have 2 sides, Attackers, and Defenders. 
 
  
  Attackers try to go after the gold creates, their are 2 at each base.
  
  Defenders, they have their work cut out for them, they have to defend the creates from being captured.
 
  
  Using kits, and Vehicles of all sorts, making the game a total carnage of fighting.
  
  The Vehicles are highly details and the graphics look amazing in this game. I see apsolutely no 
 glitches or tearing in this game at all. Virtually everything is distructable in this game. Trees, 
 Buildings, Vehicles, Etc.
  
  Graphics: 10 - I give the graphics a 10 because of the details. No tearing, the scenes are just 
 amazing and the look and feel of every design from water to trees buildings, and vehicles.
  
  Sound: 10 - I am giving this a 10 because the sound is just awesome. I find myself walking 
 from one base to the other hearing explosions in a distance and seeing flashes of light. Makes 
 me feel like I am watching a movie or really in a war.
  
  Gameplay: 10 - I give the gameplay a 10 because of the amount of effort they put into each kit. 
 You have 5 kits to choose from, each one has unlocks and special items you can get to help your 
 team. Each weapon has its pros and cons. While one may do more damage, the other maybe less. Making 
 the kits and realism top notch. Vehicles are the same way, I found that each Vehicle has it weak, 
 and strong points in the armor. While some rockets takes 4-5 to knock down a tank or 2-3 depending 
 where you hit.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5 - I am giving this a 9.5 do to a few things that are small but not that important. 
 I'll explain that later. As far as the multiplayer is concerned it is fantastic. No lagg, no stuttering. 
 No unbalancing like their was in the demo version. It really takes a good squad to do what needs 
 to be done in order to win, and being able to work together with your squad.
  
  Overall: 9.5 - Giving the game a overall 9.5:
  Pros:
  
  Solid game play.
  Awesome graphics, 
 and sound.
  Solid Multiplayer.
  Realism.
  
  Cons:
  
  Splitscreen: Although would be nice but not important too me as it sometimes can clutter the screen
 
  Prone: While it would be nice to go prone for the snipers not that important though would be nice 
 too see EA to implement the feature.
  Squad Voice Chat: I would like to see EA implement the feature to allow you to voice chat with 
 your squad.
  Squad (4) Max: Possibly add more then 4 people in the squad but not that important. Perhaps this 
 is do to only having 24 players max on the servers.
  Having more then 4 would only allow 2 squads as opposed to having more.
  
  Conclusion: This 
 is simply the best Battlefield EA // Dice has put out. They really put alot of work into this. 
 You got to think or wonder if they actually went to the Defence Department and got ideas from them 
 or prehaps movie directors. This is a solid game that everyone is sure to like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormer454
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I've Had this game pre-ordered for about a year and let me tell you it was worth the wait. I love 
 the sound quality it was to be the best ive heard so far. The graphics give it a more real feeling 
 instead of a flat 2-d surface and if you still havent gotten ittry to get the gold version i got 
 it the sound snd graphics are even better plus 5 free guns for multiplayer and go to findallfive. com 
 to get 5 more free guns with or without the gold version. The levels are great the only thing i 
 didnt like to much was that the only multiplayer style was gold rush no death match team battles 
 but it still is a 10 because ive been playing non stop online. The details were great like when 
 a motar lands on the field a ditch is formed and provides a place to hide and shoot or like blowing 
 up buildings like in other games you can have a tank such as grand theft auto and shoot buildings 
 and nothing would happen, here the building looses walls and doors explode etc.. in other words 
 the game has to be my fave and after you've played it , it could be yours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Bad Company means well, but does not function well. There are two modes single and Multi-player. 
 The single player mode has a group of four misfit Army soldiers in search on a rogue mission for 
 gold paid to private mercenaries. This takes place in Russia. There are many weapons in this game 
 which need to be found and picked up. The game play is fun and option to inject yourself back to 
 health is plentiful with time. There are vehicles like APC, Choppers, Tanks and a golf cart. The 
 Helicopter is the most fun to operate. Damaged vehicles can be fixed if you have the fix-it drill. 
 Other toys like calling in Air and Mortar strikes make the game much more fun. There is a story 
 behind the Bad Company and it plays a comedic picture that these guys are from the bottom of the 
 barrel but rise like cream to the top. It really rises to the middle. The multi-player again is 
 fun but there are some flaws which would have made this game much better. The main things I see 
 wrong are, the name of your teammates seems to be missing causing friendly fire under close quarters 
 from 15 yards away. The communication is horrible. I have played with four friends and I could 
 not hear them or it was full of static. Being booted from the game or not being able to play online 
 at all means the servers are lacking and that is just un acceptable. Spawn camping in another mess, 
 you can restart your game and as soon as you appear your dead again. Annoying & frustrating. This 
 game is better than, Soldier of Fortune, Call of Duty 3, Conflict Denied OPS, or Unreal Tournament 
 as a MULTI-PLAYER. A rent Definitely, full price wait for Socom : Confrontaion. All these bugs 
 could have been prevented if they tested them all out. Flying the chopper is the best part of the 
 game hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GAZA-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This review is solely for the online part on the game. The first thing that it lacks is different 
 game types. By lacking I mean it only has ONE!!! Its called defender and it involves defending 
 or destroying gold creates. Don't get me wrong I like that mode but thats all you get. The second 
 thing is the bland server. Basically it allows you to choose a quick game (ranked or unranked) 
 or you can "create" a match. There you can choose ranked or unranked and what map you want. Why 
 can't game developers just copy the Socom servers. Please just list all the servers and all the 
 games available and if I dont like any of them, let me make my own. Joining a game with friends 
 is an adventure. There are two ways of doing this: 1. you can see which friends are online and 
 try the "join session"option. This will only work if the room isn't full and doesn't mean you will 
 play on the same team. 2. you can send a friend a "squad invite". It is similar to the COD4 invite 
 except its more time consuming. First you have to pick which friend or friends you want to send 
 it to. Then you have to send it in the form of a message from the xmb. Then you have to wait until 
 your friends get it. (as I am writing this feature doesn't seem to be working yet, I have yet to 
 be able to connect to anyone, also have heard the same thing from other gamers on the game) . 
 
  The gameplay is ok. I will say this I haven't seen any lag at all yet. My opinion is if you like 
 COD4 just keep playing that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durkoki
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Battlefield: Bad Company is a fantastic game. Don't believe in Gamespot, I think it's a 10, hands 
 down. What got me to write this review was the one thing that I just burst out "WTF?!?!?" to. That 
 was that on the negative side, "the textures appear grainy".... I think that B: BC is an awesome 
 looking game, in fact, I think it is better than damn near anything, even MGS4, because I love 
 the grainy textures, it gives the game a more life-like not everything is flat appearance. I don't 
 know why, but I have always been bothered by flat, plain, pixelated textures, and the graininess 
 just looks fantastic to me. But enough about graphics, I laughed at the game, the shooting and 
 destructible enviorements are awesome, and so is the multiplayer, enough? Nah, I gotta write some 
 more cause I need 800 lol, its just a great game, the HDR is a bit too much, but w/e it looks fantastic 
 against the grainy textures, giving the gloves, walls, everything a nice little sparkle, just like 
 how on asphalt every little rock in it has a small shadow in the sun, the grain gives it that kind 
 of realism to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  helo batllefield , this time on next generation consoles well , thats very cool in all sides i 
 love it this game remember me on memoryes playstation2 and thats so cool if you want buy this game 
 , just buy it today no late it this game specily on the playstation3 so love it for ever !! . now 
 the real score for this game is 10.0 no killing you know why ? because is the powerfull graphics 
 in this game ( ( battlefield bad company ) ) now first thing is storyline in this game is 10.0 , 
 second thing is the effects is 10.0 , third thing weapons is very cool and thats real score is 
 10.0 , the fourth thing is soilders in the game is 10.0 , and last thing in this games and same 
 time great lovely thing here it is the powerfull graphics in this game ( ( ( battlefield bad company 
 ) ) ) and last word from me is this game is can making great really players specily on the online 
 in the playstation3 thats right , anyway this game may be there is no mestake on making it just 
 play it don't search for wrong things in this game battlefield bad company . the battlefield bad 
 company is make great real challenge between players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essolesso
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly one of the best BF games to come out. The graphics are out of this world and 
 the destructible environment adds so much more fun to it and this is the first of its kind. Game 
 play and the storyline are great and keeps you wanting more because of how funny the squad is; 
 they are one great mixed family of unfortunate beings who try to get along. The controls are easy 
 and can make any first time players (or pros) get into it easy. The online action is out of this 
 world fun because it is intense and fun and always changing. I have noticed some draw backs to 
 the game though, no prone, nades can't blow out walls, the drill (repair weapon for support) can 
 break walls.., some weapons are over powered while others are very weak, and a couple other stuff 
 but all minor and hopefully will get fixed in the next patch. This game overall is great and will 
 keep you playing like crazy and for being the first game with this type of an environment it is 
 a great step into the future of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfarhan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Some might think that this game is not enough or diisapointing but, if u ask me the only thing 
 I can say is that it's absolutely stunning. My favourite thing about this next- gen FPS is the 
 amazing sound effect + the beautiful graphics. Also, I was hugely impressed that u can destroy 
 90% of the environment (Building walls, Etc.) and the veichles available (Helicoptors, Tanks, buggies, 
 boats ,Etc.) , but unfortunately there were lots of things that disapointed me lik eo offline multiplayer 
 (Split screen) and there was only ONE online mode and it's about defending or attacking gold (Just 
 in case you're curious, this mode is called "Gold Rush") , but rumour has it that E. A. will be launching 
 new map-packs and new online modes. About the online maps, there is 8 HUGE maps but I can't say 
 anymore about the maps because I haven't checked out all of them!!! Overall, Battlefield: Bad company 
 is a great game and if new online modes are released then It'll definitley be the Call of duty 
 killer and i suggest all FPS fans to buy this smart game. Please, if u have any questions about 
 the game feel free asking me any time I'm online, Ciao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedo2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  In 2002 Battlefield 1942 graced our planet with it's ball's out First-Person shooting experience, 
 Big maps, Plenty of WW2 Weapons and vehicles. Multiplayer based, it was such a blast to play with 
 the thousands of players killing eachother for the best Kill/Death ratio. 
  
  The weapons, surprisingly felt realistic in many ways. Each kill you felt some sort of accomplishement. 
 On foot or in a vehicle, Land Air or even sea, charging the battlefield ahead with enemies in wait 
 of your arrival to gun you down.
  
  In 2004 Battlefield Vietnam came forth. This introduced the Vietnam war. Many guns, vehicles ranging 
 from Light and heavy armour tanks to boats and gun-mounted boats. Helicopters were also introduced 
 making it alot of fun to hop in and fly around causing havok everywhere, or just transporting your 
 teamates to certain areas of the battlefield. 
  
  You were able to change the appearance of your soldier. This however, limited to just a few options 
 though... was fun to change your soldiers face and body to 2 different options for each class. 
 
  
  Weapons were way to accurate, you could gun down an enemy with an AK-47 who could have been so 
 far away it would be impossible to get a clean shot. The maps were alot smaller then those in Battlefield 
 1942.
  
  Shortly after, Battlefield 2 came which was, at the time the best Battlefield out. Lots of weapons 
 and awards along with leaderboards. You were able to create or join squads which gave the game 
 even more depth and introducing a tactical experience. Many maps but very very small... This made 
 flying jets or helicopters not exactly fun. 
  
  It also interoduced the Commander. He/she could tell other squads what to do and send arttilary 
 strikes, vehicle and supply drops. Scan areas for enemies and pin-point enemies in the area for 
 ground troops to kill. 
  
  The hit detection was a little ways off. Each gun had it's own stats, How much damage it could 
 do and accuracy along with firing rate. Weapons could also be unlocked. That did not hide the fact 
 that it was a nightmare to try and kill someone, a clean shot to the head would not result in an 
 instant kill. As a sniper it would sometimes take three shots to kill an enemy, did not matter 
 where the shot ended up. Headshots were doable as a sniper, also with assault or other weapon classes... 
 just took quite a few to drop someone down. 
  
  In 2006 Battlefield went towards the future, had the same mechanics as Battlefield 2 except with 
 futuristic weapons and vehicles. Maps were still small but it did add an exiting new game mode.
 
  
  Hit detection was the exact same as Battlefield 2.
  
  Two years after Battlefield: Bad Company approaches with an all new Game Engine and destructible 
 enviroments. 90% of the battlefield can be destroyed. This is very fun as now when in a tank, no 
 longer need to go around a house or structure to waste a group of enemies.
  
  TONS of weapons and awards can be unlocked, getting up in rank is so easy as each kill gives you 
 +10, not only 2 points. There is also kill assists and squad assist, you get extra points with 
 a headshot, defending the objective or revenge/savior. 
  
  The ground you walk on can and will be destroyed. Hit detection seems to be improved though it 
 may feel it just took half a clip of an Assault Rifle or mini-machine gun to drop an enemy. Each 
 main gun for the three countries has the same stats in all 5 classes. Each gun is different in 
 each class, an assault rifle is obviously more accurate then a shotgun but not as powerful.
  
  You cant add anything to your guns, you are forced to use iron sights. Some guns will have 
 some sort of scope that can be used and of course... all sniper rifles can be zoomed in.
  
  There are some things that have been taken from the game. No longer is there a Prone postition, 
 this is where snipers may feel out of place... There are no paraschutes, as jumping out of a helicopter, 
 you are unable to use one. This is where you pray and hope to land somewhere you dont just die 
 on impact.
  
  Graphics are great but certain objects do look a bit bland. This is what we must have in order 
 for big maps to wage war across. Controls are strong for a console shooter, helicopter controls 
 seem a bit difficult to master.
  
  With that said, there are lots of vehicles in the game. Take the battle from land, air or sea. 
 Controls for land and sea vehicles are the same and very easy to master.
  
  Hit detection on vehicles does seem to make sense as a m203/GP30 can not take out a heavy tank 
 with just 3 grenades, but an Anti-Tank weapon shouls have no problem to take it out with 2 rockets... 
 sometimes takes 3 or 4. Transport vehicles can no longer be destroyed by a well placed greande 
 launcher. Can take up to 3 too destroy it, by then the enemies would have jumped out.
  
  m203's or GP30 grenade launchers are useless unless you want to destroy structures. Blast radius 
 doesn't seem to be implemented into the game like Call Of Duty 4. You could shoot from your grande 
 launcher and have it explode 2 feet from the enemy and he will not die. Grenades however, seem 
 more powerful. 
  
  Pistols in the game seem way to overpowered as 3 well placed shots to the body can take you down. 
 An assault rifle would have needed 10 shots. Best bet to kill an enemy is aim for the head or atleast 
 try.
  
  The sound in the game is just amazing. Guns sound realistic and so do explosions, you even become 
 deaf for a few seconds when near a blast. 
  
  When inside a building shooting you will notice it sounds alot different from when shooting outside 
 in the open, even reloading, the sound seems hollowed when inside a building or house. 
  
  When you pull out a grenade and throw it your soldier will make funny comments which even can be 
 affected when inside a building, you can even hear them out in the open even when you are a few 
 clicks from their position.
  
  The sound overall is the strongest in this game.
  
  Single-Player is fun at times as you will fight on HUGE maps and collect gold and weapons along 
 the way. Your teamates are very funny and will have you sometimes think to yourself... man... what 
 a bunch of screwups.
  
  The A. I of the enemies is surprisingly great. Keep in mind though, no matter which of your allies 
 is near you... they will shoot right at you forcing you to constantly keep using the Life Injector.
 
  
  A. I of your comrads in arms could have been better as sometimes will just go right into the middle 
 of the battle and just stand there.
  
  Overall a very solid shooter with alot up ups and downs... 
  
  The Bad - Poor friendly A. I. 
 Lousy hit detection. Most of the players you encounter will have NO mic which brings this game 
 down alot and since it's not split up by regions... you will have players speaking in a different 
 language leaving you feel out of place. No Prone position. Only 8 maps. Cant create or join a squad, 
 instead you are put into one and most of the time they dont speak english or have no mic. No more 
 commander.
  
  The Good - Good graphics. Amazing sound effects. Good use of destruction. Lots of awards and guns. 
 Big maps. Interesting new game mode Gold Rush. (Defenders need to defend cold crates while the 
 Attacking side needs to destroy them) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  In 2002 Battlefield 1942 graced our planet with it's ball's out First-Person shooting experience, 
 Big maps, Plenty of WW2 Weapons and vehicles. Multiplayer based, it was such a blast to play with 
 the thousands of players killing eachother for the best Kill/Death ratio. 
  
  The weapons, surprisingly felt realistic in many ways. Each kill you felt some sort of accomplishement. 
 On foot or in a vehicle, Land Air or even sea, charging the battlefield ahead with enemies in wait 
 of your arrival to gun you down.
  
  In 2004 Battlefield Vietnam came forth. This introduced the Vietnam war. Many guns, vehicles ranging 
 from Light and heavy armour tanks to boats and gun-mounted boats. Helicopters were also introduced 
 making it alot of fun to hop in and fly around causing havok everywhere, or just transporting your 
 teamates to certain areas of the battlefield. 
  
  You were able to change the appearance of your soldier. This however, limited to just a few options 
 though... was fun to change your soldiers face and body to 2 different options for each class. 
 
  
  Weapons were way to accurate, you could gun down an enemy with an AK-47 who could have been so 
 far away it would be impossible to get a clean shot. The maps were alot smaller then those in Battlefield 
 1942.
  
  Shortly after, Battlefield 2 came which was, at the time the best Battlefield out. Lots of weapons 
 and awards along with leaderboards. You were able to create or join squads which gave the game 
 even more depth and introducing a tactical experience. Many maps but very very small... This made 
 flying jets or helicopters not exactly fun. 
  
  It also interoduced the Commander. He/she could tell other squads what to do and send arttilary 
 strikes, vehicle and supply drops. Scan areas for enemies and pin-point enemies in the area for 
 ground troops to kill. 
  
  The hit detection was a little ways off. Each gun had it's own stats, How much damage it could 
 do and accuracy along with firing rate. Weapons could also be unlocked. That did not hide the fact 
 that it was a nightmare to try and kill someone, a clean shot to the head would not result in an 
 instant kill. As a sniper it would sometimes take three shots to kill an enemy, did not matter 
 where the shot ended up. Headshots were doable as a sniper, also with assault or other weapon classes... 
 just took quite a few to drop someone down. 
  
  In 2006 Battlefield went towards the future, had the same mechanics as Battlefield 2 except with 
 futuristic weapons and vehicles. Maps were still small but it did add an exiting new game mode.
 
  
  Hit detection was the exact same as Battlefield 2.
  
  Two years after Battlefield: Bad Company approaches with an all new Game Engine and destructible 
 enviroments. 90% of the battlefield can be destroyed. This is very fun as now when in a tank, no 
 longer need to go around a house or structure to waste a group of enemies.
  
  TONS of weapons and awards can be unlocked, getting up in rank is so easy as each kill gives you 
 +10, not only 2 points. There is also kill assists and squad assist, you get extra points with 
 a headshot, defending the objective or revenge/savior. 
  
  The ground you walk on can and will be destroyed. Hit detection seems to be improved though it 
 may feel it just took half a clip of an Assault Rifle or mini-machine gun to drop an enemy. Each 
 main gun for the three countries has the same stats in all 5 classes. Each gun is different in 
 each class, an assault rifle is obviously more accurate then a shotgun but not as powerful.
  
  You cant add anything to your guns, you are forced to use iron sights. Some guns will have 
 some sort of scope that can be used and of course... all sniper rifles can be zoomed in.
  
  There are some things that have been taken from the game. No longer is there a Prone postition, 
 this is where snipers may feel out of place... There are no paraschutes, as jumping out of a helicopter, 
 you are unable to use one. This is where you pray and hope to land somewhere you dont just die 
 on impact.
  
  Graphics are great but certain objects do look a bit bland. This is what we must have in order 
 for big maps to wage war across. Controls are strong for a console shooter, helicopter controls 
 seem a bit difficult to master.
  
  With that said, there are lots of vehicles in the game. Take the battle from land, air or sea. 
 Controls for land and sea vehicles are the same and very easy to master.
  
  Hit detection on vehicles does seem to make sense as a m203/GP30 can not take out a heavy tank 
 with just 3 grenades, but an Anti-Tank weapon shouls have no problem to take it out with 2 rockets... 
 sometimes takes 3 or 4. Transport vehicles can no longer be destroyed by a well placed greande 
 launcher. Can take up to 3 too destroy it, by then the enemies would have jumped out.
  
  m203's or GP30 grenade launchers are useless unless you want to destroy structures. Blast radius 
 doesn't seem to be implemented into the game like Call Of Duty 4. You could shoot from your grande 
 launcher and have it explode 2 feet from the enemy and he will not die. Grenades however, seem 
 more powerful. 
  
  Pistols in the game seem way to overpowered as 3 well placed shots to the body can take you down. 
 An assault rifle would have needed 10 shots. Best bet to kill an enemy is aim for the head or atleast 
 try.
  
  The sound in the game is just amazing. Guns sound realistic and so do explosions, you even become 
 deaf for a few seconds when near a blast. 
  
  When inside a building shooting you will notice it sounds alot different from when shooting outside 
 in the open, even reloading, the sound seems hollowed when inside a building or house. 
  
  When you pull out a grenade and throw it your soldier will make funny comments which even can be 
 affected when inside a building, you can even hear them out in the open even when you are a few 
 clicks from their position.
  
  The sound overall is the strongest in this game.
  
  Single-Player is fun at times as you will fight on HUGE maps and collect gold and weapons along 
 the way. Your teamates are very funny and will have you sometimes think to yourself... man... what 
 a bunch of screwups.
  
  The A. I of the enemies is surprisingly great. Keep in mind though, no matter which of your allies 
 is near you... they will shoot right at you forcing you to constantly keep using the Life Injector.
 
  
  A. I of your comrads in arms could have been better as sometimes will just go right into the middle 
 of the battle and just stand there.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Battlefield has always been a Multiplayer game... dont expect the singleplayer to have anything 
 to have you sucked in. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall a very solid shooter with alot up ups and downs... 
  
  The Bad - Poor friendly A. I. Lousy hit detection. Most of the players you encounter will have NO 
 mic which brings this game down alot and since it's not split up by regions... you will have players 
 speaking in a different language leaving you feel out of place. No Prone position. Only 8 maps. 
 Cant create or join a squad, instead you are put into one and most of the time they dont speak 
 english or have no mic. No more commander.
  
  The Good - Good graphics. Amazing sound effects. Good use of destruction. Lots of awards and guns. 
 Big maps. Interesting new game mode Gold Rush. (Defenders need to defend cold crates while the 
 Attacking side needs to destroy them) . 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Each battlefield game added something new and fun. Battlefield: Bad Company can be fun but very 
 frustrating at times. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolex
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics are good but they are blurry and they are not clear. so graphics are worse than COD4 and 
 it's because the game is bigger than cod4.
  
  The sounds are awesome ! Gunfires, explosions, and vehicle's engines give me a real feeling. When 
 I got the game, I just liked too shoot around because I liked the gun fires.
  Absolutely the sounds are better than COD4
  
  Controlling is great but COD4 has better controlling, 
 aiming and etc. Maybe I get used to it.
  
  COD4 had gun customizing which this one doesn't have. The Red DOT aiming in COD4 was very helpful.
 
  
  
  Gameplay - I don't like the single player with missions but I love the Multiplayer and if you want 
 to buy this game, don't think about buying this game to play single player. 
  
  
  Conclusion: this game is not better than COD4 but it is more fun than COD4. If you have played 
 other battlefield games, you will probably enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamirElrasoul
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly one of the best BF games to come out. The graphics are out of this world and 
 the destructible environment adds so much more fun to it and this is the first of its kind. Game 
 play and the storyline are great and keeps you wanting more because of how funny the squad is; 
 they are one great mixed family of unfortunate beings who try to get along. The controls are easy 
 and can make any first time players (or pros) get into it easy. The online action is out of this 
 world fun because it is intense and fun and always changing. I have noticed some draw backs to 
 the game though, no prone, nades can't blow out walls, the drill (repair weapon for support) can 
 break walls.., some weapons are over powered while others are very weak, and a couple other stuff 
 but all minor and hopefully will get fixed in the next patch. This game overall is great and will 
 keep you playing like crazy and for being the first game with this type of an environment it is 
 a great step into the future of gaming. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
