-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beijing 2008 - The Official Video Game of the Olympic Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/beijing2008theofficialvideogameoftheolympicgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed athletes.
 Good online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Archaic, blister-causing controls.
 Way too difficult.
 Only 32 countries, with no real participants.
 Level-up system goes against reality.
 Lousy tutorials.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 258 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beijing 2008 proves beyond a doubt that rapidly pushing buttons is not fun. 

  Who knew qualifying for the Olympics could be so difficult? Instead of a worldwide competition 
 crafted around ideas that fit in with the modern gaming landscape, this is just an archaic compilation 
 of mostly old, painful gameplay techniques that wore out their welcome decades ago. Not only do 
 many of Beijing's events focus on the sadistic control method of rapidly tapping two buttons until 
 your fingers burn, but the unfathomable difficulty of the early rounds makes the experience almost 
 as grueling as training for the real thing. The few redeeming elements only squirt a few drops 
 of perfume on the overwhelming stench of the rest of this game.  

  Though all 36 events in Beijing 2008 have some problem, the biggest issue is the ridiculous attributes 
 system you use to level up your team during the qualifying rounds. For some reason, you control 
 a group of athletes who are slow, weak, and embarrassingly out of shape. By winning qualifying 
 events, you can pump points into categories such as power, speed, and stamina. This is in sharp 
 contrast to real life, where competitors show up to the games fully prepared to face off against 
 the best in the world. If you fail to achieve the goal for the day (such as placing in three of 
 the five chosen events) , you are branded a failure and have to start that day all over again. Since 
 you are athletically inferior to all of your opponents, you'll find yourself bringing up the rear 
 over and over again.  

           Bringing up the rear again in hurdles.      

  Every event in Beijing 2008 that involves racing is agonizing. The 11 swimming and running events 
 all require you to repeatedly slam on the buttons to gain speed, which is not only painful but 
 fairly unresponsive as well. Anything that requires pure speed -- such as the 100-meter dash -- is 
 nearly impossible. After you take your mark, you'll have to anxiously wait for the starter pistol 
 to blast before you can begin. The problem is, there are no audio or visual indicators to tell 
 you when the gun will fire. You have to keep count in your head, which means you will often find 
 yourself starting well after the rest of the pack or suffering a disqualification for jumping too 
 soon. Cycling has the honor of being the worst of the included racing challenges. You have to rotate 
 both analog sticks for more than four consecutive minutes, a technique that is the polar opposite 
 of fun.  

  Other sports have their real-life depth completely stripped away, replaced with a mediocre rhythm 
 game. Most of the gymnastics program suffers from this insultingly simple mechanic, making them 
 not only far too easy for anyone familiar with the genre, but extremely repetitive as well. There 
 are only three different routines (easy, medium, and hard) , so there is little reason to partake 
 in these endeavors more than a couple times. The high jump is a mirror image of the floor exercise, 
 which shows how ill-advised this control scheme is. The diving events ask you to spin the analog 
 sticks to match the balls circling your diver. Not only is this extremely tedious, it in no way 
 captures the extreme focus needed by real-life competitors. These shallow excursions are so distant 
 from the real thing it's almost laughable.  

  Even the tutorial is a failure in Beijing 2008. The rules of judo are never explained, so you'll 
 have to figure out on your own what terms such as "yuko" and "ippon" mean. Not that it matters 
 much -- you'll just be matching directional arrows most of the time. The skeet-shooting tutorial 
 tells you to pull the trigger to fire but never explains how to actually hit the clay pigeon. You'll 
 have to figure out on your own that you have to swing your gun while you fire and, unlike in real 
 life, you're not supposed to lead the target. The pathetic learning tools make these simple events 
 overly complicated.  

  There are some events that are utterly impossible even after you learn the necessary strategies 
 and level up your athlete. Kayak is a cruel joke. You have no control over your tiny watercraft. 
 Even if you somehow manage to pass through the appropriate gate, the game often won't register 
 your success. Table tennis is just as pointless. Your giant body covers up an insanely high percentage 
 of the table, making it impossible to see the ball if it's coming directly at you. A higher camera 
 angle or translucent character would have fixed this problem, but in its current form, it's painfully 
 bad.  

           The pole vault requires rapid button presses, too!      

  For all the gameplay faults in Beijing 2008, at least the graphics are fairly sharp. The athletes 
 are large, detailed, and animated well enough to make you believe for a moment that someone really 
 is running a 15-second 100-meter dash in real life. The pre- and postevent replays and posturing 
 by the competitors shows off their fine detail, but the monotony of seeing the same canned animations 
 every time only makes this superfluous eye candy another annoyance. Having to tap buttons during 
 the competitions is bad enough; doing it before and after every event merely to skip through the 
 worthless extras is just excruciating.  

  If you enjoy laughing at others' failures, there is a modicum of fun to be had in the multiplayer 
 mode. Either online or off, you can choose exactly which events you wish to compete in; but like 
 everything else in this game, this comes with its own drawbacks. The majority of these events are 
 turn-based, so you'll spend most of your time simply watching other people curse and fail. Plus, 
 the game isn't smart enough to ensure direct competition in one-on-one events. If you play two-player 
 table tennis, you'll each have to defeat a few computer-controlled opponents before you can square 
 off against each other.  

  Even if you're chomping at the bit to compete in these seldom-seen sports, you should still avoid 
 this game. There is not one event that offers a genuinely fun, rewarding experience. Beijing 2008 
 is horrendous regardless of how many people you're playing with or what event you're trying to 
 win.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mad_krips
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  I tried Beijing 2008 yesterday. Its complete s***!!! I really do not understand why other user 
 reviews I read have given this game a score of 4-7/10 when they themselves are saying how atrocious 
 the game is. Its just a stupid hashed together game that it probably took more time for them slap 
 on an official license than it took them the week to develop it.
  
  Graphics are terrible, and talking 32-bit playstation quality on everything except the generic 
 athletes. Generic in the sense that not one of them are even real, and they just generate one for 
 you for each event. While I'm on this generic argument, how about seeing Australia, Japan, China, 
 and other countries not dominant in sprint event running WR times in the 100m. Talk about unrealistic..
 
  Menus, it looked like i was playing PC a game in a 600x400res on a 1440x900 screen. Field events: 
 hammer throw, it wouldn't even show you where in the ground the hammer dropped, it was like it 
 hit a steel floor. Triple Jump, the sand must have been play-doh or something.. it was so flat 
 and you wouldn't even see the sand kick up in the air when u land in it.
  
  Gameplay and Control is horrible. Every single event is beat up your controller, spin your analog 
 stick, press this button exactly when we want you to, or a combination of these. The 100m is just 
 another timing & button mashing affair like in every single other track game.
  
  But what got to me the most, is that after literally destroying up my controller to actually get 
 a gold in the field events (track is ridiculous, u have a better chance beating Bolt's record on 
 puma. com than you have of getting a podium finish in this) I was never more offended than to hear 
 that it wasn't even our national anthem that was being played, all of them sound like a mixture 
 of countries anthem mixed together to start and finish within 10 seconds... AND THEY CALL THIS OFFICIAL?!?! 
 Its like the only thing Sega got right in this was the colors of some countries' flags. 
  
  
  This one isn't even eligible for the special olympics, let alone the gold I have seen some 
 other reviewers give it...
  my rating: 1.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickour95
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  A game that you must only press like a maniac buttons or move the joystics. It has high difficulty 
 level, but some games (like 25 m. rapid fire pistol) can be fun (I always get a cold there) . Also 
 there is the online gaming where you can compete against real people and go to the leaderboards. Personally 
 I think that you can play this game just for fun and this won't last more than 15 days. Not even 
 the length of the Olympic Games. I think that was was a shame for the Olympic Games. Also it's 
 the same as the other Olympic Games video games (like Sydney 2000 & Athens 2004) . I personally think 
 that the best of them was Athens 2004 and there is no reason to lose your money to buy such a thing.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Length: 5/10
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Online: 7/10
  Overall: 5/10 (As my score says) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  The year is 2008 and it's annoyingly warm outside, guess that means summer is here and the 29th 
 Olympics are just around the corner in Beijing. You probably already knew this, and also noticed 
 the amount of summer athletic games that seem to be out, or coming out in the next couple of weeks. 
 Mario and Sonic at the Olympics that came out last year wasn't a bad attempt to try and capture 
 the frantic motions of button tapping, which is what it was like back in the good old days of Konami's 
 Track and Field. So with the wave of games coming it's time to see if the official game by Sega 
 is worthy of taking the podium and earning that elusive gold medal, and of course your cash.
  
  Reading about the game would give some good first impressions. One thing developers Eurocom 
 have done is include a huge range of events - a massive 38 to take part in. From what I know this 
 is the most that a summer games video game as ever had. Well with all that space on a disc they 
 really shouldn't be any excuse to have less than what was before.
  
  Typical events like the 100 Metres, Long Jump, Javelin, 110 Metre Hurdles and High Jump are all 
 here. Some events that you might not expect to be included are probably here as well. Like Judo, 
 Air Pistol, 1,500 Metres, Rings and even Floor Exercise events. There's a wide range of events 
 and it's nice to see some unique events featured, but what happened to the ones that were in Mario 
 and Sonic, where's the Fencing? More could still be featured, but we won't let that be a negative 
 because it already has so many.
  
  Games like these are made or destroyed by the control mechanics. Ever since the early days of Track 
 and Field, button mashing has always been the best way to go about it, even now there's nothing 
 better than blistering your fingers. Developers have tried to do different ways to approach the 
 controls, but mostly they end up hindering the game. The controls in Beijing 2008 in most of the 
 events work really well, but there's something a little bit nasty included as well, mainly the 
 short sprinting events.
  
  
  
  Usually when you'd do a race you'd just hit the first button when you want to set off from the 
 start, not in Beijing 2008. A feature included is a bar that when you hold either R2 or L2, will 
 charge up. Letting go will let the bar go down again. About the 75% mark on the graph is a red 
 area, if you touch this area with your charging bar; your sprinter/swimmer will set off regardless 
 of the gun going off or not. It takes a while to get use to and most of the time you'll be one 
 of the last ones to get out of the blocks because you didn't time it right for the bar to hit the 
 red area. It's an awkward inclusion and I don't see why Eurocom couldn't have just left it down 
 to the player pressing the buttons, adding this strange mechanic pulls the greatness of some of 
 the events down a bit.
  
  But to put smiles on your faces, Beijing 2008 is the return of the button mashing to the extreme. 
 There's one event in particular, while isn't button mashing, is analogue spinning. YES! The original 
 Mario Party Analogue Stick Wrecking Mechanic is also an option to use here. In most of the racing 
 events you are allowed to either tap the X and O buttons as fast as possible, or you can opt to 
 spin the analogue sticks around instead. But back to the event I was getting on to. Team Cycling 
 is your thumb's worse nightmare. The event forces you to do 16 laps of constant stick wiggling, 
 it pains your thumb so much, but I do have to admit it makes a funny scene seeing you and your 
 friends all trying their bests to overcome the pain by switching methods on spinning that analogue 
 stick.
  
  Eurocom have added some neat touches to some of the events that don't damage the potential fun 
 to be had. One interesting one is the Hammer Throw event. Rather than having to tap buttons and 
 then letting go like in a lot of the other summer games, this one is about perfectly following 
 your athletes' power ring as it spins around you. If you manage to keep in the centre the power, 
 the throw will increase, come out of the ring though and it will slowly decrease, making for a 
 pathetic throw. Another good one is the Javelin. This requires the traditional button tapping, 
 but once you've gone past a certain section of the runway, you can press right on the left analogue 
 stick to lock your power, then after you have to try and press 45 degrees to the north west on 
 the analogue stick to get the perfect angle for the throw. It works really well and is one of the 
 excellent things Eurocom have done to improve on the standard game mechanics.
  
  Like with a lot of mini collection games, this game also has the dreaded "stinker events" that 
 you just hate playing, mainly because they are either crap or just broken in some way, Beijing 
 2008's events that fit in this category are Skeet shooting, Kayaking and Judo.
  
  
  
  Let's start with Skeet Shooting. It's a simple premise of aiming your shotgun at some flying clay 
 pigeons and blasting them into little bits, with sometimes an annoying dog coming up to anger you 
 or so it should be anyway, but this is not the case. For some strange reason it seems impossible 
 to hit them damn pigeons. I haven't a clue what the hell I was doing wrong, I was following how 
 it was explained in the tutorial, yet I couldn't hit crap all well I hit ONE PIDGEON out of about 
 20 shots, that's pretty darn poor. I guess there's a delay element from the bullets going towards 
 the clay pigeon from your shotgun, but all you do is aim on a line where the pigeon is going, so 
 I have no idea how I missed the shots, it's a very messed up game and certainly no fun.
  
  Kayaking is also a boring event that tries to make the Kayaking control like you would drive a 
 tank. Each stick controls each of the paddles and pulling them away from each other makes your 
 player paddle forward, it's when the gates start appearing that the controls go haywire and you 
 just can't control the damn canoe correctly, you'll most likely end up steering too much and float 
 down the river sideways, it's very frustrating.
  
  Judo is also something of a random and confusing event. It's not fully explained in the tutorial 
 properly so you'll certainly need to re-watch the video a few times to get a little idea of it. 
 The initial part is quite easy to get. When control signs appear on the screen, you've got to move 
 both sticks in to that position, the better the timing, the better the ranking, get more higher 
 rankings than the opponent and you'll end up getting a chance to take him down to the floor and 
 hold him, same goes for the other player if he gets better rankings than you. Once you are in the 
 takedown position, things get a little random. You are supposed to press some buttons, but it doesn't 
 actually tell you what, so you got to just randomly press the buttons and hope for the best.
  
  Actual game modes are split in to two major sections. The one which you will play with mates 
 is the Competition Mode. This is just selecting how many players and then choosing the events you 
 want to do, there's even one to play every single event in the game (Which will take a few hours 
 to get through when you have mates playing with you) . This is also the mode which is the most fun. 
 The game is much better for multiplayer than it is single, just giving it a go with friends opens 
 your eyes to how well it makes competitions with mates entertaining. It allows for 4 players locally 
 and 7 players online. Online is pretty standard, but works well enough when lag doesn't set in.
 
  
  
  
  Olympic Mode is for single player use only and is a bit of an unusual one. Starting by selecting 
 the country you want to represent in the upcoming Olympic Games, you then take your team through 
 selected events that happen on a daily basis. It follows the same time as the official games, so 
 you start on August 8th 2008 at 08:08:08pm (which the game loves to tell you constantly throughout 
 while it loads) . It will give you a task of having to beat so many of the selected events to pass 
 on to the next day, fail this and you have to repeat the day over again. Stat progression is in 
 effect as after finishing a day you gain points to add to your speed, stamina or reduce your fatigue. 
 Really the game should be about the player and his button mashing capabilities so this is a questionable 
 inclusion.
  
  There isn't really much else to say about Beijing 2008 that hasn't been said. The game looks decent 
 enough for the Playstation 3. The character models are the best bit about the game, they look detailed 
 and pleasant, but sometimes they have a robotic animation look to them. There's also a funny animation 
 to watch out for when playing the hurdles event. When the guy sets off from the start, it looks 
 like he's running as if he's urinated down the side of his leg, quite amusing.
  
  Beijing 2008 isn't fantastic, but that doesn't mean it can't be fun. It's actually quite good in 
 multiplayer and if you enjoy setting records then the same can be said for the competition side 
 of it. I'm not a fan of the handicapped Olympic mode, there really isn't any incentive to play 
 it and you won't be setting any records because of the damn stat inclusion. If you've been looking 
 for something to get you into the spirit of the Olympics on your home console then Beijing is probably 
 your best option. It just manages to get into the 7 area because of new innovative ideas for controls 
 and good multiplayer fun. This year isn't the year for the official Olympic Games to take the Gold, 
 so it's going to have to settle down for Bronze and try again in 4 years time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  I think some of the "official" review comments were spot on but overall I think worth a slightly 
 higer score.
  Graphics are excellent and a lot of time has clearly been pumped into the detail, so a plus. 
 
  A wide range of events again a major plus.
  Reasonable tutorials with the balance between enough to get you going but not giving it all away 
 about right.
  Gameplay on some of the events is great.
  Now on the downside some of the events are way too difficult. I am a relatively experienced (35 
 year old) gamer as is my wife and we just couldn't get in to some of the events. The high platform 
 diving for example is well... hard! Also playing in multiplayer in the archery, you don't get to 
 play each other unless you both make it through 2 rounds to the final.
  To finish on the plus side we've had loads of fun on the skeet, rapid fire pistol and the gymnatics 
 exercise. After a few fouls on the javelin my wife broke the Olympic record.
  In summary, some event very difficult and some reasonably straightforward. Maybe rent this title 
 first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasiang
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The Olympics are about competing with the best in the world, putting differences aside and enjoying 
 the festivities as a unified world. Beijing 2008 by Sega has done a fantastic job this time around 
 in creating the Olympic Feel for Players at home. Yes this is Similar to those such as ESPN Track 
 and Field on the DC and PS2 as well as Athens 2004. The Controls are quite easy to pick up as usual, 
 theres the normal x, o button mashing to see how fast you can go, and the newly introduced and 
 much needed analog support which you need only to flick side to side as fast as you can. 
  
  The Track and Field events and Swimming events are by far the most fun to take part of, but 
 with that there are your share of broken events such as Kayaking which is unacceptably broken and 
 horrendous looking ,Judo while interesting doesn't make sense when controlling the player yourself. 
 Aside from that all other events seem to be in the right zone of playability. 
  
  Lets talk replay value, ever want to know how fast your friends or how far you friends have gone? 
 Well thank you to sega there are now online leader boards for you to take advantage of and go against 
 the best in the world. If youre one of the types who has to be the best in their event the leader 
 boards will keep you coming back for more every day. Along with the leader board who can forget 
 the addition of the much needed multiplayer. You and 7 of your buddies can go head to head in as 
 many events as you'd like over PSN which is a blast for anyone who enjoys good friendly competition, 
 there is also 4 player support on offline between you and your friends on one PS3. While playing 
 online lag is apparent in some instances depending on your connection is can be quite temperamental, 
 but is quite functional and fun when you have a stable and smooth connection. 
  
  Overall I cant give this game a 9+ , but Sega is definitely taking the series in the right direction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game I was very excited. I enjoy most games that involve sports. I thought I was 
 in for a treat. But honestly, I could not have been more disappointed. Sure the graphics are great 
 but come on, you are not just going to sit there and stare at how beautiful the graphics are. Once 
 you start playing, you will realize that not only is the game insanely difficult, but the controls 
 bring nothing but frustration and fatigue. I have never played a game which such complicated controls. 
 I guess they wanted to make it competitive, but thats just not it. Clearly, people who made this 
 game do not understand the difference between competition and insane difficulty. You know a game 
 isn't so good when your hands are blazing red and in pain after only 2 or 3 challenges. 
  
  I do not intend to offend those who appreciate and enjoy this game. However, I believe that I am 
 speaking for a majority when I say this game just does not meet the standards of a next-gen console. 
 In fact, it should not have been released for any console. Trust me when I say "rent it first!" 
 
  
  But for the people who enjoy it, more power to you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator1972
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I've always played games like this, when I was 10 years (25 years ago) , I started playing Decathlon, 
 Summer Games 1 & 2, Hyper Olympic and all the other summer and winter games that came after. Love 
 to smash the buttons to be the fastest and get the highest scores. And when you played those games 
 with friends and they had a higher score, it encouraged you to keep playing and defeat their high 
 score. In this game, it's not different than before, smash those buttons or press at the right 
 moment at long jump or javelin throw (45 degrees) . And instead of pressing X and O you can now 
 wiggle the joystick which is better I think. Very nice graphics and lots of events. Also something 
 new is the online mode and online high scores. Very good to know that you are no. 1 out of 20000. 
 In Olympic mode you train and power up your athlete to get stronger and achieve higher scores the 
 longer you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1RF1DDLER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Sega has a real smasher in stall for all fans of the olympics. If you have liked Athens 2004 , 
 this is a must buy ! There is many more events than in Athens, the controls have been revamped 
 and make it more accessible to people who had problems in Athens with the button mashing during 
 sprint and jump events. During swimming, which was an absolute corker before, I managed to get 
 off the blocks up to an olympic record instantly. Have not tested single player or online modus, 
 but since thursday night I have hardly slept and me and my mate are record hunting eversince. Massive 
 fun if you have friends around in your living room.
  A lot of events have been added, a few, like kajak or ping pong, could have been left out. Controls 
 have been slightly changed for certain events, instead of mashing two buttons to increase power, 
 you can now use the left and right analogue sticks. It can be exhausting, but as long as you end 
 up with more gold medals than blisters on your hand, all is good.
  Graphics look sweet, sound is mediocre, but honestly I did not expect a good soundtrack for an 
 olympics game anyways, the only negative bits i have so far are that you have little options to 
 modify your teams. Records are locked to the psn id of the ps3 you're playing on. Playing on my 
 ps3, ever other user has my psn id with a number added on... TheFiddler 2, TheFiddler 3 and so on. 
 If they rack up a record , it will be saved under this name online....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricko657
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan and master of the original "Track and Field" on PS1 my aspirations for this game 
 were always going to be high but this game fails to capture the simplicity that made T&F such a 
 great success. 
  
  I purchased the game on the day of release and some friends and I decided to start with a competition 
 containing every single event. The first thing that struck me was that we were unable to change 
 the names of our characters! Every player had to be called the same as the users profile with a 
 number after each player. This struck us all as poor and we then realised that the chance of setting 
 world records on one machine and being able to differentiate between our individual scores in the 
 long term would be absolutely impossible. 
  
  As the competition dragged on we noticed that although some event are great many are terrible and 
 they shouldn't really have bothered including these events. It is like going to a concert to see 
 all your favourite bands and having to sit through your mum and dads favourites in between sets. 
 I think that it is truly obvious before you even pick up the game which events you will enjoy and 
 which you will play once or twice at the absolute maximum.
  
  The graphics of the game do look very nice but there is definitely some frame rate issues which 
 become much more apparent should you venture online. 
  
  The difficultly as with the entertainment value of the game vary from event to event. If you are 
 a talented button basher for example even with a text book terrible start you will still win the 
 400 by at least 50 meters however you will need to hit 10 nearly every time to win at archery. 
 
  
  In terms of replay value and life for this title I think that i will strongly depend on how you 
 plan on using the game. If you just want to play yourself and try and beat your own scores you 
 may get your moneys worth. But if you plan to play online or with friends I would not bother. The 
 usual three turns rule has given way to the new six turns rule, as you can imagine four of you 
 playing a whole Olympics with 6 turns each takes to long. Five hours to be precise!
  
  Take long jump for example you have to skip about five cut scenes! Firstly the athlete will wave 
 to the crowd then prepare him/her self for the jump. After the jump the athlete will agonize with 
 themselves while they wait for the flag. It's white! now they wait for the official reading, after 
 they receive the result they jump around celebrating even if the jump is smaller than a previous 
 attempt. So imagine four people with six attempts each thats 120 times that you need to mash the 
 x button to skip the cut scene. But what really annoys me about this is that the long jump itself 
 is a great event on the game but almost unplayable due to the waiting. 
  
  To summarise the game in whole is typified by the above example it could have been great but fails 
 in many areas. A few example of how it could of been great.
  
  The online which I see in this situation is a technology that us T&F people always wanted but never 
 could have has not been done correctly. For example during a 400M you ease up on the running because 
 it looks like you have won by some distance. But the other players aren't running at the same time 
 so although on your TV you win you finish 5th. The hurdles also are completely unplayable because 
 of the skipping frame rate. This really needs to be addressed.
  
  Then the release of the game, the Olympics starts on the 08/08/08 at 08.08 so why not hold the 
 release and bring the game out after the 2.41 update is completely up and running and award trophies 
 for achievements? I think it would have been a nice touch. 
  
  My final problem is that the power bar sometimes has a maximum, so once you have filled the bar 
 it bounces and when the power lock comes in it is pure luck as to if you get full power or not. 
 How annoying! They try and balance power and skill but it ends up leaving a big gap for luck.
 
  
  If after reading this you still would like to buy this game please look on ebay where you will 
 find my copy available for the next 7 days along with the copies of several hundred others.
  
  I rate the game 6.5 because although it is a big let down I think the current gaming generation 
 is very spoiled and if this game went head to head with summer games on my Sega Megadrive it would 
 win.
  
  Ricko 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacredens
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This was always to be expected, and what better time than now - either way lets just leave the 
 o games to the real world. For me, bashing a button to get a guy to run fast just dosn't do it... 
 Gameplay? What gameplay? Its everything you would expect on a console 20years ago except in 3D. 
 It was a nice idea but I don't think its really that exciting, to predictable, nothing exciting 
 about it.
  Infact, it was unfortunate to see the quality of the animation. i mean, wouldnt you expect the 
 animation to be pretty much spot on? It seemed at points jumpy, especially between transitions. 
 the characters looked medicore, im sure they could have pushed the photo realism a little more 
 - it seems appropriate for this game atleast... and well within the abilities of the ps3. i think 
 this was the last real shot for a game like this to be seriously considered 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
