-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Beowulf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/beowulfubisoft/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Your thanes love you.
 There's plenty of slow-mo bloodletting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's easy to get stuck.
 The combat is brainless.
 Following the story is a quest in itself.
 You'll find dead ends in every aspect of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even a merry band of adventurous thanes can't save this quest from ruin. 

  "Even monsters have a mother," says the cursed Danish king in Ubisoft's new Beowulf: The Game. 
 But unlike monsters, video games have many mothers, and we don't mean just their dev teams. Take 
 Beowulf, for instance. With its ultraviolent combat, extravagant boss fights, hypermacho hero, 
 and cinematic, button-prompted beatdowns, this game of the movie of the poem borrows traits from 
 several great games of the past but fails to live up to any of them.  

  Beowulf is a third-person action game in which you stomp all over enemies and bosses as the buff, 
 angry, and eponymous Beowulf, while commanding your band of merry Thanes via a small selection 
 of commands ("Get angry," "Come here," "Move that," "Stop moving that") . The stomping is cinematic 
 and grossly satisfying, albeit repetitive, and your Thanes are great. But stronger than any of 
 these friends are foes of a design nature, and these issues lie in wait to completely sabotage 
 your quest and kill your will to adventure.  

           Kratos called; he wants his boss fight back.      

  The story is nonsense. You play 
 Beowulf, the strong, swimming, monster-slaying Nordic macho man dispatched to rid the Danes of 
 a marauding monster. After defeating Grendel, you're given a nifty dragon horn by the seemingly 
 mad Danish king, who then dispatches you to kill Grendel's mother. She seduces you into giving 
 her the horn (which, it turns out, is magical and must be used to feed Denmark) , and all of a sudden 
 you're the Danish king, and your kingdom is in the exact same position it was in before you arrived. 
 Grendel's mother has you where it hurts, and everything is going to heck as barbarians, monkey 
 men, rival Thanes, and cultists run wild across your land. Your job is to kill everyone bad, and 
 somehow not be seduced by Grendel's mother, who humps your leg and bites your neck whenever she 
 sees you.  

  The path seems straight enough. After all, the game is largely linear and only about six hours 
 long from beginning to end. But waiting for you in that short journey are design pitfalls you may 
 never escape from. One example is a puzzle that challenges you to use carnal rage (berserk mode) 
 to start fires, which in turn let you hunt the leader of a band of evil monkey men. If the connection 
 between rage, fire, and monkey men is lost on you, you are not alone. Unraveling that tangle is 
 one of the most frustrating challenges in the game, not for the tax it exacts on your mental faculties, 
 but for its utter lack of logic.  

  This case is just one outgrowth of a greater fungal network of confusion, weird mechanics, and 
 bad planning. Beowulf, in an effort to seem open ended, is full of branching paths whose avenues 
 lead to dead ends. Even worse, one trail will be blocked by a waist-high boulder that your mightiness 
 cannot scale, yet the only way forward will entail a 20-foot climb straight up a vertical surface. 
 Truly, Beowulf does not know his own strength, and neither does Ubisoft.  

  There are other such illusions at work, such as the "carnal" versus "heroic" scale system. Ostensibly, 
 this is a meter by which your legacy will be measured, but appearances can be deceiving. If you 
 rely heavily on carnal fury (a berserker mode in which you become invincible and do heavy damage) , 
 you'll gain currency that improves your berserker state, and the meter will slide toward carnal. 
 If you kill enemies with regular attacks, you'll gain currency that improves your henchmen, and 
 shifts the meter toward heroic. But there's no light or dark path, which this system seems to hint 
 at, and even worse, you can't always choose whether or not you want to be carnal or heroic. Against 
 virtually all the bosses, you have to enter carnal mode; it's the only way to hurt them.  

           Longtime fans of stabbing things will probably find something to like here.      

 
  If you dodge an enemy's strike, you'll be able to execute a cinematic power attack that can slay 
 nearly any foe in one shot  and heal you . The funny thing is that you don't actually have to dodge 
 an attack. You simply hit dodge followed by power strike, and Beowulf automatically executes the 
 super swing while moving toward the nearest enemy. Even better, Beowulf seems to be invulnerable 
 during both animations, so as long as you hammer on the dodge-and-attack sequence, you can cinematically 
 cleave and stomp your way through an unlimited number of barbarians, monkey men, or worshippers, 
 all while healing yourself and your allies. When you aren't mindlessly mashing buttons, you're 
 following button prompts to kill bosses, just like in God of War. Consequently, the only aspect 
 of Beowulf's combat model that isn't downright broken is cribbed from someone else's epic poem. 

  Except for one thing, or rather, thane. You see, any time you do anything remotely awesome, your 
 thanes (your Norse entourage) will cheer you on with shouts of "Wow, did you see that?", "Whoa, 
 look at Beowulf, he is so awesome!" and "My hero, look at him go! I am inspired!" Those aren't 
 their exact words, but the sentiments are the same. Likewise, every one of them will whoop and 
 holler every time you kick butt, and you average at least a butt kicked per second. As a result, 
 combat is a matter of you chopping people up and stomping on them in glorious slow motion, while 
 buckets of blood fly all over the screen, to an unending chorus of awe, affection, and gratitude. 
 There are definitely worse experiences in video games.  

  Furthermore, say that you find your path blocked by a boulder. Instead of just kicking it aside 
 yourself, you point at it and say "Move that boulder" via a simple command menu, and your thanes 
 all jump on it with calls of "Here I go," "I'm doing it!", and "I'm in position!" From there, you 
 can begin a rhythm game that causes Beowulf to dance, sing, and pump his fist while the thanes 
 heave, ho, and say things like "Yeah, here we go, we're doing it! Yeah!" So you aren't just a marauding 
 band of tough guys, you're an adventurous, Nordic a cappella group that solves problems with the 
 power of song, dance, and positive reinforcement -- Elite Beat Ancients.  

           Moving boulders with the power of... music?      

  As you might expect, the production 
 values are uneven. Most of the environments look good, with plenty of atmosphere and creepy set 
 pieces, and the cinematic violence certainly employs enough blood. But Beowulf executes the same 
 attacks over and over, and the guy himself isn't very cool-looking. His weird Viking ponytail looks 
 awful, and some of the other textures look last-generation. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 
 versions run smoothly, without any noticeable jaggies, though the PC version was a different story. 
 Without antialiasing, the game looked gritty but ran fine. With antialiasing, it looked fine but 
 moved with caffeinated jerkiness. Otherwise, all three versions were effectively the same, with 
 simple controls, ridiculous challenges, and fun-loving thanes.  

  Beowulf: The Game, for all its considerable flaws, has some unique and fun content. And even though 
 your thanes aren't particularly capable, they're still oddly entertaining. So it's too bad that 
 the fun is so short-lived, and that the game itself is so poorly crafted. After just three hours 
 of Beowulf, you'll get stuck, have no idea what to do, and be ready to send it to sea on a pile 
 of burning sticks. Even if you do struggle through the game's obtuse obstacles, the rest of its 
 myriad problems will make you wish you'd spent your spoils on a longer, better voyage.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  look the bottom line is if you like action adventure then you will love this game. i dont understand 
 why this game recieved such bad reviews. i personally loved it. i am a huge fan of beowulf and 
 would like to see a series of this game. this game did not dissapoint when it came to action and 
 having to use strategy on killing them. critics give this a bad review, well guess what? im here 
 to rain on there parade. if you are a fan of the movie then you will love the game. if your not 
 a fan of the movie definitely rent it first. however this game has a moderate replay value and 
 offers fun gaming as you progress through the story unlocking weapons of vast power and soldiers 
 to aid you in your quest. take this gem and rub off the mud of spiteful critics. enjoy action adventure 
 rpg fans. enjoy. i would also like to point out that the game is only 20 dollars brand new so it 
 is a definite game worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMadHatter
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Beowulf
  
  After playing and completing this game, I still don't really know what to think of it. It starts 
 off well, and there is no insanely difficult parts until about episode 7, when your stuck in the 
 bogs. I know a lot of people enjoy music from video games, but nothing really stands out here. 
 The voice acting is pretty impressive, but the repetitive chants of "Just try and stop us now!!" 
 seriously drove me up the wall. Sometimes I played this game on mute, with my own music on in the 
 background, because I was that desperate to NOT hear the stupid thanes repeating that. Speaking 
 of the thanes, they were pretty annoying through the game. They seem to be hopeless at fighting, 
 and often rely on you to come over and release them from an enemy whos about to kill them. I suppose 
 the gameplay is quite good, the old ''hack-and-slash'', so to speak. I know a lot of people complain 
 about pressing the buttons in sequence to boost the thanes spirits or to steer the ship from crashing, 
 but I found it quite entertaining and unique, although you have to do it more times than you should. 
 The only scene in the film that I found quite funny (Thane - Do you want me to go any further sire 
 ; Beowulf - No ; Thane - good I'll stay here then) , is used in about 4 situations in the game, 
 completely killing the joke, which I thought was pretty stupid. The final episode (no spoilers) 
 is epic ; slightly different approach from the film version but is just as good. Overall I would 
 only recommend this game if you have a spare 20 and see it pre-owned somewhere, as it's not the 
 type of game that appeals to most people but can be quite enjoyable, though frustrating at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerald101
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Satisfying Carnal fury mode.
  -Easy to learn combos.
  -Ok boss battles.
  -Nice glowy characters.
  
  The Bad:
  -Gets really boring too fast.
  -Most of the special 
 modes and combos go dead of using them too much.
  
  Summarised, only rent this and even then you might want to think about it.
  
  As you know I 
 need to use 100 words but I cant really be bothered. Thnx for reading anyway. Thnx thnx thnx thnx 
 thnx thnx thnx thnx thnx ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok. Goodbye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destron123
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Beowulf is a typical licenced videogame. In other words, it is awful.
  Where to start?
  
  Well graphics are abysmal for a current-gen game (except for the water effects, which are the only 
 thing giving this game any sort of next-gen feel) .
  The game designers didn't seem to be sure how to approach the gameplay.
  It feels like a poor 
 man's God of War mixed with Elite Beat Agents. There are parts where, in order to succeed, to have 
 to get your men to SING. How lame is that for a game about a mythical Warrior? The dialogue is 
 poor and the sword fights and giant crab battles are underwhelming.
  THe voice acting is mediocre at best and the voices don't sync well with the mouth movements.
 
  For a "great" adventure, the missions don't give you very much exciting to do or care about.
 
  The enemy AI is non-existent and instead the games opts for the "cheap" challenge of swarming 
 you with dozens of weak enemies.
  Game developers take careful note. Everything that was done to make this game shouldn't be done 
 except for the merciful ending.
  
  Avoid this game like an ancient pox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micmac8261
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  pretty good game in between two awful battles. well worh twenty bucks. it has a few aggrivating 
 spots in between. some intense battles where not only you have to survive, but you have to make 
 sure your thanes stay alive. some puzzles to figure out while your in battle. not a bad game for 
 the money! give you something to pass the time while you wait for something to come out on the 
 playstation 3. lots of blood smashing heads. once you get passed the first battle it gets better 
 i promise. be sure to look for hidden things thru out the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  If Montaigne, Descartes or any of history's most famous philosophers were alive today, on the subject 
 of video games they might venture something along the lines of "graphics maketh not the game"  
 a perfect prcis of this sumptuous yet frustrating shambles.
  
  Essentially God Of War Lite, Ubisoft's take on Robert Zemeckis' epic mirrors the movie with style, 
 assaulting players with towering monsters, snarling barbarians and swelling, tempestuous seas. 
 The beautifully realised figure of Beowulf also conveys the weight and power of the Ray Winstone-voiced 
 badass, making it tremendous fun to slaughter the first batch of enemies.
  
  But while Beowulf looks the part, the game itself is crushingly dull, with players facing off against 
 dozens of clichd enemies that can be defeated with the simplest attack combos. Even worse, while 
 dozens of button sequences must be completed to drive the game's dramatic set pieces, during these 
 sections you can't appreciate the dazzling visuals as you're too busy squinting at a series of 
 tiny circles that must be pressed in order, or else risk having to start the whole tedious process 
 over again.
  
  While it's not the worst game to appear on PS3 to date that title goes to lair, Beowulf simply 
 isn't good enough, while the graphics, voiceovers, and soundtrack are ok it's the overall gameplay 
 frustrating at times that let's beowulf down, which is a shame as this game could have been so 
 much more very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agkremper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I would characterize this as your standard movie based game. In my experience games based on movies 
 never really make it to the level of quality we see from other top ranking games. It seems like 
 movie games tend to get rushed to meet deadlines which leave us wishing for what the game could 
 have been. I feel that is the case here, but that doesn't mean all is bad.
  
  I am only 1 hour into the game so I will keep this short and sweet. My opinion my change, but I 
 felt that a review needed to be posted.
  
  Beowulf has a great story behind it. The environments look great and the voice acting is excellent. 
 Beyond that my experience so far has been mediocre. I am left wanting more with some of the character 
 graphics and the controls have been a bit tricky. I am referring to the responsiveness and not 
 the configuration. I think I am hitting the right buttons, but the game thinks otherwise. It is 
 hard to rate the difficulty of this game. The game play for the most part is fairly easy, but due 
 to the responsiveness issues certain tasks are tedious and difficult to complete. Maybe it's just 
 me or my controller.
  
  In comparison with the superior quality of games for the PS3, such as Heavenly Sword (referring 
 to graphics and controls, not game length) , this game looks really good, but doesn't quite make 
 there. I would say this game is best described as another God of War clone with a few new tricks 
 and not quite as responsive. If you like the story of Beowulf, or the movie coming out this week 
 this game should be worth playing. I'd suggest renting it before making the leap to drop the cash 
 needed to buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
