-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BioShock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/bioshock/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environments are realistic and haunting.
 Combat and skill progression are really satisfying.
 Moral choices are quite powerful.
 Story is dark and twisting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much new added from last year's releases.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 1,669 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: 2K Marin
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Intriguing moral choices and a chilling story make BioShock a must-play adventure, even a year later. 
 

  When BioShock was released for the  Xbox 360  and  PC  last year, it redefined what people could 
 expect from a console first-person shooter. The intricately designed Rapture -- a utopian city that 
 had fallen on hard times -- was the star of the show. This startlingly real metropolis located far 
 below the ocean's surface was a planned community for people desperate to escape the imminent war 
 on land, though a much worse fate caught up with those who made the move. One year later, PlayStation 
 3 owners finally get a chance to lay waste to the genetic freaks populating this dilapidated world. 
 If you've already played through the original release, this version is nearly identical; the inclusion 
 of a harder difficulty mode is not enough to lure BioShock veterans back to Rapture. However, if 
 you missed BioShock the first time, you won't want to pass up this undersea adventure again.  

 
           The deadly inhabitants of Rapture can be brought down with a good gun.      

  The impressive graphics and gorgeous water effects make the transition to the PlayStation 3 intact. 
 Rapture feels alive even in its decaying state. There are a number of unique environments located 
 in this underwater city. The medical bay has pools of blood still drying on the floor and posters 
 along the walls depicting surgical procedures; the clubs and bars have ads for various beers and 
 places for people meeting for a drink to sit and relax; there are even forests in Rapture, with 
 trees to provide the necessary oxygen for underwater living. The frame rate stays high no matter 
 how many enemies and explosions are onscreen at one time. After a brief install when you first 
 start the game, load times are kept to a minimum. The only loading screens you'll encounter are 
 when you travel from one section to another using a bathysphere, but this is rare enough that it 
 never breaks up the pace of the action.  

  As technically sound and artistically impressive as BioShock is, the reason to play the game is 
 to experience the dark story of Rapture's downfall. The story is primarily told through audio recorders 
 you'll find throughout the environment. These snippets document the growing madness taking place. 
 When you come to the medical bay, you'll be introduced to a plastic surgeon who was obsessed with 
 beauty. The recordings -- both from him and those who observed him -- tell of his haunting practices, 
 how the freedom to run his facility without moral responsibility allowed him to create the human 
 masterpieces he always envisioned. The people you'll come across are clearly mad with power, as 
 you quickly discover, because nearly all of them have tampered with genetic modifications to their 
 own bodies. Yet their motivations feel terrifyingly real.  

  Things get even more interesting when you're able to inject your own morality into the experience. 
 During the course of your journey, you'll come across Little Sisters. These small girls control 
 Adam, the life source that allows you to change your own genetics, giving you superhuman powers. 
 You are able to see how power has corrupted the citizens of Rapture, but how will you react when 
 presented with power for yourself? The Little Sisters are protected by Big Daddies, huge beings 
 with limitless ammunition and an aggressive attitude. Once you dispose of these terrifying bodyguards, 
 you'll be face to face with a defenseless Little Sister. They cry because they are scared, because 
 their protector has been slain in front of their eyes, but they won't try to run away or attack 
 you. You have to decide if you want to harvest them, sucking the Adam from their tiny bodies, killing 
 them in the process. Of you can free them from their genetic prison, taking away just enough Adam 
 to allow them to live normal lives. Seeing them try to break free from your grip is a heart-wrenching 
 experience, and you'll have to decide for yourself if the extra Adam is worth it.  

           The medical ward is the last place you'll want to go if you're hurt.      

  Even though 
 BioShock is a slow-paced shooter, the action is just as satisfying as it was on the Xbox 360 and 
 PC. You'll spend as much time listening to recordings and marveling at the environment as you will 
 shooting enemies. But the gunplay is rather intense when enemies are swarming. You have a few standard 
 weapons in your arsenal -- a pistol, shotgun, machine gun, rocket launcher, and a wrench for close 
 combat, yet these can be upgraded with parts you scavenge along the way. However, the games defining 
 feature is its plasmids. These are the genetic modifications you unlock with precious Adam. You 
 can shoot fire or bees from your hands, discharge an electric blast when attacked, or give yourself 
 super healing abilities, and that's just the beginning. The action is able to stay intense throughout 
 because you're constantly upgrading and changing your attacks. One of the big criticisms of the 
 first release was that it was too easy. The PS3 version addresses this complaint by adding a punishing 
 new difficulty setting and lets you choose not to use vita-chambers, life vaults that let you continue 
 close to where you died.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of BioShock is every bit as engaging as the Xbox 360 and PC versions 
 released last year. The graphics and gameplay are nearly identical across the platforms, so there 
 is little reason to choose this latest release over the other versions. However, this game should 
 be experienced no matter which system is your favorite. The story in BioShock is dark and satisfying, 
 something that will make you contemplate it long after you've put the game down. And though combat 
 takes a back seat to the enthralling atmosphere, it's still extremely satisfying to combine your 
 plasmid powers with traditional weapons. The lack of any meaningful new content is disappointing, 
 but this is still one of the finest first-person shooters around and a game that simply should 
 not be missed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (111 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EliteChief-117
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of the best games I have ever played. The story is very good. You play as Jack, a 
 man onboard a plane that crashes in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. You swim toward a tower and 
 take a bathyshere to an underwater city that was supposed to be at type of utopia. Soon, though, you 
 find out that the whole city went crazy due to ADAM, a type of energy that can be turned to EVE 
 so that people can use plasmids. Plasmids are a type of power that you can use by injecting with 
 EVE hypos to be able to unleash  soon made people crazy when 
 it became rare. When you arive, everyone is already spliced up from the shortage of ADAM. Little Sisters 
 are little girls that have been made to extract ADAM from dead bodies and then they drink it to 
 produce EVE. This is why everyone wants to get their hands on her. This is also why the Little Sisters 
 have protectors, Big Daddy. A Big Daddy wears diving suit and has a drill for a right hand. You want 
 to get to the Little Sister, you have to get through a Big Daddy. There are 2 typoes of Big Daddies, the 
 Bouncer, which is the one with the drill and tackles you, and the Rosie, which has a giant gun and 
 throws grenades at you. Bioshock's gameplay is exremely good. The ability to use plasmids is very 
 amusing, as you can hipnotize a Big Daddy to help you, set your enemies on fire, throw grenades back 
 with Telekenisis, or even make every security robot and turret attack whoever you want. It's not 
 just the plasmids though. There are gene tonics, which can help you hack turrets faster or take 
 less damage or become an expert with weapons. Once again, this is not all. You also have a very important 
 and difficult choice to make. When you finally get up to a Big Daddy, you have 3 choices. You can 
 either kill the Big Daddy and chose to harvest the Little Sister and get a lot of ADAM (160) . Or 
 you could rescue the Little Sister and get less ADAM (80) . The third option is that you don't kill 
 the Big Daddy at all and don't get any ADAM. This is extremely hard to do because you can upgrade 
 and buy more plasmids and genes. Either of these choices will affect the ending of the story. The 
 game's visuals and graphics are great on both the Xbox 360, PS3, and the PC. Even the music backs 
 up the crazed city of Rapture. All throughout the game you could think of how Rapture was before 
 everything went wrong. The audio diaries don't take you away from the game but make you feel horror 
 an/or sorrow for the people who lived here. The only thing that Bioshock is missing is multiplayer 
 or at least some co-op. Therefore, Bioshock is worth getting and playing it over again and again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KABOOOM3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game you would love but the reason you shouldn't buy it i'll explain at the end of 
 the review.
  First off bioshock's story ( don't worry, no major spoilers ) . Its about a man called Jack who's 
 plane crashes in the middle of the Atlantic and stumbles upon a underwater city called Rapture 
 who's residence has become murderous and crazy.
  Bioshock's gameplay is a simple FPS but with a twist. Jack has abilities called plasmids which 
 give him a edge over (most) his enemies. The graphics are brilliant but are sometimes slow to load.
 
  Now the reason you shouldn't buy bioshock. Bioshock is short. In fact its so short i finished 
 it the night i bought it : ( . And it has no replay value, not even a new game plus. The only reason 
 you should buy it is if you want the trophy's ( which are hard ) .
  So, hope this review sums up the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  At first when I got the game, for some reason I just couldn't catch on. I would have given it a 
 7.5 out of 10 at best because you just can't get the full experience until you play it at least 
 2 times, maybe 3, because otherwise there are A LOT of things you miss, like some parts of the 
 story. And the story is definitely the most important part of Bioshock. I would spend all nighters 
 just trying to get the story to progress more, it's seriously that good. And while the guns aren't 
 as powerfull as you think they would be, the Plasmids are down right awesome. Use Incinerate to 
 make your own molotov cocktails or burn your enemies to a crisp. Use Electrocute to do exactly 
 what the name states. Use Bee Swarm to annoy the crap out of enemies, and much, much more. Aside 
 from that, there are also a very large variety of tonics, including Physical Tonics and Hacking 
 Tonics, along with some other varieties. The only thing is, you only have 2 out of 8 slots to begin 
 with, so until you find one of those stations, you can only have two abilities at a time. The game 
 is more like a Digital Graphic Novel than a game, but what a DGN it is. From the astounding graphics, 
 thanks to the Unreal Engine, to the thought provoking story, to the spooky scenery, Bioshock delivers 
 it all.
  
  The characters are amazing too. You play Jack, just your normal, average guy (well, until your 
 DNA genetic code is encoded with Plasmids and Tonics) , and along the way you meet some astounding 
 people. Andrew Ryan for one, the power hungry maniac that does all he can to stop your progress. 
 Sander Cohen is the seemingly friendly but maniacle kind of guy that uses his Houdini skills to 
 try to kill you, along with Atlas A. K. A. " (you have to play the game to find out who Atlas really 
 is) " who stays with you through the whole game, yelling out his catchphrase, (you have to play 
 the game to find out what he says repetedly) .
  
  Overall, Bioshock is one of the best games ever released in my book. I give it a perfect 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OcelotSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me start by saying that Rapture is quite simply one of the best settings out 
 of all the video games I've ever played. Ever. Let me give you the lowdown: Rapture was the creation 
 of one Andrew Ryan. A man who wanted to create a world where the best could excel and be free. 
 A place where a man could think, make, create without any government, religion or poor to interfere 
 or take. A place where he and the select few could well and truly embrace the fruits of their labour. 
 When you, an unnamed survivor of a plane crash, swim to the shore of this hidden utopia, it becomes 
 apparent that something went horribly wrong, because when you enter the gates of Rapture, you're 
 not met with the glorious paradise of escapism that perhaps there once was, but a demolished and 
 hellish underwater coffin where everything is broken and everyone has gone mad. Why? Well it's 
 up to you to play and find out
  
  Graphically, Rapture looks awesome. The art direction is spot on, creating an unrelentingly eerie 
 and atmospheric playground with an almost Sin City-esque green and black backdrop. One of the best 
 things about Rapture is the fact that everything you see from the parks with rivers and greenery 
 to abandoned hospitals, restaurants, bars and even strip joints, remind you that this was once 
 a buzzing city, filled with people and social and economical development
  
  Scattered throughout Rapture are audio diaries, which contain stories and information of rapture 
 told by it's deceased inhabitants which greatly add to the atmosphere and can be very informative 
 and helpful. These audio diaries become an essential part of the game and help shape and paint 
 a picture of the Rapture past and present. When you're not listening to the audio diaries, you 
 can hear the sounds of vending machine jingles, the Big Daddies and Little Sisters (more on them 
 later) and it's inhabitants, all of whom are physically deformed and insane
  
  Gameplay wise, Bioshock takes the standard first person shooter element, innovates it in its own 
 direction and adds a depth rarely seen in other FPS games. The weapons are pretty straight forward: 
 you have your standard weapons like your shotguns and pistols, along with mine launchers, grenades 
 and a very useful and fun-to-use wrench. All these weapons feel good and the gameplay mechanics 
 associated with all of them are solid and well balanced. The fact that you can upgrade them all 
 adds depth, but the real depth comes from the plasmids you can use and upgrade. Plasmids are basically 
 supernatural powers you can use using a material called ADAM. These powers include fire, the ability 
 to freeze your enemies (and whack 'em with a wrench and watch them shatter!) , creating a cyclone 
 which throws your enemies around the place and many more
  
  The boss battles in Bioshock are generally quite impressive. The Big Daddy boss battles are fun, 
 if a tad repetitive, but the rewards for each one are great. The battles are simple dodge and attack 
 fights, that can, depending on the difficulty, be challenging but are almost always pretty manageable. 
 At the end of each battle, the little sisters the huge behemoths were protecting become completely 
 vulnerable, leaving you with two options: you can save them, meaning they change back into their 
 normal form (from the possessed, evil form they possessed) , or, you can harvest them, which means 
 you drain them of all their ADAM, but kill them in the process. Each have their own benefits, and 
 it's up to you to decide their fate. There are other boss fights in the game (including numerous 
 Big Daddy encounters) , but you really have to discover and play them for yourself.
  
  Bioshock is a great package. An amazingly atmospheric game with a terrific setting, relentless 
 graphical detail, fantastic voice acting and overall fx, unique gameplay and a great story. Very 
 few games come with the whole package in the way Bioshock does 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone2_09
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  "Bishock" is one of the best games in all respect. if you dont have this game you are a missing 
 out!!! bioshock is set outin a underwater city called rapture that looks stunning really it does 
 you will see, it gave me goesbumps. Andrew ryan the person who made the place for people who didn't 
 like the rules of land cities, then a decease bracks out and macks people go crazy and start killing 
 people. no one on the mainland nows the place is still there but you are in a plane crash and you 
 find. then some strang things happen. :) . lol there is my somery.
  
  "Bioshock" is a little creepy but not to creepy just enough to keep you on the edge of the seat:) no 
 you have the creepy people who have lost a leg or two who you kill all the time but then you have 
 big daddy now he is awsome he lightning quick so you have to think smart. big daddy well your proberly 
 thinking of why his name is big daddy well he has these little girls named little sisters now omg 
 there real creepy :) you are killing these people well things to get away but you are also looking 
 for a mans wife and kids.
  
  some people are saying there is no guns well there are heaps of guns well enough to keep you so 
 buy the game and sit down and enjoy:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The minute this game was announced and I read the little preview of it I knew that the XBOX 360 
 had a wonderful game to look forward to. I KNEW it was going to be good and just didn't realize 
 how much. Since I don't own an XBOX 360 I didn't think I ever would unless I went out and bought 
 the system. If there ever was a game to buy a system for this would be it.
  
  
  It is with great fortune that a PS3 version was announced. I'll be honest: I didn't get the game 
 right away at it's $59.99 price. I was busy with other PS3 titles that caught my attention for 
 a bit. But, when I saw that the price dropped to $29.99 well, it was time for me to be immersed 
 in the world of Rapture.
  
  
  The world of Rapture is many things. It is beautiful as it is eerie. I can honestly say I don't 
 remember the last time I was so CAPTIVATED by a world. Let me put it to you this way: I started 
 playing at 10AM and didn't stop playing until about 6PM. I finished the game (I had played a few 
 hours of the game at another time) and here I sit still thinking about it and still in awe of it.
 
  
  
  No need to tell you how the story begins. You have to experience this game for yourself. But, wait 
 what is the point of the review if you have nothing to go on? because words don't do this game 
 justice. But, I'll attempt to explain what I love about this game.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. The city of Rapture is ALIVE and BREATHING! as you walk through this 
 underwater city you can actually see buildings with their neon signs glowing. Or walk through a 
 tunnel and see bubbles drifting up to the surface above. I feel as though I was THERE. the music 
 is creepy where it needs to be as it will scare you in certain parts and old fashioned tunes are 
 scattered throughout the game whichs fits the game's atmosphere perfectly.
  
  
  The enemies are a horror. Not just physically but, mentally as well. Indeed they are twisted and 
 they are out to get you. Shadow is brilliantly used and you really do take your time for going 
 around an unknown corner. You'll see shadows on the wall, above you, all around, and when you hear 
 the enemy humming the tunes that are playing throughout the level you get a certain chill down 
 your spine. There are also security cameras (it is annoying so be careful to avoid being caught 
 in the view of it) and droids you can hack and use for your own purpose, If you have one and there 
 is an enemy shooting at you it will automatically shoot the enemy. It also features stationary 
 turrets that fire as well and do the same job as the flying robots.
  
  Weapons balance things out. I love the good ole days advertising for certain enhancements you can 
 use for yourself. It is very well done and adds a certain charm to the proceedings. Whether you 
 shoot lighting, fire, bees (!) , or use telepathy you go in well armed with the things called PLASMIDS. 
 They are very handy no pun intended. You also get your share of standard weapons like a pistols, 
 shotguns, and machine guns.
  
  Getting ammo at various stores throughout the game they are basically stands. You'll have clowns 
 telling you about great values and there you can buy first aid kits, ammo, and energy for your 
 plasmids. You'll also run into a desperado character, which also happens to be a stand, saying 
 "thank you amigo" after purchases. You also have the ability to invent items after collecting certain 
 items throughtout the game. As well as changing abilities, turning off the annoying security (shoot 
 the cameras!) and buying new abilities and slots to put the abilities.
  
  You can also get other enhancements that help you like armor, hacking, power up your wrench etc. 
 You can also upgrade your weapons like adding bullets and upgrading the weapons power too.
  
  The Big Daddy. I am sure you've seen this fellow already. I thought he'd be a slow lumbering 
 target. Little did I know how agile, fast, and powerful they really are. You'll be in for a fight 
 against these protectors of the Little Sister. You have to beat them and then you have the option 
 of harvesting or rescuing them. Here is where you have to make a choice: harvest them and get more 
 ADAM (I assume as I took the RESCUE route/playing through again and do the HARVEST route) the choice 
 really is up to you.
  
  
  I also liked the story. I mean the presentation is done purely through AUDIO TRACKS you'll find 
 throughout the game where there will be a picture, name of the person talking, the subject matter, 
 and you'll here them speak as they try to come to grips and/or terms with what is going on their 
 world. Every emotion you can think of it is here in this game. 
  
  Also, another feature is in certain parts of the game you'll be treated to flashback segments. 
 Something happened in a certain area of the game it'll get grey and fuzzy. You'll see what happened 
 way back when in another time. No long, drawn out cutscenes and while listening to the audio tapes 
 you can reload the gun of your choice or wallop an enemy on the head while listening to whomever 
 is speaking. Everything about the story moves at a brisk pace and to be honest I couldn't wait 
 to hear what happened next. Alot of cursing, acts of betrayl, love, regret, sorrow, plotting, threats, 
 the game has it all!
  
  
  The boss segments in this game are very well done and I am giving nothing away. I can't even tell 
 you my favorite! but, I can drop a little hint: entertainment, music, Poseidon, teacher, students, 
 pictures, legacy. Another thing too: you can take pictures of enemies and that will translate not 
 only into knowing their weakness but, dealing out more damage to them as well.
  
  
  I cannot say enough about this game. It is a MAGICAL experience and the people responsible for 
 this game should take a bow. They deserve all the awards, credit, praise, and respect. I love Rapture 
 and it is the star of this game in my opinion. I know they have a book called 1,000 movies to watch 
 before you die. If they ever come out with a book titled 1,000 games to play before you die I believe 
 with all my heart this will be up there on that list.
  
  
  I don't lie especially when it comes to video games. If you DO NOT own this game I'm telling you 
 that you can't go wrong. Especially at the price it is at right now it's a steal! it is actually 
 worth the FULL price that it was before! if you are still not sure then at least RENT it! I can't 
 imagine NOT having this game in my collection and believe me it should have been there sooner. 
 It is now and it will always be there. 
  
  EXCELLENT GAME! Don't miss this experience of a lifetime.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  Here is the review
  
  
  Graphics 8.5/10 : The game graphics are terrific . It uses Unreal Engine 2.5 with some Unreal Engine 
 3 features; Havok Physic. 2K hired a water programmer and artist just for this game. So far to 
 say the graphics are looking good.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10 : BioShock is a first-person shooter with role-playing game customization and stealth 
 elements, and is similar to System Shock 2. The player takes the role of Jack who aims to fight 
 his way through Rapture, using weapons and plasmids, in order to complete objectives. At times, 
 the player may opt to use stealth tactics to avoid detection by security cameras and automated 
 turrets. While exploring Rapture, the player will collect money, which can be used at various vending 
 machines to gain ammunition, health, and additional equipment, or can be used to improve their 
 existing weapons.] The player will also come across spare parts that can be used at "U-Invent" 
 machines to create new weapons or usable items. Cameras, turrets, and vending machines can all 
 be hacked to the player's advantage, such as turning on enemy foes or purchasing items at a discount. 
 Hacking requires the player to complete a mini-game similar to Pipe Dream in a limited amount of 
 time to be successful. The player is given a "research camera" early in the game, allowing them 
 to take photographs of enemies to help analyze them, with better quality photographs providing 
 more beneficial analysis. After performing enough analysis of an enemy, the player is granted increased 
 damage, plasmids, and other bonuses when facing that type of enemy in future battles. Glass-walled 
 "Vita-Chambers" can also be found throughout the game, which the player does not use directly. 
 Instead, should Jack die, his body is reconstituted at the nearest one, retaining all of his possessions, 
 but only a portion of his full health. In a patch for the game, the player has the option to disable 
 the use of these Vita-Chambers, such that if Jack dies, the player will need to restart from a 
 saved game.
  
  The player can collect and assign a number of plasmids which grant Jack the ability to unleash 
 special attacks or confer passive benefits such as improved health or hacking skills. "Active" 
 plasmids those that are triggered by the player such as most offensive plasmids will require an 
 amount of the EVE serum to be used in a manner similar to magic points; EVE can be replenished 
 via syringes. These plasmids will also alter the player's appearance to reflect "sacrificing one's 
 humanity"."Tonics" are passive plasmids and require no EVE to gain their benefit; however, the 
 player can only equip a limited number at any time. The game encourages the use of creative combination 
 of plasmids, weapons, and the use of the environment. 
  
  Story: Don't wanna say much, don't wanna spoil the fun
  
  Everything in Bioshock is great , 
 love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makototensai
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  I should start by publicly disclosing that I am not a big fan of first-person shooters. I did not 
 quit my job over Halo 3, and even Half Life 2 failed to impress me. That said, I knew that Bioshock 
 was something special from the moment I read about it over a year ago. The concept of being able 
 to use genetic modifications to supplement traditional gunplay seemed intriguing in itself. The 
 challenging story, gorgeous graphics, amazing sound production, and a brilliant soundtrack, also 
 seemed like just the ticket to make this FPS haters change his attitude.
  
  Let's start with the opening of the game, which, for my money, is one of the best introductory 
 sequences in any game ever made. No half-hour intro movies or history lessons ala Final Fantasy 
 or Metal Gear. Instead Bioshock opens with a bang. You crash in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, 
 and have to swim to a nearby facility to seek shelter. The design of the water, the ominous banners 
 and slogans inside the first building, the radio conversations and Andrew Ryan's introductory speech 
  all of them serve to create a truly unnerving atmosphere. The game does such a good job of sucking 
 you into its world that it feels like an interactive sci-fi horror movie and not a shooter.
  
  And the story certainly holds its own against most modern sci-fi movies. Inspired by the  
 philosophy of Ayn Rand, Bioshock's Rapture is a dystopic vision of powerful ideas gone wrong. As 
 someone who has actually read much of Rand's work, I can say that the game does an admirable job 
 of portraying the moral corruption of absolute power. Ethics are the driving force behind Bioshock's 
 narrative, and the player is expected to make certain choices that will affect the ending and the 
 game's difficulty.
  
  And speaking of choices, Bioshock offers plenty in terms of gameplay. Bioshock is that rare action 
 game that rewards creativity instead of just brute force or aim. In order to take down the Big 
 Daddies, Rapture's monstrous armored guardians, you will need to learn to use your environment 
 and strategize on the fly. No matter how sharp you are with that machine gun, you just cannot expect 
 to take these guys down with firepower alone.
  
  Which is not to imply that firepower is meaningless. Bioshock offers a nice mix of traditional 
 and unique weapons, all of which can fire three types of ammo and are upgradeble. But the real 
 gems of the combat system are the plasmids. Using gene tonics and 'Eve' hypos as fuel, you can 
 unleash a variety of attacks to damage, deceive, or just mess with your opponents. You can fry 
 several opponents at once by using thunderbolt while they stand in the water, or create a dummy 
 version of yourself that will take the heat while you coast by, or make enemies attack each other, 
 or unleash a swarm of hornets to really mix things up.
  
  The possibilities are myriad. Many gamers will find very early on that certain combinations of 
 attacks are more effective than others. Yet the temptation to experiment is strong and rewarding. 
 In this regard, I have to criticize Bioshock's lack of diversity when it comes to enemy types. 
 It's pretty much all gene splicers, big daddies, or machine gun turrets. That along with the lack 
 of multiplayer or co-op makes the extremely versatile combat system feel a bit wasted.
  
  Graphically, the game is a triumph, but bears qualification. In terms of technical detail and resolution, 
 Halo 3, Gears of War, and Call of Duty 4 are stronger. However if you include artistic design and 
 thematic consistency, that is, if you consider how interesting the environment is, Bioshock blows 
 all of them out of the water. The fake advertisements are hilarious and worth stopping to read. 
 The water effects are realistic and distinctly next generation level. Whereas Call of Duty 4 might 
 have a more detailed explosion or a more sharply defined human face, Bioshock's graphic design 
 is more about the big picture. Rather than just note the detail of an object, Bioshock makes you 
 want to look around.
  
  Indeed, Bioshock is a marvelous example of artistic integration. The music, the sound, the level 
 design, the characters and voice acting  all of it works together to create a totally believable 
 mid-twentieth century world. The characters really sound like they are from the 1940's and 50's. 
 This is in contrast to say, Assassin's Creed, where the main character sounds like a late 80's 
 businessman stuck in 12th century Jerusalem. Everything works together in Bioshock yet each element 
 taken separately is superlative.
  
  The sound production deserves one more mention. The game's soundtrack includes several tunes from 
 the era in which the story unfolds. This is a really nice touch that helps to make the world more 
 real. The music, combined with the excellent voice acting and atmospheric sound effects all set 
 a new standard, as does the game overall with the one exception being the less than satisfying 
 ending. Bioshock will make you take a second look at all the derivative sequels, tired hack and 
 slash games, and contrived shooters and adventure games that still dominate the latest generation 
 of systems. After experiencing Bioshock, you will feel justified in demanding more from developers.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Bio Shock is so good that i have it for both the x box and the p. s. 3 . When it first came out 
 i thought wow what is this the big Daddy looked just like a monster from scooby-doo. I gave it 
 a try it did not let me down at all. Rapture is that spot that's ok to visit but hell to live in. 
 Few action games pull off having a story, Bio Shock does this with grace. Not to sound like i'm 
 that smart but most games do not live up to the hype. No one that i know saw the twist at the end. 
 Yes i thought that something was up with Atlas but never what happened. The look of Andrew Ryan's 
 city his prefect city is priceless. I can not even start to describe it. The little sisters are 
 a whole different level of creepy. Plasmids and Tonics are soo much to play with upgrades all around. 
 The really scary part about this how far off is it. A rich man wants to play King/God can he or 
 she. Would you be willing to leave and live "free"? This game will make you think about questions 
 like that. Yes there are guns but there is alot more to bio shock that just that. Bio Shock is 
 a blast to play and will give you something to think about as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zasalameal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  -actually this game it's worth to play see I still playing bioshock till now and I never get boring 
 and the combination of plasmid, combat, engineering and physical make this game better compring 
 with others 
  -Security Bullseye: Especially in earlier levels this can be your Big Daddy Killer. Before you 
 have access to electric gel, grenades, mines, lots of Armor Piercing Ammo you can use this plasmid 
 to have Rapture itself take out the tougher enemies.
  -Telekinesis: This is the best offensive plasmid available, no doubt. Especially on the harder 
 difficulty settings when ammo is either at a premium or takes forever to take down an enemy. Plus 
 it has all kinds of other uses, picking up a corpse and using it as a shield, getting hard to reach 
 items, starting fires with explosions etc....
  -For good camera shots, try to get the enemy to fill up the space without the enemny being out 
 of frame. Get them centered, and preferable doing an actio, i. e: take a picture when a Thuggish 
 Splicer goes to attack you. You can get bonuses such as multiple subjects and action shot which 
 help boost the grade of your photo.
  I recommended this game for playing and I hope I give a good hint about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto-19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? BioShock is the most amazing game I have ever played. The beautiful environments 
 make you feel as if you were right there where the action is happening. These environments at the 
 same time are intimidating. But don't let this scare you, it will only make you want more. Everything 
 about this game is perfect.
  You think it's too hard? Just change the difficulty in the pause menu!
  The weapons, endless 
 abilities, and awesome upgrades also enhance this game greatly. This game couldn't be any better. 
 Even the story is amazing, and there are so many things to do, so many paths to choose, good or 
 evil, everything. Trust me I already know all these things about the game, and I'm not even done 
 with it! I can't wait to see how it all ends! But trust me, get this game-which is now cheaper 
 than most games (forty dollars) out right now-and you will not regret it one second while playing! 
 Now go out there and buy it!
  
  
  -Crypto-19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahan-k
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  Prologue: Bio Shock is a combination of some elements from FPS games and some elements from RPG 
 games with out standing visuals and solid story line.
  Story:10/10
  In the beginning of the game, Jack ( the main character) is on a plane that goes down in the Atlantic 
 Ocean. Suddenly, the plane crashes in to the sea, so Jack swims to a lighthouse and then he finds 
 a bathysphere which leads him to an under water city called Rapture. He finds a radio in the bathysphere 
 and via the radio, he contacts with Atlas who introduces him self as a person who wants to help 
 Jack to get out of Rapture, but after a while, Jack finds out what is really going on in Rapture 
 and....
  Rapture is an under water city which built by Andrew Ryan in 1946.
  Ryan believed that there should not be any differences between poor and rich. He believed that 
 every body should have freedom to do everything they want. So, he built Rapture. A city that every 
 people could get a chance to share their opinions and have as much as freedom they want, but after 
 a few years, some thing happened, some thing really bad happened..
  I don't want to tell all the story in my review, because I will spoil it for the people who has 
 not play the game yet.
  The story telling in this game is awesome. There are only two demos ,so the creators chose a perfect 
 way to tell the rest of the story. Usually when you talk to Atlas on the radio, you will get some 
 parts of the story. If you find some tapes on the floor, listen to them, because they give you extra 
 information about Rapture.
  
  Conclusion: Bio Shock has one of the deepest story lines between all the FPS games. My score is 
 definitely10/10.
  
  
  
  Game play:10/10
  When I first started to play Bio Shock, I thought the game play is like the other FPS games, but 
 I was wrong! There are a few things that make a huge difference between BS and the games like Doom3, 
 Call of Duty and etc. One of these few things are the plasmids. There are tons of different plasmids 
 in the game. These plasmids will help you to become more powerful. For example, one of them will 
 allow you to throw an electric bolt to your enemies. With the insect swarm, you can send bees to 
 splicers. Also there is plasmid a you can use to trick the security system and so many other plasmids.
 
  In BS, you have variety of choices to defeat your enemies. You can hypnotize a Big Daddy and use 
 it against the other splicers. You can hack the security robots to help you. You can use the electric 
 bolt when all the splicers are in the water to kill them all at the same time, or you can use your 
 guns, just like the regular FPS games. You can also customize your character with different kinds 
 of tonics. 
  Conclusion: Like I said before, Game play in BS is different. It's 
  so much more original than the other FPS games. This game gives you tons of choices in each combats 
 and situations. My score is:10/10 
  
  
  Graphics, music and voice acting are awesome in this game, specially voice acting. The voice actors 
 did a really great job. Rapture's design is so cool and it helps the atmosphere of the game to 
 looks darker. Modeling, textures ( specially water) , animations, lighting and art design are perfect. 
 For music, creators use some sound tracks from 1950-1960. You will not hear that music so much, 
 only in some parts of the game.
  
  Overall: BS is one of the deepest, darkest and funnest FPS games has been ever made. Like I said 
 before, even if you don't
  like FPS games, you have to play Bio Shock.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solo5610
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Heres my review for Bioshock for the PS3 1st great story really gets you into the game not many 
 games have that anymore really cool atmoshphere also with the water the signs you feel like your 
 in a living and breathing world hearing the people talk and everything well the monsters i guess 
 but the graphics are great also specialy for the PS3 solid shooting engine alot cool power up shooting 
 effects are top notch like with head shots or body shots I also like how you can hack upgrade your 
 weapons hacking machines to help you also you can hack the Big Daddys! which i thought was cool 
 speaking of Big Daddy I thought it was cool how they walk around and everything with the little 
 sisters and even the other bad guys try to get them but the Big Daddy protects them nice list of 
 weapons also -- Bioshock is a great game 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Fourteen months ago, Bioshock hit the store shelves with Thunderous accord. Universally loved by 
 critics, Bioshock's chilling narrative, entertaining role-playing and shooting sequences made Bioshock 
 a must own for computer and Xbox 360 owners. Finally, the hit Science Fiction Shooter/RPG hits 
 the PlayStation, and with it brings a few extras, and an even better overall quality gaming experience. 
 
  
  Visuals in games are becoming ever better and astonishingly advanced. The technology is there, 
 but often the storytelling isn't. But what if a game narrative was as intricate and immersive as 
 its graphics? What if as much attention was paid to its dialogue as the atmosphere and high-resolution 
 textures? Folks, the answer to that question is Bioshock, one of the most playable, thought-provoking, 
 and downright impressive games to emerge on consoles since, well, ever. The story is lavishly told. 
 The tale begins sometime in the 1960's in a passenger jet, which flies off-course and crashes somewhere 
 in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. You swim madly for safety, dodging the beautiful fires that 
 attempt to engulf you.
  
  Luckily enough, by a strange lighthouse-like building you scramble on to shore. You discover a 
 submersible vehicle, and as you climb inside, descends into Atlantic to find... Rapture. All is 
 not well in this underwater Utopia. Billionaire Andrew Ryan built this underwater paradise as a 
 refuge for the great talents in society: musicians, scientists, and other free thinkers. With the 
 idea to liberate the best from the drudgery of everyday life, a remarkable discovery would change 
 the rules, and the city, for worse. Citizens of Rapture would become addicted to a mysterious DNA 
 mutagen called "Adam". This substance allowed its user to alter their genetic code at will, giving 
 incredible powers. But instead making society a better place, Adam abuse would cause a civil war, 
 for the remaining drops of this mutagen. And you come in to Rapture, and witness the horror that 
 is the Adam.
  
  Deformed Rapturians prowl the city in search of their next fix of Adam, and they will stop at nothing, 
 even at killing you, to get what they want. The story is well thought of and excellently crafted, 
 but make no mistake, this a first-person-shooter. You explore the ruins of this underwater paradise, 
 scavenging what you can and meeting a cast of ghoul-like characters. Your main foes are Splicers, 
 the Adam-addicted citizens whose faces are terribly disfigured from lack of the mutagen. The highlight 
 battles will occur however between the duo of the Big Daddy and the Little Sister.
  
  The former is a massive hulking armor-cased Goliath nearly invulnerable to attack; and the latter 
 a small girl who stores a great deal of Adam, your only source of the DNA modifier in the game. 
 There is a massive number of ways to deal with Big Daddy, and with any foe in the game. You can 
 freeze them solid and whack them for an easy, but loot-less kill, you can toast them as they lay 
 in a body of water with your electric plasmid, or you can do the traditional weapon beat down. 
 Besides your World War II era weapons such as a revolver and Thompson machine gun, you will also 
 control the likes of a grenade launcher and chemical thrower.
  
  All nice weapons indeed, but nothing compared to your greatest weapon of all; you. Using the Adam 
 makes your own body one hell of an arsenal. Through a vending machine named The Gatherer's Garden 
 you purchase these gene-modifying plasmids, and they allow you to do things such as incinerate 
 your foes, hurl their own projectiles back at them using telekinesis, or even hatch an insect swarm 
 at you enemies from the veins in your arms. To complement these plasmids, "tonics" are also available 
 at the same machine. These are also modifiers, however are all passive.
  
  So how does the game play? For those who haven't tried it, it will come as a revelation. It's intense 
 first person shooter combat is accompanied by RPG element character customization, combining to 
 make an entertaining and downright dazzling display. There will be some concepts you need to get 
 used to; looting every body you find or kill and buying equipment and ammunition from the vending 
 machines adorning Rapture, but its hard not to fall prey to the game's charms.
  
  The unique level designs really bring the game to life. The water displays breathless reflection 
 and the lightning and shadow effects are eye-catching. Audio tracks in games tend to be overlook, 
 but they are essential to Bioshock's experience. The soundtrack heavily bears the oppressive mood 
 of Rapture. The music, a mix of 40's and 50's pop tunes, comes off as funny and creepy. Such sound 
 effects as water dropping will keep you on your toes, reading to blow a hole in anything that moves; 
 the loud steps of the Big Daddy's will constantly haunt you as it shakes the screen under its weight.
 
  
  Bioshock's obvious qualities are numerous, but it still has a few things that has been overlooked. 
 Like in the older versions, the enemy roster could use more variety, and their is an absence of 
 cooperative play or some form of multiplayer; something that seems like a distinct possibility. 
 The PlayStation 3 version ultimately improves on the formula, with spiffier graphics and better 
 shadows in certain situations. 
  
  A year later, and Bioshock's intense premise still makes it stand-out as a must buy for gamers. 
 Intense action, breath-taking visuals, and seamless voice acting and soundtracks elevated Bioshock 
 into Stardom. And with now with the games arrival to Sony, PlayStation owners finally get to experience 
 what they have been missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a hybrid of many factors. It's a shooter, sure, but so many things makes it feel different 
 and fresh, that sometimes, you feel like you're playing a new breed of gaming. It's innovative, 
 immersive and beautiful, and is truly a great (but late) addition to the PS3 library.
  
  Bioshock starts on your character on a plane, reading an enigmatic note. Suddenly, the plane crashes 
 into the pristine waters of the sea. Your character stumbles into a mysterious lighthouse, with 
 a bathysphere which leads into a dystopian underwater city. Rapture. The place is infested with 
 humans mutated by Adam, big... things called Big Daddies, peculiar girls called Little Sisters 
 and a cast of other oddballs. Adam is what keeps everything barely hanging on, and it's one of 
 the many mysteries of Rapture. The story in Bioshock is truly an artistic, twisted, dark and pulchritudinous 
 masterpiece. You rarely ever encounter such memorable locations, characters and enemies than in 
 Rapture. The setting is expertly crafted, and every location has its own soul, its own personality, 
 if I may say so. I won't be revealing any more but there are twists and turns no-one could ever 
 have expected. Audio tapes also progress the story and background of Rapture, and are perfect for 
 the atmosphere of Rapture.
  
  The gameplay in the game is addictive and fun to use. The guns often feel awkward to use, and it 
 feels like they don't pack any punch, but they are well made and still fun to use. The plasmids 
 are really awesome, and can be used in an infinite amount of ways, casting lightning into a puddle 
 of water to shock all enemies in it; freezing an enemy and then shattering it with your wrench; 
 setting a mine on the ceiling and then blast the enemy into the air into the mine; hypnotize a 
 big daddy to make him fight for you. With imagination, you can do anything you want and genuinely 
 make a fun experience that flexes your imaginative range. The enemies are fun and smart to fight, 
 the splicers are creepy and demented, the robotic enemies shakes up the row of "human" enemies. 
 However, the Big Daddies are the stars of the show, smart, hulking, difficult and ominous protectors 
 of the Little Sisters, strange, scary girls who always walk with a Big Daddy at her side. Brilliantly 
 made and crafted, these monstrosities will send a chill down your spine when you hear its trademark 
 cry. 
  
  If you die in the game, you are teleported back to the last Vita-Chamber, which is a revival device 
 that is activated automatically by going near them. When the Vita-Chambers are used, there is no 
 penalty, the enemies stay the same, which makes death not as horrible as it is in some games. However, 
 because of a certain feature, which I will explain later, this isn't as bad as it was in the original 
 version of the game.
  
  Expanding on the idea of choice and imagination, the game makes you choose between two ultimata 
 in regards to the Little Sisters: Kill them and harvest all the Adam, or save them, reaping only 
 half of the benefits but liberating the poor souls from they're eternal servitude. The latter is 
 generally the right choice, but choosing the former is one of the most heart-wrenching choices 
 you'll make in a game.
  
  The game looks good, and overall is a smooth, good-looking experience but the game has its graphical 
 missteps. The enemies sometimes feel a little too repetitive in appearance, and when they're shot 
 at, they don't bleed blood, they bleed raspberry jam. That's basically what it looks like, but 
 in the main scheme of things, that isn't much of a problem. Also, the game sometimes falters in 
 frame rate, but it still runs relatively smoothly.
  
  The music in this game is truly brilliant, adding some ambiguous tunes once in a while, with some 
 comically out of place '60's music which sets the mood perfectly. The voice-acting is incredibly 
 well done and polished, from the soothing accent of Atlas to the cold voice of Andrew Ryan, it 
 is done perfectly and the audio tapes are one of the most dynamic of their kind.
  
  The PS3 version adds the option of turning off the use of Vita-Chambers, which makes death much 
 more terrifying and adds a new twist to the gameplay. Also, a new difficulty has been added: Survival 
 Mode, where the enemies are tougher and Vita-Chambers don't heal you as much. Finally, the PS3 
 has some exclusive DLC, which adds more replayability to an already great game.
  
  The complete package is a game that stands out as a gem which never loses its gleam. 2K has made 
 a game that empasizes the importance of story and atmosphere, and in a first-person shooter, no 
 less. It's absolutely incredible and a must-play for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajedm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game not only has an amazing story with awesome voice actors, it has an innovative game design 
 that is always a pleasure to look at. Anyone who wants a game that is totally unfamiliar and unique 
 should have this game in their game collection. Customization of genetic alterations? ARE YOU SERIOUS? 
 Creepy bosses and enemies everywhere making Rapture seem like the perfect place for all this chaos 
 to be going on. Most other FPS make me want to turn them off or just complete my objectives, BioShock 
 made me want to explore every nook and cranny of Rapture making sure i was the ultimate genetic 
 me i could be. A moral choice throughout the game and intense weapons are to name a few things 
 that make BioShock my game of 2008. This game kicks the crap out me every time a play it. Play 
 BioShock and prepare to be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkipKenobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I was beginning to lose faith in FPS games. I was begining to tire of every PS FPS release being 
 described as a "Halo Beater". I was begining to think that no game would live up to the hype anymore. 
 
  
  After the disappointments of the likes of Killzone on PS2, Resistance on the PS3, and the endless 
 torrent of World War themed games (all of which I have enjoyed at some time, they just never really 
 lived up to the expectations) I thought I was never going to experience that feeling I first felt 
 the day I slotted Goldeneye into my then beloved N64. That feeling that you had been here before, 
 but at the same time, were in uncharted territory. The feeling that a single game had just changed 
 the genre, for ever. 
  
  Then along came Bioshock. 
  
  Perhaps it was because the hype wasn't that big, after all, the game had previously been available 
 for a year on X-Box and PC. It was a known quantity. How could it be that much better? But then, 
 as I am sure you have gathered, I don't own an X-box, so had never come across the game before. 
 Having downloaded the demo from the Playstation Store it was actually on my HD for a while before 
 I tried it out. I was soon kicking myself for having such a great game right under my nose and 
 not playing it straight away. Needless to say it was only a matter of time before I bought the 
 full game and got stuck into the murky world of Rapture.
  
  From the moment you crash into the sea and enter the lighthouse that serves as Raptures entrance, 
 the feeling of isolation begins and never really lets up. The fact that the only contact you have 
 with "normal" human beings is by radio or recorded messages really rams home the feeling that if 
 you are going to get through this, you are going to have to do the hard work yourself. Yes, the 
 narrative does lead you by the hand for the majority of the game, telling you where to go next 
 and what to look for, but that just serves to keep the pace of the game going. Rarely are you left 
 wandering aimlessly, wondering were to go next or backtracking looking for a missed item. 
  
  The retro setting really adds to the vibe that Rapture is cut off from the modern world. The 
 architecture, the fashion, the music. They all come together perfectly to recreate the 40's/50's 
 (could even be 20's or 30's to be honest, history is not my strong point!) feel. The conventional 
 weapons available reinforce the retro aspect, making the familiar feel different without going 
 so far as to be unbelievable. Instead of a clip loaded Glock, there is a six shot revolver. No 
 Uzi's, but old school, Al Capone style, circular clip loaded machine guns. They feel solid, functional 
 and reliable. We've been there before, but it's slightly different. 
  
  Then the plasmids come into play. The premise isn't exactly new, the idea of genetically modifying 
 your physical form has been done before (Deus Ex anyone? We've been there before, only slightly 
 different) . Having said that, the whole thing is presented very well. The powers they give you 
 make the game feel futuristic, even comic book-esque. Setting people on fire with a click of your 
 fingers? Freezing people to the spot before shattering them into thousands of pieces? It's like 
 you are a dozen super heroes rolled into one. Who hasn't wanted to be a super hero at some point 
 in their life! But they are never so powerful that they ruin the experience. You never feel that 
 you can romp through a section with ease, no matter what wonderful abilities you have gathered. 
 The ability to switch the powers in and out at set points make you consider your options carefully. 
 Should I keep the electro shock power to deal with the many automated defenses, or replace it with 
 telekinesis power to launch grenades back at the Splicers who threw them at me? For the most part, 
 whatever you choose will come in useful at some point. It depends how creative a player you are. 
 For instance, the many bottles of alcohol that you find lying around can be used to fill up your 
 health meter, or, combined with the telekenis and incinerate powers can be turned into a handy 
 Molotov cocktail. 
  
  It doesn't always boil down to creativity either. It can depend on how you prefer to play. Like 
 to go in all guns blazing? Equipping the Incinerate, Winter Blast and Electro Shock powers, combined 
 with a good conventional weapon should see you safely through most encounters. Like to sneak up 
 on people? Equip the Target Dummy, Enrage and Hypnotise Big Daddy powers and you can have the Splicers 
 fighting shadows, themselves or the double-hard Big Daddies, whilst you pick them off with a well 
 place head shot. 
  
  The Splicers are the main inhabitants of Rapture. The everyday Joe's that have been driven mad 
 by the isolation and the drug like craving for Eve, the injected fluid that gives the Plasmids 
 their power. Rapture's own crack-heads range from Thug Splicers, who try to beat you to death with 
 whatever blunt instrument they can find, to Houdini Splicers (more retro references anyone? They 
 aint called Blaine splicers!) , who have the ability to disappear and reappear at will. 
  
  They can generally be dispatched with liberal use of conventional weapons or even Plasmids for 
 that matter, but one of the main things that makes Bioshock different from the rest is that you 
 can research your opposition in the from of photographs. One part of the game sees you having to 
 recover a camera (one with a lightbulb flash and a film in it, no digital memory cards in rapture!) 
 for one of the "semi-normal" inhabitants. Photographs of Splicers, Big Daddies etc will yield a 
 rating, depending on what actions they are performing at the time. Build up enough good ratings 
 and you will learn just what type of ammo, or powers will cause your opponent the maximum amount 
 of damage. It's not exactly groundbreaking but it's different enough to be interesting. I'm sure 
 the game can be completed without fully researching your enemies but the choice is yours.
  
  And that's what really sets Bioshock apart from all the others. The choices. Do you rely on 
 the futuristic powers or the conventional, albeit retro, weapons? Or a balance of both? Do you 
 go charging in, Rambo style, or melt in to the background and take the stealth route, or a bit 
 of both? Do you harvest the Little Sisters for maximum Adam, or rescue them for...... oh I didn't 
 mention them yet did I? 
  
  Little Sisters, their protectors, the Big Daddies, the waring megalomaniacs Ryan and Fontaine, 
 the helpful (or are they?) Atlas and Tenanbaum, the clearly mental Suchong and Cohen. All of them 
 characters you can believe in. But, who do you trust? Who do you help? 
  
  They are all part of an involving, deep, detailed storyline. I'm not going to give anything away 
 because to do that would take away half the fun of the game. All I will say is that the storyline 
 is so good, so engrossing, that by the time the twists come, you will be so engrossed, that it 
 will hit you like a sledge hammer. 
  
  I always find that the mark of a good game is that, even before you have finished it, you are thinking 
 about playing it again. You are thinking about what you can do differently, you are thinking about 
 what the consequences would be if you did those things differently. 
  
  Bioshock is the epitome of those thoughts. Almost everything you do has an alternative. This in 
 itself doesn't make the game great. It would be easy to offer alternatives that have no consequence 
 or meaning. But everything in Bioshock does have a consequence, and this makes you consider your 
 choices carefully. Both physically and morally, Bioshock makes you think, really think, about what 
 you are doing. It does it with panache and style. The fact that a little bit of luck goes a long 
 way just helps to reinforce the feeling that what you decide, does have a bearing on what happens. 
 Decide to put in the Winter Blast Plasmid on a whim? Then meet a new enemy that is vulnerable to 
 cold?? Choices, people.. choices.
  
  If I have one complaint about Bioshock, it's that the "boss" battles can be a bit of a let down. 
 The rest of the game is so challenging, so clever, if you will, that the boss battles can seem 
 standard. Maybe I have been spoiled by games such as Metal Gear Solid, where boss battles had to 
 be done differently, where you were really challenged to beat them. Maybe I'm just trying to find 
 fault with a game that I really love so as I don't sound like a complete and utter fan boy. 
  
  Or maybe I'm just trying to be balanced in my first ever review of a game. Let me know your 
 thoughts, I hope someone finds this useful. My faith is restored.
  
  Cheers,
  
  Skip. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Now when i say that BioShock is one of the best shooters, i'm saying that it has that awesome feel 
 to it. But what it really reminded me of was You Are Empty gameplay, just the way the hands and 
 weapons are set up.
  
  So BioShock has finally come out for the PS3. But you already know that what you want to know now 
 is what exactly is BioShock, long story short.
  
  You are Jack who's plane has just crashed over the Atlantic and so Jack swims to this lighthouse 
 where he discovers a bathysphere, he then proceeds down into the ocean where he happens upon Andrew 
 Ryan's Big Daddy, Little Sister, Splicer infested city of Rapture!
  
  And yes every level has at least 3 or 2 boss battles in it which means you'll be dealing with Big 
 Daddy's each time. So the point of killing a Big Daddy, to save or harvest their Little Sister.
 
  
  Now the Little Sisters carry Adam which you need for Plasmid updates, you harvest them you get 
 ALOT of Adam, you save them, you get half the Adam.
  
  Now again as usually in my reviews thats as far as i go with the story for Spoiler sake's.
  
 
  So in the end there are 3 endings the first one being if you saved the Little Sisters you get 
 the "Good" ending, the second and third ending being almost identical which in this case you chose 
 to harvest each Little Sister you get the "Bad" Ending.
  
  So in the end BioShock is a pretty awesome game, but the game at times can also be quite aggravating 
 due to you might run out of ammo during or near a Big Daddy fight. 
  
  Plus, the story for me was amazing but a bit on the short side, but as always the good outweighs 
 the bad.
  
  Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  Much can be said of an FPS that doesn't dare to stand out on mechanics and innovation alone. But 
 what if it offers a more than compelling story and gets the best shooter qualities right? Then 
 my friends you have a more than worthwhile title that celebrates FPS-ism and an enduring narrative 
 that makes you want to see how it ends. Not since the first days of Half-Life have I believed that 
 FPS stories could be anything more than a footnote of the overall game. Bioshock goes above and 
 beyond the call of duty in the story department. It begins with a deliciously spectacular beginning 
 plane crash scene. You arrive at the gateway of an underwater city, called Rapture, unveiled through 
 narration presented by Andrew Ryan, the city's founder and CEO. A moment of surreal magnificence 
 is dashed when you step out of your transport to a world torn genetically asunder. You are immediately 
 contacted by a survivor named Atlas. This being my first review on this site, I have decided not 
 to divulge any of the significant plot details and stick with what makes this a ride worth taking. 
 The shooter aspects would be fairly run of the mill had it not been for the dueling addition of 
 a multitude of plasmids-perks that give the player genetic attack and defense abilities-that makes 
 the game more tactical and a little more interesting. The game is quite linear, however, there 
 are many nooks a corners that can be explored in search of anything from audio logs, which help 
 tell the story, to anyone of the 58 perks and plasmids. Weapons can also be upgraded and ammo and 
 other items can be invented using U-invent machines scattered throughout the game. Nothing ever 
 gets totally boring or peaceful. There is always something to do in the game or someone to kill. 
 Enemies will occasionally respawn, making areas a little difficult to explore sometimes. Everyone 
 in the city is mentally unstable and no one can be completely trusted. You'll form alliances in 
 your fight to keep alive and escape Rapture, yet, no one you help will be selfless in the exchange. 
 As I mentioned above, the heart of this game rests with its story, which is wonderfully adapted 
 from Ayn Rand's magnum opus, Atlas Shrugged. The developers have gone to great lengths to create 
 a world rich in atmosphere. So much so that Hollywood has already signed on to make a movie that 
 is unusually very likely to make the silver screen. We are all very aware of Hollywood's rocky 
 relationship with the gaming industry. I played Bioshock on my first run through on Survivor mode 
 and beat it with relatively little heartache, achieving the Impossible and Brass Balls trophies. 
 Both are worth it to show off on your digital mantle place, however, don't expect for this game 
 to be easy with the golds and silvers. For anyone who loves FPS games, Bioshock is a looker. For 
 anyone who loves storytelling, the same. Intriguing, dangerous, and compelling, Bioshock offers 
 a ride worth remembering and revisiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  BioShock has to be one the most, if the most, engaging, compelling video game I've ever played, 
 and I've played a LOT.
  (I know my subscores look a lot like some gaming sites' ones, but I don't care!)
  The thing that 
 struck me about the game is how well the plot is built throughout the storyline and how I felt 
 the urge to play more and more to discover exactly what happens to the protagonist, Little Sisters, 
 Ryan, Atlas and others. Although it's not extremely long, I felt moved by the story, the plot twists, 
 more than in any other game in memory. Furthermore, the game has an aura, Rapture has a particular 
 atmosphere that puts you on the edge from the start. I love atmospheric games, especially Metroid 
 Prime (GCN) and Fallout 3 (PS3) , and BioShock gave me an unforgettable atmosphere.
  Story : 10.
  While some people criticized the gameplay and gun combat, it felt great to me, the 
 weapons, the upgrades and the various plasmids/tonics gave this a lot of combat options. (I must 
 admit I used the electro plasmid beyong everything else, but the other ones were great too) . The 
 controls were great, I never had any trouble doing what I wanted to do except running through guns 
 and plasmids to find exactly what I wanted. One could argue Vita Chambers, when turned on, are 
 making things a tad too easy. Combat is fun, especially against Big Daddies who make for intense 
 battles. The Splicers can get a tad boring since they're always the same, although the get tougher 
 and tougher.
  Gameplay : 9.2
  I play the game on a standard definition TV. Consequently, I could never appreciate the whole graphical 
 quality some others enjoyed on good PCs or HDTVs. However, the graphical quality, while not "out 
 of this world", was great. It's more on the "artistic" side or things that graphics stand out. 
 How Rapture is built, how everything stands and fits together is awesome.
  Graphics : 9.5
  The sound effects, the voice acting, the music all made for an even more unfogettable adventure 
 in the depths of the Atlantic Ocean. I loved how radio transmissions and audio diaries slowly constructed 
 the whole story and how everything fits bit by bit. The characters were magnificiently put to life 
 by the voice acting. Music, splicers screams in the dark just added to the excitement, if not to 
 the potential scares of the game.
  Sound : 10
  This game has lasting appeal, even if I didn't buy the DLC... yet. You can do it again for more 
 trophies, for challenge or simply for the fun of it (or all three!) . It's not, as I mentioned, 
 extremely long, but that doesn't mean you'll forget it rapidly.
  Replay Value : 9
  Trust me, it'll stay with you long after you're done.
  It's a must buy for any FPS/Action/Atmospheric 
 games lovers. In fact, it's a must buy/try for every gamer out there, unless you don't like violence, 
 which my GF hates, but that didn't stop me when she wasn't there!
  Overall : 9.7, so I'll give it a 9.5 based on GS scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Bioshock has many new game mechanics to the first-person genre and they all pay-off with brilliant 
 and entertaining results. An amazing story revolves around the underwater world called Rapture 
 with deranged citizens called Splicers. Then many twists and surprises later this imaginative game 
 comes to an end. But on the way you will come across fantastic levels each created in their own 
 unique ways. From green and vivid plant environments to factory like areas there is plenty to be 
 explored and you won't want to miss a bit. From great weapon selection to various vendors and machines 
 offering you supplies there is so much that cannot be mentioned in this review.
  You also have magical abilities such as electricity and hornets coming out from the veins in your 
 arms. Then when you have killed the mutated citizens you can search them for useful items such 
 as coffee which replenishes your hypo (needle for plasmid ability) , or food which replenishes your 
 health bar.
  
  Story- 5/5
  Characters- 5/5
  Gameplay- 5/5
  Controls- 5/5
  Sound- 4/5
  Graphics- 4/5
  Length- 5/5
  Replayability- 5/5
  
  Good Points: Amazing story, 
 Clever level design, Searching bodies is fun, Various vendors with cool items, scary enemies, Numerous 
 ways to kill enemies, Quite a long game, Hacking things is cool
  
  Bad Points: The game eventually ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that remember, Bioshock came out on the Xbox 360 in 2007, and was met with various 
 game of the year awards and great merit from the gaming community. Now it is out on the Playstation 
 3 with some enhanced content, and how is it? Still amazing.
  
  As the story goes, you are a plane crash survivor stranded out on sea who comes across a lighthouse. 
 Upon finding a bathysphere and various propaganda, you enter the wondrous city of Rapture. But 
 all is not as it seems, and needless to say this game has some truly amazing moments that I cannot 
 go any further into the story without ruining it. Filled with an environment and characters that 
 make a nod towards 20th century philosophers (particularly Ayn Rand) , this game truly deserves 
 to be called the thinking man's shooter.
  
  Of course, one of the reasons this game can be called a thinking man's shooter is also the wide 
 variety of ways you can go about the game. While running and gunning through the levels is possible, 
 you'll find much more satisfaction in using plasmids appropriate to your current situation, as 
 well as using the environment to your advantage. Actions, such as hacking security bots or setting 
 up traps can put a fight to your advantage, especially when trying to fight a Big Daddy.
  
  Big Daddies are basically level wandering bossfights waiting to happen, with two types: Rosie, 
 which uses a rivet gun at long range while tossing mines, and Bouncer which uses a large drill 
 and melee combat to take you down. The main reason you would want to eliminate the Big Daddies, 
 other than the loot you can collect from their bodies, are the Little Sisters.
  
  Little Sisters are small, genetically enhanced little girls that walk around, draining ADAM (more 
 on that later) from dead bodies and storing it in their own bodies. When confronted with a Little 
 Sister, you have a choice: you can save the Little Sister at the promise of repayment from Tenenbaum, 
 an ex nazi genetic scientist, or harvest them for double the ADAM, at the request of Atlas, who 
 asks of you to save his family. This is truly a choice of morals, and while Atlas claims they are 
 no longer little girls but monsters, you must choose properly if you want to survive.
  
  ADAM is genetic modifying substance that is used to upgrade your body with various plasmids, including 
 the ability to shoot fire from your fingertips, or swarm enemies with bees. EVE is necessary to 
 maintain these plasmids, and can be found in hypodermic needles across Rapture. Tonics are special 
 skill enhancers that require no eve, and are very necessary when doing things like hacking and 
 healing, for better results.
  
  The weapons are very basic, but have different ammo types that spice up gameplay considerably. 
 Ranging from a wrench you find at the beginning and basic revolvers, to chemical throwers and a 
 crossbow.
  
  The Playstation 3 version is nearly identical as the Xbox 360 version, but with minor tweaks such 
 as the ability to turn off vita chambers and the new survivor mode. It also comes with some exclusive 
 downloadable content and has trophy support for those looking to get more out of the game.
  
  Overall, you can see for yourself why this game was so great back in 2007, and even today it 
 holds up spectacularly, but the lack of any sort of multiplayer or non campaign game types to continue 
 playing hurt my recommendation for a purchase, and compared to 2008 big dogs like Grand Theft Auto 
 IV and Metal Gear Solid 4, it doesn't quite hold up as well as it did back in 2007.
  
  Overall, its a great game, and should be played by anyone who can, but a rental may be your first 
 option if you expect longevity.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  "I'm Andrew Ryan and I'm here to ask you a question. Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his 
 own brow?" 
  
  -Andrew Ryan (Creator of Rapture)
  
  Imagine a place where rules are obsolete, a place where one can accomplish his or her greatest 
 achievements without the oppressive hand of the government, a place where one is not judged by 
 their work but praised for it instead, a place called Rapture. 
  
  Your plane crashes into the middle of an ocean and plunges you deep under the sea. You awaken to 
 realize that you're under water; you quickly swim to the surface and use all of your will power 
 to hold your breath. You penetrate the surface of the ocean and take a large gasp of air. You head 
 for the nearest sighting of land, a lighthouse to be exact, and swim through the plane wreckage 
 floating in the ocean. As you step foot into the lighthouse you feel as if something is calling 
 you, you're not sure of what it is, but you know that something wants you here. As you move deeper 
 into the lighthouse you discover some sort of pod, you decide to walk inside of it, and before 
 you know it the pod plunges itself deep into the ocean. A film begins to play in the pod, and a 
 man named Andrew begins to talk about a place called Rapture, an underwater city long forgotten 
 by society. The pod brings you into Rapture where you soon discover that things aren't always what 
 they appear to be. 
  
  Bioshock is a first person shooter, but it goes beyond that. There aren't many shooters out there 
 that encourage you to experiment with what you have, and promote the idea of exploration. Bioshock 
 grants the player the power to choose how to handle a situation, will you go around beating the 
 living crud out of people with your trusty wrench, will you go Rambo and start spraying bullets 
 like there's no tomorrow, or will you simply sneak past your enemies, you decide. 
  
  When you first approach a giant needle with strange fluids flowing out of it, what do you do? You 
 stick it in your arm of course! In the city of Rapture, the people have become addicted to using 
 something called plasmids, strange and unique fluids that grant people special powers. In Bioshock, 
 you are granted access to a variety of plasmids, with one of stab of the needle you are able to 
 shoot lighting out of your hands, levitate objects, freeze your opponents, and even summon a giant 
 swarm of insects to tear apart your victims. (This is why I pack an extra casing of bug repellent) 
 There are multitudes of plasmids you can select from, and some of them contain hilarious results. 
 If you strategically use your plasmids you can easily turn an ugly situation into a walk in the 
 park. 
  
  You also have the ability to use Gene Tonics. They're just like plasmids but they grant you perks 
 instead. With a simple change in your genetic code you can have the strength of Hercules, the stealth 
 of a ninja, or the brain of Einstein. 
  
  As you explore the city of Rapture you will likely come across Little Sisters, demonic little girls 
 who carry needles to extract eve (the thing that gives people the ability to use plasmids) , and 
 Big Daddys, body guards who can and will make your life miserable if you mess with the Little Sisters. 
 If you happen to defeat a Big Daddy (good luck with that) you are given a difficult choice: rescue 
 the Little Sister and show the world you have a heart or let the darkness consume you and harvest 
 her. If you rescue the Little Sisters you will earn less eve but the little gremlins will pay you 
 back, if you decide to harvest them you will earn more eve but expect to receive a bunch of hate 
 mail from me. (I'm just kidding, or am I?) The actions you commit will determine what ending you 
 get, so make sure you choose wisely. 
  
  Rapture is one of the most breathtaking video game worlds I have ever seen in my entire gaming 
 career. Once you stick that disc into your PS3, 360, PC, or whatever, Rapture will suck you in 
 with its nostalgic, creepy, eye watering set pieces. Words can't describe of what I felt as I gripped 
 my controller and tried to take it all in. I truly believed I was in Rapture and making all these 
 difficult decisions. The game tested me mentally as a player and as an individual. Everything from 
 the tables, to the bleeding sculptures, to the deranged citizens, everything was painstakingly 
 detailed. You won't believe it until you see it.
  
  The sound design was absolutely phenomenal. The voice actors did an excellent job and made everything 
 just feel that more realistic. The in-game dialogue transitioned smoothly between characters, and 
 drew me into the story even more. The sound effects were nicely done, an occasional sound pop, 
 but overall it was superb. 
  
  Overall: If you truly call yourself a gamer then you have to play Bioshock. It combines rich storytelling, 
 addictive game play, a fascinating world unparallel to any other, and a captivating sound design 
 to deliver an experience that one has never experienced before. Bioshock tests the player and ultimately 
 posses a question: Are you a man, or a slave? A man chooses, a slave follows. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ben99_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  there is plenty of elements that make this game a great one nut the most basic thing about this 
 game is its improvements of the player and the upgrades of weapons thanks to the little sister 
 who provide you with the necessary Adam to advance for the next levels in a breeze.
  
  Gameplay: addictive but gets repetitive at times and with that comes the major flaw in making a 
 game . But the upgrades and the urge to kill Big Daddies and sacrifice Little Sisters to get Adam 
 is totally satisfying . 
  and yeah, the hand is amazing and what it does to kill adversaries is just awesome. Besides that 
 , it's just another FPS game with regular guns (except for that arrow weapon that I totally dig)
 
  
  Graphics : Seriously, what's up with the weird atmosphere? it is weird enough to make you hate 
 the game in the first hours of your playthrough. Cutscene are more weird . But the game is polished 
 all in all . But the atmosphere ah ,, whatever.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  To start off, I've played this game inside and out twice! It is one of the best games I have ever 
 seen!
  
  The first topic I'd like to talk about is the games extensive line of weapons. What I like about 
 BioShock's weapons is how exotic and wierd they are! The thing that sticks out in my mind about 
 the games weapons is the line of plasmids and tonics. I just get a chill down my back when I set 
 fire to a Big Daddy and then put 10,000 volts through him to finish him off. Along with the plasmids 
 and tonics there is also a line of other weapons that are more realistic like the grenade launcher, 
 the pistol, the shotgun and my favorites, the flamethrower and the wrench! There is also three 
 different types of ammo for each gun. For example, the shotgun has an exploding bullet, and electric 
 bullet and the normal bullet which just adds to BioShock's varity.
  
  Another great aspect of BioShock is the enemies it has crawling around Rapture! There are many 
 security turrents that can fire explosive missels and machine gun bullets and there is also security 
 cameras placed around Rapture that, when activated by catching sight of you, send out a fleet of 
 about two flying security bots that follow you and try to kill you. There is also the many types 
 of splicers that are all around ruthless and creppy with some that throw exploding bottles and 
 others that try to slice you up with razor sharp hooks for hands. My favorite enemy is the huge 
 walking boss called the Bid Daddy! There are four types of Big Daddys. There is the Bouncer and 
 the Rosie and the elite version of each. They are both very creppy and fun to kill and provide 
 a challenge for every level!
  
  All in all, this is one of the best games I have ever played! The graphics are phenomenal and there 
 is a great balence of fear and battle spread throughout the game with creepy cut-scenes, levels 
 and flashbacks! I definatly recommend this game for every PS3 owener! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  So, ive been disappointed by the FPS games available to the PS3 lately. The only FPS game i really 
 enjoyed was Resistance 1, and that was solely due to completing the campaign with my brother.
 
  
  That made it all worth while!
  
  So when i went out and bought Bioshock (after listening and reading to peoples comments regarding 
 the game, extensively) . And thankfully, im overjoyed by this game!
  
  All the basic necessities are in place, the graphics, the sound quality and the diversity of the 
 audio universe and the general character controls.
  
  I could use this review to write about some of the mechanics the game contains, but you can find 
 information on these things elsewhere.
  
  What i can offer you instead, is my personal opinion on the different facets of the game! So thats 
 exactly what ill do!
  
  The storyline is pretty weak, the developers are desperatly trying to make it somewhat coherent 
 and interesting by adding audiotapes sporadically around every level, but to me it just became 
 a slight nuisance at most. There really is little incentive to actually pick these tapes up and 
 listen to their content, you wont gain much, except a small background story as to why youre doing 
 the things youre doing, but it does in no way feel relevant, atleast not to me.
  
  Lets get to the good stuff, instead! :-)
  
  Bioshock offers a great dynamic between the choice 
 of attacks you have available to you. There are "plasmids" that can be supported by "gene tonics" 
 to further enhance their effect, and it works excellent with your standard shotgun or assult rifle. 
 I actually wanted to device my own little "combos" by doing weapon switches, and the changing nature 
 of your foes (atleast in hardest setting) pretty much forces you to utilize your offensive prowess 
 to the max!
  
  There is a certain "role-playing game" feel to this game, because your character really does enhance 
 his powers as you progress thru the game. Depending on how much "field work" you decide to do before 
 really throwing yourself out into the mix, your kill-to-death ratio will follow accordingly, i 
 can promise you this!
  
  I for once can recommend this game to the people that were disappointed by the weak campaign Resistance 
 2 offered.
  
  -B
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan6433
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is instantly grabbing as you swim from an incredibly realistic plane wreck in the ocean. 
 You will find your way to a strange elevator and descend into a dark, aquatic world as a projector 
 screen flickers cryptic images and the tension begins to build like the pressure of the ocean depths 
 around you. Before you know it, you are in the city of Rapture with one of its deranged and menacing, 
 masked residents beating on the hatch of the elevator, trying to get in and tear you apart. 
  
  The city of Rapture is beautifully constructed. The creepy and chaotically disheveled world 
 in the aftermath of destructive riots and looting still captures the enchanting 50's post-modern 
 veneer of a World's Fair, coupled with the richly textured, mystical underwater environment.
  
  The combat system is wonderfully imaginative as you can genetically enhance yourself with plasmid 
 injections to be able to shoot lightning bolts from your fingertips or turn your arm into a buzzing 
 bee hive, as well as many other abilities. You can also employ the use of somewhat fps standard, 
 but still unique, weapons like tommy guns, revolvers, shotguns, and even a pipe wrench. Mixing 
 your genetically enhanced abilities with your other weapons often yields unbelievably destructive 
 results. You can also invent and build new, more exotic weapons for use against the mutated bandits 
 and Big Daddies, large diving suit-like robots, of Rapture.
  
  You can also hack into computers and vending machines to get items without paying or to reprogram 
 a defense drone to fight by your side.
  
  As the voice of Atlas, one of Raptures surviving inhabitants, guides you through your immersive 
 adventure, you can't help but feel that there is something far more sinister behind all this than 
 the Little Sisters and Big Daddies that stand in your way.
  
  While all in all a pretty short game, a 15 hour game at the most, Bioshock really gives you a full 
 gaming experience, complete with some great scares, innovative gameplay, beautiful graphics, and 
 enough explosive action to keep you entertained through the whole ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all i'm glad that this game came to ps3 or else I wouldn't be writing this review today. 
 After playing the demo i wanted to try this game. And it was awesome from starting to the end. 
 You just find yourself in the sea after surviving the planecrash and then discover this new world 
 called rapture and experience unexpected journey. Just want to say the gameplay is great. One of 
 the best Sci-horror first person shooters out there. We can also call this game horror/fantasy 
 action adventure. Everything is good about this game. The weapons and special abilities are fun 
 to use. The characters and the environment is innovative. Graphics are great. It is also a very 
 fun game considering to some other games out. You don't want to miss this game and experience. 
 This game is must play for all gamers out there. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Value: 10
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  Story: 9.5
  
  Overall: 9.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is one of those games this gen that you don't want to miss, and this is coming from someone 
 who doesn't like first person shooters! The game is addicting, long and has an immersive story.
 
  
  Story: The year is 1960. During a flight your air plane crashed in the middle of the ocean. Luckily 
 there was an old lighthouse and you were able to swim to shore.
  With no way off the coast you decided to enter the mysterious lighthouse, inside you find a pod 
 and which took you to an underwater city called Rapture, secretly build and ruled by a man named 
 Andrew Ryan, described as a city free from the laws of society.
  The city however is in ruins and the citizens are mentaly disturbed in extreme ways. You then receive 
 a call from a man named Atlas. 
  Atlas explains that the whole city is gone crazy due to the intoxicating effects of ADEM and Andrew 
 Ryan's influence that drove all citizens mad. 
  You decided to follow his instruction in order to meet up with Atlas and hopefully find a way to 
 escape the cursed city.
  
  Game design: The graphics in Bioshock are absolutely gorgeous, the underwater world of Rapture 
 is just stunning, dark, gloomy and really scary.
  You will basically be going places achieving certain objectives and goals. As you progress you 
 will receive radio contact from other characters, collecting different weapons and diaries that 
 contain details of rapture's history and other things that might be useful for progression.
  The game can be played in different difficulties and the PS3 also has exclusive DLC from PSN, which 
 will contain 3 more levels and a New game+ which will allow you to start with weapons from your 
 previous save.
  Enemies are freaky and are ranged from doctors to firemen and there will be boss battles as well 
 but nothing like giant bird monsters or anything THAT unusual, you will be basically gunning a 
 bunch of wackos which is pretty fun and challenging.
  If you die you will be revived in revival tanks and can proceed from there, so you will basically 
 have infinite lives, although this decreases tension it still doesn't take the fun out of the game 
 what so ever.
  If you are lot you can always press the select button to view a map and mission objectives.
  
 
  Game play: Bioshock is a first person shooter so as suggested you will be in first person view 
 the whole game, however this is no Resistance or Halo by any means, since it more follows the foot 
 steps of the Metroid Prime series, just in a more realistic way.
  You will have 2 different ways of attacking, weapons and ADEM.
  Weapons will be handled using 
 the Right trigger. The first weapon you will have is a wrench, then after that you will procure 
 guns and other weapons, you can pick up different ammos for guns either from enemy corps or you 
 can buy them from vending machines. There are also weapon upgrade vending machines however you 
 will only be allowed to select 1 upgrade after that the machine will shut down and you will have 
 to find another one.
  ADEMs will be handled using the Left trigger. ADEMs are basically super natural powers that can 
 be found in Rapture, there are different ADEMs ranging from electric attacks to fire attacks, ADEMs 
 will consume EVEs, which is an energy meter that enables you to use ADEM which is displayed below 
 the health meter.
  New ADEMs can be found and upgraded through certain vending machines.
  
  During the course of the game you will encounter little creepy girls called little sisters, 
 devouring them will give you little sisters points that can be used on specific vending machines 
 to upgrade statues such as health, EVE and even upgrade ADEMs, however these little sisters are 
 protected by giant water suited monsters called Big Daddies that will kill anyone that attempts 
 to harm them or the little sisters (even enemies) so beating big daddies is tough. 
  Once a big daddy is defeated you will have the choice to either devour or rescue the little sister, 
 devouring will give you strength and additional points while rescuing them will give you less points 
 but you will later be rewarded with great gifts such as money or ammo.
  Ammo, health packs and EVE packs can be bought in various vending machines and healing stations, 
 you will need money to buy them however you can also hack vending machines if you want goodies 
 for lower price.
  The hacking sequence will basically be a mini game from where you will have to set up and line 
 up pipes from one end to the other before the liquid drains out, if you fail it may either shock 
 you or trigger alarms. 
  The higher the difficulty the faster the fluid flows which can make hacking challenging and fun 
 to play. Robot drones and security cameras can also be hacked.
  
  Sound: The sound department is probably the best thing about the game. 
  The music is gloomy 
 and creepy which gives the game an incredible atmosphere.
  Voice-overs have been well implemented as you will hear enemies talking really weird and bazaar 
 stuff during radio conversations and diaries which are great! Sound affects are really great as 
 well.
  
  Bioshock is an impressive game with stunning visuals, great sound, gives you the feeling that you 
 are in solitary confinement and is freaky as hell!
  Bioshock has done well to deliver a stellar presentation and while the game play is great the controls 
 don't really go beyond ordinary fps games.
  Character movement is pretty standard and stays the same through out the game, you won't be running 
 any faster or jumping any higher, as you progress through the game enemies will get really tough 
 and you will die a lot due to taking heavy damages especially from bosses and big daddies and you 
 would just wish you could dash or something to avoid fast hits.
  Also while boss battle are challenging they are not exactly very stunning, since most will be human 
 enemies (and in some cases look similar to ordinary enemies) which kind of leaves you there looking 
 for more.
  
  Despite a few nit-picking issues Bioshock is a great game and a great first step for the franchise 
 (there will be a sequel) It's addictive, challenging and should be on every PS3 owners collection 
 or wish list!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  Following months of speculation, 2K Games has finally brought their award winning title to Sony's 
 PlayStation 3 console, inviting you into the infamous failed underwater utopia known as Rapture. 
 Despite initial grumbles regarding the $60 price tag, it's important to note that 2K Games has 
 not just simply ported BioShock over from the 360/PC. Instead, they've created an exclusive difficulty 
 level and downloadable content for Sony's black behemoth, which should appeal to even those who 
 have already played the original.
  
  For those unaware, BioShock takes place during the 1960s and follows the story of a young man that 
 has just survived an oceanic plane crash. In order to stay alive, you find yourself swimming to 
 a lighthouse, which eventually leads you to the underwater city of Rapture. This failed utopia 
 was created by Andrew Ryan for scientists and artists to break free from the constraints of governments, 
 communism, religion and other organizations that seek to restrict one's full potential. Instead 
 of a glorious society, the genetic manipulations and inventions created within this "world," have 
 sent the population into a downward spiral of despair, death and hopelessness. Your entry into 
 this dark world has resulted in you having to fight your way through the city in order to survive 
 and find out exactly what happened.
  
  BioShock's gameplay is inarguably some of the most unique you'll find of any modern release, and 
 with good reason. Unlike other shooters on the market, 2K's effort offers gamers a different experience 
 each time through by giving the user many different ways in which to progress through Rapture. 
 Whether you want to utilize a wrench, automatic weapons, plasmids or a simple combo of them all, 
 you're able to create your own style to progress through the story. Personally, I prefer to blast 
 those deadly splicers with a jolt of Electrobolt and then finish them off with a nice wrench shot 
 to the cranium. This may sound like an inhumane way to solve a problem, but when you have a genetic 
 abomination running towards you with some cleavers, you'll be quick to pull the trigger. 
  
  Plasmids aren't just limited to electricity (Electrobolt) . Rapture is home to a variety of 
 plasmids that can fill up your arsenal. They include abilities such as telekinesis, incineration, 
 sonic blasts, winter blasts, insect swarms and more. Finding a comfortable combination of these 
 abilities will aid you in getting around the underwater city much quicker and efficiently. One 
 other thing you should remember is that these plasmids also interact with the environment. Never 
 hesitate to send a bolt of electricity into a pool of water containing a couple of splicers, a 
 particularly satisfying manoeuvre that'll fry them to a crisp in an instant.
  
  Outside of Plasmids, there are also other forms of weapons made available to your character. Sometimes 
 just a simple wrench can do the trick, but for those who don't like to get too personal, you'll 
 also have a variety of firearms at your disposal in the form of pistols, tommy guns, revolvers 
 and shotguns. In addition to rudimentary ammunition, you can also enhance each weapon with different 
 elemental properties. An example of this is electric buck shot for your shotgun. If you want to 
 take your offense even further, the ability to hack turrets and craft unique items are also viable 
 options. This definitely adds a nice added effect to your repertoire of weapons.
  
  As mentioned previously, the art direction in particular is exquisite and provides the backdrop 
 for Rapture's unrivalled atmosphere, with subtle details such as rushing water and neo lights only 
 adding to the overall immersive qualities of the game. Whether it's the brooding, darker areas 
 of the forgotten city or the bright lights that surround them, Rapture is quite simply a world 
 you have to experience. 
  
  Rapture is a breathtaking world that should be shared and enjoyed by every self-respecting gamer 
 out there. From the stunning visuals to the unique gameplay on offer, BioShock delivers something 
 that not many other games can  an unforgettable experience. Hiccups aside, this is an absolute 
 must have title for every PS3 owner out there. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock, is one of those game that you dont see every day. It has excellent game play, great story 
 line, wonderful graphics and good sound. ( hey thats a quick way to sum up a game, review finished. 
 haha-no not really) In the story you play as a man whose plain crashes in the ocean and you end 
 up finding your way to a under water city. calles rapture. You spend most of your time learning 
 about the city and all the crazy people and trying to figure out what is going on. at the same 
 time you inject yourself with a needle that leads to all kinds of cool things. There are lots more 
 to the story and like i said, its really good, so lets move on. The game playing elements revolves 
 around you using strategy, weapons and knowing your enemies. There are tons of weapons, not just 
 guns, but some really cool things that players wil love. You can upgrade them, it kind of over 
 whelms you how much you can do. But the game is a little lengthy so you wil have plenty of time 
 to enjoy it all. The graphics are great, the water effect are unbelievable. a very creative city, 
 the designers really used their imagination. The sound is excellent, no flaws there. There are 
 trophies and different endings to increase replay value.
  
  Overall;
  its just a great game, that everyone should try. beg, borrow, plead whatever it takes, to get your 
 hands on a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-U-K-E-D
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  I completed this game long before it was available on the playstation 3, but i have no problem 
 completing it again. This game is addictive and fun, and is one of those games you dont need to 
 rent before you buy. At stages its a little weird, but hell thats what its all about lol.
  
  One great thing i liked about the game was the leveling, and of course the AMAZING Graphics 
 on the PS3.
  
  If you havnt played it.... go play it, if you dont own it.... go buy it, and if you dont like it 
 your either scared of the dark, or just plain crazy.
  
  This game doesnt deserve anything lower than ***10/10***
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blank33
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock has to be one of the intelligently composed games in a very long time. Bioshock begins 
 with a plane crash and ends as a masterpiece. The story begins with your plane crashing into the 
 mid-Atlantic, and the only refuge is a tower jutting out of the water. Taking refuge within its 
 confines, you find an entire city built underwater called Rapture. This city was built by Andrew 
 Ryan, a man who rejected all conventional ways of life. Rapture was built to be a city where there 
 would be no limits to what could be done, where anyone would have a chance and owed nothing to 
 anyone. As soon as you enter the city though, it is clear that something went terribly wrong. Those 
 who lived in Rapture became dependent on Adam, a material that could help them use plasmids and 
 survive in this world. But the people turned on one another and the innocent were attacked for 
 people to get Adam. Now it's your turn to chose. Do you sacrifice the innocent for your gain or 
 do you save them? Which is one of best aspects of Bioshock. The issue of morality, that there is 
 good within people or how they throw those opportunities away. It was also interesting to see so 
 many references to the Bible and other religious affiliates. The material of Adam and Eve, the 
 scattered Bibles throughout the city, the term "Rapture" is from the Bible, many of enemies quote 
 the Bible. Father why have you forsaken me? or not quoting the Bible but, "Jesus loves me this 
 I know, for the Bible tells me so." This was supposed to be a city without morality and without 
 gods, but even with their best efforts these things are introduced to Rapture. Anyone who enjoys 
 an engaging story, beautiful graphics, and fun combat should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  For the longest time I have wanted to play Bioshock. I played a demo for the PC, read the reviews, 
 played the demo on the PS3, and was very hyped for its release on the Playstation. However, news 
 of the game having texture issues and paying $20 more for this game over it's 360 brother kept 
 me from getting it. Now it's only $40 at some locations, and with the patch the texture issues 
 have been fixed, so I purchased the game and it was so good this is what I was playing in all of 
 my free time. 
  
  The story in this FPS is top notch. The concept of it all is very original in my opinion, and the 
 events are executed at such a high level you will be playing this game non stop. There's also a 
 couple twists in the game that will shock you and make you say WHAT THE?! and it's a rare thing 
 for a game to make an emotional impact on you which I think Bioshock does. 
  
  The graphics are awesome, even for a game that's 2 years old, and unless there's a ton of explosions 
 going on all at once the framerate is steady throughout. The water effects are quite impressive, 
 but even the textures and character models have a richness that only adds to the experience. The 
 guns themselves are fairly generic minus the optional ammo you can use for each weapon but the 
 upgrades on the weapons give the game some uniqueness. 
  
  There's not much else to say about the game, it's easily worth $40 and it is one of the games everyone 
 needs to experience. It ran flawlessly on the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  I've never really been a tremendous fan of first-person shooters. In the past, they have usually 
 been a bit too linear for my tastes, and often lack a strong story. BioShock is the exception to 
 the rule that set a new standard for first-person shooters. With an intriguing story that plays 
 out through audio diaries that you discover along the way, as well as through radio broadcasts 
 from interesting and well-fleshed-out characters, BioShock delivers.
  
  Set in an underwater city known as Rapture, a beautifully rendered Art Deco metropolis worthy of 
 Ert's vision in his heyday, BioShock's artistic design sets a new standard in excellence. The 
 moods that the environments evoke are of paranoia, fallen glory, and faded beauty. The ruins of 
 the city are populated with a variety of genetically-tweaked people, known as splicers, who are 
 constantly ranting crazily, whistling eerily, and shouting threats. Also walking around are the 
 creepy Little Sisters, monstrous girls who harvest the precious resource, Adam, from the dead. 
 They are escorted by Big Daddies, huge bear-like men in steampunk battlesuits, who pack a wallop. 
 The game can be plenty creepy, and the inhabitants of this corrupted city make it all the more 
 unsettling.
  
  The gameplay comes off as a pretty straightforward first-person shooter. You have a variety of 
 weapons, each with three different types of ammo available. You are also armed with plasmids, genetic-enhancements 
 that give you psionic-like abilities to attack, evade, manipulate, or trick your opponents. Throughout 
 the game are vending machines where you can buy a variety of things, as well as machines that allow 
 you to invent your own items. The real fun in this game is in experimenting with the different 
 ways of using plasmids and weapons to defeat your enemies. Though not exactly an open-world sandbox, 
 BioShock has a surprising degree of flexibility in the gameplay. Though mostly linear in the story, 
 you are able to go back and revisit anything you may have missed, or want to further explore, on 
 other levels.
  
  Overall, BioShock was an extremely enjoyable game, with tons of great flavor and a compelling story. 
 I eagerly await the sequel, just to see where they take the story next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlsPlayToo89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:05 am PT
Review:  I have a ps3 and waited for the game to come out on this system for a long time. I thought it looked 
 cool and wanted to give it a try. When I finally played it I thought it was even better than I 
 had expected. The graphics are amazing, the storyline is unique and keeps you interested until 
 the end, (where there is an alternite ending) and the gameplay itself is really fun. Not only do 
 you have guns but there is a whole new system wich include plasmids and upgrades wich let you decide 
 what strengths you choose for your character. On top of all this there is great replay value because 
 of the alternate endings and the 4 different difficulty levels and letting you choose whether to 
 start the whole level over again or where you died. I give this game a 10 and recommend it to anyone 
 who wants and addicting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good The game is very great like last years. Added a bit better graphics The experiance is 
 absolutely great
  Fun
  AI is one of the smartest AI ever
  Story is amazing
  The game has cool plamids and experiance that nobody played before
  Much different and awesome 
 then the other games
  Survivour difficulty is absolutely a amazing difficutly exclusivy for ps3
  
  The bad
  The 
 game hasn't changed much from last year.
  Graphics barley changed
  A bad pop up textures (graphics) which makes it look bad sometimes (2-3 seconds)
  Vita Chambers 
 may make the game a bit easy (but u can turn off)
  No Online
  
  How is the game? Fun great. story is amazing and everything is. 360 and pc is the same as ps3 pretty 
 much. Online doesnt matter. It is still a money worth  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  For a game that is suppose to be game of the year it really falls short. gameplay - outstanding 
 with various instruments and combination of weapons and ATOM to play with. there directional guide 
 allows you to go right along with the story with also no haggle if you don't. feel free to roam 
 that place all you want.
  
  story - without the whole plot and the twists it comes with you crash in the ocean only to find 
 your self in an underwater city called rapture. your first given directions from some guy, then 
 you find your self in the middle of a war. play the game to find out the rest.
  
  graphics - a year later it seems that the standard hasn't gone that high. its looks the same as 
 the 360 version.
  
  overall - this game is a bust if you bought it, the replay value it not worth it. and i mean not 
 worth it. they charge you to play the challenges. yeah right. must rent pass on a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkytexan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a visual feast. The Art Deco style is a thing to behold.
  The characters are uniquely designed, especially the Big Daddies.
  
  The music is outstanding, 
 and creates a perfect atmosphere.
  
  OK, so we have creepy little girls again, but that is OK. Some of my favorite games feature creepy 
 little girls.
  
  The only gripe I have about game play is that i found myself wasting a lot of special ammo and 
 plasmids, but that is easily solved by changing the button configuration.
  
  The characters are interesting, and the story line is a bit predictable for the most part, but 
 still they did a very good job.
  
  I thought the game was a bit short for me. I did some wandering around and that did extend it a 
 bit, but if you stick to the goals only, it will go fairly quickly.
  
  All in all, a very good game, one of the better ones this year. I am glad they chose to bring this 
 title over to PS3, and I hope other titles follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricFWaters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  When Bioshock came out for XBox 360, I thought "it looks good, but I'll never play it, so I'll 
 just forget it."
  
  When it launched on PS3 however, I was trembling with excitement. I had played the demo a hundred 
 times and I was eagerly anticipating the full Rapture experience.
  
  The game is incredible. Not only is it well written, wonderfully atmospheric and perfectly executed, 
 it is outright addictive.
  
  The simultaneous openness of levels and claustrophobic sensations most areas give ist just one 
 of the many ways this eerie game assaults your senses. Oce I picked up this game, it was hard to 
 put it down.
  
  I became a Bioshock addict. Each rush was spectacular but everytime I rewarded myself by playing 
 it, it took about seven hours to for me to realize I had been playing it to put it down.
  
  The game also tampers with your morality. Do you take the greedy path and sacrifice the Little 
 Sisters in order to gain a hefty amount of Adam to buy upgrades or the righteous path of the saviour, 
 rescuing the children while still maintaining your soul? I chose the latter, a path riddled with 
 occasional gifts. But it is a hard choice to make.
  
  My only qualm with this game is uneven graphics. While the graphics are sometimes ridiculously 
 beautiful and some of the effects, especially the water effects, are the best I've seen in a while, 
 the first time you enter Rapture you feel underwhelmed. The shaders are cut off and all you have 
 is a couple weak looking models couple with a near field of vision and the only thing you marvel 
 at is that there is an underwater city. Some of the models are also less than stellar. I you take 
 alook at some splicer silhouettes you almost feel cheated. But these minor graphical issues are 
 so minor compared to the action and experience that they fall to the backburner.
  
  All in all this game is spectacularly fun, ambitious and overwhelmingly dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:23 am PT
Review:  As a somewhat frugal gamer, I did a ton of research and waited for all of the next gen systems 
 to have at least a year under their belt. After much deliberation and internal arguments, I went 
 with the PS3. You may think this is a bizarre way to start a review, but here is why it is/was 
 relevant. When deciding what system to purchase, I desperately wanted to play Bioshock. I love 
 FPS games, read all of the positive things about it, stared at screenshots and ended up fascinated 
 by it. My PC couldn't handle it and I only had enough money for one system. As bad as I wanted 
 to play it, I went with the PS3 and just hoped that I'd be able to get my hands on Bioshock one 
 way or another. Well, my patience paid off. Roughly a year after the game was released to rave 
 reviews on the X-Box 360 and PC, PS3 owners finally got their hands on one of gaming's recent marvels. 
 
  
  Bioshock is one of the most creative, innovative games that I have ever had the pleasure of playing. 
 The world that is created is original in its design and inhabitants. There is nothing here that 
 has been seen in a video game before. 
  
  The game starts with your character on a plane. He looks at a present he has wrapped for someone 
 else and gives a quick one liner. Then, BAM!, the plane goes down and it looks like you are the 
 only survivor. You swim through the sea while your plane continues to sink and you come across 
 a strange tower. Enter the tower and you find a strange vessel which you enter, pull the lever 
 and welcome to Rapture. The initial trip into Rapture is incredible. Your vessel has a great view 
 of this underwater city. The architecture is straight out of the Art Deco area with large buildings 
 and impressive statues. Once you "land" you immediately get contacted by Atlas, via a radio located 
 in your vessel. He fills you in on what's happening. Rapture is an underwater city that was created 
 by the "great" Andrew Ryan to be a Utopian city where people could get away from God and Government. 
 Unfortunately, things didn't turnout like Ryan wanted and the city has gone to hell in a hand basket. 
 
  
  While hearing the background story from Atlas, you are greeted by your most common enemy in Rapture, 
 a Splicer. Splicers exist due to another important element of the story, gene modification through 
 various "Plasmids" and Tonics. Shortly after entering Rapture and beating down your first Splicer 
 with a wrench, you come across your first Plasmid. This is a fluid injected into your arm that 
 gives you various powers - powers that are supernatural in their origin. The first plasmid you 
 get lets you shoot electricity out of your hand to stun a Splicer or even to kill them if they 
 are standing in water. Plasmids take the use of EVE which is the substance that you shot into your 
 arm earlier. The more of the Plasmid you use, the more EVE it will drain. Of course more EVE can 
 be picked up and purchased throughout the various stores and sites located within Rapture. 
  
  Initially I had an issue with how this game started out. Why would I climb into a tower in 
 the middle of the sea and then go into a strange vessel randomly pulling on levers? Why, once I 
 got to this underwater city, would I start to beat human beings down with a wrench and then inject 
 strange fluids into my body? Why would I continue to listen to this Atlas fellow and do whatever 
 he tells me? I honestly found all of the motivation behind my character to be questionable at best 
 and it almost ruined the excellent game play for me. It just didn't make sense that anyone would 
 do what I was doing, even in a video game. Thankfully I looked past that and played through. About 
 2/3rd's of the way through the game there is a huge plot twist (one I did not see coming) that 
 explains everything and does it in a very convincing manner. This is one of the rare video games 
 that I have played where I genuinely loved the story. It seems crazy for a big part of the game, 
 but once the twist hits it all makes sense and makes the game that much better. 
  
  And honestly, the least amount of info you know about the plot going in, the better. That's why 
 I am not going to ruin it here. The majority of the plot moves forward via two main characters: 
 Atlas and Mrs. Tennenbaum. Atlas needs you to save his family and Tennenbaum needs you to help 
 with the "Little Sisters". Each character gives you directives throughout the game and help to 
 move your character forward. "Little Sisters" are an important part of the game. The "Little Sisters" 
 are little girls who seem possessed, with fiery orange eyes. They travel throughout vents located 
 in Rapture collecting "ADAM" from various corpses littered around Rapture. ADAM is the only substance 
 that you get to use to further your genetic modification if you so choose and the only way to deal 
 with "Little Sisters" is to go through their "Big Daddies". "Big Daddies" are huge bodyguards who 
 travel with the Sisters to protect them from the Splicers. Every one wants to get his or her hands 
 on ADAM as it is the substance that improves their strength and abilities. You could leave the 
 Sisters alone if you wanted, but leaving precious ADAM behind will make the game a lot harder. 
 So that means you have to deal with the Big Daddies. These are some of the most fun battles in 
 the game as the Daddies are tough opponents. They have a lot of health, strong weapons, and are 
 not affected by Plasmids the same way Splicers are. 
  
  Thankfully, the game makes sure you are prepared to fight the Daddies with a nice arsenal of weapons. 
 Your first weapon, as mentioned earlier, is the Wrench. From there you will pick up a handgun, 
 shotgun, grenade launcher, crossbow, chemical thrower and so on and so forth. The wrench actually 
 was the weapon of choice against common enemies. After purchasing certain gene tonics (these are 
 used just like Plasmids in that you get a certain amount of slots to add them, there are Engineering, 
 Combat and Physical tonics) the wrench becomes a quick, powerful weapon against the more common 
 enemies and helps to conserve ammo. Another "weapon" you get is the Research Camera. This Camera 
 has the ability to take photos and get random genetic and scientific info from the subject of each 
 photograph. This helps to add to your research level which will add damage enhancers against certain 
 enemies and even gives you plasmids and gene tonics here and there. When taking photos of security 
 cameras, bots, and turrets you get damage enhancements, but once you "max out" your research you 
 can automatically hack this items. Hacking is one of the last random tasks of the game. Hacking 
 is something that can be avoided, but it's a very useful thing throughout the game. When you disable 
 a turret or bot you run up to it and select "hack". This opens a mini-game that is a puzzle. The 
 puzzle contains tubes that carry fluid from the starting point to the end point. The tubes carrying 
 this fluid are not in order, thus you have to move them to complete the hack. Once done cameras, 
 turrets and security bots will help against all of your enemies. When hacking stores and and the 
 invention stations (you can "invent" items out of random picked up objects instead of purchasing 
 them) you are able to buy or invent with less money/items than typically needed. 
  
  So there you have it, Bioshock. It came to the PS3 a year late, but was it ever worth it. As you 
 see above the game has a ton of things to do besides advancing through a story. You can upgrade 
 weapons, plasmids and gene tonics. You can research and hack everything around you. The world is 
 so creative it will make you stop and look around. The controls so tight they are never a problem. 
 Really the only issue here, like a lot of single player games, is that there isn't much reason 
 to play twice. The game only takes 6 to 8 hours to complete and you can get the vast majority of 
 trophies through one play through. Of course to get 100% of the trophies you would need to play 
 through twice. Other than there, there isn't much reason to go back. But that doesn't mean its 
 not worth playing, it defiantly is. Go out and rent it at the very least and get ready for one 
 of the best video games you might ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-10
  Graphics-8
  Sound-10
  Replay Value-8
  
  
  BioShock is a game that for someone to understand the sheer greatness of roaming around Rapture, 
 they would have to play it first hand.
  
  Least for me after hearing all about the hype and praise its 360 counterpart got. I found it hard 
 to even find myself pretending to admire from what I saw, I never quite understood the eerieness 
 of the story and enviroments just from watching video clips. Even still with it initially being 
 a 360 exclusive I decided to just forget about it and shrug it off as another standard fps.
  
  Once its ps3 version was announced I continued my disbelief of it being a game thats really 
 anything spectacular... yet I did begin to have thoughts that it could be a game I'de enjoy, if 
 for the horror theme alone. Still, I left it a lil late with me thinking there were better titles 
 to waste my easily earned money on... games like Far Cry 2... lol... well its not bad... but its pretty 
 useless to even have it in comparison to BioShock., espeically since there very different brands 
 of FPS' altogether in fact.
  
  Yes of course I eventually got myself a copy and after only about 30 minutes into the game... I 
 now started to realise what everyone was on about. Its sheer quality, everything from its story 
 (both main and its incredibly deep backstory) to its unorthodox gameplay combinations. While its 
 amazingly immersive enviroment and atmosphere is King with the huge list of what Bioshock nails 
 perfectly, everything else is still a fine reason to give Bioshock a hella lot of love :P.
  
  BioShock on first glance would be labeled as an fps, but its so much more with that and its 
 customisation options at hand. It definatly does strive towards the fps genre but its obvious it 
 had equal effort put into its other gameplay mechanics. There is these things called plasmids, 
 which when injected into oneself can give you a many number of strange abilities. Varying from 
 setting people on fire with a click of your finger... to letting loose a whole swarm of bee's onto 
 your opponent. Theres alot to behold in terms of your plasmids, whats more though is some much 
 more passive abilities to gain through these tonics.
  They can give you plenty of unique improvements such as you giving out more damage with your wrench 
 to being able to be more resistance to fire attacks and such. Theres quite a few categorys in fact, 
 such as engineering tonics of course focus on the hacking system.
  
  The hacking system is prominent throughout and revolves around you shutting down plenty of different 
 types of machines and hacking them to gain you quite a few benefits. How it works is much like 
 pipemania, you must create a fluent path of pipes from the starting end to the finish, all the 
 while with the power constantly on the move, which basically means you have a timer. You must eventually 
 look out for not sending the power surge into any overloaded pipe circuits or even any alarm systems. 
 Its generally pretty fun and always worth it even when the hacking system will start to get a little 
 tedious.
  
  With you micromanaging your plasmids and hacking away like an ex-microsoft employee, BioShock still 
 has plenty of gunplay available. You'll come across your standard pistol, shotgun and machine-gun 
 but also come across some less common weapons such as a chemical shooter and even a crossbow. Theres 
 not too many weapons, but they each have plenty of different ammo, combining this with plasmids 
 and theres a huge variety of ways of putting your enemies down on the ground.
  
  The enemies themselves usually consist of humanoids, but theres still plenty of different types 
 of these 'humanoids' that you'll definatly need some different tactics on your belt besides 1. 
 shock dude 2. smack the freak with your wrench. You'll face plenty of different types of 'Splicers' 
 and sentry bots all with different AI patterns and weapons.
  
  The real highlight out of the enemy roster, and ones that'll force you to think fast and really 
 make use of every bullet and plasmid, is the Big Daddy's. Huge lumbering f***ers who are packed 
 with some nasty weaponry and a nasty smell apparently. Its very fortunate that there initally neutral 
 and will only attack if you attack first, but if you want to get your hands on some of that precious 
 ADAM material to buy you some more plasmids, your going to have put a bullet or 50 through alot 
 of Daddys.
  
  These Big Daddys are the bodyguards of the Little sisters, those glowy eyed brats are what you 
 need to get yah hands on for some extra ADAM, which in turn can be spent for more plasmids. Taking 
 down a Daddy though is certaintly not an easy task but as the game goes on, the amount of ammo 
 and health packs spent on taking down a Daddy is certaintly worth it.
  After a Daddy is 'finally' laid to rest, the way for you to get the ADAM is to actually steal it 
 out of the Lil sisters. Though here you have a morality choice to which you can etheir just 'harvest' 
 the lil sister completly, getting yourself a handsome amount of ADAM to spend, or rescue them from 
 their state which gets you a substantially less amount of ADAM. Its here were the multiple endings 
 are decided upon, but of course its pretty obvious doing which will get you what ending.
  None the less its yet another noice addition to BioShocks list of versatile gameplay aspects.
 
  
  So lets see you have:
  
  -Standard fps Gunplay.
  
  -Stye of gameplay customisation with the plasmids.
  
  -Hacking Minigames.
  
  -Morality 
 Choices=Multiple endings.
  
  All of which succeed incredibly well which is certaintly an impressive feat to say the least, all 
 thats missing I suppose is some action packed explosive vehicular sections... which III think... no 
 no, no vehicle segments. 
  
  Gameplay is of course an absolute win as far as I'm concerned but then again its not like everything 
 else had to slack off to make up for it.
  
  Sound is a keen example of really, just how much effort and how much blood and sweat and tax's 
 that must have come out of this.
  The voice acting for one, is sheer perfection, your character will sadly ever speak, which I usually 
 tend to dislike due to it leading to me to feel this character is hardly even a character at all, 
 yet somehow... BioShock managed to have me care Jack, (he may not talk but he least has a name) 
 you'll learn alot about yourself over the course of BioShock and again, he'll never utter a word 
 (besides a single line at the beginning) but I can still sense what type of person this 'Jack' 
 is.
  
  I suppose a silent protoganist isn't just the developers being lazy, it can also be implemented 
 to make the character seem much more intwined with yourself, he'll never speak to the characters, 
 much like you, but can still hear what they say to him. The morality choices (while still pretty 
 basic) add all that more depth into having 'Jack' played by yourself. It could of been made much 
 more substantial, but whats there still gives enough reason to actually like this character and 
 have him tweaked to how you would have him fight his way through the Splicers.
  
  Again though, even if your character doesn't speak, theres still plenty of dialogue to listen to. 
 Mostly through the taped diarys you'll come across, in fact there probably is more backstory to 
 the game than there is in terms of the main storyline, but theres still alot to be said by the 
 main characters you'll encounter.
  The soundtrack too isn't always noticable, but the 50s-60s era soundtrack is made creepy to the 
 point of having those songs never sound the same again, when coupled with BioShocks atmosphere. 
 The sound effects too are top-notch. The wrench sounds very painful when struck against a splicers 
 already disfigured face, and the same goes with the shotgun sounding as powerful as a shotgun should. 
 The plasmids all have their appropiate sounds to accompany them too. From the buzzing of bee's 
 to the sizzle of fire incinerating a splicers flesh.
  
  Graphically BioShock is very impressive too. Its enviroments are all unnerving yet even sometimes 
 beautiful at the same time to witness. Observing Rapture through a windowed hallway is an astonishing 
 feat. It really gives you the feeling theres even that much more to Rapture than what you'll get 
 to see yourself.
  BioShocks graphics may not be up as the best, but are still impressive enough for you to really 
 feel apart of the enviroments and to help make those Splicers all that more menacing.
  
  BioShock isn't exactly a very lengthy game, espiecally not if you really aim to try and beat the 
 game as fast as possible. But really, if you going to check out all the diarys, test out new plasmids, 
 take out every Big Daddy (because beleive me, each one will probably add at least another 10 mins 
 onto your gameplay time) and maybe even take your time around Rapture just to let the immersion 
 take you over, you could very easily have BioShock last you for 20+ hours. 
  But no matter how long it took you, theres still reason to return to Rapture for one more 'adventure'. 
 Multiple endings are reason enough, but theres always little things about Rapture you may have 
 missed on your first run that will surprise you on the next. The dialogue is always welcome to 
 hear again when you actually understand its excellent story.
  But theres so always so much to see and plenty of hacks to perform, whats more with so many plasmids 
 and tonics you could actually play through again just to set yourself a different set to play through 
 in a completly different manner.
  You can't start again with everything you've unlocked (least not with the ps3 exclusive dlc) but 
 on the higher difficulties you could very well be forced to create some new tactics.
  
  Plentyfull of challenging requirments for thr trophies and basically everything I've already written 
 gives BioShock some well deserved lastability.
  
  BioShock is a rather unique hybrid indeed and for executing all of these many different gameplay 
 aspects so well is reason enough to admire this excellent piece of gaming. But BioShock while still 
 a very deep and substantial game full of artistic glory, is also undeniably fun to play through, 
 multiple times, with a story that is certaintly one that has to be shared.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceetizzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not ashamed to admit Bioshock is my Big Daddy! 
  
  I had seen and heard all the high acclaim given to Bioshock by the media and gamers alike, but 
 for some reason I had never gotten around to playing it till about a year after it was originally 
 released for the PC and 360. I decided to give it a go on the PS3 because I read about the improvements 
 the developers had made to it since its initial release, and also the new "Challenge rooms" they 
 would offer as an add-on. And boy, am I glad I did!
  
  The graphics in this game are good, and the art design is superb, it has got that 1940's or 50's 
 look going on, which I liked because its different from the usual settings you find in a FPS.
 
  
  Sound is also good. The voice acting of the characters in game are well done, the sound effects 
 are great, and the old style music fit's the setting. You'll also hear some creepy and sometimes 
 funny things.
  
  Gameplay is fun. There is a large variety of weapons and powers at your disposal, and straight 
 forward or creative ways to slay enemies. The game's story is excellent, and is sure to keep you 
 entertained from beginning to end. And with different difficulty settings, the game can either 
 be a easy, normal, or extremely difficult. There's plenty of other things to do beside shooting 
 people, such as inventing , upgrading, researching, and hacking.
  
  On lasting appeal, the game should last anywhere from 15-20 hours assuming you don't try to rush 
 through it. And if you're into earning trophies, there is some very challenging ones awaiting you, 
 it should take at least two game completes to earn them all. The DLC add-on content adds to the 
 lasting appeal.
  
  So if you like first person shooters, and enjoy an entertaining and memorable creepy story, do 
 yourself a favor and pick up Bioshock. In my opinion, an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is an immersive game that enters you into the world of Rapture. The environments and atmosphere 
 are eery and extremely creepy. I have never really played a game such as this, i am more of a platformer 
 gamer, so you could imagine how shocked i was when i played this game through. The game is scary, 
 period. What lurks around every corner is horrific and stomach turning. But the gameplay is amazing 
 and the sounds and visuals are superb. My only gripes with the game was the similarity between 
 the levels towards the end of the game. Also, the lack of true boss fights, a la the final boss 
 fight. Lastly, the ending is weak, it leaves open way too many questions that could've been answered 
 while still leaving an opening for a sequel. Overall, Bioshock is a creepy classic that belongs 
 in all gamers' collections. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iHak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is realy beautiful in its ways, the way it is the blood is realy good the way it was 
 put in... when you hit a splicer on the floor (dead) with a wrench its realy well done, if you hit 
 one in its leg blood starts squirting out to make it even more realistic in its bloody ways.
  Also, i realy like the idea of having many powers like Incinerate, shocking enemies, and freezing 
 and wacking them. But some of the powers you would never use. Which is a waste IMO. 
  You can do nearly everything, hacking machines, freezing big daddys and extracing Adam out of Little 
 sisters.
  
  If this game had a online mode i would play this game day in and day out, its purely awsome. But 
 I dnot think ill ever play this game again, right through. Thats my bad point of view.
  
  The good:
  
  - Great weaponry
  - Great idea of having powers
  - Great boss battles (eg. 
 Bouncers, Rosies)
  - Having your own camera :D
  - Great Story
  - Great visuals and graphics
  
  The bad:
  
  - No online play D:
  - Would not be able 
 to play through again, IMO
  
  I would give this game a 8.5/10 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a almost perfect game, but like ive said before its not perfect. There is still a lag 
 on some parts of the game mostly when theres alot of enemies, more specifically the big daddies. 
 Its also dissapointing that Sony (tm lol) didnt think of somthing new like online play, now thatd 
 be awesome ^_^!!! There is another dificulty mode called Survivor with just simply as it may immply 
 makes the game harder. Theres also some downloadable content but beside that Bioshock is still 
 the old scare the crap out of you game. Yeah so go get it its awesome you wont regret it or download 
 the demo and see if you like it i dont know just play it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a first-person shooter which takes place in an underwater "utopia" known as Rapture. 
 Created by a man named Andrew Ryan, Rapture was an ideal city to live in, free of government and 
 rules, until the birth of plasmids. Plasmids are powerups which rewrite the genetic code of a human 
 being granting them superhuman abilities such as shooting fire or ice from your fingertips or using 
 telekinesis to control objects, yet overuse of these plasmids cause the once normal inhabitants 
 of Rapture to be transformed into disturbingly gruesome monsters known as splicers. After the transformation, 
 Rapture became a underwater hell, crazed citizens would do anything for plasmids and adam (considered 
 as a benign type of cancer which allows the use of plasmids, carried mainly by Little Sisters who 
 are in turn protected by Big Daddies) . The story revolves around you, a normal man who has to fight 
 through waves of hardships to get out of the godforsaken city. 
  The graphics in Bioshock are great, you may encounter occasional texture popping and framerate 
 slowdowns but none of these slight problems deter from the overall experience. The water effects 
 in particular are extremely impressive. 
  Gameplay is what you'd expect from an FPS, you are given the standard array of weapons; a pistol, 
 machine gun, shotgun, grenades and your wrench which acts as a melee weapon, a very brutal and 
 gory melee weapon. What really makes Bioshock special though are the plasmids, the special items 
 send different types of abilities rushing through your veins such as lightning which can fry enemies 
 and the damage is even stronger on enemies in water, fire which can be used several times to increase 
 damage, ice which can be used to freeze your enemies which can then be shattered into pieces. The 
 plasmids add originality and fun to the game and make it truly unique, you'll need to strategize 
 which plasmids you use on which enemies in order to cause the most damage.
  Overall Bioshock is a stellar title which should not be missed by any FPS fan or any gamer who 
 is looking for an original and highly entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanashiro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  BioShock came first for the Xbox360, in 2007. And now, on the PS3, the series is as amazing as on 
 the X360.
  You were on a plane, but it crashed in the middle of the ocean. You see a tower, and when you get 
 in there, you go to a city under the sea, Rapture. But after the people of the city consumed a lot 
 of ADAM, that can give you powers, they got crazy, and if one of them see you, they'll atack you, 
 without thinking twice. So, then your weapons get usefull. You can use some guns, and you also have 
 plasmids. With plasmids, you can but people on fire, freeze them, eletrocute them and even move 
 things with Telekinesis.
  The story sounds fantastic, and with the game, you'll learn more about Rapture, and what happened 
 there. The sound's perfect, it make's the game a little more scary. Graphics? Awesome, the blood is 
 very real. But make yourself a favor, do not play it for too much time, or you won't fell very well. Headache, 
 and other things, maybe because of the blood.
  So, Bioshock is fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Finally, after a year the PS3 gets one of the 360's best games of 2007. Bioshock really is a great 
 game with a great story and great environment but also does have its flaws. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- Bioshock really does break off from the traditional first person shooter experience 
 and although it technically is an FPS, it feels different. Enemies come in many varieties and require 
 different guns and strategies to kill. There are splicers that just charge and beat you with wrenches, 
 splicers that shoot and throw grenades at you, and splicers that climb walls and teleport to different 
 locations. Also there are Big Daddies, one of the most unique and difficult enemies in any videogame 
 I have ever played. Big Daddies protect little girls called little sisters and to get to the sisters, 
 you must kill the Daddies, who are not only the greatest armored enemies in the game but also do 
 the greatest damage to you. If you kill the Daddy, you can choose whether to kill the sister or 
 let her live, which will affect the ending and how much ADAM you get, which you can use ADAM to 
 buy different perks and powers. You have your basic weapons like the pistol and shotgun and unique 
 weapons like the bow and grenade launcher. You can upgrade your weapons and also change to 3 different 
 types of ammo per gun. You can take pictures to research your enemies and gain perks. You also 
 gain plasmids and tonics which are pretty much different powers such as electrocute enemies, freeze 
 enemies, hypnotize enemies and damage resistance and such. There are over 50 plasmids and tonic 
 upgrades in the game which can be found or bought with ADAM. You get money for killing enemies 
 and you can use this money to buy health kits or ammo. Also you can invent your own types of ammo 
 with the right supplies. You can hack locks and cameras to work for you. There is just so much 
 variety in this game and it features mixed elements between an RPG, an adventure, and FPS. However, 
 your character does loose health pretty quickly on medium mode and up, and I don't really care 
 much for the vital chamber system where every time you die you just respawn at one. Another thing 
 is some weapons are slightly underpowered while others are way too overpowered, and I did find 
 a lot of pointless tonics and plasmids in this game as well. The story was done very well and gets 
 you in the perfect mood for this games perfect atmosphere. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- The atmosphere of this game is nicely done and really feels like you are under the 
 sea. There is a great variety of different areas as well as enemy models. Overall this game has 
 one of the greatest environments I've every seen and the graphics were done very well, they remind 
 me much of Condemned 2's style. However, character models do kind of look clayish and funny. 
 
  
  Sound 10/10- The soundtrack is amazing and the licensed music from the 40s and 50s really sets 
 up the great mood for this great game. Voice acting was done very well and sound effects are perfect. 
 
  
  Value 7/10- This game doesn't really offer great replay. You do have the option to travel back 
 to different areas in the game but once you clear the area out there is not much reason to go back 
 except for exploring really. Threre are trophies and harder difficulty modes and an expansion pack, 
 which I still need to buy, but this game has really no reason to replay once you make it to the 
 end and you will most likely be starting a new file. Once you kill Big Daddies and deal with the 
 little sisters, they don't respawn and same goes for the bosses. Sure there is a lot to explore 
 and lots of plasmids, tonics, and items to invent, but once you've made it to the end, these have 
 little use since splicers aren't as common when you return to the areas you've already explored. 
 This game can easily be beaten under 10 hours the first playthrough so if you are playing this 
 for the first time, DO NOT PLAY ON EASY. I played the game through a second time on easy and found 
 enemies to be very weak and dying to be very, very hard. I could take on Big Daddies with a machine 
 gun, and I didn't die once. Also, explore a lot. This game will not last long if you follow the 
 quest arrow the whole way. Trust me, this game is shorter than you think. Enemy AI is much better 
 on hard or survivor and you will feel more accomplished and earn more trophies. The game is actually 
 challenging on those two modes. Normal mode is okay and somewhat hard, but I wish I would have 
 played through on hard my first time.
  
  Tilt 8/10- Overall, Bioshock offers a lot of unique content and does have a love of great moments 
 but is very short and offers little replay. The expansion pack and challenge rooms are out there 
 for only ten dollars, and I'll probably end up buying it sometime next week. Still, this game does 
 feature lots of elements that many shooters do not and Big Daddies are one of the greatest enemies 
 brought to the gaming universe. I feel this game accomplishes its overall goal though of telling 
 a great, unique, and interesting story and features a dark and mysterious under water atmosphere, 
 which is what this game is all about. Rent it first however, because you may find this game too 
 short, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  when i was small, i was soooooooooooo scared to play this game, but i wanted to at the same time, i 
 kept watching youtube videos until i got my bravery up lol, and then, when i overcame my fear, i was 
 glued to the ps3 and tv lol, when my parents said get off that now!!!!! i said 5 more min let me 
 beat this level and then..... 2 hours later....... what did i tell you!!!!??? lol i loved this game 
 sooooo much! still do, this baby is old school! you can set traps, hypnotize your enemies, shoot ice 
 and bees and fire and electricity through your arms!!!!!!!! come on! its a great game! the only 
 thing that makes this game scary is that the enemies come outta nowhere and thats about it, surrounding 
 TRY to spook you, but it never works. but this game is not for kids!!!!! please listen to me parents, unless 
 you want your kid screaming in the middle of the night calling for you and you come in his room 
 and say what happened and he says a big daddy is coming after me! aghh!!! splicers!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock.... a survival-horror-fps. A one of a kind. You're set in a dark underwater city. The 
 game is set in dark rooms, where the corners are even darker than the dark in which you can see. 
 This game game is dark. Sometimes there's even water seeping into the cracks of the walls, which 
 within it's confines you fight the crazed citizens of Rapture. Enough with the games beautiful 
 graphics! The music is show tunes and popular music from the 1920's-1940... well, around there 
 anyway. The gameplay itself is thrilling and fast-paced when the enemies pop out of the dark corners 
 of just about every room. The gameplay might be so good because this game actually has smart enemies. 
 They even try to heal themselves! But the big daddy of all the smart enemies is the big daddy. 
 They're the protectors of screwed up little girls. After you kill these armored giants, you can 
 actually kill the child!!! I've only once killed a child in a video game before, in ultimate spider-man!! 
 Anywho... There's many different kinds of ammo and different weapons you can collect and create! 
 There's a mix of gunplay and 'magic', where you can zap and enemy and deal the finishing blow, 
 creating some interesting, fun gameplay. There's also a neat, fun, hard mini-game that allows you 
 to hack machines!! Overall, this game is extremely difficult!! you will die many times even if 
 you're playing on easy or normal! So if youre looking for a fun, thrilling, difficult, different 
 fps, this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  BioShock was basically promised as the second coming of God... a first person shooter with so much 
 deph to storyline, actions that create infinitely different scenarios, and atmosphere that creates 
 the mood of the game. Suffice it to say, its a great game... but the overkill of the hype made me 
 so disappointed when I actually played it. 
  
  As much as people hyped about how deep the gameplay was, I found it to reflect that of so many 
 other countless shooters that confound all the current gen. systems. You point and shoot at anything 
 and everything that moves, proceed to the next level, and repeat. Sure, you hack robots, you upgrade 
 via plasmids, you get different weapons etc. but it all comes down to point and shoot. What else 
 is new?
  
  The design of the game was unique... a creepy underwater metropolis gone horribly insane. The graphics 
 were good too, just not as great as everyone said. Its got a cartoonish look where everyone looks 
 like weird plastic dolls, Its on the same par as Resistance yet nobody hypes about the graphics 
 of that game. 
  
  The storyline was... interesting. That's the only word I can think of. To me, it was think of all 
 the craziest s**t you can think of, put it together, and try to make it work. Even though I wasn't 
 won over by that aspect, I do love the theme of the arc that humans who defy natural process is 
 doomed to fall. 
  
  OVERALL... it's your everyday shooter wrapped in a bizarre, F**ed up storyline. I'd rather play 
 COD4, Halo 1, or even the upcoming Killzone 2 to satisfy my shooter needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrme03
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  So you want to check out this review aye? well. here you goo. This is BIOSHOCK. And you play as 
 ummm well i don't know who you play as. but a man. And a man who obviously does not get scared. 
 but this game i only had 1 complaint i could not understand the map. it was just arrows. going 
 back and forth.
  
  But this game has a lot of good. you get to do a lot. want to set someone on fire? electrocute 
 them when they are in water? Or send a swarm of killer bee's after them. or through they're own 
 grenades at them? In this game you can. And the boss battles. WOW they are good. And a lot of times 
 hard. But hey isn't that how they are suppose to be. And well it is by 2k. Which makes sports games. 
 Lots And Lots of sports games. but this made me think hmmmmm. Wow they can do anything they could 
 make a game about a bunny and a chicken fun. lol. But this is my opinion but i got more than i 
 thought i was going to get in this game. And also. It is just fun. So pick it up. And well have 
 fun. And tell your family you will see them later. Way Way Way Way! later. 
  
  
  Thank you.
  sincerely
  X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivaz66
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  biosock its trilling experience for any gamer even of you dont enjoy first person shooters its 
 gonna shock you its more of a suvival horror acction game but thats not what make this game unique, 
 wll let star whit the story you start like this nameles character who in strange situation ends 
 up in plane crash so you go to tower that you find near the crash and enter an underawater lost 
 city something like antlantis but well this city was build in the late 40 by a guy that wish to 
 build a place when non governamenta organisations or religious opressed the cientis artis and great 
 mind ti proced whit their reseach its kinda cool how ths history its devolp cause all the talking 
 happends while youre playing kinda real time history, wll now the gameplay its another grat apsct 
 of this game and i must admit at firs hours that play biosock i wasnt liken it , it feel so strange, 
 but then evfrithing click i started to get it its kinda complicated how you use the plasmas and 
 upgrade you weapons but at the end you gonna now its a fine game well i not much to writting alot 
 this day so well mary christmas and take care i recomend this game if you want something diferent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: BioShock is a first-person shooter set in a fantasy city of Rapture, a metropolis built 
 under the sea by the megalomaniacal Andrew Ryan. So to start things off in this game, your plane 
 smacking into the ocean and your character having to take refuge in Rapture to survive. Irrational 
 plays on the conventions of the first-person perspective. You soon find out yourself in a under 
 water city fighting against mutated people and BigDaddy's to get to the little sisters to get adam 
 to upgrade yourself at vending machines. There are many diffrent guns such as the tommy gun and 
 granade launcher and powers which are fire, telecanesis and electricity. The whole point of this 
 game besides hacking and modifying plasmids to improve powers is finding the mystery of what is 
 going really going on in Rapture, and of course there is a big boss fight at the end where you 
 must fight this big daddy. The gameplay is pretty much like system shock 2 accept with powers and 
 styles being diffrent.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game is very nice to look at. (what game is't these days) The movements 
 of the characters are smooth and lighting is well lit for the type of game that it is. 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack/sound effects of this game is well done. Everything sound the way it should 
 sound and the voice acting in this game is quite well done aswell. At times when it's dark all 
 the creepy sounds really get to you escpecally if you don't know whats around the corner. so yes, 
 no complaints here. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a very good game with a good narrative/story to keep you wanting to find 
 out more about whats going on and what happend. gameplay is quite fun and sound is great to listen 
 to and really creep you out at times and the game is great to look at. The only thing I did not 
 really like the lack of challange when it comes to fighting the big daddy's because you can die 
 countless amout of time and come back in this tank with no reprocutions and continue fighting. 
 I give this game 9.0 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say the story is top notch and a lot of history, in both the religious 
 and science department, was catered too. The only problem is to actually follow the story and get 
 the feel of the game, you must listen to tape recordings which gets tiring after a while because 
 in game voices are low and static like which make it hard to understand what the tape or radio 
 transmisson is trying to tell you. Considering that the Rapture was a place where both government 
 and religion were nonexistent, it was inevitable that chaos would transpire and that is exactly 
 the case. So pretty much I am a genetic freak who was made in the rapture and sent to the surface 
 once a rebillion has started in the Rapture. My plane crashes and I enter the Rapture. I then meet 
 a man named Atlas who pretty much tricks me into to doing favors for his own benefit. The game 
 then takes a turn, and that is when the game gets interesting because the story drives the game 
 along with its unique and creative gameplay. The story how ever is told very well with beautiful 
 in game score that is award winning. 
  
  When your plane crashes in the ocean and you then are transported underwater, you may be left confused 
 about what is going on, but once you get to the pre-ending and actual ending, the game becomes 
 more appreciatable because you really see how deep the story is. Also once you replay the game, 
 everything makes more sense and you notice things that you did not see before. The graphics are 
 nice and the water effects are nice as well. The gameplay though is the best part of the game because 
 one hand is used for gunplay while the other is used to dish out fire, electricity, ice, etc. It 
 all can be combined to create a unique way to attack the game and create your own experience. The 
 games is full of the puzzles which are fun too, but I think one of the annoying things in this 
 games is actually having to find villians and material that are mandatory to complete a mission. 
 You do not know where you are suppose to go, but I guess it create an exploring bonus which makes 
 the game more enjoyable and appreciatable based on difficulty. 
  
  Overall, the game was fun and weird at the same time and it was something I have never played before 
 creating an experience unmatched. It is creative in the sense that I can use weapons and lighting 
 at the sametime to kill an opponent. The execution of the story is sometimes weak because you have 
 to listen to tape recordings, but the content of the story overall is a memorable and deep. The 
 in game score creates atmosphere as good as Dead Space, though this game came out before Dead Space, 
 so Dead Space capitalized on Bioshocks idea. Overall the gameplay and story are classic. The story 
 is deep, honest, and intense. The gameplay is just fun as hell. The only thing bad about this game 
 is the world was kind of unbelievable, but this does not ruin the experience. Security systems 
 around the game kind of become an annoyance, but it also adds to the difficulty of the game making 
 it more strategic which is always good. Must play game, because with some many wack games flooding 
 the market, this is one of the games that deliver, justl ike most of the Fall 2008 releases. Best 
 time is own either a Xbox 360 or PS3. This games make someone who owns a PS3 more valuable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game for the ps3. The scary aspect of the game isn't really that high but 
 the replay value that it has is something that anyone should be able to look into and to enjoy.
 
  
  story: the story is that your plane you were in was hit down and you have to venture into Rapture 
 to try to find a way out but, you find out that it is infested with the disgruntled inhabitants 
 that used to live there. So you find your way out by killing and trying to survive by any means 
 necessary.
  
  endings: don't worry! I'm not saying the ending. There are 2 endings you can get is all I am going 
 to say about this one.
  
  game play: you will find yourself alone almost all of the time with no help. Sometimes when you 
 are about to get help from someone it turns into them dying or them running away and you having 
 to find them again. But, it still is a really terrific game to play for how crazy the fights are 
 against the big daddies in the hardest mode. The only problem is that you never really die you 
 come back to life at a checkpoint area you started.
  
  setting: the looks of the place will make you wanna play more and more of this game which is exactly 
 what happened to me :P. 
  
  No matter what fan of games you are you will love this game for how clever and talented the people 
 are who made it. Or at least that is what I thought about this masterpiece of a game.
  
  Kind of long Review here so, long story short, the game is a game that is good in any aspect. Thank 
 you for reading this and watch out for those big daddies they pack a hard punch to their attacks 
 ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a first-person shooter set in an underwater Vegas-like city called Rapture 1956. The 
 whole town has gone to hell and all of it's citizens are killing each other. It is up to you to 
 save it. Even though the game acts like a shooter, it plays more like an RPG in certain elements.
 
  
  Gameplay-The story kicks off by a plane crash, and you are somehow sucked into an underwater metropolis 
 that teams with energy and chaos. Clowns and messed up women are always looking to kill you and 
 you have to find your way through many big halls and tunnels. There are several weapons to get, 
 and all of them are slightly upgradeable. When you upgrade them, they even show up visually which 
 is nice. Not only are there weapons; there are also spells and abilities. In fact, spells can be 
 upgraded more than weapons and there are more spells and abilities. This, along with the graphics 
 sort of remind me of oblivion, which is a good thing. The enemies are very cool too. They hop around 
 walls and look like old 1950's maids except covered in blood. Turrets and cameras also are everywhere, 
 but you can hack them, just like vending machines (which lets you buy abilities, health, and ammo) . 
 If you hack them, they work for you and will attack your enemies. Hacking does get a little old 
 after a while though. This is extremely useful and satisfying to you. The most memorable characters 
 are the Big Daddies, which are big people in old-fashioned scuba diving suits. They are tough and 
 are accompanied by little sisters. Throughout the game, you will find many of these girls, and 
 when you kill the Daddy, you can decide to harvest them for ADAM (currency to buy spells) or to 
 save them for lest ADAM. This will influence the end of the game, which is pretty cool. It adds 
 incentive to play the game twice. The coolest part of all of this game is the atmosphere. It looks 
 so unique and just screams New York, or Vegas in the WWII era. Huge pillars and elegant staircases 
 inhabit the areas. Bioshock does a nice job of mixing it up. There are even some chinese town markets 
 and forested areas. The cool part is that even with all this really cool stuff, you can always 
 look out a window and see the ocean and skyscrapers shooting up into the sea. This game has the 
 coolest and most unique atmosphere I've ever seen in a game.
  
  Graphics-This game is gorgeous, and just the sheer variety of things to see and play with (most 
 of the environment is interactive) , makes it one of the best looking games out there, even if some 
 animations stutter or the textures aren't the best. There aren't that many glitches and the water 
 looks fabulous. Lighting is also top notch as well.
  
  Sound- The voicework is exceptional in this and there are tons of sound tracks in the game. Everything 
 makes a unique noise and you will soon recognize the sound of Big Daddies in the halls and waterfalls. 
 The best part is that there are tons of old songs scattered throughout the game, with record players 
 and jukeboxes playing them. A lot are from Django Reinhart which is interesting but awesome.
  
  Value-This is the one area where the game suffers a little bit. Even thought the champaign 
 is very long and two slightly different endings can occur, the shooting gets a little repetitive. 
 Plus, the guns can mostly be upgraded in one run and there aren't any unlockable secrets. The main 
 reason to play it again would be the exploring aspect and small details missed in the first playthrough. 
 Still worth a buy though, definately a rent.
  
  Bioshock is more than just a first person shooter. It is an adventure that sends you back in time 
 to a unique world. The whole theme and setting is so immersive you will love this game by the end. 
 It's a must play and I couldn't be happier it came to the PS3. It will stay around for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clientel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a first person shooter with an extra. The extra is that you can upgrade your character 
 in a certain type of such as shooting fireballs , freezes , bees, and telekinesis from he's hands 
 which also contain elemental enviromentals attacks that can support his combat. 
  The game has a bit of lack when coming to combat because the only weapons that you will be able 
 to use are weapons like revolvers ,machine guns, shotguns , grenade launchers , flamthrowers and 
 etc. The plasmids (referrng to the elements) causes an additional ripple into bioshocks gameplay. 
 
  The enviroments are also set in the age of the 20th century... So expect jazz music and blues playing 
 around the hallways of bioshock underwater city, Rapture.
  Rapture is a city underwater which contains people whom are rich and free from religion, war and 
 economy. Created by a man named Andrew Ryan, he said that defying everything somewhat god. Things 
 eventually get bad when the power struggle of junkies called splicers needs ADAM a source which 
 was founded by scientists in Rapture which contain superhuman. 
  And so the war against ADAM begins causing a single man named Jack to defy the odds... Heres the 
 question , Will Jack save the city which was once callled Rapture or become part of it... The choice 
 is yours to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:03 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, I discussed with my parents about BioShock and how immersive it is. I bought it 
 on its launch day and when I played it, I was wondering what made BioShock so superb. I made a 
 second attempt of completing the game and I discovered that the graphics an the atmosphere really 
 created one of the most expanded worlds in gaming (Well, not to S. T. A. L. K. E. R. level, of course, 
 considering that it's a open-ended FPS) . The only downside is that if only the level structure 
 wasn't in the way and I hoped that there wasn't much recycling in enemy type since some of them 
 looks identical in appearance, but, some has different bullet resistance levels and it can sometimes 
 become frustrating. Despite that, the game is relatively easy unless you're playing on the new 
 Survivor difficulty level that 2K Games recently included in the PS3 port. Overall, Bioshock is 
 a game that MUST be experienced. It's not COD 4 or Halo 3 in terms of pace, but considering that 
 BioShock is a story-oriented shooter just like other masterpieces like Half-Life, that is a very 
 good thing. Games like COD5 and Resistance 2 are popular in the Middle East (Yes, I live there) , 
 but BioShock deserves a LARGER audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  When Bioshock was released last year, it shook the very foundations of what was believed console 
 games could achieve. Not only did it have production value which shot through the roof but presented 
 its players with a character that very few games introduce; the city itself. The lost metropolis 
 of Rapture was truly the star of the show. Its opulent atmosphere, dripping with despair and tension 
 sucked players in and almost single-handedly helped immerse players into the elaborate story of 
 the Bioshock world. The only question is does this one year old classic still have the legs to 
 wow a new audience?
  
  The story of Bioshock has not change since its last outing. You play as Jack, a man destined for 
 great things, including turbulence. After his trans-Atlantic flight crashes into the ocean, Jack 
 finds himself next to an ominous light house, stranded in the middle of nothingness. Entering this 
 structure leads Jack to the entrance of Rapture, a city built on the ambitions of a wealthy man 
 seeking to free himself from the mortality of the world above the ocean's murky depths. Unfortunately, 
 as with everything that aims for the stars, the fall is always tragic. What was once a thriving 
 city, built on technology and the godly ambitions of its residents, has been reduced to a shell 
 of crime and addiction. The once glorious residents of the city are now reduced to hunt for Adam, 
 a powerful substance that not only empowers but corrupts its users. This is the world that Bioshock 
 presents the player. A dystopian world; filled with misery and terror.
  
  Visually, the PS3 version looks just as detailed as it's console sibling on the Xbox 360, that 
 is to say, stunning. The art direction in this game is second to none, with every little detail 
 of the city designed to capture the player's imagination. Rapture was designed as a city and never 
 feels confined or restrictive. The player is invited to search through the many districts of the 
 city, scrounging for ammo or other items. That said, it is a shame that even with an extra year 
 of development, the texture pop in that plagued the Xbox version still returns to this version, 
 even though to a slightly less degree.
  
  As powerful as the visuals are in Bioshock, the audio presentation trumps it. The voice acting 
 set industry standards when it was first released and the same voice work is in cooperated into 
 this port. The audio dairies that litter Rapture tease the fall of the city as they detail the 
 back story. The ambient sounds tease of a crumbling city, caped in dread and the rousing orchestral 
 score brings everything together, immersing the player in one of the most believable gaming worlds 
 to date.
  
  Unfortunately, the PS3 version of the game offers very little to entice previous players of Bioshock 
 to pick it up again. It includes all the extra content introduced in the PC version, extra tonics 
 and plasmids, and also includes the much talked about exclusive challenge rooms. These rooms give 
 the player objective based missions separate from the games story and add some legs to the game's 
 15 hour story mode. As entertaining as these extras are, they do little to mask the fact that this 
 is the same game Xbox and PC gamers enjoyed before.
  
  If you have not tasted this gem of gaming goodness before, get ready to hold your breath and dive 
 beneath the oceans waves, Rapture waits, but if you've toured the streets of Rapture before, there 
 is very little to warrant a return tour.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was a masterpiece. This has it all for every gamer. The story line was so interesting 
 it kept you going through out the whole game. There is a big twist in the game that will make your 
 jaw drop. The game play along with the controls are great. There are so many was to costumize your 
 weapons. Besides that you have something called plasmids. Plasmids are these crazy powers you get. 
 These are very entertaining killing your enemys. There are so many ways to complete levels. The 
 Enemys you encounter are creepy and crazy. The enemy A. I. is the best i have ever seen. You really 
 have to think whats the best way to take down each enemy. You do not no what they will do next. 
 The Big Daddy is one of the coolest charectors you will ever encounter on a video game but beware 
 if you try taking down one of these bad boys make sure you are packing some heat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Damm, i don`t know where to start with this one, it`s just freaking awesome! Bisohock on the PS3 
 is definately worth a pickup, even a year after being releashed on the PC and the 360.
  
  The story is that you play as this guy called Jack, who`s on an airplane flying over the atlantic, 
 the plane crashes right next to a lighthouse, you go inside and you find an old rusting bathysphere, 
 and you desend into an underwater city called Rapture. It`s a good plot, it might not sound like 
 it but you have to play the game to find out what i mean about the plot, especially since your 
 hit with one hell of a twist near the end. I won`t spoil it for you, you`ll just have to find out 
 for yourself.
  
  Onto the actual gameplay, the graphics are amazing! Every single thing is highly detailed, but 
 for me, it`s the water effects that steal the graphics show. The water is some of the most well 
 done i`ve ever seen in a game. Again, you have to see it to believe it.
  
  The sound is also prety good, not a lot to say that can describe the sound, you have to listen 
 to it to know what i mean.
  
  Onto the actual gameplay, you might notice that this game borows heavily from its predesesor, system 
 shock 2: the mutants in that game are now the splicers in this game, the powers in that game are 
 now the plasmids in bioshock and the wrench in system shock 2 is now... well, a wrench, but it`s 
 a different kind of wrench.
  
  There are definatly a few scare moments in this game like in one scene, you grab a tonic and an 
 audio diary but what happens when you turn around? Yeah: P "Holy s***" I won`t tell you where this 
 scene happens, but it will catch you off guard, guarenteed.
  
  And speaking of audio diaries, they are things laying around that can give you information like 
 keycodes, but they mostly just serve to tell you the backstory of Rapture. They are really intrested 
 to listen to.
  
  And also for the tonics, well lets talk about all the plasmids and tonics: the plasmids are special 
 things that give you special powers like telekenisis, setting people on fire, and even being able 
 to.. shoot bees out the vains in your arms?!?!?!? "What the hell???" Yes text, wierd, i know.
  
  The tonics on the other hand are special stats like being able to withstand more more damage, 
 dealing more electrical damage, making hacking easier and all the other stuff, you get the idea.
 
  
  Both of these you can either find laying around or by doing evil things to little girls, or maybe 
 being softly, softly with them, if you want more plasmids and tonics you can`t buy.
  
  The way this works is that there are these things called gatherer`s gardens around, and you need 
 this stuff called "ADAM" to buy the stuff and the only way you can get ADAM, you have to deal with 
 these little girls wandering round with these big diving suit guys called big daddies, you just 
 have to kill the big daddy and then what you do to the girl is up to you: you can rescue her for 
 80 ADAM but you get extra bonuses, or you can kill them getting 160 ADAM but no bonus.
  
  There are two endings (well, 3 actually but one of them is just a sad overtone of the bad ending) 
 which you get from harvesting (killing) or rescuing the little sisters (those little girls) I won`t 
 ruin them for you.
  
  Overall, Bioshock is a great game that you should not pass on. I recomend you go buy it, no, scratch 
 that, i DEMAND you go buy it. If you don`t buy it, i might come round to your house and remove 
 some of your teeth. Im not saying i will, but i MIGHT do.
  
  Final score:
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  Sound: 5/5
  
  Gameplay: 5/5
  
  Entertainment: 4/5
  
  Overall: 
 19/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Bioshock has been out on Xbox 360 and PC for a good year now and it finally found its way to PlayStation 
 3 which is as good as it gets.
  The frame rates are mostly rock solid, graphics are very good with exception of little bloom effect 
 which takes few minutes to get use to and my personal only downside that I believe could had been 
 avoided if developers spent more time with the system. It's nothing ground-breaking that will make 
 you not to enjoy the game, however I believe with todays HD TV's and powerful console, we should 
 have clear resolution textures. 
  
  For those who haven't played the game already, you're aboard the plane which crashes into the middle 
 of ocean. You survive the crash and swim towards what seems to be a lighthouse. From there on your 
 adventure begins.
  
  Once you're involved into underwater utopia you will instantly get involved into one of the best 
 first person shooters on the market. The gameplay is excellent, you can play the game with run 
 and gun method, however Bioshock is very enjoyable when you use your environment and abilities 
 against your foes.
  
  This could mean from hacking security cameras and turrets which will attack any foe giving you 
 time to sneak by or land a crashing blow with little ammo use to using your very own "plasmids".
 
  
  Plasmids are genetically changed code that you inject yourself with very early into the game. By 
 gathering "Adam", it will fuel your plasmids allowing you to chose your favorite ones.
  
  This ranges from setting foes on fire to creating holograms. 
  
  Bioshock is definitely different 
 then traditional FPS, plasmids, adam and weapons that you will use are very enjoyable and strategic. 
 It depends on your playstyle, but there are quite a few different approaches to any situations. 
 Bioshock feels like FPS game but it definitely has RPG elements.
  
  The world of Bioshock is something that got me hooked for over 20+ hours. While the game on first 
 play through should last about 12-15 hours, it has a lot to offer from exploration standpoint.
 
  
  If you look hard enough, you can have all of your weapons upgraded before the game ends and you 
 can also visit previous locations once you discovered them. 
  The atmosphere is what really stands out, you really feel you are inside the underwater city where 
 leaks are constant, long water hallways have cracked windows, water if trying to break through, 
 nuts and bolts are falling apart.
  You can also use the environment in your battles- Low on ammo? Track the enemies to follow you 
 to water and shock them with electricity, while they are stunt, smack them with your trusty wrench, 
 or you can use pool of liquid to set it on fire.
  
  How you play it is open to you. That's what makes Bioshock so unique and appealing. The game is 
 very gory, Adam turned many inhabitants into lunatics and the game isn't hiding it either.
  
  Blood is no small amount, gruesome deaths and experiments are detailed and in few occasions, 
 the game will scare you nicely.
  
  The story of Bioshock is also well done, with one major twist that you simply didn't expect, it's 
 a mature game with mature story.
  If you want to know more of what happen to this city, look out for many hidden audio logs. 
  
 They tell many stories and are all very well voice acted and will expand the story even further.
 
  
  As of writing of this review PlayStation 3 version includes extra downloadable content. The price 
 is set to 9.99$ and it offers additional missions that are set in the same atmosphere as Bioshock 
 but are not in any way continuing the original game story.
  The missions are separate mode that sets you up with various challenges and puzzles where you have 
 to use your mind to overcome majority of the game.
  There are also missions where plenty of gunning is required so everyone will find something to 
 enjoy. Trophies are of course supported in both versions.
  The game takes little over 4.5GB of space to install and it plays, looks and sounds phenomenal.
 
  
  If you haven't had a chance to play Bioshock before and were sceptic about it, rest assured - PS3 
 version is excellent in every way and deserves to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Just finished this game and let me just say that was a great experience. I love these kind of games 
 that have such a rich and rewarding environment to go off and explore outside of the main storyline. 
 I had so much enjoyment just walking around in this underwater city so full of atmosphere and exploring 
 things off on my own. 
  
  Of course the main gameplay and storyline were wonderful too. Usually after playing for a few hours, 
 I would find myself thinking about the story even after I turned the game off. That's very rare 
 a game sticks with me like that.
  
  I love that there was not a huge sense of urgency and they let you go off and explore on your own, 
 without losing track of the main storyline. A great job of balancing was done to not allow too 
 much freedom where you become lost and overwhelmed, at the same time not just holding your hand 
 either.
  
  In summary, a very high recommendation from me, and I must say I am really looking forward to the 
 sequel that is hinted at during the end credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  BioShock is an intriguing game. It's a breath of intelligent fresh air in a sea of derivative shooters. 
 Not one part of it feels like it has been copied; every part adds up to create a truly incredible 
 game.
  
  Your character, Jack, begins on a plane flying across the Atlantic Ocean. Where you are going, 
 where you came from and why you are on the plane is not revealed... yet.
  
  "My parents told me: 'Son, you're special. You were born to do 
  great things.' You know what? 
 They were right"
  
  With that, the plane crashes into the ocean. You now take control of your character, swimming and 
 ending up on a mysterious island, with a lighthouse sticking up.
  
  You enter the lighthouse, go into a bathysphere, and end up in "Rapture", a paradise gone wrong.
 
  
  Right from the beginning, the game grips you. What happened to Rapture? Who is Atlas? How do you 
 get out of here? All of these questions are answered in due time, but with every question answered, 
 three more spring up.
  
  Splicers are the primary enemy in the game. These come in different varieties, each with different 
 attacks and behaviour. Thuggish Splicers will run up and melee you, while Nitro Splicers attack 
 you with grenades. 
  
  In addition to these, we have the Big Daddies. These lumbering giants protect Little Sisters, twisted 
 little girls who collect ADAM. Why these Little Sisters exist is another of BioShock's mysteries.
 
  
  As well as numerous guns, such as a machine gun, shotgun and crossbow, you have access to powers 
 called Plasmids. These are bought with the ADAM you gain from Little Sisters, and are generally 
 offensive, such as Electro Bolt and Bee Swarm. A strategy incorporating both Plasmids and weapons 
 is essential for surviving Rapture.
  
  The visual design is excellent, really giving the impression of a twisted city and instilling suspense. 
 The graphical quality is very good, but a few textures need some work.
  
  The sound is clear, sound effects are appropriate, the soundtrack is fitting and voice acting is 
 diverse and excellent.
  
  The SELECT menu screen feels authentic, and even the pause screen looks like it is from the 1950s, 
 when the game is set. A variety of options can be tweaked to change the game.
  
  After you have finished the game, you will want to go through again, to get the other ending. You 
 will want to go through several more times to collect all of the available trophies. After all 
 this, there are challenge rooms to download which will take you several hours to complete.
  
  BioShock is a truly excellent game, one which I can recommend to anybody not easily disturbed.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Presentation: 9.5/10 
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.6/10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhsdrake
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 38/40
  
  The gamplay mechanic of having a choice between traditional FPS weapons and 'genetic powers' from 
 your hand is brilliant. Using weapons and genetic powers in tandem is very fun and has an element 
 of strategy to it. The levels are set up in an old school manner, almost platformer like where 
 you have to progress past a series of rooms to get to the next level. The gameplay is very addictive 
 and despite being original and unique it is very easy to pick up. 
  
  Graphics/Presentation 17/20
  
  The whole game design is very memorable and pretty with attractive 
 settings complimented by a good framerate. The character animations and expressions are part of 
 what makes this game so distinct. When you think of Bioshock you think of the 'Big Daddies', which, 
 along with all of the other in-game enemies are a joy to shoot at! The game's physics are designed 
 to be just slightly more exagerrated than 'realistic' which is suitable to the story and gameplay.
 
  
  Campaign/Story 19/20
  
  The game's story is deep and well-thought out with clear intentions of a sequel. The story is based 
 in the 1950's and does very well to describe a twisted underwater city that has gone horribly wrong. 
 The game's campaign will immerse you from the 1st hour and offers the player different 'moral-based' 
 choices which actually affect the gameplay.
  
  Value 7/10
  
  The game is a reasonable length. There is no multiplayer but this is not an issue I think the game 
 is better of without it. Whilst on one hand Im glad that the developers did not drag the game on 
 because the story was well told and you will want more after playing the game, I do still think 
 that the game was a couple of hours short of complete satisfaction. 
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Great voice acting, sometimes the music and one-liners are a little bit repertitive but the overall 
 the voices are excellent and add to the game's creepy character. Sometimes when you hear your enemy 
 whistling or singing a creepy song just around the corner you cant help but give an evil, high 
 pitched giggle to yourself.
  
  Total 90/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game came out on the Xbox 360 and PC a year before the release of the Playstation 3 version. 
 This is one of the first actually good sci-fi shooters. It is also kind of a horror type of game 
 also. You are put into a underwater city of Rapture which is a city of people who didn't want to 
 live with people on "land." Although the ones who have made the move, dangerous things have happened 
 to them. The Playstation 3 version hassome new upgrades whichis a harder difficulty because it 
 was criticized for being to easy so they added turning vita-chambers off which is something that 
 if you die you start from that checkpoint again, and it also has trophies whichsomeare hard to 
 obtain. If you played this on PC or Xbox 360, I wouldn't bother playing again.
  
  Now to the graphics state of the game. It has pretty amazing graphics. This game makes you feel 
 like you are part of Rapture. Rapture is alive but it is not also. What I mean is the city is alive 
 with deadly enemies but the city is dying because it is falling apart by posters peeling off the 
 wall and just crumble of stone everywhere and the inhabitants in it. These little details makethe 
 game more realistic, even though you may not notice, it just makes it believable thatthis city 
 is what it is. You will walk through tunnels and they will just burst and start to fill with water. 
 It is amazing. There is blood-dry and wet-every where. Posters of drinks in bars and surgical procedures 
 make this an even more realistic, even with the area full of trees to provide air for the inhabitants. 
 The frame rate is not an issue. It's great so I'm not even going to talk about it, even when many 
 enemies are on screen.
  
  The story mode is a little harder to follow than most games because they are told through audio 
 recordings that you pick up along the way but when you are trying to listen to them an enemy comes 
 and attacks and takes your mind from listening. But from listening to these you will learn how 
 hectic and bazarre Rapture is. If you get to hearthem all you will find a very interesting story 
 though. So altogether the sound is amazing.
  
  You will meet many characters in this game with all of them having modifications done to their 
 DNA which posesses them with power, a lot of power. Have you ever heard power can drive you crazy. 
 Will that is what happens to many people in this city. Some of them want perfection on themselves 
 and everyone in the city so they perform surgery on people without them knowing that they are doing 
 that type ofplastic surgery.
  
  You will also meet little sisters who basically have control of all the Adam which buys you the 
 upgrades called plasmidslike freezing and inferno and lightning bolts which will be injected into 
 by yourself into your arm. But to get the Adam is the hard part due to the Little Sisters beingprotected 
 by the All-Powerful Big Daddies. They are huge, ginormous beings with a lot of armor and some 
 with big guns andotherswiththe giant drills on their arms. Once youkill the Big Daddies, you 
 will be able-free from harm-to kill the Little Sisters for their Adam. But their is a catch. You 
 have the choice to harvest them or free them. If you harvest them, you will be able to get more 
 Adam, but if you free them from the trechorous lives they have to being able to be a normal person; 
 you will get lessAdam but, someonepromises you it will be worth it. That is your choice to make 
 in the game, not mine.
  
  You will also have a choice of weapon selection if you wish. They include pistols, shotguns, machine 
 guns, rocket launchers, and a wrench. You can get upgrades on these weapons throughout the game 
 to make all of the weapons better. For instance, the gunscan havelarger ammo capacity and bemore 
 lethal. But the plasmids are what make the game funner. The shooting on the other hand is a little 
 downside to some games. It isn't as intense as the plasmids. That is the only downfall.
  
  So with this game like this, it is a good game and shouldn't be missed. Which ever consoleyou 
 get it on it's going to be a great game. But with the extra content-which isn't that great and 
 the new downloadable contect-the Playstation 3 verson will probably be your best bet. So it being 
 one of the Finest of the first Person shooters, you shouldn't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Bioshock its amazing game whit amazig graphics and story one word the game its really well made 
 :D the good about this game its first its not short at all second u hove lots of weapons and special 
 powers that helps u alot to defeat yours enemies and u can use your own strategi to combine thos 
 powers so i can defeat enemies faster third part of the game that i really like alot its upgread 
 your weapons and special powers :D thats its really awesome when u upgrade them u can become much 
 more powerfull and hove even stronger powers that cuse double damage to enemies but to upgread 
 them u need munney afcore witch u can take form dead enemies or find all ower the place but if 
 u wana upgrage your special powers u need to save little sisters and when u save them the can reword 
 u whit more munny so u can upgread your powers and buy extra slots for more skills :D well there 
 is so manny good thing about the game i ca tell for long time but that will be spoilers so guys/girls 
 all u needd to do its to get this amazing game if u haven't try it :D so thats all my review for 
 Bioshock laterz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  You start of in a plane above the Atlantic that suddenly plummets into the vast ocean below with 
 fire surrounding you there is a lighthouse in the distance that contains a bathysphere that takes 
 you to the magnificent city of Rapture.
  
  This is where things go wrong and Bioshock's story begins. You play a character known as Jack and 
 as he fights through the hordes of genetically mutated beings called Splicers. These guys inhabit 
 the underwater city you come across many unique characters and beings. 
  
  Basically the Splicers are after 'Adam', the genetic material that keeps Rapture running. Adam 
 can be gained through the Little Sisters, these little girls have been turned in to evil Adam gatherer's 
 and are protected by the Big Daddies. If you manage to take down this massive guy you get to make 
 the choice of what happens with the Little sister, each decision alters the ending also.
  
  Adam is used to buy plasmids and upgrades for your genetic code, Plasmids are the true star of 
 the game and are awesome. For example you can get the 'Winter Blast' plasmid that freezes the Splicer 
 then pull out your shotgun and shatter him to pieces. this is just one taste of the awesome capabilities 
 that come with your character.
  
  All in all Bioshock is a game that will leave you asking for more and challenge the way you think 
 about life and death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anths1987
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Holy S***....... where to begin...
  
  Anyway, rewind back to Aug. 2007 when i was first intrigued by this little game known as BioShock. 
 Back then, i owned a 360, so as i was in need of a new game, i decided to purchase it on its release 
 date. 
  
  Let me tell you once i began playing i knew i was playing an EXCELLENT game.
  
  From the very moment my airplane crashes into the Atlantic Ocean, i was captivated by the story 
 and soonafter its increadiably addictive gameplay and atmosphere of the underwater city known as 
 Rapture. From there on, the game just grabs you by the neck and never lets go. 
  
  There is simply SOO much i can talk to you as to how AMAZING this game really can be to experience. 
 This is coming from someone who owned and played the 360 version to death, and now currently own 
 the PS3 version (RRoD was my worst enemy) .
  
  After over a year of playing this game, i can say that i always find something entertaining about 
 this game like anyone should, no matter which version.
  
  This is the ultimate gaming experience of my life, it is that great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off with a story that sucks you in and introduces you a little to the world of 
 Rapture. After a while, you are introduced to Plasmids, which are awesome powers. The monkey wrench 
 is fun to use and to beat the crap out of those crazy splicers, but it's not the only weapon. You 
 can also upgrade your weapons, there is all kinds of different weapons for each persons tastes. 
 This game gives you lots of ways to play, you can hack machines to work for you, you can just go 
 all out guns blazing or you can use your Plasmids strategically. The game though, does have some 
 minor frame rate issues when theres a lot going on, but its not that bad. The graphics in this 
 game are beautiful and the sound is awesome. I wasn't expecting this game to be as fun as it was, 
 even though I only rented it. You can replay this game and not get bored, because there are so 
 many ways to play, and not to mention the trophies. This game is a must play and if you haven't 
 already played it you are really missing out, so go buy or rent this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  To start this review off I will describe in detail the pros and cons about this game.
  
  Things That Are Good About This Game
  
  --Graphics are Insane: Bioshocks graphics are one of 
 a kind. The weapon detail, the environment, the characters, even the lighting in this game is top 
 of the line. The environmental graphics, being in a city built underwater, really add to the uniqueness 
 of this game. Just about every room you go in to has a certain feel to it. Some rooms are more 
 open and are well lit, and have no sense of threat to them. Though, other rooms are darkly lit 
 and have corners and shadows lurking everywhere. You can definitely tell something crazy will happen 
 when you walk into one of these rooms. Bullet holes in the walls, dead bodies staying and not disappearing 
 after killing them, and pretty much being able to destroy anything, are a few other things that 
 contribute to the graphics.
  
  --Weapons are Awesome: The weapons in this game are like non I've ever seen in any other games. 
 I mean, we're not just talking machine guns and pistols. No. Weapons like Telekinesis, Pyrokinesis, 
 and even shooting lightning bolts from your finger tips make the game play just plain fun. There's 
 a disturbing sense of satisfaction I get from setting a zombie on fire, watching him run and jump 
 into a pool of water to put himself out, and then me electrifying the water with a million volts 
 only to watch him fry again... Telekinesis in this game is perfect. Pick up and object just about 
 and fling it through the air like it's nothing. There are plenty more of these "Plasmids" as the 
 game calls them, and each one will have you giggling like a kid on Christmas morning. Other weapons 
 include wrenches, pistols, shotguns, machine guns, and tons of psychic abilities. 
  
  --Storyline is Extremely Unique: Let's just face it. Bioshock is a revolutionary game. This is 
 one of those games you HAVE TO PLAY, because it's a milestone in the development of next-gen games. 
 The storyline in this game is like watching your favorite science fiction movie. It just keeps 
 you playing. Throughout the game, you have to collect these diaries, which are the personal accounts 
 of people in the city of Rapture. It's these messages that mold the entire game story together 
 for you, and it really is a great one. 
  
  --Replay Value: I just finished the game on Normal difficulty, and let me just say that I can't 
 wait to replay it on the other 3 difficulties. This game has two storyline modes, which indefinitely 
 lead to two alternate endings. Also, the trophy system really adds to the accomplishments involved 
 in the game. It only took me around 20 hours to beat it on normal. But add in two more times of 
 playing it on Easy and Hard and you got yourself 60-70 hours of game play.
  
  --Sound Sets the Mood: The sounds in this game are very believable. If you have a surround sound 
 system, this is the game to play it on. At times in the game, I could hear an enemy but not know 
 exactly where they were. When the sound of a screaming zombie woman with a pipe wrench in her hand 
 starts in the rear speakers and moves the front ones, I whip out the Tommygun and start blasting 
 away. Explosions and other weapon sound effects are right on the money. Being chased by a Big Daddy 
 (look him up) is just plain terrifying when you can hear him right behind you...
  
  
  Things That Could Have Been Better
  
  --No Multiplayer: I really think they could have incorporated 
 some kind of multiplayer system into this game. They could have just used the stages in the single 
 player missions, and all the weapons and characters, and really had an awesome multiplayer. But 
 who knows, maybe it'll be in the second one.
  
  --Backtracking In The Game: Once you get to the end of the game, there's no going back. That means 
 new save file, stage 1, the whole shebang has to be beaten again. I can somewhat understand why 
 they did it like this, and it has to be because of the storyline. Really at the end, there's no 
 point in the story for you to have to go back, but still. They could have figured out something...
 
  
  
  
  Overall Summary: Overall, Bioshock is a must-buy-game. Besides the multiplayer factor, this game 
 is flawless. The storyline is completely new and never done before. The graphics and game play 
 are intense and interesting. Not once throughout the entire game did I find myself getting bored, 
 or upset, or wanting to just get to the end and finish. On the contrary, at the end you're more 
 like "Dang is it over??" The weapons in the game are completely unmatched by anything I've ever 
 seen before. And the storyline just keeps you coming back for more. Bioshock is worth the 60 bucks 
 and the time spent to beat it. You won't be disappointed. 
  
  Thank you 2K for an incredible game, and I'm looking forward to Bioshock 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhittyOne
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  In my eyes this game was one of the best out there. I played it on X-box and it did no justice. 
 BIO complements the PS3 system. Ok sorry, now to talk about the game. This game has amazing graphics 
 and awesome weapons, not to mention the story of the game. To say the least the game is jaw dropping 
 and take the time to appreciate both endings of the game. I guaranty you will not play it the same 
 way twice. And even though you are sober when you start the game, later you will feel as you are 
 out of you gourd with excitment, and raw pleasure. The intense fights the great graphics, there 
 is no other game you should be playing. Big daddysa great part of this game. Sit and watch them 
 fir a moment and you see there greatness come to life. The frame rate is able to be maximized s 
 well for full picture quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanos723
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock was released last year on the X360. It won countless awards, and sony owners wondered 
 "will I ever get to play it?" Thankfully, our time as come and we get to experience one of the 
 best games of yesteryear.
  
  Bioshock drops you off in the crazed underwater city of Rapture. In this city gone mad, plasmids (pretty 
 much superpowers) have driven the citizenship insane. Giant hulking monstrosities called Big Daddy 
 protect another experiment gone wrong called little sisters. Little sisters are the collector's 
 of adam, adam is basically the foundation of Rapture. What it does for you in the game is allows 
 you to earn more plasmids, increase health and such. 
  
  Your goal in the game, escape this crazy place. A mysterious man named Atlas is guiding you along 
 the way from one area to another. You make small choices in the game, but most of it is linear. 
 The only choice you have really is how to deal with the little sisters. kill them, or save them. 
 
  
  The game isn't "scary" per say, but it is defiantly eerie. From the faces of the splicers (the citizenship) , 
 the big daddies attacking you, to the eerie recording tapes you pick up along the way. It'll creep 
 you out. 
  
  Lots of PS3 fans will complain that 60 dollars is too much to pay for a year old port. But I find 
 it to be every bit worth it. So if you are interested in a different kinda shooter this year, with 
 a creepy story, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silk_Wood
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  So a year later Bioshock arrives for the PS3... and let me tell you, after playing the original 
 on the box I feel the controls just flow more easily on the PS3, anyways, you've all heard that 
 you crash in the middle of the atlantic, you go down to the underwater city of Rapture, you see 
 all the freaks living there, and you meet the "spliced-up" Andrew Ryan. I have to say, what makes 
 Bioshock so compelling is its original story. Yes, the plasmids (things that genetically alter 
 you body) and the guns and upgrading your weapons/plasmids are all very satisfying, but the story 
 of this game is just so darn good. I won't give anything away (especially the plot twists) , but 
 just thank God/Buddha/Zeus or whoever you worship that they're making a movie on this game. The 
 graphics like any other PS3 game are top-notch, the controls flow, and the game definately deserves 
 some sort of award. So yeah, do I really need to tell you to go buy this? By the way, I'd buy this 
 game all over again just to play the Fort Frolic level, it's by far the best level of any game 
 i've ever played, and let's just say Sander Cohen's Masterpiece brought a tear to my eye ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanasrj
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review 
 Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending 
 Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw 
 Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending 
 Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review 
 Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending 
 Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review 
 Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending 
 Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review 
 Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending 
 Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review 
 Pending Review Pending Review Pending Reviw Pending Review Pending Review Pending Review Pending 
 Review Pending Reviw Pending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nf1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a great all round game. The action is rewarding and the story is deep and immersive. 
 
  The action in Bioshock is great fun. You are given all sorts of weapons from a wrench to a shotgun 
 to a crossbow. All of which have different types of ammo which have different effects on you enemies. 
 The real fun however is you plasmids. These are tonics that change your DNA to allow you to do 
 incredible things. You can shout anything from fire, ice and hornets to cyclones and dummies to 
 trick your enemies. 
  Another key element to the game is the story. Your plane crashes in the middle of the Atlantic, 
 right next to a massive, secret underwater city called Rapture. You go down to find the freakish 
 mutated inhabitants of the once thriving city. You can learn much more through the scattered audio 
 diaries left by many of the people of the city. 
  Bioshock is an all round good game with many great elements from several different genres of game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  Bioshock was a game that many has played for the 360 or computer, but people with the ps3 were 
 not able to join in on the craze until now. a little since it first came out, Bioshock lived to 
 the hype and excitement that everyone else had talked about for weeks.
  
  the story starts with a plane crash and you enter an underwater world. the beauty of the graphics 
 draws people in from the start. as you make your way into the city, the bubble transport gives 
 some background information. then you enter one of the buildings, and you see one of the creatures 
 within called a splicer, which are genetically disfigured people, and it kills another splicer. 
 (which is what i assume it was) then you have a radio communication with a man named atlas. atlas 
 is the games guide if you will. he helps you out through the game and get out of the city. (Which 
 is called Rapture) as you go through the game trying to find out why you even end up in this city 
 and finding out the mystery of Rapture. on your journey to freedom you battle these deformed people 
 with a variety of weapons, such as a wrench, a pistol, a shotgun, a grenade launcher, a machine 
 gun, a crossbow, and a liquidizer. and not only that you get special abilities from Adam, which 
 is the power of Rapture, and you can have many different powers. which can be used to help on your 
 advancement or or combat use. the Adam is what every one needs to survive and the little sister 
 carry it. and they are protected by big daddy's, who also want it. Big Daddy's are enormous scuba 
 diver like people who will stop at nothing to protect the little sisters. and the Big Daddy's are 
 some of the more powerful creatures to kill and there are lots of them. and the only way to get 
 the Adam is to get through them. and the story leads of from there. i wont tell more of the story 
 so people who haven't played can experience it for themselves.
  
  as i mentioned before the graphics had astonished me throughout game play and at times i just had 
 to stop playing and enjoy many of the majestic views around me. but that of course only lasted 
 a minute or so. after that i went straight back into fighting and resuming my conquest to learn 
 more about the great story. the story itself struck me and constantly kept me wanting more.
  
  one issue i saw with the was that there was no multi player in the game. so it left the game 
 with out any online value. but that didn't mean that you didn't want to play more then once. because 
 if there were any trophy's that you didn't get you could play it again and find some more. and 
 you could play on another difficulty. but this was still only on a single player level.
  
  besides that Bioshock was phenomenal and left me with a want for more. after you beat the game 
 you get the teaser for Bioshock 2. which i cant wait for. and it to shall indefinitely will be 
 a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  BioShock, although released already for a year on hte Microsoft Xbox 360 and PC, the Playstation 
 3 gets it after a long overdue wait in Andrew Ryan's office. To say simply, this game is gorgeous 
 in every way possible. Challenging enough to new players and hardcore enough for the veterans and 
 sadists. This game has an overall ambience, theme and feel that no other game has had since Final 
 Fantasy VII. The second you step off the bathysphere and into the underwater world of Rapture your 
 bones and sense begin to tingle. The different areas of Rapture flow seemlessly together as if 
 the team at 2K based this off of a real city in history. From the first time you see a splicer 
 to your first encounter with the little sisters and their big daddies which can only be described 
 as eerily creepy. This game is a must own and like my other reviews I would normally, make a threat 
 but I'll let the Big Daddies do that for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pranker99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Was pretty tight. I spent a good 65 hours on it. It is a bit scary in some parts, but all in all 
 it is an beast game. Big Daddy's are a pain in the butt, but after a while you get good at just 
 owning the hell out of them. Just use trap bolts with your cross bow and then shoot them to anger 
 them. Then you can go over and kill the demoic "little sisters". Which in my opinion is the right 
 way to go. This FPS is one of many, but the story is very unique and one that I have never seen 
 or herd of. The use of "ADAM" as a weapon and a currency in the game makes the game more addicting. 
 The upgrading of weapons and modiying your body in different ways is a pretty good feature. Some 
 of the powers are amazing, but some are crazy like the bees that fly out of your arms. It makes 
 no sense how some one could have that, but it is a nice little mod to your body. I am expecting 
 Bioshock 2 to be just as good, or better than this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattv888
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This is still an amazing game, now finally released for the ps3, offering special content, extra 
 DLC (albeit at a price) , and a thrilling gaming experience. Start on an easy difficulty, play throughout 
 the game, and then go to harder ones, it adds a lot to the replay value. Also, if you're really 
 hardcore, turn on the difficulty setting "Every bullet counts", and try to play through it using 
 your wrench on as much of the game as possible (yes, this includes big daddies) . If you manage 
 to complete it, then you will feel like a bioshock god, and it will come with such a sense of fulfillment, 
 you'll be happy for the rest of the week and telling all your friends about it (if you even have 
 friends anymore for ditching them every night to play bioshock) . Nobody will feel empty after playing 
 this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  There's the story, one of the most highly lauded in recent gaming history, but then most of the 
 things I'd want to discuss are precisely the sort of things that patient PS3 gamers probably won't 
 want spoiled. I know I'd have been really annoyed if I'd learned that your character is actually 
 a sexy female cyborg with Hitler's brain right before I started playing last year. Oops.
  
  What is safe to learn is that you play as a mysterious man, left splashing about in the ocean after 
 a plane crash in 1960. Swimming for the safety of a mysterious structure, you discover the entrance 
 to Rapture, a secret undersea utopia built by Objectivist demagogue Andrew Ryan fourteen years 
 earlier. Descending into the decaying ruins of this failed social experiment, battling the insane 
 former inhabitants as you go, you slowly uncover the truth behind Rapture's fall. It's a world 
 of faded art deco glamour where Ayn Rand's dream of brilliance unfettered by morality and charity 
 has turned sour, rotted by human nature and encroaching sea water. A nightmare where young girls 
 harvest corpses, protected in their work by lumbering behemoths in heavy diving suits; where doctors 
 mutilate patients in defiance of accepted aesthetics; where poets slaughter for inspiration.
  Most of the criticisms levelled at the game have some merit, but only when taken in isolation. 
 Taken as a whole, it's a phenomenal creation - a game that is rich in gameplay possibilities, giving 
 you a broad and flexible toolbox of conventional weapons and genetically enhanced Plasmids, with 
 the additional tactical layer of tonics and camera research opening up multiple ways to approach 
 any enemy encounter. The realistic environments only add to this, with the old videogame clich 
 of electrified water cleverly transformed from standalone hazard to just one of many offensive 
 options.
  
  But there I go again. It's actually a testament to BioShock's confident and subtle storytelling 
 that such aspects are even worthy of a mention. In an industry where frankly terrible stories are 
 too often praised simply for having a vaguely coherent beginning, middle and end, it would be wrong 
 to dwell too much on the minor inconsistencies of a story with so much pathos and subtext, told 
 in such an inventive manner. That this story comes wrapped in a gripping and satisfying action 
 game which offers an astonishing array of ways to play is more than enough to justify BioShock's 
 status as a standard bearer for next generation gaming.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Im Michael Mulock, and I am here to ask you a question, is a man not entitled to the feeling of 
 satisfaction?.... no! says the man in Electronic Arts it belongs to the profits, No! says the man 
 in Blizzard it belongs to the casual, no! says the man in Sega... it belongs to those who like 
 glitches... 
  I rejected those answers, instead i chose to be different, i chose to wait for a game... I chose.... 
 Bioshock.
  
  A Game that does not fear to be different, where the player can lose them selfs in a visually stunning 
 world, and with the price of your local game store, Bioshock can be your game as well.
  
  Lets get one thing straight, i hated the fact i had to wait a year to play this game and was a 
 little skeptical with the way that ps3 ports usually go with poor frame-rates and glitches, but 
 luckily enough Bioshock got it right, with everything ported over correctly, all that is left to 
 do is sit back and enjoy the ride. The story and the location are the main marvels of this game, 
 Rapture is a visual masterpiece of the art Deco era, with bright neon lights and giant stone statues 
 lurking around all locales; and the story is a big surprise for a FPS, told almost exclusively 
 via radio comms as you go along, it immerses you in the world superbly and the ongoing power struggle 
 between Atlas and Ryan offers many revolutions and plot twists.
  
  Its all marvelous, and for once, the game play even backs up the awesome premise as you use plasmids 
 and upgraded weapons to get you back out from under the sea, and with the promise of a sequel on 
 the horizon, i am already putting on my diving suit ready for another trip down into rapture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nviegas79
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Well, its a good game, was not sure about it, when i read the reviews.
  But ended up picking it up...
  
  Took some time to actually play it, the install time was loooonnnnnggggg...
 
  But once done, the story line is compeling, once you get into it...
  
  The action is amazing, (loving the head shots) ...
  It seems to be a great game, but I havent 
 faced the 'Big Daddies' as yet...
  
  The horror genre is good for this type of game, it hasnt gotten old as yet, unlike Darkness and 
 the rest of the horror predesers games...
  
  Best about it, is that the story line is not all that out there... like Dead Space... this one 
 is believealbe well atleast till where I have reached...
  
  This so far is definatly a worth while buy...
  
  Then again, if you are saving up for something, 
 this is definatly a worth buy from the bargin bin...
  Therefore it is a must have...
  
  Some might not enjoy it, as it does have its 'scary' moments, which is more of a suspense surprise... 
 but then again, we aint kids...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeydudejp17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is an absolute horror film that you get the chance to run around and take part in. Dangerous 
 villains and crime filled monsters lurk behind you at every moment, bringing you instant scare. 
 You are given many weapons that excite you at every moment and can fill you with some hilarity 
 by the sight of the possible traps you can set. One of the greatest things about this shooter is 
 the quite stunning use of a thing called plasmids. These secondary-weapons are like a magician's 
 stunning collection of tricks and surprise. You can shoot fire, electricity, ice, and other amazing 
 things out of your fingertips. Telekinesis is yet another plasmid, allowing you to grab and pick 
 up many objects to have for yourself or to through them explosively at enemies looking for a fight. 
 The deadly monsters of this game entice you all throughout the game, giving you chills and goosebumps. 
 This game is one heck of a buy, and an instant classic, and will most likely earn the greatest 
 games award given by PlayStation. I highly recommend this game to all, 2K Games and Digital Extremes 
 have done their jobs, making one of the greatest games ever for the PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying that Bioshock has a story that pulls you in like an electromagnet, but it has 
 one main issue which is a pretty big one. It's not disastrous, but the combat really isn't satisfying, 
 and occasionally frustrating when firing an opponent in the face five times with a shotgun seems 
 to get you nowhere. But whether you have Bioshock or not, virtually everyone with any console who 
 likes their games will say "Hey, I know that game!". Thats because although its a first person 
 shooter, it's extremely unique. In a great way. 
  
  So much so it's instantly recognizable for its innovationative efforts. You have a selection of 
 powers like lightning or wasps so on and so forth, which can be bought from these old vending machines. 
 But sometimes its nice to just sit back and watch some of the spectacular scenes. You'll hide behind 
 a cage as you see a mad doctor of sorts looking over a medical table with a body on it, yelling 
 at the body and clawing it with blood going everywhere. Its extremely atmospheric. There are vivid 
 tools on a nearby table which you don't want to imagine are capable of, and dead bodies and blood 
 everywhere. It's actually frightening and you just want to hide and watch him go about his insanity. 
 It sort of doesn't encourage you to explore, even though it's often necessary.
  
  So its not perfect, but It's definitely a buyer. Hope you liked the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  What else can I say but Amazing. The plot is wonderful as are the graphics. I was so enthralled 
 by this games unusual plot that I could play for several hours without knowing it. Only problem 
 I found was that it was too short, in my view it should have gone longer. Also the ending was a 
 real let down but overall the plot was amazing for a video game. It seemed more like a movie than 
 a game. And the graphics where phenomenal on top of the plot. My only complaint is that gameplay 
 was seemingly easy and somewhat repetitive in each level. The environment was also amazing, good 
 details along with great style. I haven't played this game in a while so I can't really think of 
 anything else to say but it is a great investment. And as with real life being a moral person is 
 always better in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  BioShock, a definition for this game would definitley be, beautiful graphics, and great scenery. 
 Yeah, it has all that in this installment for the PS3. But I felt as if it got repetitive after 
 the first couple of levels.
  
  Hordes of enemies surround you, do away with them and you move on, but that same process repeats 
 over, and over again! The only curveball that this game throws you is the 'Big Daddies'. The fights 
 arent that epic, and the only the they can do to hurt you is throw you a far way...... :/
  
  Ok, this upcoming paragraph contains spoilers**
  
  The most annoying mission is where you 
 dress up like a Big Daddy. Cool idea! Well, you have to follow The Little Sister around. And its 
 sooooo annoying, she repeatedly turns around and says,'' Hurry up Mr. Bubbles, your a slow poke.'' 
 And I'm like WTF!!!
  
  So, to wrap things up:
  Graphics: 9.5
  Gameplay:8.5
  Sound:9
  
  By the way, no multiplayer!!!!
  But if you like shooters, you may like this one, 
 and its a pretty lengthy game! So, if you got some money laying around, check it out! Rent it first, 
 that would be the smart thing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played too far into Bioshock yet, so honestly i cannot say much for the story. I can 
 say, that thus far, i am a little let down by the game overall.
  
  The city is amazing. From the moment you turn your PS3 on, you will be placed in a 50's setting 
 that wont let you go until you turn the game off. The graphics are pretty amazing in the game. 
 From the atmosphere to the blood on the ground or on the walls.
  
  The plasmids are an interesting feature too. Being able to purchase these plasmids grant you acsess 
 to many different powers, but you can have only a handful of them at your command at all times. 
 That brings some strategy to the game, knowing which plasmids to have and when to use them. The 
 fact that the enviornment works with your powers is pretty amazing too. Being able to light oil 
 on fire, melt ice, freeze enemies and shatter them, or even grab a grenade out of mid-air with 
 you telekenetic power and launch it back at the enemy. Just amazing.
  
  However; this game does feel like it lacks something thus far.... i know that i am not much into 
 the story yet, however..... there is an emptiness. The splicers.... arn't scarey. I read some posts 
 on here of people saying that they wanted to scream at times, but really... there's nothing to fear 
 while playing this game. Another downer is that, though i am not far into the game, it already 
 seems slightly repetitive. It feels like i am just following the arrow at the top of my screen 
 to wherever it points me, pop a few splicers with my shot gun, run into a big daddy, blast him 
 away in a few seconds, save the girl, keep going. Complete the level, do it again. And then they 
 throw in a few twists that... to me seem pointless to have put in. Im not too sure about the story 
 so far, though i am more than willing to give this game more time, so i didn't dock any points 
 for the story.... yet!
  
  This game has an amazing atmospher. Amazing. Dazzling atmosphere. The graphics are amazing as well. 
 The plasmids are great aditions too. The only complaint i have thus far is... are the enemies going 
 to change? am i going to feel... accomplished? However, while playing the game i must admit it is 
 hard to put the paddle down.
  I intend to continue playing through the game, and once i beat it re-post a review or post in my 
 blog about it. Wish me luck! But aside from the story thus far, i think this game is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  A year later Bioshock is still almost everyone's favourite game through out last year on 360 and 
 PC with many awards along the way. For most PS3 fans they can finally play through one of the best 
 games with some new features but nothing new.
  
  Like other first-person shooters its set in a Under Water city called Rapture and set in the 1960's. 
 When you first enter Rapture it has a great start with what's been going on in the city why everyone 
 has gone crazy and killing each other. Not only you got to take out crazy people you have to fight 
 these giant sub-charcters called Big Daddy's which are the Little Sister's gaurdain. The Little 
 Sister's are these evil-possesed little girls. But there's not really a story to the charcter your 
 playing but through out the game some people say that he is special.
  
  Gameplay= Like other first person games you'll into controls no problem but you also have plasmids 
 which you can use on eneimies where you can eletricute them if there in water or burn them in flames 
 or even freeze your enimies. You also get the chance to invent new weapons and items which can 
 be handy to use, also you can hack Machines, sectrity camreas or vaults which can be fun if you 
 want money ot items or somthing to get rid of your eneimies. 
  But every price has to pay if you get the chance to kill a Big Daddy while a Little Sister is by 
 his side if you kill the Big Daddy you are given a chocie on what to do. You can either rescure 
 the Little Sister by getting rid of the evilness inside her and earn ADAM and rare items. Or you 
 can Harvest them by eating the organs and earn even more ADAM. But the choices get more serious 
 through out the game and choose to upgrade your health and powers or earn new powers.
  
  Graphics and Sound= When I first started playing Bioshcok you get easily get warpped in with a 
 great entry making you a welcome to the city of Rapture. The game also infulence by one of best 
 artest knowen as Picasso which you've probably seen most of his art in musuems or during art at 
 school or college. Sounding and voicing is brillient all enimies are totally insane and complete 
 psychos. Most music is from the 30's up to the 50's if your into old music from the 1930's some 
 music you will reconise later on in the game. 
  
  Overall= Once you beaten the game you just want to feel that you want to replay it again and again. 
 There is also Throphy support if you are wanting to earn all Trophies. There is going to be downloadable 
 content soon on the Playstation Network soon. 
  But for those who have been wanting to play Bioshock and never had the chance to play it on the 
 360, it's totally worth your money and your first time finishing the game should take you around 
 10 hours or more.
  I found Bioshock amazing and I havn't had this much fun since Timesplitters 2 and Halo 1.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judesalmon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The best thing Bioshock has going for it is the setting. I think a lot of players and reviewers 
 were able to forgive its failings because Rapture is such an engrossing place to visit. However, 
 after killing yet another identical Splicer, hacking yet another security bot and harvesting yet 
 another Little Sister, it has to dawn on even the most blinkered of Bioshock's fans that it's a 
 game wholly of style, yet no substance.
  
  After I finished Bioshock the first time on the 360, I was left a bit underwhelmed, wondering what 
 all the fuss was about, so I decided to play through it again. As I'd found most of them in my 
 first playthrough, I didn't pick up the diaries left by the characters and I was left to focus 
 on the gameplay. This is when I was finally able to put my finger on what's wrong with Bioshock 
 - it's the incredibly simplistic gameplay. It hearkens back to the original Doom, consisting of 
 nothing more than repetitive, brainless shooting.
  
  Bioshock's biggest crime, however, is what it promised to be. We were promised an emergent emergent 
 world that changes with the player's actions, but in reality what you decide to do has no impact 
 on how the game ends. Then you have the generic story with so many loose ends it's a joke.
  
  If you must play Bioshock, then rent it, as I can guarantee you won't want to play it a second 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimacorgan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is it: after last year's 360 exclusive (at least on the console war front ;-) ) , us ps3 users 
 get one of the most acclaimed fps ever...
  And make no mistake, it was worth the wait! Rapture delievers an astonishing world, with attention 
 to every detail to make it "believable": and in fact, once you get into its dark corridors and 
 meet some of the inhabitants, and get to understand more of its twisted story... well, you'll just 
 be looking for more. I can hardly remember another game with such an immersive sense of capturing 
 your eyes, ears, heart and thoughts...
  Visuals are just great, sounds helps incredibly to build its unique world, and in almost every 
 corner you can learn more about the tragedy that took place in that utopia...
  The rest is a really inspired growth of the character, built on dna-like enhancements called plasmids 
 (whose abuse has eventually twisted people minds...) , a series of moral choices which will actually 
 let you stop and think, and some memorable characters along the way...
  Do yourself a favour: get out and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever made. I have beaten it with the good ending. You will fall in love with 
 the best FPS single player game ever made. Upgrading your guns is a great help and the powers you 
 can acquire are sweet. The story is one of the best and you will want this ride to never end! The 
 enemies are scary and demented makes you want to scream at times. Thr graphics are amazing and 
 the water effects are unbelievable. I could not put this game down, once to start playing the controller 
 will not leave your hands.
  
  Buy this game now and you will love it!
  
  You will stay up late playing this game and you will wake up early to play it some more and when 
 it is over you will be mad that it is. It is a pretty long game for a FPS and it is what a FPS 
 is suposed to be like. Don't be afraid you will love this game and wonder what you have played 
 that is as good as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodfod12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The Playstation 3 release of BioShock is a little late, although this doesn't make it any less 
 enjoyable.
  
  The atmosphere in BioShock is an extremely immersive one. From the minute you start playing, you're 
 surrounded with advertising, propaganda, and architecture that'll make you think the 50s were just 
 over. The music and lettering work in unison to completely immerse you within the atmosphere - 
 something that a lot of games fail to do.
  
  The genetically-modified citizens of Rapture don't always put up a good fight, although sometimes 
 you'll get caught by surprise. The security turrets and bots are usually fairly easy to dispatch, 
 so there's not much of a challenge there, either. 
  
  The moral dilemma regarding the Little Sisters is definitely one that'll make you question your 
 inner self. Do you rescue the poor souls, or harvest them for your personal gain? No matter which 
 option you choose, you'll definitely contemplate the decision later.
  
  The story in BioShock is superbly written. It contains many plot-twists, and it would be a crime 
 to spoil it here.
  
  To sum up, if you're a fan of the First Person Shooter, or you can appreciate immersion and a very 
 well-written story, BioShock is the perfect game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsarama1414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  bioshock is a great game. i'd heard of it when it came out a year but was reluctant to buy because 
 i thought it didn't look that good. i very much mistaken.
  
  rapture, the main city in bioshock, is a unforgettable envioronment that had me mesmerized from 
 the start. the water and gore, all adding to the satisfaction of the game by the details in them. 
 by far one of the most amazing environments i've ever seen in a game.
  
  the story will have you second guessing everything you think you know about the city. and will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat with the twist and turns and the goals set in the mysterious 
 city.
  
  the game play is great allowing the use of both plasmids and guns to takeout enemies in any way 
 you see fit. a lot of fun customizing the character to whatever your game play style is.
  
  if you have never played this game. this is a must buy. i'm positive you will absolutely enjoy 
 bioshock for everything it has to offer.
  
  SO GO GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock is a masterpiece in first person shooters. The story (even though some might complain 
 about the ending) , graphics, sound - everything guarantees that you'll have a lot of fun playing 
 the game.
  
  I won't comment much on the game, since it's been out on XBOX 360 and PC for quite awhile now and 
 everyone knows pretty much everything there's to know about it. I just wanted to comment on the 
 PS3 version specifically.
  
  First and the foremost, the port is very good. Even though there are some glitches, like white 
 bars at the bottom and right side of the screen some times, overall quality for a port is surprisingly 
 good.
  
  As it often happens with PS3 ports, the game suffers from extremely low framerates, but very rarely. 
 I've had a battle with the Big Daddy at some point, and the framerate has dropped down to something 
 that looked like one frame per second, so I had to basically try to run away from the Big Daddy 
 (don't know how I managed to escape, when you have a slideshow on the screen, but I did!) :) This 
 single issue seems like some sort of a glitch, because I was able to finish the battle just fine, 
 without significant drops in frame rate.
  
  One thing you WILL want to do, though, is to turn of vsync in the game options (that's be the second 
 option from the bottom in the Options screen) . It significantly improves the framerate without 
 any artefacts that I could notice (no screen tearing at all) . Also, turn the FOV locking off, so 
 that you can actually see more on your high-definition set :)
  
  While I agree that the game is suffering from some aliasing issues, I wouldn't say that they spoil 
 the game. Graphically the game looks fantastic. Some areas of the game, I think, even look slightly 
 better than the 360 version (god, I can't believe I just said that! :) ) , mostly because of more 
 pronounced volumetric effects.
  
  
  Textures. however, are not sharper at all, and definitely not higher resolution, so obviously the 
 fact that the PS3 version of the game is shipped on BluRay doesn't mean they used higher resolution 
 textures (and how can they, if there's only 256 megabytes of video memory in the PS3 - even if 
 you have higher resolution textures on the disc, those won't fit the memory) .
  
  The sound is definitely better than the 360 version. It has more pronounced and more correct 3D 
 positioning and seems to have a wider dynamic range. Or perhaps it's simply because you don't have 
 to play with that freaking whine in background, emanating from the 360 itself... It's like I'm 
 discovering the game all over again! I can hear every slightest nuance now that there's no 360 
 trademark: whine.
  
  I know most people wouldn't really want to part with their $60 bucks for a game that's been out 
 on other platforms for a year, but trust me: it worth it. Every penny of it. I bought both versions 
 - 360 and PS3, and I don't regret in the slightest. And. quite frankly, I'm thinking about trading 
 my 360 version of the BioShock for the Fallout 3 :)
  
  P. S. The demo does not do this game justice: the final game looks A LOT better than the demo, released 
 on PSN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aequitas31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is as good as all of the reviews say it is. It has just enough realism to keep it from 
 being annoying like the people die with a headshot, while there are boss battles that are challenging. 
 There are alot of upgrades and a wide variety of ways to kill enemies, either using guns a wrench 
 or your powers of fire, electricity, telekinesis, etc. The story is well told and keeps you interested. 
 The different difficulty levels make it possible for eveyone to find what is right for them. The 
 dark tone keeps you on edge and enemies will sneak up on you at some point. Even though i just 
 got this for the ps3, i already cant wait for the sequal, it is one of the best games to come out 
 so far. Every part of this game works well, the controls and the upgrades work, and it has a well 
 told story. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seamecca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  ... Just get the game. That's all I have to say. I've been following this games for a couple of 
 years and have been patiently waiting for it's arrival on the PS3. I haven't had so much fun with 
 a game since GTA IV. They are completely different games, but this is by far the BEST First Person 
 Shooter I have ever played. Don't get me wrong, I do love COD:4, but it's completely different 
 and the single player is much more entertaining and worthwhile. I've been following this games 
 for a couple of years and have been patiently waiting for it's arrival on the PS3. They are completely 
 different games, but this is by far the BEST First Person Shooter I have ever played. Don't get 
 me wrong, I do love COD:4, but it's completely different and the single player is much more entertaining 
 and worthwhile.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stooge_01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  You start of in a plane above the Atlantic that suddenly plummets into the vast ocean below with 
 fire surrounding you there is a lighthouse in the distance that contains a bathysphere that takes 
 you to the magnificent city of Rapture.
  
  This is where things go wrong and Bioshock's story begins. You play a character known as Jack and 
 as he fights through the hordes of genetically mutated beings called Splicers. These guys inhabit 
 the underwater city you come across many unique characters and beings. 
  
  Basically the Splicers are after 'Adam', the genetic material that keeps Rapture running. Adam 
 can be gained through the Little Sisters, these little girls have been turned in to evil Adam gatherer's 
 and are protected by the Big Daddies. If you manage to take down this massive guy you get to make 
 the choice of what happens with the Little sister, each decision alters the ending also.
  
  Adam is used to buy plasmids and upgrades for your genetic code, Plasmids are the true star of 
 the game and are awesome. For example you can get the 'Winter Blast' plasmid that freezes the Splicer 
 then pull out your shotgun and shatter him to pieces. this is just one taste of the awesome capabilities 
 that come with your character.
  
  All in all Bioshock is a game that will leave you asking for more and challenge the way you think 
 about life and death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXChubbyRN
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  After having played (and beat) the 360 version roughly 4-5 times it was out of sheer curiosity 
 (and rumors of "extra" content) that I decided to pick up the PS3 version and compare first hand. 
 There was much said about trying to make the PS3 version visually equal to the 360 version, and 
 although not 100% successful it remains pleasing to the eye. Currently I'm about 1/3 of the way 
 through the game and already have experienced a handful of quirks. At one point I was battling 
 a Big Daddy and while trying really hard not to die the frame rate was sticking and I thought the 
 game was going to freeze. Luckily it resolved itself and I merged victorious. In another spot I 
 opened a door and saw pitch black where I KNEW (from having played 360 version) that there should 
 be something there, so I walked through and all was fine but looking back at the doorway saw the 
 exact same sheet of black. Odd. All in all it's still a great game and am anxiously awaiting Bioshock 
 2 almost as much as GOW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeabagChampion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  I had Bioshock for the Xbox 360. No matter how many times I played the game, I always came back 
 to play it some more. Well, thats before my Xbox kicked the bucket. After have gotten the ring 
 of death on the 360 more than twice in that same year, I went into a Game Stop store and got credit 
 for other games or and systems. But Bioshock was too sweet of a game to pass down. So I went and 
 got the copy for the PC. I'm a console type of person so playing on the PC wasn't as fun. Now the 
 game strikes on the PS3 and you bet your behind that I had to go get it. Although the game is somewhat 
 the same, there are a few things that have changed.
  Bioshock on the PS3 offers a survival mode. I guess you can look at it as insane in some or most 
 game setting as far as difficulty. The game also offers real 1080i which the Xbox didn't offer. 
 I've noticed that there are a few new things, but nothing like new levels or weapons. There are 
 talk however, that Bioshock will get new and free downloadable content on PSN for free. If thats 
 true or not, I really don't know. 
  The game continues to be the same thrill if not better due to the HD inhansment, and the sound 
 quality is somewhat better. I'm giving this game a 9.5 rate and it may be due to change depending 
 on the downloadable contents (if in fact it does come out) .
  This game needs a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Having heard so much about the Xbox 360 version of this game (one of the console's greatest exclusives) 
 I knew that I had to buy this game when it made it to PS3 and I was not at all dissapointed by 
 this amazing game. 
  As soon as the game loads, you are drawn into the story of the doomed utopia of Rapture - an underwater 
 city where "brilliant minds" are not constrained by "petty morality". The developers have done 
 a fantastic job of making the setting as believable as possible, as well as the main characters. 
 Andrew Ryan (Rapture's creator) appears throughout the game on posters and audio diaries and when 
 you finally meet him 'in person', you really fell as though you are meeting a man with a eventful 
 history and a true vision.
  The story of Rapture's downfall and the power struggle between Ryan and his enemies is slowly revealed 
 until all becomes clear as to why you have been brought to the city towards the end of the game.
 
  Overall, Bioshock is another game which any game should have for their PS3 (particularly as DLC 
 exclusive ot the console has been announced) . The story and setting are extravagent and believable 
 and the gameplay is also unique (for example, being able to give your character powers such as 
 telekinesis - a product of the research carried out during Rapture's better days) . The only reason 
 the game does not get a 10/10 is the lack of co-op (full-blown multiplayer would not work with 
 a game like this) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arodmell
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Pros: 
  
  Nice smooth game engine and nice graphics overall, Good enemy AI and a challenging set of harder 
 difficulty modes, Inclusion of PSN Achievement Trophies
  
  Cons:
  
  Terrible use of voice-overs in places, Unique and just plain weird design style, Nothing that has 
 not been done before
  
  
  
  I bought Bioshock on the recommendation of a friend who said it was a great game. I had briefly 
 looked at the reviews and everyone was ranting at how good this game was.
  
  I was hoping for a good game to fill the week or two until Deadspace and Fallout 3 were released.
 
  
  Well..... its not all its cracked up to be in my opinion. Been there... done that.
  
  The 1940's style of the game.... I didn't like it. I don't think it really worked. Its not what 
 you expect a futuristic, technologically advanced city to be like. 
  
  That being said the actual graphics of the environment were above average. I loved the water effects 
 and the beautiful reflections on the surfaces of the walls and doors. The enemy characters didn't 
 seem to be too well designed and they had a sort of un-finished or rushed appearance to them.
 
  
  The enemy AI however was good. They came at you from different angles every time and I found myself 
 frequently dying and being regenerated at a nearby chamber. 
  I especially liked the way the enemies roamed the areas. You could blast through an area and kill 
 all in your path only to wander through ten minutes later and find another two enemies attacking 
 you. It gave the game a little more realism.
  
  The one thing that really got on my nerves about Bioshock was the sound work. The monotonous screams, 
 wails and moans that were EVERYWHERE. Fulfilling very little use they were supposed to add a bit 
 of atmosphere to the game I guess but they just gave the appearance of the developers trying too 
 hard. 
  
  I just found the game to hold nothing much of interest for me. Having just completed The Darkness 
 I was expecting a much better game in Bioshock. As it stands now I am 5 hrs into Bioshock and its 
 being traded in tomorrow for Dead Space.
  
  Bioshock does nothing most FPS don't. It could have been a whole lot better.... but it wasn't.
 
  
  Rent it first to avoid possible disappointment.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edub411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best games released to date. PS3 owners rejoice! Everyone should enjoy this game. 
 You can lose many many hours exploring Rapture but what an experience. You wont be able to get 
 it out of your head. There are scary moments that creep you right oput of your skin. There are 
 tender sweet moments that will surprise you. A great part of it is the ability to play it so many 
 different ways. Choices are everywhere and instead of feeling cheap and forced in to decisions 
 you feel as if you are really in control of your characters destiny. Fighting a Big Daddy is thrilling 
 everytime. You must decide whether or not to provoke a battle which is always exciting. Just moving 
 through rapture feels like you are in a real city that fell apart. You just dont get that experience 
 anywhere else. Even though this game was released over a year ago already it is still better than 
 most games for the PS3 released all year (And there have been some gems!) Replay value is fairly 
 high when you take that into account. Its a fresh feeling game that is hard to put fully into words 
 and with the many many in depth reviews already out there ill sum it up into only a few words - 
 YES... its that important 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  "Bioshock" is an amazing sci-fi themed first-person shooter. It actually blends sci-fi with horror 
 in its unique visuals and graphic violence. Remember the remake of "House on Haunted Hill"? This 
 game recalls that movie with its depiction of a demented man who experiments on people's DNA and 
 as a result creates crazed human beings that are dubbed "Splicers". You awaken in an underwater 
 eutopia from the 1950's and are given special powers and weapons to survive. The gameplay actually 
 reminded me of "Splinter Cell" as the gadgets you're given recalls Sam Fisher's.
  
  This isn't a game for everyone, but fans of dark fantasy will devulge themselves in an intoxicating 
 adventure filled with plenty of action and mystery. This PS3 version includes an extra difficulty 
 level and slightly sharper visuals. Also, trophies are supported and using the Dual Shock 3 is 
 the preferred way of playing this game. There's also exclusive DLC if you want to pay 10 bucks 
 for three levels not available for PC or the XBOX. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Bioshock takes place in an under water city called Rapture. The time set in Rapture is based around 
 the 1950's but the technology is definately not. Now the big question is "Which console is better?" 
 Well to be honest I do not really notice a difffernce. I did notice the very long install time 
 on the PS3 which is seriously like 10 mins. But the game levels do load faster than the 360 version 
 because of the install.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  
  The graphics were amazing a year ago and nothing has changed. This game is still one of the prettiest 
 games to look at. The water effects, particle effects, and plenty of blood to go around makes this 
 game sweet on the eyes.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Bioshock probably has one of the best soundtracks than any other game out there. The sound really 
 sets the vibe especially when they want you to feel like you are in 1950. Playing in surround sound 
 is where the game shines. Big Daddies two rooms over faintly make the sub woofer rumble but that 
 bad boy is in your grill the bass will rumble your pictures right off your walls. NICE!
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  Super smooth controls and easy navigation the game makes it very easy for 
 any type of gamer to pick and play. Not to mention that this game also has one of the greatest 
 story lines that I have ever played. 
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  Basically anyone with a PS3 should not pass this game up. Yes I know Far Cry 2, Fallout 3, Little 
 Big Planet, and Resistance 2 are coming out soon but if you have never played Bioshock before then 
 you will be making a big mistake by passing this one by.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a game that kind of came out of nowhere from a company I hadn't heard of, who had made 
 games way off my radar. So needless to say when I bought it I had no idea what to expect.
  
  So let me get this out of the way now, Bioshocks strong point is it's story, and the fictional 
 world in which it's set. Your character starts off having survived a plane crash in the atlantic 
 ocean. The crash just happens to have taken place right next to a lighthouse, located inside is 
 a bathysphere that leads your character into a giant underwater city known as Rapture.
  This city was built in the 1940's and has an art nouveau style in the buildings architecture. However 
 the year is now 1960, And things in the city seem to have gone worse for wear in the last 20 years. 
 As you travel through it, you find out just why...
  
  Bioshock, at it's hard is a fps, with a few twists thrown in. As you get out of the bathysphere 
 you get attacked by a strange humanoid known as a splicer. These enemies are everywhere in Rapture, 
 and come in about half a dozen different types, largely the difference is just the type of weapon 
 they use. So to defend yourself you start off with a wrench used to melee attack, but then move 
 onto shotguns, pistols, and machine guns (not the safest weapons to use in an underwater city...) 
 However, to stand out from the crowd as a game Bioshock has some other tricks up it's sleeve. Plasmids. 
 They are DNA changing injection shots that allow you to use telekinesis, shoot fire from yours 
 hands, use mind control etc. They are also what made the splicers what they are.
  
  The only other enemies featured in Bioshock are "Big daddy's". These guys are big, dressed in what 
 looks like modified, armoured 1940's diving gear, carry a drill, and are very tough. They are bodyguards 
 so to speak, to "little sisters". These little girls have been genetically modified to collect 
 Adam (the genetic material in all of us) . If you beat a big daddy you get to choose to either:
 
  
  A) Harvest the little sister (take all her stored Adam and kill her.)
  
  B) Rescue her, (get less Adam but turn her into a normal little girl again)
  
  That is the 
 extent of the moral choice in this game. It also is the only factor involved in the two endings 
 you can get. This is not a very open ended title, though that didn't matter to me as the over whelming 
 strengths of everything else in the game make that easy to over look.
  
  The few characters you meet though this short journey that don't want to beat your head in, set 
 you on fire, then harvest your genetic material are all either already dead, but left helpful tape 
 recordings around with their picture on. Or are all suffering from Chiraptophobia, as even when 
 near them they seal themselves in a room and will only talk to you though a hand held radio. Despite 
 this though each characters personality is well defined and really makes the game an enjoyable 
 ride with a fantastic story.
  
  Other interesting things of note in the game play are money, hacking and tonics. As you kill and 
 / or search random items you will find cash. This is used to either buy ammo or health kits / plasma 
 kits (to replenish your plasmid power bar) from vending machines. However, if your cheap ( and 
 I bet you are) then hacking them to get them cheaper is a good idea. This is done by a simple mini 
 game in which you have to connect pipes from one point to another by taking pieces in and out of 
 a grid. They start off simple, but get a lot harder as the game goes on. By this point however 
 you will want to kill yourself as you will have performed 500 hacks. Vending machines are not the 
 only things you can hack, security cameras and robots are also viable targets, in which if you 
 succeed they will fight for you, if you fail then you get shocked and can then try again. Of course 
 the entire time you are hacking something, nearby enemies will politely wait until you are finished 
 before shooting you in the head. :P
  
  But why does an underwater city need to be full of vending machines that stock enough ammo to put 
 the worlds military to it's knees? :P
  
  There are plenty of Plasmid vending machines around as well, for all your genetic killing needs. 
 However they have to be paid for using the Adam gained from the little sisters. Money just isn't 
 goon enough.
  
  Lastly lets talk about tonics. They are like equipable items that have different effects. "Wrench 
 +1" , better defense, improved hacking skills etc. However they can only be interchanged at certain 
 vending machines around the city, as you get no menu. Which can get annoying if you need something 
 else equiped other then what you have.
  
  The city of Rapture is a beautiful, if not dark, environment. The textures are all well done, and 
 the water effects are lovely (thank god, as it's everywhere.) The city has an excellent atmosphere 
 due to blueish hue lighting that come through the many windows. The designs of each city area are 
 also unique and varied, from orchards to fishing docks. Visually and atmospherically Bioshock excels 
 with no problems.
  
  The game also sounds very good, very very good. With some excellent voice acting all fitting into 
 the era perfectly, especially Andrew Ryan (he reminded me of Vincent Price for some reason) Bioshock 
 carries itself on it's interesting story and unique environment, with some unique and fun gameplay 
 elements thrown in this is a game that any sci-fi or even horror fan should get if they own a PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The game sees you as a only survivor of plane crash. And suddenly, when you think you are safe 
 because you entered to somekinda lighthouse, and only thing theres left is to find someone to help 
 you, you find out that things only get worse. 
  
  I choose Rapture...". those three words guide you to the darkest, deepest underwater world called 
 Rapture! As you quickly became to understand that this city which once shined at its best! It had 
 to be a perfect place, with perfect society. But things went horribly wrong at Rapture in 1960... 
 (Happy new year) : )
  
  Gameplay 
  
  You quickly learn how to protect yourself in this action/horror game, yeah, Bioshock is kinda creepy. 
 Character customization is very awesome and thats the main thing which makes the Bioshock to shine 
 out from other games. This means theres more at your disposal than just a wrench. 
  Theres also Plsamids, Tonics (over 50) to help you out of this mess. 
  Your main enemys called 
 splicers are actually humans who have toyed around with ADAM too much and have essentially lost 
 their minds. You'll also have to deal with security robots, turrets, and cameras, though with hacking 
 these can all bring over to your side.
  
  The so called ADAM, if u choose to collect it as fast as possible which you are able to harvest 
 it from Little sisters, with a ber cool animation scene-gives you new powers to purchase, but 
 its not easy to get ADAM, you must defeat the almighty protector Big Daddy. You are able to harvest 
 little sisters only after Big Daddy is destroyed. ADAM and EVE (plasmid energy ) combine let you 
 shoot fire, lightning, ice, etc all by just swinging your hand at right time. You also have to use 
 environment to survive this nightmare, when there happens to be oil, or water on ground then at 
 right moment u have to use a certain magic to destroy your enemys. Harvesting isnt the only option 
 available though, you can also set free the so called little sisters, which gives you less ADAM. 
 But this process isnt without consequense, we are dealing with deep gameplay here, this means you 
 have to choose carefully because your actions will influence the rest of the story!
  
  I suggest u to listen as many audio diaries as possible because it gives you nice picture of storilyne. 
 Otherwise you will be probably confused of what really happened and whats going on! who are you, 
 are your memories correct, and who to trust. "A man chooses... a slave obeys." 
  
  When game feels too easy you can always take the survivor mode (only available on ps3 version) , 
 that means every bullet counts.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphicaly many are saying ps3 has an edge over 360s version of the game including IGN, eurogamer, 
 chea*cc etc. The PS3 version is the best BioShock release to date; the inclusion of sharper and 
 more stable visuals..."
  
  I personally say that they are quite equal, ps3 version has slightly improved visuals here and 
 there, but with naked eye, you mostly wont even notice a difference! And theres even patch coming 
 to make some a little bit messy things look more polished and sharper. 
  I suggest u to play on 720p mode, because anything above that resolution will make visuals look 
 a bit blurry.
  
  Audio: 
  
  Wow, the voice acting is superb ("would you kindly") , it gives the game a extra boost, it scares 
 when someone is talking in the dark, singing, humming etc. , thanks to the jukeboxes, the backgound 
 music is very thrilling and pulse fastening and creates a terrific atmostphere. This all really 
 gives a well needed emotion.
  
  Pros:
  Awesome expirence through Rapture. Very well done voice acting. Good visuals. Innovative gameplay. 
 High replay value.
  
  Cons:
  Story should be longer, the ending lives some questions, and its too short. there should be more 
 ingame cutscenes to explain the story. No multiplayer. Some graphical glitches. Still little bit 
 mindless AI, sometimes enemys wonder around at the middle of hot battle. Bioshock (both versions) 
 has pop ups, some fps slow downs, maybe you will encounter some freezing for couple of seconds.
 
  
  Summary:
  Bioshock is a very awesome game, it has plenty replay value, deep gameplay, good visuals, very 
 interesting story, all aspects are important and nececery helping to create this terrific atmospher. 
 its just sad that it dosent have proper ending, atleast longer which would explain things alittle 
 bit more. And keep in mind its for a wide audience, so hardcore shooter fans may not like Bioshock. 
 But to others i highly recommend this game. 
  Bioshock kicks off like Hollywood Blockbuster movie and will be so to the end of the credits! no 
 wonder they make a movie out of this! 
  
  Look mr Bubbles, its an angel..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzief
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Right from the start, Bioshock sucks you in and won't let go. The art style and atmosphere of Rapture 
 just begs you to explore every nook and cranny, and the storyline drives you through this amazing 
 setting.
  
  The gameplay is top notch, the difficulty curve feels just right. The weapons are satisfying and 
 the upgrades you can earn for them are stylish steampunk-esque improvised bolt-ons... for example, 
 the grenade launcher looks like it was put together from spare piping and the frag grenades are 
 made from old cans! The gene modification and plasmid system works really well too, allowing you 
 to optimise your character to suit your playing style, and the complex relationships between your 
 character and the various residents of Rapture make for some interesting tactical encounters.
 
  
  Everyone should just go out and buy this game, it's a very special experience that all story-driven 
 FPS fans should appreciate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Bioshock is a very appealing game. It is one of the highest rated games currently on Xbox 360, 
 has won numberous accolades and truly looks the dogs balls, and is a late port that is perhaps 
 worth forking out yet another forty quid.
  
  The game is truly the single most immersive thing I have played this year, I'm looking forward 
 to FarCry 2 to see if that tops this, but as it stand, there is no chance. The world of Rapture 
 is a truly stuning masterpiece of epic proportions, especially when you first dive down in the 
 sub chamber, it is awe inspiring. This entire immersion is thickly pasted with what is perhaps 
 the most I have ever shat my pants in the opening of a game, it is so bloody tense and you really 
 don't know what the hell you are about to be plunged into.
  
  The story is quite literally astonishing and very well told through the eyes of Alex, the guy you 
 play. There are some real butt clenching moments of horror and tension in comparison to some moments 
 that will totally flip those emotions - it is a bit of an emotional rollercoaster, something games 
 are very stubbourn at achieveing nowadays. There hasn't been a game in recent memory that has made 
 me shout "OH **** in horror at the TV screen as I literally brick down every corridor. The last 
 time a game made me feel sad was Ratchet & Clank: TOD, when Clank got taken away, but Bioshock 
 brings emotion in games to an entirely new sophisticated level of eye wincing.
  
  The haunting and truly twisted inhabitants of Rapture are certainly terrifying and make a sudden 
 introduction at the start of the game, the reason behind how they are and why is a real adventure 
 and an almost heart breaking story of genetics gone wrong.
  
  Rapture itself, with it's 30's art deco theme, is a world yet to be experienced within videogames 
 and is one everyone should experience for themselves. Some of the architecture is unbelieveable 
 and environments are suitably tense and eerie.
  
  The game handles superbly and the plasmids are welcome replacements for guns most of the time, 
 as guns are such a rarity and ammo rarer, it becomes a tactical game in thinking how weapons and 
 ammo should be used, with the inclusion of some nice puzzle, Bioshock really gets the brain into 
 gear.
  
  Whether or not this game is any better than the one released a year ago, I don't know, as I didn't 
 play the 360 version. I do get all the downloadable plasmids from the off and a new area, but as 
 far as I'm aware it is the same game, visually and gameplay-wise. For a first timer though, Bioshock 
 really hit me hard, and proved to me games have truly evolved pat the basic shortcomings of Space 
 Invaders and Pong.
  
  Overall, Bioshock looks stunning, plays stunning anf is generally a stunning piece of software. 
 However, as immersive and truly exciting as it is, encapturing monumentous thrills and epic storylines, 
 pace does quite frequently slow down, you aren't really getting that much more after a year extra 
 in the making and I would give it 9.0, I really would, but after playing one certain PS3 exclusive, 
 nothing in this world, seems as enjoyable anymore. It is however, the best first person action 
 game on the market, and edges unbeliveably close to the greatness of Call of Duty 4, and in many 
 cases surpasses that. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
