-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/bladestorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy-to-use controls for commanding companies of troops.
 Great idea to blend arcade action with squad combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign just recycles the same style of battles over and over again.
 No strategic depth or arcade satisfaction.
 Ineffective artificial intelligence.
 Dated visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.0, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 426 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fresh ideas can't save Bladestorm from mediocrity. 

  It looks like Koei has finally exhausted Asia. The publisher best known for its takes on Chinese 
 and Japanese history heads to Europe with Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War. The game is a look 
 at the bloody conflict that spawned a few classic Shakespearean plays and the legend of Joan of 
 Arc. This shift to the West doesn't come without its problems, however. Although the number of 
 troops that cross swords on battlefields is impressive and while the multigenre gameplay that blends 
 action, strategy, and role playing holds at least the promise of innovation, way too much repetition 
 mires the game in mediocrity.  

           Squad combat is a snap in Bladestorm, but it lacks strategic depth and is so packed with 
 troops that it seems both chaotic and vaguely pointless.      

  Those expecting a French-English version of the Chinese carnage depicted in Koei's Dynasty Warriors 
 series will likely be disappointed. Instead of the all-action theme of that franchise, Bladestorm 
 throws a changeup that mixes melee madness with commanding companies of soldiers that range from 
 knights and archers to pikemen and cavalry. Although you take the role of a mercenary seeking fame 
 and fortune while observing battlefields from the standard third-person perspective, you go after 
 your goals by taking charge of troops or fighting as part of groups. There isn't a great deal of 
 strategy involved when playing general, however. All you have to do to take over troops is run 
 up to the nearest company of allied soldiers and click a button. With one bellow, you've got a 
 gang of pals willing to die for you. If only it was that easy in real life. Anyhow, the only difference 
 between this approach and the typical solo actioner is that you have to make a brief pit stop to 
 grab a bunch of guys to attack along with you, so you don't just charge enemy positions solo.  
 

  This rudimentary control scheme leads to Bladestorm's downfall in some ways. Commanding troops 
 is so simplistic that you can just about forget that you're not alone. Buddies in chain mail follow 
 you automatically, attack the closest bad guys whenever you hold down the right trigger, and make 
 shared actions en masse at the drop of a button. Every action is so precise that it can be rather 
 comical to watch. It's like you're part of a chorus line of medieval knights, all swinging swords 
 and firing arrows in unison. Also, because you're just abstractly going into battle, you never 
 get the direct, visceral satisfaction of pushing a button to drive a sword into an enemy's head. 
 Even though it can be sort of cool to hit the shared actions buttons and see everyone in your company 
 attack with swords or lances simultaneously, it doesn't have the immediacy of solo arcade fighting. 
 You feel a step removed from the fray, which isn't very satisfying. And because there isn't much 
 of a strategic component in battles to compensate for this odd distance between you and the action, 
 you sort of get the worst of both worlds in that neither element seems to have been pulled off 
 very well.  

  Battles themselves are also pretty straightforward in that they always seem to play out the same 
 way. You just rampage across a generic French countryside in each mission, conquering one base 
 after another until you reach the target settlement and take it out. There is little variety in 
 your fighting, while battles are typically so loaded with troops and so chaotic that they come 
 off like crazed mob scenes where you fight battles of attrition with little direct control over 
 the outcome. You send your swarm of goons in against the enemy swarm of goons and then hit the 
 shared action attack buttons every time that they regenerate. If your health drops perilously low, 
 you pull back to the nearest allied base to heal up and grab a fresh company of troops, then head 
 back to the front lines. Conquering enemy bases is somewhat satisfying because of the appearance 
 of named enemies and commanders that add a personal element to all the mass carnage. However, even 
 then, you're not taking on these foes in direct combat, so your level of fulfillment that comes 
 from killing them is limited.  

  And for a game that attempts to depict some of the reality of fighting with huge numbers of troops, 
 everything is awfully arcade-ish. Battles wrap at nightfall every day no matter what's taking place 
 when the counter runs down to zero and the sun sets. You can be right on the verge of taking an 
 enemy stronghold, have dozens of troops inside the walls, and then have to do the whole thing all 
 over again the next day simply because it got dark. Aside from the annoying repetition that this 
 forces, it just seems dumb, as if you're calling battles like ballgames on account of rain. Artificial 
 intelligence is also anything but realistic. Enemies seem so reluctant to attack that they usually 
 just sit back until you slam into them head-on. The only thing you really have to worry about is 
 the high number of enemies. Sheer weight of numbers almost always rules the day, so you don't have 
 to concern yourself unduly with smart attacks or even the rock-paper-scissors formula that governs 
 how units battle one another.  

  A little depth between battles makes Bladestorm somewhat more interesting. You spend time preparing 
 to take the field in a tavern, where the barkeep offers you contracts for upcoming battles. You 
 also upgrade books covering different types of troops (organized by weapons used) , buy equipment, 
 purchase units and strength-buffing pennants for instant deployment in battles later on, or get 
 the latest gossip from fellow barflies. Being able to custom outfit the types of troops available 
 to command and their battle skills through books is actually pretty interesting. It makes you feel 
 like you're really learning your mercenary craft and all of the personal equipment gives you the 
 sense of actually controlling an alter ego. But these abilities aren't all that obvious in battles. 
 Sure, it's great to buff the tackle skill of sword-wielding infantry. Yet all this really does 
 is up the damage dealt out, so you don't see any obvious difference in how the game plays. And 
 even though a story is told as you lay waste to medieval France, there is no rhyme or reason to 
 your actions. Although you'll make it through the campaign quicker by sticking to one side, you 
 can jump ship for whomever is offering the most money whenever you want, which eliminates strategic 
 considerations when planning moves. Why bother thinking when the battles all play out the same 
 way and there are no repercussions for swapping sides?  

           Like all good mercenaries, you're a jack-of-all-trades here, fitting in with knights on 
 foot and the cavalry crowd.      

  Frills are nonexistent in both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the game. Neither offers up any 
 multiplayer modes of play. Both are pretty much equally bad when it comes to video and audio quality. 
 Graphics have been dialed back too close to original Xbox levels possibly because of the large 
 numbers of troops onscreen simultaneously. So the game moves quite well on both platforms but isn't 
 much to look at on either. Visual design isn't spectacular either largely because of a flat color 
 palette that makes it tough to tell different types of troops apart and to read the minimap (which 
 is also too tiny to use properly even on a 54" HDTV) . Audio effects are of similar quality, with 
 lots of tinny bombast involving swords smashing together and horses galloping. The only major difference 
 between the two platforms seemed to be stability; the 360 game locked up on a number of occasions 
 while the PS3 game ran without a hitch.  

  Even with such a solid, action-first squad-combat idea, Bladestorm comes off as only half-finished. 
 Both the new gameplay concepts and the European setting need to be fleshed out more to really pick 
 up on the promise shown here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Bladestorm is basically a game involving hacking people to death with your own personalized character. 
 It takes place in the 100 years war between the Britons and the Franks. Seams like a good idea. 
 You start out, just hacking people to death which is fun... but you soon realize that all your 
 doing is hacking piles and piles of people after more piles of people to death. And here's the 
 major problem. The lack of new ideas... All you do is hack. 
  Missions: The missions don't really make sence or have any historical accuracy. All your doing 
 is trying to capture an enemies base, and once again, to complete that, hack people to death En 
 Masse.
  Graphis: The graphics are up to par, but not as complete as I would like it. Still, they're nice 
 to roam around the world and hack more people to death. 
  I can't say any more for this game... if you love hacking people, go ahead and try it out. If you 
 want to try something revoloutionary, don't play it. I've played a million third person melee games. 
 Nothing different about this one.
  Final Score 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  ok lets try to do it simply i will probably do the graphic gameplay, and sounds stuff but lets 
 get somethings outta the way
  We all no Koei is infamous for making mediocre games ever since the era of "new generation consoles" 
 so how is this game different u might ask, it isnt, it is stale and become repetive quikly. the 
 cover of this game boasts strategy and tactics for this game but idk if logic is something u can 
 call strategy. the game is fairly simple, nothing really intuitive or anything dealing with master 
 strategies or whatever.
  ok lets get to it
  
  Graphics: its good but still sucks
  BladeStorm isnt really a nice looking game to look at. character designs are bland and generic, 
 environment is nothing to look at either it seems that somethings were recycles from their other 
 game (maybe Dynasty Warriors or Kessen maybe?) but hey it should really matter that much. the onli 
 thing that i think is nice to look at are the skirmishes since it looks a bit epic but usually 
 they really dont last too long and usually seems really bland in the end. We all no Koei isnt to 
 high on the graphics but still this is a new gen game, it should look stunning at least i mean 
 the hardware of the 360 and PS3 isnt there to run outdated graphics, its there to give a new edge 
 to gaming with nice visuals and awing gameplay but hey u cant blame some people for being incompetent 
 to match the system standards. i really dont c any reason why a game on the PS3 should look as 
 crappy as this does, i payed a good amount of money for a game console to deliver something better 
 than last generations of games but i really dont see a difference so whats going on? do u not have 
 up to date designers or u dont have the resources to make good looking stuff? seriously get in 
 the competition or get left in the cruel dust of other gaming software cause they are pushing the 
 limits and going all out. When u think about it this is a huge opportunity to become big and revolutionary 
 with a new higher powered console and so far i only see what barely meets the standards of a functioning 
 game. Some Koei lovers will flame me for this graphics stuff but hell YOU KOEI CULT GAMERS NEED 
 TO OPEN UR EYES AND PLAY OTHER GAMES THAT ARE ACTUALLY GOOD GAMES, there is a good amount of them 
 all u need is to check them out and then u will wonder why doesnt KOEI do something like they do, 
 i mean its not cool to replicate other types of games but if ur game sucks maybe its time to go 
 back to square one and borrow something from a good game and in this case how bout better visuals 
 thats always a good plus for a game this day and century
  
  SOUNDS: uh just simply sucks
  ok let me elaborate cause that wasnt really fair of me was it? soundtrack isnt really good. it 
 has an orchestra type thing going but its not engrossing and doesnt really fit in since the game 
 is boring. i kinda think the score is going for an epic musical note but too bad that game itself 
 isnt epic. i kinda feels like some guy in part of the production crew told some guy to come up 
 with a soundtrack that is medieval war like battle music and the composer just simply gave out 
 the most generic songs u can ever here and "meh" it fits and meshed in with everything. it seems 
 there wasnt much effort but into the music and if there was i really pity the guy who tried hard 
 to give out a mediocre soundtrack. so music= mediocre which to me is analogous to crap. ok lets 
 get on something else, how bout voice acting?
  ok so we all know Koei is infamous for having crappy voice talent so how is this game different? 
 it seems the crappy voice actors no how to put on a crappy european accent and it really doesnt 
 matter wat accent they put up as long as it sounds european. u've heard it b4, have you ever had 
 that annoying guy u no who, thinks that hes ur friend, try to put on an annoying european accent 
 at an attempt to be a worth while human being but in reality he just simply sucks as a person and 
 u wished he gets hit by bus so u dont have to deal with him nemore in ur lifetime? (if u are that 
 person than enjoy being on the bottom of the social hierarchy) well its kinda like that but u cant 
 punch them in the face without breaking ur TV. It just gets u thinking why dont they just speak 
 normal english and it almost makes u wonder if the japanese version has a japanese voice actor 
 with a french accent. Can u imagine if the english voice actors of Dynasty Warriors tried to sport 
 a chinese accent? i would be appalled or crack up like crazy if it sounds something like "I WANN 
 FIE DOLLA" or something of that elk. but hey if there is no japanese dubbing with a french accent 
 then there really isnt any need for english dubbing with a french accent either, im pretty sure 
 the french didnt speak english to each other but hey im no historian i just have more than an ounce 
 of knowledge. Ok now on to the next thing
  
  Gameplay: ok now this is the onli thing that is probably the best thing about the game but that 
 is not really saying much, its like saying the best thing about a zombie apocalypse is that u get 
 get to shoot zombie (which is awesome) but u no they are trying to EAT YOU!!! and most likely its 
 gonna be pretty bad. 
  ok let me try to paint a picture of how this game plays out.
  basically u create a mercenary u can make either male or female (male for generic people with no 
 personality and female for u perverts that want to see a woman in action but refuse to watch pornography... 
 yea i doubt a chick would play this game but if one does then HAHAHA YOU LOSE) ok so u do all the 
 customizing features and junk and there is ur generic anime looking character in a generic medieval 
 european setting ready to do some generic looking battles. ok with all the creation done u get 
 put into a tavern because after every harsh bloody battle everyone just want to chill out with 
 a beer and some wenches on the side and the tavern's political status seems to be similar to a 
 hospital since there seems to be no one attacking from either end, like theres no guy going "THE 
 MOTHERF**KER WHO KILLED THOUSANDS OF OUR GUYS IS IN THERE, TORCH THE F**KING PLACE DOWN" everyone 
 just seems cool about it, u no, there all very chill and mellow even if theres war going on and 
 a few hundreds of thousands of lives are lost. So yea Tavern = impenetrable sanctuary dont even 
 worry about getting assassinated or poisoned there its all cool. u also get contracts there cause 
 u no the Tavern is UBER popular among the english and french and u get a sign saying "WANTED, NEED 
 SOMEONE TO KILL SOME FRENCHIES or SISSY ENGLISHMEN AND TAKE CONTROL OF SOME BRAINDEAD GUYS WHO 
 WILL DO WHATEVER U SAY EVEN IF THEY DIE CAUSE THERE THAT HARDCORE" so yea tavern = job office and 
 theres also this queer merchant guy who sounds like a jackass and u kinda wanna stick a sword into 
 him but u cant cause he sells u useful junk and there is no option to cut his head off. ok u get 
 ur contract fight for either the french or the english and ur plastered right into the middle of 
 a huge map with a mission to ransack a base mercilessly killing everyone standing in ur way be 
 it woman, children, senior citizens, handicapped people, midgets, Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, 
 Malcolm X and Martin Luther King duo, Jesus, Pikachu, Squirtle, Agumon, Ash Ketchum, Misty, Brock, 
 Nurse Joy, Officer Jenny, Naruto, Kakashi, the guy from Star Trek, Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca, Darth 
 Vader, Yoda?, Yoshi, Mario, Princess Peach, BOWSER, Peter Griffer, Brian, Stewie, Homer Simpson, 
 or ZOMBIES. so yea u kill EVERYONE and u get rewards for kills for upgrading junk which is a long 
 and tedious system so u might as well turn off the system and take a pee break and pop in another 
 game. Its fun for the first hour but then thats it that was ur 60$ worth or whatever u paid for 
 the game. so yea that how BladeStorm rolls.
  
  Potential: u no games like these could have been better if onli they spent the actual production 
 doing some think rather than thrust a few lame ideas out and just worked on those. U see when u 
 play BladeStorm its like something similar to the girl that got away, it could have been something 
 beautiful but ALAS this game sucks. u c bladestorm had potential to be a great game with some innovative 
 use of strategy i mean koei has done it b4 just look at kessen. if u meshed the kessen game style 
 with bladestorm u could have gotten a pretty good game maybe something that the new generation 
 consoles needed and make a stand in the competition but it pulled the Kingdom Under Fire on us 
 and just stripped any strategy and stuck with a stale but different version of hack and slash that 
 was supposed to be fun but NO!! it is not fun it is BOOORING. 
  
  BLADEstorm: The Hundred Years' War gets a 6.0... for being another Koei failure. When u think about 
 all the crap i said about about Bladestorm 5.0 really justifies it but this is the kinda game u 
 can get into if u have beaten all ur other good games and really have nothing to do than to finish 
 another game u forgot that u had or if ur at a place with nothing but a tv, and ps3 or 360, bladestorm 
 and some electricity.
  Who is that guy from Star Trek? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Bladestorm: the hundred years war has a lot of room for improvement but its still a lot of fun 
 and with an extremly long single player campaign, its sure to keep you busy for quite a while. 
 The squad combat in this game is quite fun and different from most games. there are many ways to 
 do it but no matter what you should have fun. the music in bladestorm is astounding, sometimes 
 i just play the game to hear it. graphics arent state of the are but arent that bad. 
  
  Its a shame that there is no online, it would have been fun for this kind of game but the lenth 
 of the single player campaign should keep you busy long enough to make up for it. Also a level 
 select would be great because some of the levels are so fun and it would talk a long time to play 
 them again through starting over.
  
  The game has room for improvement, but its worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxkiller535
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i ever played if u ask me but all of you just care about the super graphics, 
 if u want awesome graphics just play real life ffs games aren't all about graphics if u love strategy 
 or tactical action types this is your type of game. most people play games they beat unlike me 
 i just get bored with every game after i beat it but this game still made me want to play more 
 after i beat it. But it is lacking options since u only get campaign mode and all that and you 
 can not go anywhere else besides the tavern which gets a bit old even if the gameplay is good, 
 this is one of the reasons bladestorm got such a low rating for some people. It's also worth the 
 price if u buy it from bestbuy. com as well for new one 39.99$. But if you ask em koei did disappoint 
 me a bit i thought bladestorm would be a lot better and koei probably got lazy and espcially with 
 a glitch that pratically destroys the game which prevents u from going further as a lot of people 
 already knows about it the !Special battle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakozako666
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Though late in this review, I am in no doubt pleased with Bladestorm: The Hundreds Years War. I've 
 been a KOEI fan since DW2 and have always awaited their games.
  
  This game simply stunned me as to how the gameplay worked out. To be able to command a squad of 
 up to 30 soldiers is quite relaxing. Even more so when a simple hold of the R1 button makes your 
 selected squad attack while you pull out a folding chair, sit down, and gaze upon the ever so elegant 
 sky. Unless you use ranged units or on horseback (Best to charge) .
  
  Postives:
  1. Kessen meets Dynasty warriors! 
  
  2. Massive range of unit types to control from:
  Swords 
 
  Bowman
  Axes
  Spears
  Horseback Units
  Explosives (Guns)
  Magicians
  Elephants (... sure)
  Polearms
  
  Others I'm probably forgetting, also each class of unit 
 has about 3-5 different variations. Such as Swords with no shield or Swords with shields.
  
  3. At some point in the game, choose either France or the English forces to side with for complete 
 victory! I chose the french of course can't resist the beauty of Joan of Arc.
  
  4. Even after the credits roll there's more to do! Such as learing more about your fellow mercenaries. 
 In my case is leveling up my explosive unit. It simple feels powerful.
  
  5. Load times are awesome! So short, so sweet.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1. Voice acting (English) ... 
 Abysmal. I would say two characters had their voices in top shape. Where's the Japanese voices? 
 I played the Japanese Demo of Bladestorm and the voices hit the mark so well! Gah!
  
  2. Story needed more refining.
  
  3. Limited amount of armor to wear.
  
  4. Music was fine, 
 for about 10 hours... (luckily one can mute it)
  
  At the end of this review, I'll still be playing this game trying to get that last fame level. 
 All in all, a great game. Also! If one of you see the game for $15, pick it up! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is in the vein of Dynasty Warriors and Kessen. You build your own character and troops 
 up as you progress in skill and power.
  
  The graphics, while not being absolutely stunning, are still crisp, clean and sharp enough to fully 
 integrate the player into the game. The environments, while repetitive, are well enough developed 
 to create a sense of another time and place.
  
  As far as battle goes, you have many different types of troops to choose from. Building their strength 
 and number is an addictive activity. Same goes for your character; you can upgrade your armor, 
 specialized skills, and advance in trading & relations with other characters.
  
  Personally, the downsides to the game are the lack of an intruiging plot. A hundred years' war 
 would be a big enough draw for most battle fanatics, but when it's coupled with shoddy, wooden 
 dialogue and awkward instances of poorly translated humor- it simply falls flat, and I found myself 
 skipping many, many cutscenes.
  
  Another downside is the lack of varied gameplay. There are varied missions, new objectives, new 
 characters, but they don't add up to much when the overall goal is to dominate by taking over this 
 base and that base.
  
  But! I love this game. The rush and personal thrill after defeating one large group of enemies 
 after another is tons of fun!
  
  So, if you are a gamer that has any interest in the Dynasty Warriors releases or the Kessen releases 
 (specifically KESSEN 3) , pick up BLADESTORM.
  
  Decimate and dominate!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickkcin10
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Bladestorm the 100 years war is a game based on the, well, 100 years war. it puts you in the shoes 
 of a new mercenary who will work for anyone for some money. you first encounter a barman who basically 
 sets you up with all the new battles and tells you what to do. Bladestorm has plenty to do, if 
 you keep at it. you have to be a pretty big fan of this hack and slash/RTS genre to like this game. 
 Bladestorm has many flaws E. g. the graphics are almost ps2 standard, even with that the draw distance 
 is incredibly low. also the fighting isnt very invetive with holding R1 doing it all for you, exept 
 for a few other buttons to do some special attacs.
  
  The upsides of Bladestorm are that it follows an interesting plot and holds its pat in value. i 
 have played it for over 70 hours and i dont think i have even found everything there is in bladestorm. 
 it also has an easy menu to navigate. there is plenty of depth in the characters you meet on the 
 battlefield, with each one having their own little sub-story.
  
  Overall Bladestorm is an interesting mix of genre's that just falls short of the mark for a truly 
 good game with some BIG flaws holding it back..... maybe Konami could make an improvements in the 
 sequel (if there will be one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintert2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  While the game is fun, it quickly becomes a "bottom of the stack game". The graphics look horrible 
 on HD, but much better on SD for some reason.... Game play consists of holding the R1 button for 
 75% of the time. there are a lot of classes, but each only provides so much advantage, as the rock-paper-scissors 
 system greatly affects outcome of the skirmishes. I found that i quickly built a super strong class 
 and used it a lot of the time (spears) the skill advancing ability helps way too much as it provides 
 the ability to kill anything very easily. the RPG elements of the game are good, but the in-game 
 combat could use improvement. this game was completely better than any official reviews. it has 
 massive length to it, and when you like it, you'll find yourself playing for hour after hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Compilation
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  While watching some snippets, preferably the ones that show the in-game scenes, instead of the 
 boring, same old trailer videos, it was best to understand this game completely to compare it with 
 old time classics, Dynasty warriors. 
  
  Dynasty Warriors is known for, lets say, its great arcading Japanese hack n' slash adventure. There 
 really is no need for lectures, but players who are both new and old to that game title should 
 understand it is still a lot better in regards to potentiality, and lifespan. It is purely addicting. 
 
  
  So, what is it about?
  
  Dynasty Warriors meets Bladestorm. A game that implements singular to multiple actions and decisions, 
 (You, the Hero, can attain any unit in the game from the click of a button.) 
  You are the character that takes legions of warriors into a battle to make you a notorious artifact, 
 and a well-known multi-Class General of either, France, or English origin. 
  Put it as the Jack-of-all-Trades a class known to control and weird every known weapon of the controllable 
 units.
  The heroin in the story can play along in with known battles between France and England, all from 
 the signing of a place in the local Tavern. It is all so simplistic and ingenious!
  
  Bladestorm
  
  Pros - 
  
  + The game offers a lush environment that positions itself from 
 over many miles of fighting terrain. Simply greedy!
  
  + A good drama and historical lesson on some fictional, and non-fictional world battles around 
 France and England that are fun to participate in.
  
  + A good withdrawal to boredom, perhaps if there is a need for a new game. Bladestorm definitely 
 offers a more complex and different gaming engine to play on, compared to other titles. The Demo 
 is packed with many goodies, time is the essence, and you can pretty much make a final decision 
 as of end of the hourly play. So, download and try for yourself.
  
  Cons -
  
  - Disgustingly, PS3 doesn't offer any graphics improvements, if that of its full maximum and Bladestorm 
 looks too average even in the trailers. Don't be entirely excited.
  
  - A linear experience to customization, and choices outside battle, which will make players unconvinced. 
 Music and sounds are also bad.
  
  - The gameplay will decrease to a near minimum. Lifespan is drastically low compared to its predecessor, 
 Dynasty Warriors, which is also a game produced by KOEI.
  
  - It would seem this game is cheap; quite frankly, developers at KOEI would only have liked to 
 make this game a decrease to its upcoming release of Dynasty Warriors 6.
  
  - It would've been great to experience free roaming adventures, because the battles are cleverly 
 made, just not cleverly put.
  
  As far as the customizing goes, the game itself is not completely all-shabby.
  The terrain on 
 which you'll be fighting on consists of many units and colors, and choices of navigation are great 
 to prepare tactics on the opposition. However, Enemy A. I is appalling, and even I have to admit, 
 Players of this game could well possibly be deciding whether or not Dynasty Warriors 6 will be 
 any different.
  
  Conclusively, While not reviewing to much on the games contents, it is still good to withdraw boredom 
 at any time during weeks upon weeks as other set titles will make an appearance on the Playstation 
 3 console. 
  The design is, as Gamespot wrote, 'Mediocre'.
  The levels are repetitive and sometimes boring,
  
  If it looks good, think about the decision 
 wisely. The money is not worth what you are hoping to get, but the game is a great sketch of what 
 Dynasty Warriors or possibly any other similar game of what will be to come. The sketch is still 
 just a sketch, but if you like to experiment, download the game first! If further analysis is positive, 
 buy the game! Enjoy the game!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is indeed one of the best type of fighting game i have encountered...
  
  When you start, you are a unknown mercenary who no one cares about, 
  
  Thats untill you start 
 making a name for your self by slaughtering the english if your allied with the french or kill 
 some french if you wanna be an english general.
  
  You can command many soldiers in the battle field but only once at a time, you can take them with 
 you and slaughter everything you see!.
  
  If your a dynasty warrior fan then you will like this a little bit, it may not have the great chinese 
 warriors like LuBu and all that but you can make your self 1 of them but just a hero to whatever 
 race you want to help out.
  
  On playstation 3 the graphics are good, the effects are alright but the gameplay is great.
  
 
  On the xbox, well.... since the xbox360 is kinda crappy and does not match the power of ps3 it 
 cannot take on such low standards hehehe.
  
  Its a cheap price for a good game, 15 pound off the amazon. co. uk
  
  But the bad thing is, is 
 that the game does not use its full potential...
  
  there are 8 processors in 1 ps3, a good graphics card and aload of other stuff i cant be bothered 
 to talk about,
  
  the ps3 can do far more things then the xbox360, the game could have ventured threw the entire 
 world.
  
  there could have been many wars between countries as there alwise will be but theres only 2 races 
 you can slap around all day witch is kinda boring.
  
  all though like i said, its a good game where you can customise your hero a little bit and upgrade 
 him abit, as you can upgrade your armies.
  
  soon you will become the powerfullest mercenary in the french/english war and will be asked to 
 do many missions.
  
  all together i would give this a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrglorp
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  If you played the demo off the PSN, you would think this game will be good. That kind of thinking 
 would lead you to spend $60 on a game you would most likely hate before you get half way through 
 it. 
  Unlike what other ppl say this is not the greatest strategy game. (far from it)
  With almost every game I've played, they may start out boring and steadily get better. This game 
 starts out good and gets worse. 
  The story line makes very little sense. It would help if there weren't some sort of moral oxymoron, 
 since you're a mercenary (The final fantasy looking characters and the annoying dialog doesn't 
 help ether) 
  The game play is fun at the beginning but gets boring fast. I do like the fact you get exp for 
 killing enemy troops, that can be used upgrade your troops. The strategy you thought you needed 
 to use at the beginning, becomes a waste of thinking. It's really sad when you have 5 days to do 
 a mission, (1 day is 10 mins) and it takes you 3 mins to beat and it was your hardest mission. 
 The game gets incredibly boring and easy at that point. That point is when you hate the game and 
 never play it again. If your compeled by some force to buy this game save yourself a rent it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruiser2727
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this pretty much in response to all the harsh reviews this very good game has gotten. 
 What do you ask of a game? #1? Entertainment. Hours and hours of fun. We don't spend $60 to kinda 
 have fun or just have fun for one night (I can have fun for one night and spend $15 at a bowling 
 alley...) This game delivers on it. 
  
  You are a mercenary in the Hundred Years War between England and France in the Middle Ages (knights 
 and castles and swords and all that fun stuff) . You start out as a nobody and have to raise your 
 fame as a merc to unlock opportunities. There is a nice little tutorial that shows you how the 
 game mechanics work. You are one man in a huge battle (a la Dynasty Warriors) and you walk up to 
 different squads (archers, foot soldiers and cavalry) and hit X to command them. Each of these 
 three types of squads have about 7 or 8 sub types (longbows or cross bows, great swords or axes, 
 lances or swords) , and each has a certain types it is strong against and other it is weak against. 
 So you have to make sure you know your enemy and their weakness. The best part is in game you can 
 hit a button and see you current units strengths and weaknesses. Very helpful. Anyway you have 
 these cool, huge battles (bigger than Dynasty Warriors) that are persistent and all forces fight 
 on each side whether you are there or not. Pretty much you keep going till you either take over 
 the world or become the most famous merc in the world or both. Standard objective, but fun and 
 effective.
  
  Right now I'm at about 25 hours and still going strong. I am a big strategy buff. I love being 
 able to customize my mercenary squads and equipment. I also love leveling up a few different types 
 of squads. Then taking them into battle and destroying everything in my path. Don't let other reviews 
 make it seem less fun than it it. Yes, its different than the pure hack and slash of Dynasty Warriors, 
 but this isn't Dynasty Warriors. Koei already makes that game. This game has a very distinct strategy 
 aspect. And that's what makes it refreshing and fun. Not to mention the fresh backdrop of the Hundred 
 Years War.
  
  Now to address some of the other reviews problems. 
  Graphics and draw distance: I didn't notice any problem until I read a review that complains about 
 it. Then went back and played the game. Yes, it could be better, but it doesn't look bad. Stuff 
 doesn't "pop" out of the fog unnaturally. Even after reading this and playing, I don't think it 
 will bother you. The overall graphics? Good. It looks like a game that has been made for next gen 
 consoles. That said , it's no Gears, but we all know graphics do not make the game (gameplay does 
 for you nubs (a noob that thinks he's not) ) .
  Gameplay and the strategy aspect itself: Someone complained that you could just mount up on your 
 cavalry and charge into battle and pretty much mow over everyone else not matter if they are strong 
 against cavalry or not. To this I say: Its a strategy game. Being mounted on horseback might be 
 one of the stronger units, but if you sit back and level up any unit for hours you can mow over 
 who ever you want. Every strategy game has that problem. Even the greats like FFX. The one good 
 counter point to this argument is that your exp is gauged against how weak your opponents are is 
 factored in to you bonus. If you, level 10, are just killing level 1 grunts you bonus multiplier 
 is Zero (0) , so there is no really easy exp. (Now there is kinda easy exp with a multiplier of 
 .1 but is that really worth your time?) .
  
  When it comes down to it, this game is fun. Period. If you like good strategy games and you aren't 
 just a button masher, hack-n-slash, meathead you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madisonsuicide
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game after putting it off for a bit but that bug to play dynasty warriors bit 
 hard and i ran out and bought bladestorm with a bunch of half used gift cards. well this NOT dynasty 
 warriors. i was put off pretty quick by it.. so lets get the bad stuff over with...
  this is not a great looking game
  the dialogs and voice overs are, well they are koei
  this 
 is not like dynasty warriors at all
  the manual doesn't give you enough information really
  the menus can be hard to read in places (the icons and sometimes the text)
  the menus can be 
 a fairly confusing
  you can tend to purchase things not really understanding at first what they are or why you are 
 buying it or if it is better than something you already have.
  approaching it with a dynasty warrior mentality of "here i go to slaughter everything in my path" 
 will get you killed real quick when you first start playing.
  
  i think its actually a hard game to rate especially when put up against so many flashy games today 
 that everone seems to flock to so quickly but in the end turn out to be rather dry with little 
 replay value, and limited options.
  in a year i probably will not be putting oblivion or many other games back in to play them.. but 
 its looking like i will likely still messing with bladestorm a year from now... which says a lot 
 i think for it as a game.
  
  basically a lot of stuff in this game can cause some early frustration with it. so i chucked this 
 game to the side.... but i kept coming back to it. it kept eating away at the back of my mind. it 
 is not a game that is going to blow you away at first like say assassins creed, but i have sure 
 picked this game up and played it now a lot more than assassins creed. this is not to directly 
 compare these two games, they are two different types of games entirely after all.. but it is to 
 say, while bladestorm is lacking in up front WOW power, it seems to have a lot of staying power.... and 
 that puts it past most games i've played recently. it is a pretty long game, fairly open world, 
 after "beating" it there are still things to unlock and upgrade and do. now when i mentioned its 
 an open world, its not exactly all out free roam do what you want.. you can't switch sides you are 
 working for mid battle... but you don't have to plow along through any set way siege a town either. 
 in fact you can turn and head in a completely different direction if you want and take on places 
 yourself or assist in battles on the other side of the map. 
  
  so while it is probably not a must have it right away game, it is defiantly one to stock into the 
 collection because it does offer plenty of reasons to return to it and with enough small character 
 rewards, fast loading and game play to keep you playing it for just one more mission, just one 
 more mission, ok, one more mission and i will save it and go to bed, ok one more and that is it.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Koei has overused The Romance of the Three Kingdom license so much so moving west is a good sign 
 that finally, this company is trying something different. 
  
  Unfortunately, the final product shows quite a bit of promise but lacks the detailed depth. 
 
  
  First, let's get something out of the way. Bladestorm is entertaining game. It's really odd how 
 this extremely simple game is entertaining, but it just is. Anyone who is interested in ancient 
 warfare will be able to enjoy this game.
  
  However, that enjoyment doesn't last due to lack of depth. 
  
  The idea of Bladestorm seems 
 simple. Mix the action visuals of Dynasty Warriors and large scale war feel of Romance of The Three 
 Kingdoms. Unfortunately, it's missing elements from both franchise that makes them popular. 
  
  Part of it has to do with new setting. The Hundred Years' War. One of the most enjoyable element 
 of Romance of The Three Kingdoms is that it has multiple factions. Due to having multiple factions, 
 players were able to enjoy all those complicated political alliance and enemies with relations 
 to each other. The Hundred Year's War is just two sides. French or English. There is no alliance 
 there, just enemies. 
  
  This sucks plenty of fun that is placed in Romance of The Three Kingdoms franchise. The sense of 
 freedom. One of the most enjoyable aspects of the game was that you are free to change the history 
 according to your wishes. Unfortunately Bladestorm lacks that depth. It actually feels very linear. 
 Just going through one mission after another. 
  
  In that sense, it feels very much like Dynasty Warriors. Just go in to the battle zone and fight. 
 Capture certain location. 
  
  However, Dynasty Warriors was popular because of it's heavy button mashing fun. Bladestorm unfortunately 
 lacks that action. Most of the action you take is rather slow as only thing you need to do is hold 
 R1 button. Just holding that button will make your units attack. There are special attacks using 
 the face buttons and this will be the difference for most of your battles, but the charge time 
 is fairly long so often you will find yourself just holding the R1 button and directing your units 
 in certain directions with your analog stick. 
  
  And unfortunately, that's pretty much it. 
  
  It's quite disappointing how it turned out. Bladestorm 
 does have the looks of real time strategy, but it doesn't have strategy involved with the game. 
 If they just added more features like setting up ambush, changing formations, controlling multiple 
 units etc it would've turned into a nice strategy game. Because you are only able to control one 
 squad, the strategy aspect is even more limited than Koei's other franchise, Kessen. 
  
  In so many ways, Bladestorm feels shallow. If Bladestorm was able to get one of it's elements more 
 fleshed out, it would've turned out good, and if it was able to get all of it's elements for fleshed 
 out, it would've been excellent. As of now, it is just very shallow game that shows some potential. 
 
  
  I really hope Koei tries to improve upon this rather than just being satisfying with this. Bladestorm 
 shows enough potential for me to look forward to their next iteration. For now, the lack of depth 
 is deep enough to make this game feel incomplete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxRyanO
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  It is very fun to run around on the battle field like crazy in Dynasty Warrior... But I like this 
 better. In Blade Strom you get to command a squad and hope that other squads will follow you. Hope 
 to God. I love how you can be on either side, France or England. The worst thing in the game is 
 that it gets... boring. Seems as if every battle is the same. Even if you do switch up the squads, 
 it gets boring. (switching up as in going from archers to swordsmen to calvary etc.) Overall... 
 You might want to rent it first.
  
  
  NO MULTI PLAYER!!!! It would be great for a multi player. Oh wells 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoander
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  The game play is fun. The variety of units and excitement of finding new weapons last's for good 
 long time. Unfortunately after enough play time the excitement wears off, and you begin to get 
 tired of the same landscape in every battle. You essentailly perform the same tasks the entire 
 time, riding or running from base to base killing enough enemies to take it over. This can get 
 really dull.
  
  I would have been happier if they added a co-op, had more exciting maps, or a more a thrilling 
 storyline.
  
  Hopefully they come out with another Dynasty Warriors, and learn from their mistakes with this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenchiro78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is from Koei, who's fame for 'Dynasty Warrior' series, where you control one hero 
 from the past to conquer your opponent. And no, this game is definitely not an action game as this 
 game is categorized in this site or by the publisher itself. There is certainly lots of soldiers 
 hacking each other in the game, but the gameplay proves otherwise. I wouldn't compare this game 
 to Dynasty Warrior because this game reminds me more of the 'Kessen' series (you would know if 
 you're a Koei fan) . 
  
  You play as a mercenary who accepts contracts from either the English or the French in the Dark 
 Age era in an epic battle known as the Hundred Years' War. Obviously, like the intro of this game 
 suggests, you would choose to side with the highest bidder. As you gain more fame, (and more bigger 
 battles coming) the stake becomes higher. The outcomes occur independently from the battle, so 
 it doesn't matter which side you choose. 
  
  You get to equip yourself with full fledge armors and weapons that corresponds with the squad you 
 use. The type of squad that you gets to choose depends on the 'tome' you have. Alternate unit types 
 like spear or spear + shield requires just one 'spear tome', but you need the 'spear + shield tome' 
 to upgrade it's abilities (buy from merchant) . Items in this game are called 'pennons', which affects 
 your whole squad. My most favorite feature in the game is the 'recruits'. You get to control free 
 squads provided in the battlefield. However, if none of them suits you or you couldn't find one 
 while you're in an enemy's territory, you can 'summon' your own squad. Bought before the battle, 
 you can choose to 'equip' up to three types of recruits. So if you have to face an enemy that you 
 couldn't fight with, you can change your unit with a blink of an eye... ;-)
  
  Like I mentioned, on the battlefield you get to choose a squad that's standing around your base 
 for free. The type you choose will affect the outcome when you face a certain type of enemy. More 
 than a 'paper-scissor-stone' system, the level of the squad leader and the timing of your abilities 
 can give you a cutting edge when face with an enemy that's strong against yours. Experience comes 
 from how often you use a unit type and when you leveled up, you get 'skill points' to distribute 
 among your unit's 'strength' (attack, defense, number of shots you get, etc...) or your unit's 
 'ability'. Like Kessen, the timing you use to trigger your abilities can determine the outcome 
 of a battle. 
  
  Finally, the battle ends either when the day is over (6 mins in our time) , you fulfilled your contract, 
 or you're defeated. How much money you get will be determine, as well as the fame you get from 
 the battle (more squad you eliminate + more base you control = more fame) . Your fame is also categorized 
 by level, the higher the fame level, the more stuffs you're given access to. You're allowed to 
 reach a certain level, until you progress further with the story line. 
  
  Overall, this is an enjoyable game and the redundancy can be sort of overcome with the new equipments/unit 
 types as you get more fame level. I think the graphic is great, but beauty is determine with the 
 eye of the beholder, so enough said about that. You can check it out yourself with the images/videos 
 provided in Gamespot. If you like Kessen, you'll really enjoy this game. Happy gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonsbane97
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Ah what can be said about "Bladestorm: The Hundred Years War" that hasn't been mentioned already? 
 Well I'll give a round up summary of the game for those of you interested.
  
  Bladestorm is created by the "Dynasty Warriors" frachise known as Koei. They usually make their 
 games based off the concept that you are the hero smashing anything in your way with little opposition. 
 More or less a mindless hack and slash based in Fuedal China.
  
  Bladestorm however was an attempt at something new in which many Koei fans have been screaming 
 for. It's based in Feudal Europe during the 100 years war between France and England. Those of 
 you history fanatics can find some satisfaction through this. While it may not be 100% historically 
 accurate it still gives you a good idea on how intense the bloodlust was during that time, but 
 I digress.
  
  Bladestorm is a squad based hack and slash. It's definatly different from what Koei usually does. 
 In this game you're a mercenary trying to make his/her claim to fame. You sell your sword to the 
 highest bidder. So there's really no sides to choose besides who pays you the most. I personally 
 like that idea. You're not stuck just working with England or stuck working for France. You fuel 
 your own desire for victory. And come now, you're a mercenary. Who doesn't enjoy that?
  
  Now since the stage has been set it's time to explain the gameplay. Yes the graphics aren't the 
 greatest. You'll have that from time to time. The troops do look fairly similar however don't just 
 pay attention to how they look. Pay more attention to the emblems over their heads. So instead 
 of squinting to see what weapons the unit is holding before you command it just look at what's 
 above the units head. Saves a lot of time and headaches. Graphic wise the games lacking. Yeah not 
 the greatest color schemes but since when was medieval Europe colorful during the dark ages?
  
  As for character variety I've heard some complaints. Usually from people who only played it 
 for an hour and then got bored. Yes many of the officers and commanders look the same. However 
 if you play long enough you begin to fight against other mercenary's that you meet up with in the 
 pub. Gotta put some time into the game before it gives little perks.
  
  Now for the squad based combat. It's nothing like "Dynasty Warriors". You can't just run up to 
 an enemy opposition and exspect to fight like a war god and win. In reality no stronghold was ever 
 taken alone. Sure droping you're calvary unit for one second to fight a group of archers alone 
 is a great idea due to the advantage archers have against mounted units. However it's not the greatest 
 idea to run right up to an enemy base and think you can take it alone. So your allies are key. 
 Make sure you've always got a decent unit to take the next base. Calvary is great against just 
 about anything except archers and long spearmen, as where a basic sword unit could dispatch that 
 enemy opposition without breaking a sweat. So there is some tactical prowess in this game. Need 
 to choose your unit wisely before just charging the next base. Plus you want to make sure that 
 you're flanking your enemy on both sides of the map. Like a wave. Don't give them any ground and 
 they wont be able to take back any of your bases.
  
  All in all if you're a medieval fanatic or even like the concept of being a mercenary I'd suggest 
 this game without a doubt. Takes a lot of time and yeah the squad commands are pretty simple. But 
 if you can get past those little quirks then you'll be having a lot of fun for days to come. So 
 hope you guys enjoy and if not then it obviously wasn't the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodboy466
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be straight and honest about this: I haven't finished the game, and in fact am probably 
 not even half way through it, but Gamespot's not providing any feedback so I figured I'd give people 
 some of my impressions. 
  
  Koei is best known for its series, Dynasty Warriors, which has found lukewarm reception with critics 
 everywhere. From the look of the list provided here, it seems to be going the same route with their 
 new franchise, Bladestorm. The game has many similarities to Dynasty Warriors, some good, some 
 bad, that regulars to the franchise will be able to pick out pretty quickly.
  
  Just like in Dynasty Warriors you play a warrior running around the battlefield killing all who 
 are unfortunate to cross your path. This time around though you can't do it alone. Rather, you 
 use groups of allies aligned to any one of the large number of different weapons available including 
 halberds, spears, horsemen, archers and so many more than I'd care to take the time to name. In 
 addition to this, your warrior isn't as flashy as in Dynasty Warriors. Instead, there are commands. 
 For instance, if you have a horseman unit you have the commands Charge, Ride-By Slash, and Protection. 
 These are each assigned to Square, Circle, and Triangle (with X remaining static at Control/Release 
 unit) . Charge is a command that you hold to use, Protection is a one-press command that remains 
 active temporarily, and Ride-By Slash is an instant attack. Each command requires time to recharge 
 after using them. There's of course, a basic attack command which is simply holding R1 which tells 
 your unit to fight anyone nearby, though certain units such as the longspears and catapults don't 
 have this command for whatever reason.
  
  As the title implies, this time rather than fighting in ancient China you are fighting during the 
 Hundred Years War between England and France, but rather than picking one side and fighting with 
 them as a major general or anything like that you are just a lowly mercenary working your way up 
 in fame, fighting for whatever side is willing to pay more. You can fight for one side the entire 
 way through, but money runs out pretty quickly when you incorporate all of the things you can and 
 probably should buy. Yep, that's something new and different from Dynasty Warriors as well. During 
 the different missions you take on you can use the tavern to buy new armor, weapons (which are 
 equipped to the troops you use rather than just you) , pennons (In battle items) , tomes (used to 
 control and upgrade new troops) and shields (which are also specific to troops) . 
  
  Sorry if this is all a little confusing but there's a lot of overlap. The tomes which I just mentioned 
 are fairly important. See, you can't just control any troop you like at first- you need the "books" 
 for the different types of troops which you usually get at the end of battle. Luckily, you don't 
 need a book for every single sub-genre. In fact, the Swords book, which you start out with, cover 
 many different sub-genres including your basic sword unit, great sword units, sword and shield 
 units, and a few others. The bows book controls longbows, shortbows, and crossbows and variations 
 thereof. 
  
  With these books you can build Skill Points which are used to upgrade the troops, either in general 
 with skills like Attack, Defense, Leadership (the number of soldiers in a unit) et cetera, and 
 specific upgrades to the action commands I spoke of earlier (Charge, Ride-By Slash, etc.) including 
 lenghtening the effects of an ability, increasing the damage, or whatever there is. 
  
  There are special battles in the game, besides the basic missions, in which you meet and might 
 be fighting alongside (supposedly) famous historical figures. Your ultimate goal is... well, I'm 
 not quite sure at this time- there are some hints but so far it's just making a name for yourself 
 and earning money. 
  
  The most annoying crossover from Dynasty Warriors is probably not being able to dispose of someone 
 because they keep falling down and for whatever you aren't allow to strike someone when they fall 
 down, no matter how often they do it (though this sort of touches on the strengths versus weakness 
 between different troops) . This is especially noticable when you're focused on a base commander, 
 since many of the missions require taking bases. Pop-up is present in Bladestorm but not to the 
 horrible extent that Dynasty Warriors had it. They seem to have figured out a method of selective 
 pop-up so that only troops that are further away "disappear" so that you don't have to wait for 
 the target right in front of you to reappear. The background music can also get somewhat grating 
 after awhile. At first it's impressive how epic the music is but, while it might not be true, it 
 feels like you're always listening to the same two tracks. A little variation in this departement 
 really would have spiced things up.
  
  Overall, this is a good improvement on Koei's usual Dynasty Warriors formula. While it still caries 
 a few of the woes of the flagship series, it carries many good traits including an impressive number 
 of troop types to control and master, an impressive number of on-screen soldiers for the more chaotic 
 fetish in all of us, sprawling battlefields, and an interesting take on battlefield combat. If 
 you're looking for a new twist on Koei's usual formula this is a good bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GingerCub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this title, I was very interested; the concept seemed strong and I absolutely 
 loved the scope of the game. I bought it yesterday, spent several hours playing it, and it's certainly 
 a worthwhile game. That's not to say that it's perfect, but it's delivering exactly what I expected.
 
  
  The good: Graphics. Wow. Even though this only get's played on 720p, the sheer amount of moving 
 bodies makes the graphics a very strong selling point for this game. What's more important, is 
 the game DOESN'T slow down when there is that much action on screen. Sure, the draw distance isn't 
 fantastic, but you see more than enough of the battlefield to let you know where the action is. 
 The character modeling looks good as well, and the motions are smooth and seemless for all the 
 different character types. Camera. Again, solid. When the camera isn't a source of frustration, 
 it's always a positive. Pace of Play. The game keeps you rolling right along; it's a very rare 
 circumstance that leads you to doing nothing (like taking a wrong turn, ending deep in the enemy 
 country with no health left!) . The Mechanics. You cannot just take your hero out willy-nilly rampaging 
 through the countryside; if you don't have a solid squad behind you, you're in for a very short 
 campaign. In other words, the major aspects of the game cannot be shortchanged; if you're supposed 
 to use cavalry to take a town, i'd certainly advice taking the horsmen out for a ride.
  
  The bad: Repetition. This game CAN get repetitious after awhile; unless you make an effort to change 
 up your tactics (horse vs. infantry vs. bow) but even if you're doing the same moves to take outposts, 
 it's still a gorgeous ride. The voice acting. Wow. it's pretty comical to hear a ?Spanish? sounding 
 barkeep lisp over the word Mercenaries over and over. The hero's voices are under par as well; 
 would have been nice to have more customization options available with voice and face for your 
 Hero.
  
  All things considered, the fact that you can sit down and play this game for 6+ hours at a sitting 
 leads this reviewer to say that it's a worthwhile adventure. Hell, anytime you can sit down and 
 lose track of time as you wreak havoc among hapless bowmen with knights in full plate, or take 
 a squad of greatsword-wielding infantry wading through scores of troops en route to stomping out 
 another town, you've found a game worth owning/playing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
