-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sim/worldwariisquadron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign has a good length to it.
 Tilt support for flying feels pretty good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No voice chat support.
 Long-winded pilot voices get in the way.
 Frame rate drops to somewhere near zero when you fly close to explosions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 516 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels' very straightforward campaign and barren online play don't add up to make a particularly 
 engaging air combat game. 

  Originally released on the Xbox 360 and other platforms nine months ago, Blazing Angels: Squadrons 
 of WWII is now getting its turn on the PlayStation 3. Like the other versions, the PS3's Blazing 
 Angels is a very standard mission-based air combat game that doesn't offer much of a challenge. 
 But it's also the first flight game on the PlayStation 3, giving it some status as the first game 
 to use the Sixaxis controller's tilt support for maneuvering an aircraft. That feels natural and 
 works well, but it doesn't make up for the barren multiplayer servers and uninteresting single-player 
 options.  

          Blazing Angels offers a very standard mission-based campaign.     

  You play the role of a squadron leader in Blazing Angels, but you don't start out with a squadron 
 to command. Instead, you're one of the few American pilots helping out the British flyboys. You'll 
 jump right into training, but that doesn't last long, because you're quickly whisked away to protect 
 Dunkirk. You'll meet your squadmates early on, and you'll always fly with the same crew, though 
 a few spots here and there have you out on your own. Even then, your group will keep in touch via 
 the radio. If you're familiar with other versions of the game, you should know that all of the 
 dialogue has been redone in the PS3 version of the game. Inexplicably, the story sequences now 
 feature your pilot's voice. In other versions of the game, you remained silent. Every voice actor 
 seems to have been replaced, and most of the new actors are worse than their counterparts in the 
 other versions of the game. Your pilot frames each mission with a new pre-mission cutscene that 
 shows the flow of the battle you're about to enter, and a bunch of speech that comes at the end 
 of a mission. He's long-winded and you're still flying your plane, so you'll just have to fly in 
 circles while you wait for the guy to shut the heck up and get on with it.  

  When flying alongside your wingmen, you'll be able to give them basic orders, such as to break 
 off and attack or to come back to defend you. Each of your three comrades has a unique ability. 
 Frank runs his mouth a lot, but he's good at getting out there and knocking out targets when you 
 turn him loose. Tom can taunt enemies to pull them off of you if you're under too much fire. And 
 Joe can occasionally allow you to repair your plane via a series of button presses.  

  Once you meet your team, the game skips around, putting you in many of the major air battles of 
 the war. Aside from very serious frame rate problems here and there and some ugly-looking ground 
 targets, the different spots you'll visit look nice, as do many of the plane models. But the whole 
 game has a grainy look to it that can make objects in the distance hard to make out, even when 
 running over a clean digital connection in the game's standard resolution of 720p. Over the course 
 of the game you'll fly over Pearl Harbor and try to prevent as much damage as possible. You'll 
 fly out over the desert of North Africa in search of Nazis in hiding. You'll fly at Midway and 
 take out a sizable chunk of the Japanese fleet. Despite the frequent changes of scenery, the missions 
 are very cut-and-dried. You're presented with objective after objective, and very few of them are 
 difficult. Between the relative weakness of the forces you'll be facing and your ability to make 
 repairs to your plane, you rarely get shot down unless you're doing something dumb, like flying 
 too high when attempting to creep up on some radar towers that are surrounded by antiaircraft guns. 
 Overall, the game does a good job of making you feel very powerful, but ultimately the victories 
 seem hollow, because you rarely feel like you can fail. At least the game mixes dogfighting with 
 bombing reasonably well. Torpedoing enemy cruisers and carriers is fun.  

  The flying controls in Blazing Angels are kept pretty light. With the standard controls selected, 
 your throttle control is on the right stick, and you maneuver with the left, fire with the right 
 trigger, and use the left trigger to get the camera to crane over and "follow" your current target. 
 The follow cam takes some getting used to, as it can be pretty disorienting. Instead of flying 
 straight ahead, you're often getting a view of the front of your plane. But it's useful for quickly 
 reorienting yourself and pointing yourself at your target, which is key for shooting down enemy 
 planes. Still, an onscreen arrow on the front of the HUD would have probably worked, too. The game 
 also offers a cockpit view, and you can hold down a button to look around the cockpit. In addition 
 to the standard controls, you can opt for a slightly more simulation-oriented scheme, or you can 
 play with the Sixaxis tilt controls turned on. This moves most of your major buttons up to the 
 shoulders, and lets you fly the plane by tilting the controller. While it doesn't feel quite as 
 precise as the standard control methods, flying with the Sixaxis feels right and makes the game 
 a bit more fun than it would be otherwise.  

  In addition to its campaign missions and a pair of minicampaigns that open up after you beat the 
 game, Blazing Angels has a few quick-start alternatives. Arcade mode gives you a timer and puts 
 you up against waves of planes. Ace duel puts you up against a single ace pilot, both in the same 
 plane. Beating him unlocks a new paint job for that plane. If the dogfighting were challenging, 
 that might mean something, but instead you can get by just by easing off the throttle for a better 
 turning radius and getting in behind your target.  

  In addition to some offline multiplayer options, you can get online and fly with up to 16 planes 
 in one multiplayer match. There are three modes available for solo games. Dogfight is your aerial 
 equivalent of deathmatch, and this one can also be played in team mode. Seek and destroy has you 
 shooting down marked planes, and the winner is the pilot that can shoot down each other pilot in 
 the game once. And aces high is a mode that pits the entire game against one ace player, who is 
 the only player who can score points until he is shot down, creating a new ace. Team battles don't 
 get aces high or seek and destroy, but three additional modes are here. Capture the base has players 
 attempting to land on each other's runways to score points. Bombing run has you bombing each other's 
 bases, and kamikaze lets you protect your ground targets from incoming kamikaze pilots.  

  Outside of the standard matches, you can play a handful of the modes in a four-player co-op setting, 
 including a campaign option that lets you play through versions of the missions found in the single-player 
 campaign. These are a bit tougher, since you'll have to rely on humans instead of your artificial 
 intelligence-controlled counterparts, meaning that Joe won't be there to let you repair your plane 
 by yourself. But you can ask another player to repair your plane, which has him press a sequence 
 of buttons to complete the task. Even though you'll probably go down a little more frequently, 
 you can respawn a number of times during the mission, which offsets the increased difficulty.  
 

          The competitive multiplayer modes breathe some life into the game, provided you can find 
 anyone playing.     

  The main problem with all of the online modes is one that's currently plaguing much of the PlayStation 
 3's lineup -- there's hardly anyone out there to play against. More than a week after the game's 
 release, the solo leaderboards for Blazing Angels has fewer than 100 names on it. That means your 
 chances for randomly finding active players out there are pretty bleak, and sure enough, we had 
 trouble finding even one real person to play against, let alone a full 15 other players. Plus, 
 the game doesn't have any built-in communication options in the lobby. The only way to communicate 
 with other players is in-game, through the same order-giving system that you use in the single-player. 
 Without voice chat support, the team modes are much less interesting.  

  There's enough action here to satisfy you if you know you're in the market for your basic WWII 
 flight combat game, but the multiplayer is almost a total wash at this point, and the single-player 
 is awfully standard. If you're up for more of the same, or if you haven't played a WWII flight 
 combat game in a good long time, Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII isn't a bad way to go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Xavander
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The Game is really addictive. FYI I've played flt-sims like Aces over Europe, battle over the pacific. 
 (All pc games) Xwing- Tie fighter. ETC...
  
  Blazing Angels is a bit different than the normal fight sim, in where it takes one step further 
 introducing the follow enemy feature. This is new to me and a bit difficult when you compare playing 
 other games where you turn blindly into you enemy. Trust me if you master this and you'll open 
 a whole new true flight feeling on flt-sim. Likes:
  Very easy to pick and start flying. Some of the depth in the graphics are nice. Modifying planes 
 Annoying:
  Limited flight zones. I seem to follow and chase enemy planes out of the flight zone. The game 
 forces you back in to flight zone sometimes robbing you from a possible kill.
  
  All in all a good game! That's why i give it a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Eagle
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  You are some American pilot (Captain Robinson, I think) who decided to join the Brits to help 
 the fight against the Luftwaffe and the Japanese Air Force. The story's purpose in the game is 
 basically to make an excuse to play the missions. There are some good missions, for example skipping 
 between turrets in a Flying Fortress leading up to some bombing raids on factories.
  
  The graphics in the game are mostly good, apart from the environments, which are almost PS2 standards. 
 When I say mostly, I mean the planes. Since they are what you will be looking at for most of the 
 game, you won't be disappointed by their visuals. 
  
  I have many complaints regarding the game's targeting system. People say they find it stupid and 
 hard to operate, because it follows your enemy, and not yourself. I, personally, think this is 
 a good system and I fail to see how people can't successfully use it. Do you have no sense of direction 
 whatsoever? Or do you not know how to turn a plane with an analogue stick?
  
  I can't advise you on the online because I don't have the connection but I've heard it's quite 
 bad
  
  Overall, I think this game is a solid 7/10. I think I should add that the thrill of flying under 
 the Eiffel Tower, doing a barrel roll, a flip, and then shooting the wing off a Nazi is recreated 
 quite well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this game is amazing. I am especially impressed by it because it turned out 
 to be exactly what I wanted. I love flying games, especially aerial combat, but when it is too 
 technical and all sim I get frustrated. This game finds that perfect middle ground. You can stall, 
 crash, lose control, and so forth... but you do not need the skills of a professional pilot to 
 play it. Any gamer can get the hang of the controls with some practice and it is a TON for fun 
 to fly around. 
  
  Your plane is not indestructable but can take some damage so it is not like a few shots puts you 
 on the ground. Missions and enemies come in a variety of difficulty levels so both the novice and 
 expert will feel challenged byt different game modes. There are abour 40 different aircraft that 
 you can fly in the game and various missions utilize unique attacks: machine guns, bombs, torpedos, 
 and rockets are all skills you must learn.
  
  I found the graphics to be pretty impressive, even without an HDTV. The background music is pretty 
 cool, too, and that adds a lot to the gaming experience. I have had a blast with the game so far. 
 I have mainly flown campaign missions, arcade mode (gun down enemies to earn time and pass checkpoints) , 
 and duels with aces. I don't think I have had as much fun playing a flight game since the days 
 of Crimson Skies. You will not regret this purchase! I did not even mention the use of sixaxis 
 control, which is another great feature that is used well in this game.
  
  This game is just fun and feels so realistic to flying a small plane. I have played with a standard 
 control scheme but sixaxis is way more fun. It's awesome to be doing a nose dive and to pull up 
 on the controller at the last second to come swooping off the ground. 
  
  Oh, and then there's the multiplayer and Online. I have to say that the dogfights are so close 
 to Crimson Skies that I have had to go back and play that game all over again.
  
  This comes from a person that has more than 200 games and is a harsh critic. If you want to try 
 something unique try it. It is definately a rent, if you not into games like this. 
  
  Have fun...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII, is a game out for the wii, ps3, pc and X360. Today, I will be 
 reviewing the PS3 version of this title. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are grainy and do not deserve to be showcased on next gen consoles. 
 Although, expansive cities add an interesting aspect to this title, the game is filled with invisible 
 walls, that either tend to "bring you back to the battle area", or your plane is simply brought 
 spinning out of control towards the ground. 
  3/10
  
  Sound/Voice acting: Abysmal. Generic explosion sounds and terrible voice acting makes you feel 
 totally displaced from the world war 2 environment.
  1/10
  
  Planes: Excellent range of planes, all of which steer accordingly to size and time period
  9/10
 
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Sixaxis controls as always, are terrible, but the regular simulation controls 
 are fine, and differ in sharpness depending on the agility of your plane. The gameplay is flawed 
 and repetitive. It simply consists of you mindlessly shooting down red targets in the sky, or dropping 
 bombs on ground targets. The effects are absolutely terrible, especially when it comes to ground 
 explosions and flame. Frame rate slows to zero when flying in large battles. 
  2/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_Els
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game I got for my ps3 (partly because of sixaxis motion) and I played a few missions 
 had split screen match with mates a couple of times, the next day I bought fight night round three 
 becasue I didnt have a great love for this game,
  
  not until a few months later after I got oblivion and NHL 08 I decided to give it another crack.
 
  
  Now the game hasn't got stand out features that make dominate but it has good graphics good gameplay 
 and a damn good variety of planes and the characters werent stand out but they were good to have 
 through out the game and they all had there own uses, Like you could ask the mechanic guy how to 
 fix your plane when it gets damaged in mid flight and he'll probly say something meaningless but 
 a picture of a button on your controller will appear at the top of your screen which will start 
 a sequence of buttons you have to press to repair your plane.
  
  Another special move is if you get enemy planes shooting you from behind but you gotta bomb something 
 you call on one of your guys to distract them while you bomb some poor little boat or tank.
  
  You can also control the formation of your planes according to the situation at hand.
  
 
  And the variety of planes is huge the biggest I hace seen in this sort of arcade flying game genre.
 
  The missions are fun and enjoyable and they kept up a bit of variety between missions which was 
 applaudable considering this genre can become heavily repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEANLUCKUGAR
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII, is a very satisfying game. It has stunning visuals, 
 great voice acting and very good ambient sounds. It is fun to use SIXAXIS with this game but it 
 also takes a lot of practice witht he use of SIXAXIS. The missions in the gaem follow through the 
 path of History during World War 2. So for you war buffs this is a game for you. It was the first 
 game I bought for my Playstation 3, the game cost me ten dollars, best ten dollars i've ever spent. 
 The game has a really catchy story, It is fairly short but fairly long. You fly i'd say 50+ planes 
 through out the game including jet powered planes. Plus once you beat the game you unlock smaller 
 missions, which keep you occupied. It has good multiplayer and tons of other features. The game 
 is worth your buck, so buy it and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marbing
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If the point of flying is to dive straight into the ground then this simiulation has got it right... BUT 
 if you are expected to manoevre your plane to possibly shoot down other moving planes then they 
 are expecting the impossible.
  Control issues are the major complaint I have. The computer controlled planes seem to be able to 
 fly and manoevre at double your speed. They can be on your tail in an instant after roaring passed 
 you in the opposite direction. Even heavy bombers appear to have turn radii and climb/dive rates 
 the leave the user controlled fighters in the dust. If (by pure luck) you find yourself flying 
 towards an enemy bomber... they simply open the throttle and roar away... as if you were standing 
 still. Soon they are simply a spec on the horizon. Try to follow them and tou get "Returning to 
 Battle area" and your plane is turned around by the system. So enemy planes can hide outside of 
 the imaginary circle of the 'battle area' where you can never reach them.
  Trying to fly using '3rd party' view is pretty much impossible and even more so when you use the 
 'Camera' to follow your target. You end up looking at your plane from the front and all the controls 
 are reversed... but sometimes not so moving the joystick control (or tilting the sixaxis controller) 
 will turn you different directions at different times. Most of the time you end up flying upside 
 down and backwards with the enemy flying circles around you. But that doesn't last long because 
 while you have your head pointed at the otherplane... you simply fly into the ground and blow up. 
 
  Then there are your 'wingmen' making their useless comments. "Better get that guy off your tail!" 
 or "Watch your six!" just before you die.
  After playing this for over 20 hours, I wonder what it actually takes to complete a mission. Do 
 you have to shoot down 20 planes in 8 minutes? $%^, I'd be happy to get off a shot in 8 minutes! 
 I have shot down planes but that was more by accident than design. I just continuously fire my 
 guns and occasionally one of the planes that is swarming around me will fly into my field of fire. 
 But I have never completed a 'mission'. 
  I am also bothered by the lack of a free flight practice mode.... not that pointless balloon busting 
 exercise in the 'Training Mission'... but an opportunity to get some flight time in the aircraft 
 BEFORE being thrown into combat.
  Now, I don't want you to think that I am new to air combat games. I still get a lot of fun out 
 of the Combat Flight Simulatior series on the PC. You really can fly and control the A/C in that 
 game... NOT like this one where you do something and HOPE the plane does something close to what 
 you wanted.
  All in all, the game is impossible. The controls are unintuitive. The aircraft don't look much 
 like the real thing. (I couldn't tell the difference between a Spitfire and a P51) . The mission 
 objectives are unrealistic and the missions themselves are boring as hell.
  The more I play it, the more I want to take the disk out of the console and smash it with a hammer!
 
  I'm glad I got it out of the bargain bin and not paid full price for it. Rent it if you want a 
 laugh or if you just like punishing yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevman22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  I enjoy this game, I wouldn't buy it, maybe if it was in the "Sale" basket, but aside from that, 
 it has a lot of nice scenery, the planes look fairly decent, and it all seems to go by fairly smoothly. 
 But the biggest problem I have with it, isn't the music, or the sound of the planes. It's Joe, 
 and his friends I cannot stand. 
  
  For instance, "He's on you like a hound-dog on a pork chop". That comment seems to echo through 
 my head as I'm playing.. I actually like to make fun of it, as me and my buddy are playing the 
 split screen multi player. Other than the annoying characters, and boring character back rounds, 
 it's a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  this game i fun and exciting ........ for about half an hour and then its just a bit old but it 
 is fun while it lasts and the gameplay is fast and explosive but often the graphics can be a bit 
 dull and when you get closer to the ground you notice that the scenery is a bit bland and lacks 
 detail and texture. but all round its nothing new to the genre and has a dodgy multiplayer component 
 on and off line but if you are a fan of flying SIM's or WWII based games then you should be pleased 
 with it but dont get your hopes up i found it dissapointing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexington
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the poorest console games you could buy. The gameplay is dull, boring, and the graphics 
 is just sad. Recently online play has not been possible because the game can't find a server to 
 connect to. do not buy this game. I don't even recommend it as a rental.
  
  Do not waste your time trying to contact Ubisoft if you've discovered a bug in the software, or 
 need help. They'll ask you to send a self-addressed envelope together with a $15 replacement for 
 a DVD with the same bug on it. (You'll see it under the Warranty section.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherrier
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The game really lacks great gameplay i wasnt really indulged in the game it didnt take me if ye 
 know what i mean it so far is the worst game i have played on PS3 it was dull, graphics were poor 
 really poor the game got blurey when you went fast in the air which wasnt a good thing with me 
 it kinda didnt take advantage of the true work of the PS3 can do graphic wise , the gameplay was 
 prety poor aswell you didnt have any clear control over anything really, so all in all i didnt 
 enjoy the game at all didnt appeal to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels: Squadrons of World War II is a decent game, but you are probably better off waiting 
 for games such as Warhawk than spend your money on this. Even though this game has a campaign while 
 Warhawk doesn't, Warhawk is cheaper and comes with a Blutooth Headset. The campaign in Blazing 
 Angels isn't that good either. The storyline is kind of lame and any difficulty is taken out since 
 you can just use your ally to repair your plane.
  
  The gameplay is ok, but it's pretty much what you would expect in a game like this. The graphics 
 and sound are only passable, they could have been better but Ubisoft chose to make the PS3 and 
 Xbox 360 versions look the same as the Wii, limiting how good it could look and sound. Since this 
 is a title that released only a month after launch, I guess they wanted to get it out early for 
 maximum profit, which is kind of sad that they wanted to capitialize on profit rather than quality. 
 Still though at least they apologized after they released for all their substandard launch titles.
 
  
  The value is saved from the substandard campaing by good online and multiplayer play. However you 
 really should only get this game if you like these games, otherwise it should only be a rental 
 if anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matheaks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  When you play multiplayer, the computer auto picks the game but you choose what type of match you 
 want. The sixaxis control can be difficult but after a few days of non-stop playing, it gets easier. 
 This game deserves some good ratings because it was one of the first sixaxis games. This isnt one 
 of the best PS3 but it shows alot of what the PS3 can do. This game should not be your first game 
 for PS3 because you must first learn how to play without the sixaxis. The gameplay is amazing in 
 Campaign but your first try won't always be succesful. Ubisoft is also releasing a Blazing Angels 
 II, so that might help the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navigata
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels, is a really well rounded WW2 air combat game. With planes from the germans, british, american, and 
 japanese, it offers a lot of variety in planes and missions, These missions range from paris, Hawaii 
 pearl harbor and others.
  
  The graphics are really good for the ps3 version. Though they are good, they can sometimes get 
 choppy and the framerate is the direct cause for that. When the action heats up, this is when it 
 most likely happens. Besides this annoying problem everything is fine graphically. The planes look 
 exactly to model, but other things like the environment and land you fight in, is kinda bland.
 
  
  The audio is also very impressive. With realistic noises and replicated engines, machine guns, 
 it just makes the game more immerse. Though at sometimes the audio also has problems like the graphics. 
 The main problem that I encountered was that, the audio would cut off randomly, Though this isn't 
 very common it does happen.
  
  Gameplay is really good with a lot of variety in how you play. From 16 people online, to PS3 LAN, 
 or just with ur buddy on split screen, there is much fun to be had. Online offers different modes 
 such as solo dog fighting, co-op team battles, bombing certain places, taking over landing strips 
 and other carriers, and the most fun kamikaze which is suicidal. The game can keep you playing 
 for a long time, though shooting the same planes down after a week or 2 make get tiring
  
  Overall this game is really good, offering variety, it's a really good game for people that like 
 air combat, ww2 or both. As a ww2 enthusiast I really enjoyed this game as it offered many different 
 things to me. Though not really worth full price, it is a good rental game for the weekend, or 
 if its on sale, pick it up. A good launch title for the ps3 though MULTIPLAT, that is a must own 
 for Air Combatants, or just WW2 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Blazing Angels and I are like old friends. I own the 360 version as well, and was more then willing 
 to pay for the PS3 version. Needless to say, I am much more pleased with the PS3 edition.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is an arcade flight game, plain and simple. If you enjoy flight games 
 such as Ace Combat, this game is for you. You have the option to change controller schemes and 
 camera views (something missing from the 360 version) which allows the player to play the game 
 like he/she desires. The planes feel very fluid when flying. No complaints here what so ever.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The in game plane models look really good, and are fairly accurate to their real-world counterparts. 
 The environments look fine, but lack that final polish that I expected. The explosions and smoke 
 are believable too. Some lag issues are present when you are close to the action hamper the graphical 
 score in my book. The smoke trails when you fire machine guns is a nice touch.
  
  Sound:
  
  I absolutely love the score to this game. Quite possibly the best score for a game I have ever 
 heard. The voice acting, while improved from the 360 version, is B rated at best. The aircraft 
 you pilot sound nearly perfect, and whether its the engine sounds, the machine gun fire, or the 
 damage effects, it all comes out feeling real. My complaint? I do not like hearing enemy pilot 
 chatter.
  
  Value:
  
  Phenomenal. The Story mode features 2 new missions for a total of 20. The arcade mode and ace modes 
 each have 30+ missions. The game even has a Mini-Campaign mode which has 12 missions. It also offers 
 split screen play, and online modes too. Plenty to do on this game.
  
  Tilt:
  
  This game was treated unfairly on the 360, and now the PS3. One of the knocks is the unvaried gameplay. 
 It's a flight game, you fly around to various locations and kill the enemy. I find it ironic that 
 websites and users rate games such as Gears of War so high when it's the same-ole-same-ole as well. 
 Pity. If you love flight games, this a can't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiegod1982
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  HIT
  + Dogfights are always great
  + Nice attention to plane detail
  
  MISS
  - Simulation with the SIXAXIS is horrible
  - Details in the environment are seriously lacking
 
  - Voice acting lacks appeal
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  (PLEASE 
 NOTE: THIS REVIEW WILL BE HANDLED DIFFERENTLY FROM OTHER REVIEWS, DUE TO LACK OF EXTENSIVE PLAY 
 ON THIS TITLE) Over the weekend I had my first opportunity to sit down and come face-to-face with 
 the Sony Playstation 3. That's right... me and the big black box finally had a formal introduction. 
 This week's game spotlight is on Blazing Angels, the World War II Flight Simulator put together 
 by the boys at Ubisoft. After firing up the game and adjusting my personal settings, I chose my 
 plane (multi-player mode) It was time for a good old-fashioned dogfight! From this point on, I 
 must say I was greatly disappointed. While the detail shown in the planes was quite impressive, 
 the detail of the battle zones were not. Granted, while you're barrelling at a high rate of speed 
 blasting off your onboard guns at anything that moves, the scenery down below might just look rather 
 blocky... but when you get down a little closer (without crashing, hopefully) you will soon come 
 to realize that this game seems rather rushed due to the lack of detail on the buildings below. 
 London and Berlin are perfect examples of how horrible you can make your cities look in a next-gen 
 console game. Africa, however... now that's a different story. When I chose Africa as the battle 
 zone, the first thing that popped into my head was YEAH! Now I'll get to shoot some enemy planes 
 down into the jungle. Was I ever in for a wake-up call. No jungles in Africa... only desert. At 
 least, that's what Ubisoft thought. This was without a doubt the most frustrating field for a dogfight 
 that I had played the whole afternoon. The sand was too bright and flying upward to get away from 
 it only meant flying towards the sun, which turns the entire screen white. I found myself crashing 
 into the sand more than anything. With that in mind... maybe I should touch on the motion sensing 
 abilities used for this game with the PS3 controller. Control type can be changed in a number of 
 different ways. Most notably, the standard button layout, and the new simulation mode. In this 
 particular mode, your controller will serve as your controls within the cockpit. Tilt the controller 
 left or right to roll your plane in that direction. Titling the backward will raise the nose of 
 your plane while tilting the controller backwards will lower the nose. The controls handle similar 
 to a real aircraft but quite honestly, the response time is horrible. Response from the controller 
 overall is nothing to jump for joy over. This game could probably be handled a lot better on the 
 Nintendo Wii than on the Playstation 3. After a few hours of disappointment in multi-player mode, 
 I decided to check out the Campain mode... the meat and potatoes of Blazing Angels. Immediately, 
 I realized this game was just overall not that great. The voice acting was certainly something 
 in comparison with a B-movie presentation. While this review is extremely short compared to my 
 other reviews, I just don't feel there is any more I could possibly say about this game that would 
 make it better.
  
  Let's check the scoreboard:
  
  SCOREBOARD: (via www. enterthezombiegod. com)
  7 (Concept)
  3 (Gameplay)
  8 (Visuals)
  5 
 (Sound)
  3.5 (Value)
  4 (Tilt)
  FINAL SCORE: 5.1
  
  (Please check out all my videogame reviews at www. enterthezombiegod. com!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carcrazy426
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is probably the best WWII dogfighting game out there. However, that's not really 
 saying much because there aren't a lot of WWII dogfighters to chose from. The main premise behind 
 this game is that you are the leader of a fictional group of pilots that fights in every major 
 battle of the war. Although not historically accurate, it does give you a sampling of the different 
 theaters in the war, which is nice. Like every game, it has it's good and it has it's bad. Lets 
 just go ahead and get the bad out of the way.
  
  To start off, the first sort of bad thing I noticed is the games plane selection. This game uses 
 a lot of planes that you don't see in other games. I like this, but what I don't like is that they 
 leave out some of the good more popular planes like the P-38 Lightning or the Wildcat in favor 
 of some of the more unknown planes. I would of liked the P-38, but apparently the developers didn't 
 feel like they needed it. Another complaint is targeting. Once you get a lock on a target, and 
 that target comes on screen, the plane sort of automatically follows that target, and it's very 
 hard to make the plane turn away to shoot at a different target. It's a little annoying, but it 
 doesn't ruin the game. The last bad thing is the controls for shooting while on the bomber mission. 
 The mission allows you to man the guns of a B-17 bomber, but the controls for it are very poor, 
 and it's hard to aim, making for a very aggravating mission. Also, online play isn't the greatest, 
 mainly due to a lack of people playing and people quiting once they get shot down once or twice. 
 Now for some of the good.
  
  The first good thing is the controls, which are very nice. Flying in the game feels almost fluid, 
 and it's a lot less jerky and more realistic than other games I have played. Another good thing 
 is landing and taking off in your plane. The other games I have played make you land by flying 
 through a glowing marker or something similar. This game actually lets you land the plane and bring 
 it to a stop. It also lets you start the engine by rotating the right stick and lets you take off. 
 Another good thing is that when planes are shot down, they don't just blow up in midair. They actually 
 fall to the ground, like a real plane would. The game is pretty lengthy, with about 12 or so missions, 
 each one lasting of about a 1/2 hour a piece. I replay them often because most of them are pretty 
 fun, and to play around with the new planes you unlock along the way. Overall this is a good game 
 for a person like me who likes WWII dogfighters. Casual gamers will probably not like it that much 
 because of a lack of super fast paced action or a brilliant online mode. But anyone who likes history 
 and/or flight games should give it a rent, because it's pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic1980
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  -GRAPHICS
  Definantly not the best on the system but still better than the average PS2 game. There are some 
 pretty neat explosions and the camera angles can make the game look pretty realistic. In levels 
 the design ranges from icy glaciers to vast deserts to heavily armed military bases. I had some 
 fun looking at this one.
  
  -SOUND
  For the most part the voice acting is horrid. Over emotional talking and very repetitive phrases 
 make you almost wish there was no in game voice acting. However the nareration you get before the 
 game is tolerable which is at least a good thing.
  
  -ONLINE
  Absolutely horrible. Not because its bad though. Its because no one is ever playing it ever. Unless 
 you like a two person duel or boring coop modes where you will barely even see the person your 
 playing with then you wont want to play this online.
  
  -STORY
  Well what can I say. Its a world war II game. We have heard the stories hundreds of times and have 
 heard the battles hundreds of times. You are a US air force dude with two wingmen that happen to 
 be your stepbrothers. Ya that didnt add much. The story was less than average.
  
  -GET OR NOT
  Since there really arent that much games out I might suggest getting this if your 
 one of those people who need a new game like every two weeks. But if your just a casual gamer wait 
 for something better to come out because this is not worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj_Luca
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, Blazing Angels is actually a pretty fun game, even though it is not rated as such. It can 
 be a touch difficult mastering the controls, especially with the Sixaxis, but can provide a lot 
 of fun in split-screen. It looks STUNNING when viewed in High-Definition, especially the water. 
 It is not a must-buy, but I would recommend it based on just how fun it is to fly a plane with 
 the Sixaxis. The plane selection is pretty deep, and is even based on the period of WWII in which 
 the plane was developed. Story mode has a very WWII-movie plot, as one will find out when they 
 play it. Overall a pretty enjoyable game that you should check out to truly experience the power 
 of the Sixaxis controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels came out on the XBOX, the 360 and the PC a while ago, but now that it is on the 
 PS3 I must say that I am impressed. First off though, the gamplay is still repetitive but it is 
 more fun because of the sixaxis controller. The graphics are pretty much exactly the same as the 
 360 version with a few touch-ups but also a few graphical glitches. The sound in this game is very 
 well done and the only complaint that I have about it is the repetitive voice chatter over the 
 radio. This game is also too easy in some places and too hard in others and it never finds the 
 balance of the right difficulty. The reason that it is easy is because you hit the repair button 
 and you enter four of your buttons and your health is completely restored which takes a heck of 
 a lot of the skill out of the game. This game is $69.99 Canadian and it is worth it if you want 
 a flight game but if not, you can pass this game up. Overall because of the motion sensitive controller, 
 this game is well deserving of my recomendation. Get it if you are looking for some new games on 
 your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awsome!!! but not the best ps3 could offer and the enviorment is real but in the 
 ground (like ground forces like troops tanks etc) are **** seriousl. the games sound is good and 
 the guns and firing makes it intense but those **** wing men (joe, tom, frank) piss me off the always 
 talk and it gets very anyoiying espacilay on hard missions so you repeat them and hear the all 
 over agian. the gameplay is good as i told you in my head rewiew (my title that you read and clicked 
 on me) this game gets very repitive like destroy 4 tanks and the incoming japaneese zekes coming 
 from the east. come on be seriouse that was fun for the first few missions not all!!! or ooo protect 
 the bombers from the german stukas from shooting down them. anyways overall this game is not great 
 or awsome or perfect its just plain good. the value is not good you have to rent it fist unlees 
 your a major airplane freek like that kid in empire of the sun movie. ooo ya i almost forgot the 
 motion senseing is awsome!!! its like driving a real plane. if you like airplane games with good 
 gameplay get battlefield 1942 offcourse its not just airplane also with troops and vehicles like 
 tanks and stuff. whatever but thank you for reading my long rewiew for this good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon39
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, the first level is fun, but the game in general is pretty much a bore. Your squad can get 
 extremely annoying on the radio. Like I said, I wouldnt recommend it to people who arent into it. 
 I definetly thought it would be better if they made it more realistic. And I definetly dont like 
 the fact that some planes just flkat out kick other planes no matter what, its like you dont have 
 a chance. Over all, I was pretty disapointed. The graphics are pretty much spot on, especially 
 buildings like Big Ben. Let me just say that it could be worse... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boss130
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I generally buy almost any WWII games. This is my first for the PS3. 
 I bought it even though I had heard some negatives from people who owned the XBOX but I went ahead 
 and purchaced anyways. Now I am a huge fan of Heroes of the Pacific (PS2) and even Secret Weapons 
 over Normandy.... this game unfortunatly does not pack the fun that those two posess. I dig the 
 game but some things really bother me...
  1. The online play is TERRIBLE! It may have been when I went on but it took me nearly 10 minutes 
 to find a game to join. No one seems to own this game therefore no one is online.
  2. Flying is just way too weird! It just doesnt feel as if you are actually flying... maybe its 
 due to the lack of shock on the controllers or whatever but it just either takes a great deal of 
 time to get used to or I am just missing the boat.
  3. Explosions..... whatever! If you shoot someone down do not expect great graphics depicting a 
 plane pummeling to its death. There is nary a ground explosion of any sense of doom on the part 
 of the plane going down. Its rather quite dissapointing for a next gen console.
  4. Your wingmen are TOTALLY lame! I wish I could have muted just them because they are TERRIBLE! 
 They offer little help and when they do help it does not make up for their horrible dialoge.
  
  Now it seems that i am hating on this game and that is not entirely true! Lets face it... my 
 expectations were very high after purchacing the PS3. This is not how I wanted to spend $60.00. 
 I will play it a ton and I will enjoy the cool things that it does offer such as great missions 
 and cool planes but I just wanted more from this title. Do yourself a favor and do not rely on 
 the screenshots for this game. Rent it first and decide for yourself whether or not you want to 
 pay full price for this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowDinger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Great Great Game. Totally under-appreciated, the only problem ive had with his game is the Audio 
 problems with wingmen and enemies talking to you. Ive heard Sony is currently working on a fix 
 so this should be resolved shortly. (Short term fix is setting your max resolution on your consoles 
 systems settings to 720 down from 1080) I personally found the campaign a ton of fun and very replay-able. 
 Rewards for doing well at the end of every single mission makes completing them all that much more 
 fun. Plus tons of great vintage games from the WW2 era.
  
  The multi-player could have had more detail put into it.. it is pretty bare-bone but fun none-the-less. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys flying fighter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGaddict
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The issue with the voices is related to something Sony did when they released the last patch for 
 the console... I heard it will be solved soon.
  
  The game is really cool - I've just finished the single player campaign and I find it very fun 
 and involving. If you like doing things the hard way play with the simulation control scheme - 
 With or without motion sensitive. To add some more immersion you should try play it in the cockpit 
 view - it's really cool. Can you imagine they reproduced ALL the cockpits of the planes featured 
 in the game? I really liked the graphics too. The cities are truly impressive and the planes look 
 awesome and very real. Actually I didn't play such a good air combat game since Crimson Skies and 
 that's quite a while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1706
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, in order to hear the voices theres something you have to disable on your ps3. if you 
 do that, you can hear perfectly and dont have to read the subtitles. Other than the problem with 
 having to disable some audio things on the ps3 so you can hear the voice overs, this game is pretty 
 good. The controls are a little difficult, even if you've played other flying games this ones still 
 a little tricky. But after a while you should get the hang of it and be able to play it a little 
 easier. Storyline: not too bad, not the best storyline ever but its alright. Graphics: the graphics 
 are actually really good. very detailed.
  
  basically this game isnt that bad. its actually really awesome. but maybe thats just me. I didnt 
 feel like getting too detailed with this review because i'm tired. so this is all ur gonna get. 
 Buy this game, its worth it. And learn what to disable so you can hear the voice overs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  First off the Sixaxis Tilt function to Drive the Plane was way cool.
  
  There is a Problem that is from what I have read not a Fault of the Game.
  If you have 1080i 
 or 1080p checked as your TVs Maximum Resolution you will not hear your Wingmen Talking to you. 
 This is a Critical Part of the Game.
  I have read that there will be a fix for this very soon.
  In the mean time you have to set your 
 PS3 Display settings to a maximum of 720p or 480p depending what Resolutions your TV Supports. 
 It is kind of a Pain but the Next Firmware update should Resolve this Issue.
  
  The Battle Sequences are a ton of Fun. I have had a easier time with this Version of the Game over 
 the XBox360 Demo I played of it, I think because of the Controls.
  As far as the Controls go there are 4 different settings for each of the Planes Views.
  The Standard 
 Arcade Controls Work very Well. This is what I use the Most.
  The Arcade Tilt Control Option also Works really good and is a lot of Fun.
  
  The Graphics 
 are very Nice, although I hate the Blur at High Speeds. I did not like the Blur on the 360 either.
 
  
  Sometimes it can be difficult to Tell what your current Objective is. One of the 1st Few missions 
 you have to take out some Tanks heading to a Bridge. It took me a while to figure out where my 
 Target was. It is very important to listen to the objectives as they are Shouted across your Radio. 
 If the objective is unclear you can pull up the Objectives on Screen.
  
  The missions are varied. I had some trouble figuring out how to follow the Radar Bleep Noise in 
 the Desert Mission where you must take Pictures of some German Camps.
  
  The Best Part of the Game in my Opinion is the Dogfighting. I have always loved Plane Dogfighting 
 Games and this one is Quite Satisfying. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
