-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels 2: Secret Missions of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sim/blazingangels2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The plethora of upgrades creates a meaningful sense of progression.
 Lots of over-the-top technological toys.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer servers feel a little barren, making it tough to enjoy the game's wide collection of modes.
 The game is a little too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 184 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels 2 is a clear improvement over the previous game, though history buffs will probably 
 hate the game's fictional missions. 

  Blazing Angels 2 is a fairly straightforward mission-based flight game set against the backdrop 
 of World War II, much like its predecessor was. But instead of sticking to the facts like the first 
 game tried to do, the sequel heads off into that not-so-lofty "what if?" territory that World War 
 II-themed games eventually seem to get to, where Nazis are either resurrecting dead humans and 
 making horrific zombies, or building huge Tesla coils and prototypical laser cannons and other 
 then-impossible technology. This game goes for the latter, giving you a bunch of prototype technology 
 to fly and fight against, some of which was just out of reach back in the 1940s. At the same time, 
 a handful of improvements make Blazing Angels 2 a better game than the previous release, though 
 some spotty difficulty progression makes the single-player a little uneven.  

           Some missions require you to fly very, very low.      

  The story and characters from 
 the first game have been tossed out, though the basics are the same. You play as Captain Robinson, 
 and you quickly hook up with some wingmen to form an elite squadron that gets into the places that 
 other, lesser pilots couldn't touch. Your team gets involved in some hairy scenarios as you track 
 down a German special weapons division that's turning out a bunch of new technology vital to the 
 fight. So along with protecting key civilian targets in major American cities and bombing bases, 
 you'll also have missions where you have to take out airfields, then land to steal prototype planes 
 and escape. You'll also guard escaping trains, shoot missiles out of the sky, and even take on 
 huge bosslike crafts, like plane-spewing zeppelins, big cannons aimed at Red Square, large Tesla 
 installations, and so on. The game does a good job of moving you around from place to place, which 
 keeps you from getting bored of any one area and constantly has you doing different things in different 
 planes. Of course, it all eventually comes back to you dogfighting enemy planes. Not too far into 
 the game's 18-mission campaign, you start getting secondary weapons like rockets. You get a lot 
 of rockets and it's a snap to replenish your supplies, so at this point, your machine guns become 
 almost totally useless. You later get homing rockets that make blowing up enemy planes a trivial, 
 meaningless task. This means that most of the game is so easy that you'll finish missions on the 
 first try, though that feeling of extreme air superiority fits with the spirit of your elite squad. 
 The lone exception is the eighth mission, which has you guarding Moscow's Red Square against German 
 attackers. The game isn't particularly clear about what you need to do to protect the square from 
 being destroyed, which makes this one mission a little harder than the rest. But for the most part, 
 it's smooth sailing. A little too smooth, perhaps.  

  You'll upgrade your planes as you play using points earned in each mission, and you should have 
 more than enough to buy everything by the end of the game. Different upgrades include better gun 
 sights, faster-firing machine guns, armor and maneuverability enhancements, and so on. One upgrade 
 makes your missiles explode if they get close to a target, which means you don't even have to score 
 a direct hit to take out most planes. In combat, you'll be able to order your wingmen around a 
 bit, and each guy has a special ability, just like in the previous game. One wingman will come 
 back and taunt enemies to give you some breathing room, a skill you'll probably never actually 
 need. Another will go on an aggressive attack and take out a handful of enemies, which is much 
 more useful. The third is a mechanic that will occasionally repair your plane, though unlike in 
 the first game, you don't have to hit a sequence of onscreen buttons to perform the repairs -- he 
 just fixes it automatically at checkpoints.  

  The single-player campaign is pretty satisfying, though it won't take too long for players to bust 
 through it. That's not automatically bad, as flying around and blowing up everything in sight using 
 a variety of destructive tools is actually quite fun. There's also a multiplayer side to the game, 
 and it offers a lot of different modes and options for solo flights, team games, and cooperative 
 play. The catch is that there seem to be very few people playing the game online, and aside from 
 a solo dogfight here and there, it seems impossible to find anyone playing in any of the other 
 modes. For what it's worth, the multiplayer matches we were able to actually get into weren't very 
 exciting. Many matches take place in skies filled with little power-up icons that you can collect 
 to reload your weapons, repair your plane, get double damage, and so on. The power-ups just don't 
 really fit with the vibe of the rest of the game and make the whole thing seem a little hokey. 
 On top of that, if you have a laggy connection to other players, they'll skip around so badly that 
 no one will be able to hit each other. Being able to play cooperatively through the campaign missions 
 is an attractive offer, though, so it might be worth convincing a handful of your friends to get 
 a copy so you can all play together.  

           If you end up in the spotlights for any length of time, you're practically done for.  
     

  Blazing Angels 2 looks a bit cleaner and more colorful than the first game. The ground looks nice, 
 even up close, and the various plane models look realistic. You can go in and swap around the colors 
 for each plane and also unlock additional paint schemes. The game's effects and explosions look 
 OK, and the frame rate is passable, though it feels a little less stable than its Xbox 360 counterpart. 
 The audio gets a little too repetitive in spots, as the main theme for the game seems to play every 
 few minutes in one form or another, eventually getting a little grating. There's a lot of voice 
 acting throughout the missions and a handful of between-mission cutscenes, and most of it is good 
 enough. You might not like the movielike feel the game is going for, though, because the Germans 
 and Japanese have really awful accents and speak English most of the time.  

  Blazing Angels 2 is a very clear improvement over the original game, though the balance has swung 
 over to the easy side in this sequel. And, of course, if you like your WWII games to be historical 
 and rooted in fact, you probably won't enjoy flying a prototype jet under the Golden Gate Bridge 
 very much. But if you're after a loose, simple game where you get to fly a lot of different, crazy 
 planes and blow up a billion German fighters, you'll probably have a good time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: G-moz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Great flight combat game, not many good games in this genre (WW2 dog fighting style) . The textures 
 and ground maps are absolutely perfect. The Paris map still blows my mind, the thought of flying 
 my spitfire through the arc'de triumph and on down to the Louvre...
  
  The game plays out really well and the story line is enjoyable, and not to weak. Make the most 
 of you wing men too as there with you through out the game and their Ai is actually quite good 
 too.
  
  The multiplayer is really good, pit your wits against other like minded dog fighting enthusiasts 
 in some of the best planes of the era. Choose from your favorite maps and planes and then go out 
 and do some damage. The key to this game is thinking like a pilot maneuvering yourself in to the 
 perfect firing position, as it all about the cannons, none of this fire and forget nonsense.
  
  I Love it... you should too!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7.0
  The flying controls are purely arcade quality so there are no realistic engine sputters or fuel 
 problems in the game. The aerial combat is designed wonderfully enough but it is ruined by unreliable 
 squad mates and a difficulty setting that makes the game easy even for first time gamers. At least 
 there's co-op and good online multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  Visually, Blazing Angels 2 looks good but it doesn't push the PS3 to its limits as seen in the 
 game's backgrounds. From afar the aircrafts look great but up close things don't look as good. 
 At least the visual effects light up the screen and explosions look decently enough.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  The game's soundtrack isn't epic nor is it as grand as the one featured in the first 
 game but the bad part is that it repeats throughout the game in a loop. The voice acting is actually 
 good and the sound effects do a somewhat decent job of driving home the feeling that you're in 
 the middle of a major battle.
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Even if you play the game in its hardest difficulty setting, this game is relatively easy with 
 mission objectives that are far too simple to complete. The enemy AI can be a bit inconsistent 
 throughout the game so air combat can be unrealistically easy. 
  
  Concept: 7.0
  The single-player game's story and missions are intriguing and the various secret missions will 
 have you in a number of exotic locales as you attempt to thwart Germany's quest for world domination. 
 You'll get to fly a number of fighters, including some classified aircrafts. There's online multiplayer 
 and an excellent new co-op mode.
  
  Multiplayer: 7.5
  Online the game flows smoothly thanks to a framerate that's just as good as the single-player portion. 
 Up to 16 players can take each another on in a Dogfight deathmatch game as well as racing action. 
 There are co-op game modes for two players and it is handled well enough. You can even communicate 
 with members of your own squad via headsets.
  
  Overall: 7.0
  As a sequel, Blazing Angels 2 is a much better game than the original but its few problems keep 
 this game from being an excellent arcade-styled aerial combat game for the PS3. While the missions 
 are fun and the online multiplayer more than adequate, the game can be completed with very little 
 trouble. If you enjoyed the first game you will certainly like this one even more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8/10
  - First WWII game I've played where the story and action was all based off of a pilot and his missions. 
 Combat with other planes can be difficult at times, once you get behind them its almost too easy. 
 Pretty interesting point of view I've yet to see besides from the original Blazing Angels, which 
 I have yet to play. The gameplay itself is a lot of fun, along with the great selection of aircraft 
 to unlock and use, there are also many upgrades that can be added on your array of planes. Planes 
 can be somewhat difficult to control for the PC unless using a joystick which I HIGHLY recommend 
 getting, it makes gameplay much more fun. They should have made it a bit more keyboard user friendly 
 for the PC users, any of the other systems had easy to learn controls. The WWII combat style was 
 also a bit confusing with the controls, hard to stay on the enemy but still I was able to learn 
 how to somewhat quickly. 
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7/10
  - The game is not very immersive but still very addictive, I really didn't know what to expect 
 going into it and I'd have to say the game kept me going for several hours. Atmosphere is very 
 very open, boundries are very large.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics really suprised me, I was expecting poor quality but I was once again suprised. 
 Great graphics for a WWII Flight Fighter game. The Physics weren't anything new, simply blowing 
 up planes or ground units, sometimes ships which happens to be quite fun.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  - The voice acting is alright, not much else to say about the voices, but the action and gameplay 
 sounds are of fantastic quality. The developers including all possible sounds heard from war planes 
 and made quite an experience out of it. Love the air raid alarms in the towns, makes me want to 
 destroy them all the more.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8.5/10
  - No bugs or any problems except for a very few times when menu buttons were either unresponsive 
 on lagging out bad, but rarely happened. Game never crashed or had any issues during actual gameplay 
 and for PC users this game can adapt to most systems on the market.
  
  Replay value: 6/10
  - With the multiplayer options and just the open campaigns I can really keep 
 playing for a long time. Few people seem to ever be on for online play. After a while the game 
 and missions can get quite repetitive.
  
  Value for money: 7/10
  - $20 is the current retail price and this game is probably worth closer to $16-$18. 
  
  Will 
 this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - No, unfortunately not a chance with games like Microsoft Flight Simulator 10 on the market. The 
 only thing this has to beat it out is combat.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I would recommend renting it first to most people, any diehard Flight Simulator fan should have 
 a lot of fun with this and I would recommend them to buy it for such a cheap price.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7.5 - As the first Flight Sim game 
 I've ever played, I'm quite content with this one. Somewhat difficult controls to learn but still 
 worth hours of fun! Game certainly could have offered more but didn't at the least bit dissapoint 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espioage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a better game when I bought but its still a good game. Its a little bit stupid, 
 as nothing would happen like this in real life. So if you like a accurate game, events which are 
 actually possible, like me, don't buy it. I wish someone would make a simple game, were you fly 
 a aircraft and shoot enemy aircraft, blow up stuff and really just destroy enemy, aircraft, vechiles 
 etc. It would be great for everyone. It would also make it very simple for the guys who make it 
 aswell. I feel all the games like this all have the same problem, why oh why must they complicate 
 games like this. Multiplayer is pretty fun though. For some reason it won't let me online aswell 
 which is pretty agitating.
  You may have the same problem and have the same views about the game as I do I would imagine you'll 
 be feeling the same as I do. I want to go online because I imagine you'll just stuff down. I also 
 have Ace Combat 6 and it has the same problem, they complicate the game, making it harder for them 
 and making it less enjoyable. Okay game, worth buying, impossible events. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
