-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blitz: The League II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/blitztheleague2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easily the most politically-incorrect sports game on the planet.
 Senseless, gratuitous violence.
 Campaign mode's ridiculous story is surprisingly entertaining.
 Customizable campaign team can be taken online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay shows some of same flaws and repetition of previous Blitz games.
 Clash and Unleashed features are just too powerful.
 Fictional teams.
 Dated graphics with unrealistic character models and animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Football
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Midway's arcade football franchise breaks all the rules, plus your arms, legs, skull, scrotum, and 
 spleen. If that sounds like fun, it's because it is. 

  While developing Blitz: The League II, Midway asked itself a very simple question: "What would 
 NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell do?" Then Midway did the exact opposite. Though the gameplay is 
 strikingly similar to previous Blitz games, with many of the same flaws, The League II is also 
 a biting parody of professional football and, thanks to several cringe-worthy moments on the field, 
 a sadistic and guilty pleasure.  

           Ruptured spleen or scrotum? The new tackle targeting mechanic gives you choices.      
 

  Without the No Fun League in the way to soften the hits, tone down the language, and brush off-the-field 
 indiscretions under the carpet, Midway was free to develop the foulest and most indecent sports 
 video game on the planet. Among the gruesome injuries presented in slow-motion high definition: 
 broken collarbone; skull fracture; ruptured spleen; broken spine; and the granddaddy of them all, 
 the ruptured scrotum. Thankfully, Blitz 2 is more than the sum of this pile of body parts, and 
 the over-the-top story of the single-player campaign will keep you engaged far more than the typical 
 arcade sports game.  

  You play as a hotshot all-around athlete poised to go professional in any number of sports. You 
 choose instead to play for The League, but under one condition: You only suit for your hometown 
 team (which you will create and customize later) . In a fun twist, you select your offensive and 
 defensive position (you're a phenom, remember?) and improve player attributes in a postdraft press 
 conference. Reporters pepper you with questions such as what you did for fun as a kid. Answering 
 that you liked to wrestle with your brothers will improve your tackling rating, while casually 
 joking that you spent most of your youth running from the police will give you a speed boost. Actor 
 Jay Mohr, in a similar role to the fast-talking sports agent from  Jerry Maguire , guides you through 
 the interview and later helps set up sponsorship and marketing opportunities. Finally, you choose 
 your hometown, team name, colors, logo, and uniforms. The customization options are fairly deep 
 here, but it's too bad you can't select or design your own stadium -- your default home turf is generic 
 in comparison to the giant pyramids of the Mexico City Aztecs or the gritty industry of the Cleveland 
 Steamers' stadium.  

  Money earned from salary and in-game bonuses can be spent on a number of upgrades, including training 
 facilities, as well as on juice. These fictitious performance-enhancing drugs will give you a statistical 
 boost come Sunday, but at the risk of getting caught by the league. You can juice up to three players 
 a week with a laundry list of supplements that vary in price and legality. If caught, your team 
 will come under close scrutiny from league officials and you'll lose access to these valuable drugs. 
 And yes, they are valuable. Success in Blitz is dependent on balancing your juice usage and team 
 risk. Keeping your star players on the field with an injury-reducing drug (or taking out opposing 
 team captains with a strength boost to your defense) is key to winning ballgames. Assigning juice 
 to your players at the risk of getting caught by the league adds another level of depth not typically 
 seen in this genre of sports game. BALCO would be proud.  

  You also receive upgrades in a few other ways. Your agent will frequently call with sponsorship 
 opportunities, but you'll have to impress on the field to earn your spot on a Wheaties box. To 
 cash in, you must complete an in-game challenge, like scoring more touchdowns or recording more 
 sacks than an opposing team captain. Sponsors will get you access to better equipments -- the Azimuth 
 shoe company will give you top-of-the-line cleats that add several points to your speed rating, 
 for example.  

           It's you versus the commish in campaign mode.      

  Because you're the face of the franchise, you're also a hit with the ladies. You'll meet a handful 
 of girlfriends during cutscenes, and if you impress them on the field by completing a personal 
 challenge (like injuring an ex-boyfriend, for example) , you'll be rewarded with marketing deals, 
 bargain-priced juice, and even a new team medical facility. In addition, you get to see a saucy 
 bedroom cutscene with your flame of the week. Sometimes she'll even have a friend... While pleasing 
 a girlfriend is awesome, it would have been a better system if you could pick and choose your ladies 
 instead of being assigned them as part of scripted cutscene. But oh, what a custscene it is.  

 
  The overall story is fraught with sex, drugs, scandal, and betrayal, a not so subtle blend of 
 ESPN's pro football parody  Playmakers  (the inspiration for the original Blitz: The League, and 
 penned by the same writer) , and  The Longest Yard . Lawrence Taylor returns as bad-boy linebacker 
 Quentin Sands and is assigned by the corrupt commissioner to join you on your squad. The overall 
 story is somewhat predictable, but it's a shame most sports games don't have this much personality, 
 even if that personality is sadistic and profane. With fictional teams, Blitz still manages to 
 get you emotionally involved in the star players of the league. The cutscenes that introduce opposing 
 teams and their alpha-dog captains are far more engaging than the simple ratings comparison menu 
 screen of other games. Imagine if a franchise game in Madden against the Patriots opened with an 
 NFL Films scouting report of Tom Brady picking apart a defense, but then getting shut down by the 
 Giants pass rush in the Super Bowl. While that kind of personal touch has long been lacking in 
 traditional sports simulations, you feel it here.     

  Finally, you take to the field. Much of the eight-on-eight over-the-top arcade action that has 
 defined the Blitz franchise returns. The original Blitz: The League introduced a clever clash and 
 unleashed system. By tallying big plays, you fill a clash meter that, when employed, not only slows 
 down time, but every player around you. You easily burst past would-be tacklers into the secondary. 
 Special moves, dirty hits, and touchdown celebrations will earn you clash icons. When you earn 
 six icons, you unlock unleashed; Midway's answer to the gamebreaker in NFL Street. On the offensive 
 side of the ball, you either sprint in slow-motion to the end zone, or perform a canned move like 
 an ankle-breaking (literally) juke, or a stiff arm that is liable to break a cornerback's vertebrae. 
 By no means are you invincible. Only by timing the move perfectly will you execute it, a great 
 way to ensure in multiplayer games that the defense still has a chance. And on defense, an unleashed 
 tackle will either reduce a ball carrier's stamina severely, force a fumble, or break a bone. Or 
 all three. 

           The suplex is a univerally-accepted tackle.      

  Both clash and unleashed are very fun to use, but they're just too overpowering. The game becomes 
 less about quick reflexes and any football strategy and more about keeping and maintaining clash. 
 Once you have clash, you can easily break off another big play, refilling your clash in the process. 
 The rich get richer. Conversely, if you haven't earned any clash, an offense can run all over you. 
 Is Blitz still fun to play? Absolutely. But this particular design choice will put off football 
 purists. Of course, Blitz has never been for purists. They wouldn't stand the late hits system, 
 a simple button-mashing mechanic that lets you take the helmet off of a tackled ball carrier and 
 beat him with it, draining his stamina in the process. Nor would a purist care for the precision 
 tackles, huge hits in which you select the target area and are rewarded with an injury cutscene 
 that makes Joe Theisman's broken leg look like shin splints in comparison. But if the sanctity 
 of football isn't an issue for you, or your name is Bill Romanowski, you won't be able to get enough. 

  Gimmicks aside, the basic gameplay is still eerily similar to Blitz titles from five years ago, 
 and comes with the same annoying flaws. Tackles are mostly magnetic, and putting pressure on the 
 quarterback is simply a matter of moving a linebacker to the line of scrimmage, holding down turbo, 
 and then hitting the dive button at the snap. If you are picked up by a blocker, the quarterback 
 will still be pressured to throw short and early, not very effective when first downs are awarded 
 after gaining 30 yards. If you aren't picked up, you'll likely get a sack. And while pass interference 
 is a hallowed tradition in the Blitz universe, it's just too easy to tackle a wide receiver before 
 he has a chance to make a catch. As a receiver, it would have been a vast improvement to have some 
 sort of way to avoid this traditionally legal hit, be it via a jostling system or simply hurdling 
 the offending player. In the end, Blitz: The League II, like most other arcade sports games before 
 it, does not have enough to overcome its repetitious gameplay.  

  When you're finished up with the campaign, you can take that created team and your star player 
 online. Though created teams start out the same, you make several key personnel decisions that 
 will most likely differ from your online opponents. The offense and defense will both surely run 
 though your created superstar and the competitive game will change drastically depending on if 
 that player is a quarterback/safety or a running back/defensive end. There's also a separate set 
 of specialty games that are fun with a friend, such as prison ball on maximum security exercise 
 grounds, and a no helmets and pads game with twice the brutal injuries.  

           Purple urine is a small price to pay for effective juice.      

  If Blitz: The League 
 II looks more like a PlayStation 2 game, it's most likely because the art style hasn't changed 
 much since the original game was released on that platform. The canned animations are awesome, 
 from diving catches to jolting stiff arms, but the in-game movement is twitchy, jerky, and downright 
 inhuman. Because there are little to no physics involved in changing direction, juking is only 
 possible with canned animations as a result of Clash. The commentary fares better, and is often 
 laugh-out-loud funny for fans of comedian Frank Caliendo and his tongue-in-cheek John Madden impression. 
 The lines and lines of recorded profanity are also spot on -- not a kids' game, if you haven't caught 
 on by now. The effects are equally visceral -- the sound of a burst spleen will make you cower.  
 

  Blitz: The League II has succeeded where almost all other arcade sports titles have failed: It's 
 an engaging single-player experience. Though the gameplay still shows some of the flaws and repetition 
 of earlier Blitz titles, the over-the-top presentation will keep you thoroughly entertained or, 
 at the very least, offended. If you're a sports fan looking for more than a cut-and-dry simulation 
 experience, and you're not put off by sex, drugs, and profanity, it's time to learn the power of 
 the dark side of football.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vendetta58
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately worth playing. It doesn't get boring and the pace of the game moves well. 
 The injuries you can inflict on your opponent are nice and gruesome (especailly the ruptured scroatum) . 
 If Midway makes a third game in this series maybe they can top the ones in this game.
  
  My only minor complaints are that some of the gameplay is recycled from the original game on PS2. 
 If one player is attempting to make a regular tackle you CANNOT assist with the tackle which I 
 think is a flaw in the game. and they could have added more games to the schedule. The format that 
 THE LEAGUE uses would never fly in real life, but for a video game it works. I just wish that the 
 storyline would have been bigger. 8 games in a season is not very realisitc even for a made up 
 football league. Blitz THE LEAGUE is still a good game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the original Blitz: The League, then you'll enjoy this 1 as well. Yes, it has fictional 
 teams. So what!!! The previous version did as well. That's not a stickin' point here. EA owns the 
 rights to that 'til 2013. Movin' on! LOL The good thing, is that it's real familiar. The bad thing, 
 is that it's too familiar. The graphics aren't too much of an upgrade from the original Blitz: 
 The League. The only major visual upgrade comes in the injuries. You can issue a wide range of 
 pain. From skull fractures, to scrotum ruptures, & everything in-between. The choice of where to 
 inflict an injury, when you have your target squared up, is a nice feature; but, is almost pointless, 
 because everything happens flash quick. Pumpin' the X button to determine the severity of the injury 
 can be a bit cumbersome, but necessary here. Even though, the computer players tend to skirt out 
 a lot of potentially lengthy injuries, at least you can wear them down, 'til they're out. Late 
 hits are also a good addition to this, as it adds to the wear down of certain players. The key 
 to the late hit, are player tackles (meanin' YOU tackle the player) . That opens you up to let in 
 on to whomever you'd like, providin' they're close to you when the opportunity arises. Overall, 
 this isn't really built to attract new fans. This is for the folks that bought it the 1st time 
 around, enjoy the raunchy story (I do!!! - LOL) , & the over-the-top play devoid of Madden. It's 
 an overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeisdisturbed
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  It's not every day that you can find a football game with an actually enjoyable story line. Especially 
 once featuring Linebacker legend "LT" Lawrence Taylor. The story mode really saves this game from 
 complete mediocrity. The multiplayer doesn't really play a good supporting role for the game, online 
 or with a friend (s) . 
  
  The story mode is focused around your player who is drafter into this league of fictional teams 
 that consist of three divisions. You start in Division 3 and work your way up to Division 1 by 
 winning each Division Championship. You create your own team which is basically your hometown team. 
 As the story progresses it gets more intense. The GM of the league has a grudge against you because 
 you refuse to play for his team, the L. A. Riot. Your team gets football legend Quentin Sands (L. T.) 
 at the beginning of the story and he helps your defense big time. He will betray you in the game 
 so look out (even though there is no avoiding it) . In story mode you will rise up in the rankings 
 and earn sponsors, meet women and take them home which benefits you big time when you need stuff 
 like sponsorships or drugs. You can also train your players by purchasing upgrades. It really is 
 a clever campaign Midway created and it really is the reason why this game is as enjoyable as it 
 is.
  
  Game play is also another fantastic thing about the game. It's like previous Blitz games but even 
 better. You can get dirty hits on people and after a defensive play, you can just find a guy on 
 the ground and play a quick mini-game where you beat the other guy senseless and make him lose 
 stamina. If you are performing really well in the game, you unlock "Unleash" mode where you tackle 
 or run over or around someone and just mess them up big time which most likely leads to them getting 
 an injury. Watching a player get an injury in the game is just absolutely delightful. You will 
 see them snap their knees or break their collar bone and they will sit out for either a few plays 
 or a few games depending on the severity of the injury. If your player gets injured, then you will 
 either have your EMT snap the bone back into place with another quick mini-game or give your player 
 a shot of steroids or some kind of drug. Although if it is a serious injury, then that player will 
 be out for a few games. The game play for Blitz is just all around fun and it's the most fun I've 
 had with a football game in quite some time.
  
  Although Campaign is fun, mutli-player is kind of a bummer because it's boring to choose between 
 the teams and it's not even that fun. This is honestly a better single player sports game. 
  
  Althought Blitz doesn't have fantastic multiplayer, it is still a great game and it's worth 
 playing if you want to kill some time and enjoy a good, bone crushing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Let's keep this short and sweet, because that is what this game is... short and sweet.
  
  Sadly, this is a bare-bones game with a short 10-hour campaign. After that there is no continuing 
 on, you can merely play through the campaign again as one of three different positions.
  
  The number of stats they could and should have included easily to flesh out the game pisses me 
 off, and even if there were, once you are done with your three year campaign (unless you aren't 
 that great at the game, then I guess you get a bit more play time) it's over. I have never played 
 Blitz really, maybe a couple times years ago at an arcade. I lost two out of about 20 or so games 
 over the course of the three seasons. Once I figured it out, it was pretty much smooth sailing. 
 
  
  Don't get me wrong on this part though, the campaign IS damn fun. The gameplay is really brutal 
 and action packed. The problem is for someone like me, after winning, there is truly nothing to 
 accomplish or any reason to play the mini-games. Ahh well, I guess I am spolied by Madden... from 
 like 10 years ago... you know when they invented league play, franchise play? 
  
  I could probably flesh this review out, but meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Realist
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping a great sequel with more style into it but instead, I found the same old thing.
  
  Blitz: The League 2 is filled with Gory Injuries, Late Hits, Deep Campaign, New Teams, New 
 Hits, and Touchdown Celebrations. The Highlight was the Injury features. Seeing the bones break 
 is cool but painful at the same time. There's even a injury to the groin... ouch. Also, the Late 
 Hits are different but some are cool to do. The online mode is great because those who couldn't 
 get online on The League I can get hands-on with The League 2.
  
  
  Here's the bad: The graphics look like Blitz: The League on Xbox 360. The Late Hits are not the 
 Late Hits you remember back when Midway had NFL in the title. The Cursing is extremely forced so 
 make sure kids don't even set hands to the game.
  
  Overall, It's really the same but with little new features. The new features save the game from 
 being too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrob2892
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I know I haven't had too many hours into the game yet. I've only played up to the Championship 
 of league 3, that's 7 games in.
  
  I think the character creation is very cool. I mean you started in the first Blitz with set characteristics. 
 In this game your guy plays offense and defense.. it's interesting. And being asked questions in 
 an interview is cool, and it tells you before you chose which ability is changed.
  
  So you make your own team.. and pick from the various color schemes and symbols. pick a city and 
 then you can train your team, or you can have the computer do it.
  
  the drugs you can take are cooler... but you can get busted and lose the benefit of the drug AND 
 YOUR STATS, so be careful.
  
  what's cool is there is more interaction, with your agents and with women. They give you bonuses 
 to equipment.
  
  as for gameplay, it's arcade style, so if you are in love with Madden, you won't dig it. the gameplay 
 isn't flawless, but it's not supposed to be... clash effects it, the addition of alot of injuries, 
 and unleashed mode. There are some slight things like the screen moves a little, like you do a 
 juke or block and you move out of bounds when you weren't even close. On the other hand in the 
 first game, if you didn't run down the sidelines, a hit would guarantee a fumble, now it's a bit 
 more fair. The action is certainly different than the first, with many varieties of plays. I do 
 like that weather really shows in the game, in Blitz I there was rain, and snow, but it didn't 
 show on the field, where in this one it does. 
  
  I'm liking it so far, but I like beating opponents up and winning as well. So I like the unconventional 
 aspects of the game and can overlook the flaws in the game, but it's those flaws that keep me from 
 rating it higher. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
