-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/brothersinarms3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great blend of squad control and first-person combat.
 Vibrant, detailed environments.
 Battlefield sounds will put you on edge.
 Interesting characters.
 Action camera is exhilarating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story relies too much on knowledge of past games.
 Texture irregularities can sour cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 672 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hell's Highway proves to be an exciting, engaging ride despite a few bumps along the way. 

  The first two games in the Brothers in Arms series distinguished themselves among the crowd of 
 WWII shooters on the strength of their smoothly integrated first-person squad control and gritty, 
 moving portrayal of a band of Allied soldiers. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway sticks to these 
 strengths, and commanding your squads through Nazi-occupied territory is more thrilling than ever 
 thanks to the vibrant, beautiful scenery and the brutal, exhilarating action. Sergeant Baker (your 
 character) and his squad are all nuanced, sympathetic characters, though the story doesn't quite 
 live up to the promise of its protagonists. Despite a few irregular beats, Hell's Highway is an 
 exciting, intense shooter that is sure to quicken your pulse.  

  This go-around finds Sergeant Matt Baker and his crew carrying the memories of their fallen brothers 
 and welcoming replacements into the fold. As they get set to drop into Holland as a part of the 
 ambitious but doomed Operation Market-Garden, you meet the men whose lives you will be responsible 
 for. The story isn't so much a narrative as it is an exploration of the relationships between soldiers; 
 it's a mature look at the way bonds can be forged and broken in the emotional furnace of war. Through 
 engaging cutscenes and lively battlefield communication, you'll find yourself developing an attachment 
 to these characters. Many great moments, both comic and tragic, resonate with an admirable emotional 
 clarity that unflinchingly evokes the turbid reality of war, where triumph and tragedy walk hand 
 in hand.  

           Stepping out to shoot enemies will put you at risk, and the edges of your screen will 
 blur to signal that you're in danger .      

  Unfortunately, some of these potentially great moments will fall flat if you're not well acquainted 
 with old characters like Leggett, Allen, and Garnett. Hell's Highway often tries to lean on emotional 
 pillars created by traumas from the first two games (both released in 2005) , but the "previously 
 on Brothers in Arms" segment isn't solid enough to support these references, and the framework 
 crumbles a bit as a result. As the game progresses you'll gain the knowledge needed to prop up 
 these references; this makes a second play-through more appealing, but it's a shame this understanding 
 isn't established earlier.  

  Once on the battlefield, your comrades become potent weapons at your command. Hell's Highway offers 
 a tutorial on the proper way to manage your squads, and you'd best pay attention, since going it 
 alone will get you into trouble in a hurry. Strategy boils down to firing on German positions to 
 keep them suppressed, then flanking around to a better angle and finishing them off. Your men are 
 capable soldiers and will shout advice at you if you seem to be stagnating. They will also do their 
 fair share of killing but are still occasionally liable to run on the wrong side of a wall when 
 ordered to a different position. It hurts to lose one of your men in battle, regardless of the 
 fact that he'll be patched up at your next checkpoint. You are their commander and they are entrusting 
 their lives to you, a weight expertly transferred to your shoulders by Sgt. Baker's cutscenes and 
 voice-overs. Hell's Highway motivates you strategically and emotionally to be a smart leader, and 
 it's surprisingly engaging to focus on something other than yourself in a first-person shooter. 

  Battles become even more complex as you take more squads under your command and incorporate machine 
 gun and bazooka units. The former is excellent at suppressing enemies, while the latter can destroy 
 sandbag barriers and elevated enemy positions in houses and towers (particularly awesome) . As you 
 get the hang of squad command, you'll begin wielding your men as extensions of yourself and moving 
 through battlefields as an elite, coordinated unit. Taking apart and dispatching a field full of 
 entrenched German units is immensely satisfying, and this feeling of power is what makes Brothers 
 in Arms so rewarding.  

  Despite the focus on squad combat, Hell's Highway demands a strong individual performance from 
 you. Oftentimes you'll be the lone flanking unit, and you'll have to shoot accurately and make 
 smart use of cover to survive. There are also sections where you go it alone, and you'll have to 
 be nimble to both suppress and flank the Nazis yourself. Fortunately, you are a crack shot and 
 can hit half-exposed German helmets from a substantial distance if you can find enough time to 
 pop your head out and aim down your sights. When you score a particularly impressive shot or throw 
 a well-aimed grenade, the action camera will kick in to highlight your success. The camera will 
 zoom in on the Germans and the action will slow down dramatically, treating you to a gory display 
 of flying limbs, severed torsos, or burst skulls. It's a bit overblown, but you'll probably be 
 too busy roaring triumphantly to care.  

           The action camera gives you a closer look at the carnage of war.      

  Realism is 
 abundant throughout the game, though, thanks to the excellent audio and visual design. Each gun 
 has a variety of unique sounds, and nearby explosions cause your ears to ring, drowning out all 
 other battlefield noise. Bullets smack into cover you've hidden behind and whistle by your head 
 disconcertingly, while tables and fences splinter and break in ways that both sound and look realistic. 
 Your comrades are also quite detailed, though occasionally their facial textures will load a bit 
 late, leaving you with a blurry, expressionless facsimile that can vitiate any emotional involvement 
 you may feel. As you venture through the Dutch countryside and into more-populated zones, the landscape 
 will change, but the superb level of detail will be constant throughout, only periodically marred 
 by a lackluster texture or two. The different landscapes do have a certain sameness to them, as 
 each tries to allow for squad-based tactics, but on the whole these battlefields provide fantastic 
 arenas for combat.  

  There are a number of multiplayer maps as well, and each supports up to 20 combatants. Two teams 
 face off in successive standard capture-the-territory contests, respawning only at the beginning 
 of each round. The twist is that each squad member has a certain role, from squad leader to weapons 
 specialist to tank operator. Squad leaders can call in aerial recon, while weapon specialists travel 
 with protective squads and deal their own unique brand of destruction. Well populated matches are 
 lively and intense, as fully-manned teams work together to stay alive, back each other up, and 
 thwart their opponents. Add in a vocal squad leader, and there is ample potential for exciting 
 battles. However, there are still plenty of lone wolves roaming about, and whether players will 
 fully embrace the squad mentality remains to be seen.  

  What is certain now is that Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is another rousing entry in a great 
 series. The beautiful landscapes complement the gritty combat, and thoughtful cinematic techniques 
 breathe life into the engaging characters. Despite the somewhat spotty story and sundry oddities, 
 Hell's Highway is a game you should consider playing twice. The unlockable "authentic" difficulty 
 mode removes all the heads-up display elements and really allows the visual design to shine. The 
 story resonates more powerfully because you know the characters well, and the renewed challenge 
 ratchets up the intensity. With so many exciting elements, Hell's Highway provides ample motivation 
 to don the Allied uniform once more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  BROTHERS IN ARMS: HELL'S HIGHWAY - PS3 -
  
  My overall p. o. v. for this game is as follows:
  
  The single player campaign is jam packed 
 with the sort of intense WW2 FPS action fans of the series and genre crave, but a somewhat irregular 
 control scheme alongside a tedious and seriously lacking multiplayer (coupled with an overwrought 
 and implausible storyline) keeps this title from shining bright in the cavalcade of shooter classics.
 
  
  WEAPONS: The selection is enjoyable, but it wouldn't have hurt the developers to throw a few more 
 goodies into the mix.
  
  PLAYER/TEAM COMMANDS: As you assemble your squad along cover and order them to suppress or fully 
 engage a target... sometimes they're on point, and sometimes they run around in a little circle 
 as bullets strafe their faces. I think a technical tweak here or there would've been a tipping 
 point for such a cliche gaming glitch.
  
  CAMPAIGN vs MULTIPLAYER: Play a few levels of the campaign. I'll give you a moment.
  
  OK, 
 all through? Awesome. That was pretty fun, right? Yep. OK, now go ahead and jump on into the multiplayer 
 for a few minutes.
  
  *Final Jeopardy music*
  
  Back so soon, huh? Yeah, it's really strange how terrible it is compared to the source material 
 of the single player campaign. Yeah, I can't explain it either... it's just flat out awful.
  
  PLOT/CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT: This is where the game shoots itself in the foot. Repeatedly.
 
  
  Within the script (through dialogue, etc.) it's obvious that the creators have a very sturdy hold 
 on the personalities of the characters involved. However, they clearly do not have a grip on how 
 to properly convey emotions with direct intent and within plausible scenes/timeframes.
  
  For example, these characters are supposedly hardened soldiers. Surely they are still human and 
 have emotions, but they are soldiers at war.
  
  At one particular point during a mortar attack (a f#@%*!^ mortar attack!) they're sitting around 
 debating personal issues and reflecting on their own past life decisions as their buddies blow 
 up around them. Lame. Not dramatic. Lame. And unrealistic.
  
  Multiple aspects of multiple scenes display not only continuity issues, but moments between characters 
 within particular circumstances that not only make no logical sense geographically, emotionally, 
 and physically, but are all too OBVIOUSLY placed for a desired dramatic effect that ultimately 
 (and briskly) falls flat on it's face.
  
  BUT! I do enjoy this game. Aside from the in-game movies of whining "soldiers" the game provides 
 a highly entertaining mode of WW2 styled shooter action that I just can't get enough of.
  
  My advice to the developers? Lay off the cheese, and stack on the meat.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaphone27
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  i love this game and all the others when i play i love the squad commands and when i tell them 
 to go some were they go and the A. I. is smart enought to know when to shot and take cover the graphic 
 are crazy good and i love the story line the only problem was that the game ended i wanted it to 
 never end what in am pissed that Correon didn't make sargent. i can not wait 'till the forth game 
 comes out. the multi player was ok but that wasn't why i went to get the game i was angry that 
 they kept on postponing the release date but it was worth the wait. i like the cover system and 
 when you have to go on missions by your self some chareters where confusing because i didn't understand 
 what they were doing unlike in the first two games where and they all had good back story. so if 
 you are thinkin' of gettin' this game get it its worth the 60 or 40 dollars it cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  The game is good! but not awesome.
  Graphics are great, but some things are missing out... like:
  
  - There is pratically no blood 
 on the ground after you kill the germans...
  - You cant tell that the bodies are dead on the ground cause you cant see the bullets wounds
 
  - When the bodies are on the ground you cannot inflict extra damage to them... very bad... not 
 realistic.. the bullets vanish on the bodies
  - Blood is not realistic... color and viscosity.
  - There is not enough blood!!! 2 out of 10!!
 
  - Efect of bullets to environment could be way better... 3 out of 10 to this feature.
  - Overall... when you kill the germans, due to all of this... does not fell like killing... like 
 you fell in some FPS games.
  This is a major flaw that inflicts a lot to me!! I am very frustated by this...
  I do not know 
 why gamestop did not mention this in their reviews.... their reviews are crap!! never gonna believe 
 them again!
  
  Another thing:
  
  - You cannot choose diferent paths to the missions... you must go in like a pre-determined path... 
 very easy to see... you can always know from where the enemies are coming... no element of surprise!
 
  
  - The game is always the same!! If you play the first 2 missions you have played the entire game!! 
 nothing new to add!
  
  I am very disapointed by this game!!! but i will finish it and sell it for half the money I bought 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  "Seargent, help me"... I turn round, to see a private, trapped under a fuel can leaking with gas, 
 I run over and try to push it off but it wont budge. He looks about 16 years old... I turn around 
 around, hearing a general swearing his head off telling me to get back this instant. I look forward 
 and see what he means. I dont hesitate on jumping behind the nearest cover. I hear gunshots from 
 every direction then the fuel can explodes as a bullet rips into it. I cover my eyes as blood from 
 the trapped boy blows all around me. Limbs shatter covering me. I pull out my pistol and start 
 taking out some Germans. And then thats when it happened, the bullet that ripped into my chest, 
 it still lies there today, as my deceased body lies in that muddy battlefield. Its proably found 
 by some journalist or something. Someone will find it in the years to come. But I will never live 
 again, that is what happened that day, the one out of many of our brothers that died fighting for 
 what they believed... its gone, all gone... Brothers in Arms is full of that emotional bloody violance. 
 It should probably be rated an 18 for all the mature content in it. Its messy stuff though so it 
 is, blowing peoples legs off, arms off, hell, even bodys off. Or you can just break their bodies 
 in half. Or if you dont like all this, you can go to the options menu and turn thr gore and blood 
 system off. You can even turn thr sweaeing off. But thats turning it into a 12 other than a 15 
 (or an 18 as it should be) . Nah, keep it on the swearing,, gore and blood and stuff because its 
 rubbish if you dont. It really brings back what happened then in the war. You even get the chance 
 to shoot sheep when your running across the country-side. You get to shoot loads of animals due 
 to the country side levels which more or less take up most of the game! It bloody its messy and 
 hell, its entertaining... a greaat game though it could have been better, not the original old FPS 
 controls either, though you can get the 3rdPS with the cover system. Oh and also, you get to command 
 your squads and tell them where to go ans you can give them orders to sneek up on enemys and kill 
 them or just start a fight by shooting an enemy that does'nt see them. You can actualy complete 
 the game without firing a single bullet and just by sending your squad in to storm buildings and 
 aid you when you need backup or when you've been spotted said the developer. Its a great game and 
 you should go for it though if you own COD4 or 5 ten this probably wont top it but its still great 
 fun to play. Good game. Thanks for reading this review. See yah next time. Bye!
  PS-gameaddict10 is my PSN ID. Add please. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josecarreno77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I am really fan of Brother in Arms since I played Road to Hill 30 in PS2. However, the game takes 
 some time to get used since you cannot play like a conventional shooter game. You have to think 
 your strategy very carefully, move your troops adequately and cover your movements if you do not 
 want to get killed every minute. The sound is good and the story too, although the graphs sometime 
 seem very disappointing, specially in the video cut scenes.
  
  Once you get used to command your troops, you will start to enjoy the game. The slow motion shoots 
 are very good, particularly when you hit someone in the head. The checkpoints are sometime too 
 far as well as the ammo packages, but is not a big deal, you can use the enemies weapons as well.
 
  
  I recommend this game for those gamers that like to play a different shooter game and especially 
 for Brother in Arms fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgear-solid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  BIA: HH is something I was excited about for a long time. The squad tactics, destructible cover 
 and many other things looked like something I would really enjoy having fun with.
  
  When I bought the game, I couldn't wait till I get home from school to play it. And when I started 
 playing - it became obvious that this is the best game about WWII ever!
  
  Graphics, while not something incredibly outstanding, are great. The best part is that this is 
 one of the games, which plays better on the PS3 than it does on XBOX360. It's great to see that 
 developers have finally learned to use the PS3 power to make great games.
  
  I think, however, that for a game about war, the graphics were slightly too bright, with happy, 
 vivid colors: deep blue skies, green grass, bright sun - all that looked rather odd, when compared 
 to the story being told.
  
  And story is the one thing this game tells very nicely. There's plenty of cut scenes, some longer 
 than others, but unlike some other games where cut scenes don't add much to the game and are, quite 
 frankly, exceedingly boring, here it's the opposite. Every cut scene makes sense, and tells part 
 of the story and helps you make sense of what's going on.
  
  And of all the games, I think this one for the first time made me have a lump in my throat at some 
 points in the story. While most of the games about WWII don't really make you feel the horror of 
 what's happening, this one does. It really makes you feel what kind of hell it was. And about people 
 who fought that war.
  
  $60 well spent, worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuPeRsKiTtLeS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:17 am PT
Review:  First off, just because a game is FPS does NOT mean that it needs online multiplayer. This multiplayer 
 is damn near pointless and cheap. Its fun for the first couple of seconds, but then you start to 
 realize what a rip off it is.
  
  BUT, the game itself is really good. Single player is a fun ride but there are issues here and 
 there. 
  
  PROS:
  Absolutely awesome combat
  Brutal closeups on headshots
  Graphics are nice and smooth
  Story is good (if you know what happened before this game)
  Voice 
 acting is great and sound effects are really good
  
  CONS:
  After a while, punishing difficulty (espcially on Authentic)
  Erratic frame rate 
  Multiplayer 
 is basically pointless
  Steep learning curve
  
  This game is actually really good once you figure it out. If you can learn how the cover down system 
 works, you'll be able to figure out the rest of the game.
  The CONS are just little nit picks except for multiplayer. Game never lags while in combat, but 
 it lags when loading a cutscene and textures don't pop up for like five seconds. But all in all, 
 a great fun war game that should be played if you want a challenge and a realistic fight.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I already completed this game few minutes ago. At the very beginning I didn't like this game so 
 much because I felt it very difficult, even set in casual difficulty, but when I was progressing 
 in this game it started to like me... There are some difficult mission but you have to know this 
 is not a classical shooter we are used to play.
  
  You have to take strategies in place to complete some mission... Any strategy and you will throw 
 this game through the window because you are going to get mad.
  
  The graphics are not as well as some new games are, but it is good enough to play it.
  
  I 
 have not complain about the sound... It is good enough...
  
  Gameplay is well.
  
  Story is great. I like the game which has story to follow.
  
  It is not long nor short...
 
  
  This is far away to be the best shooter... but it has a great concept... and I enjoyed playing 
 this game 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Hell's Highway is the best in series. The game has solid controls that arent too hard 
 to master. The graphics are satisfying. One of my favorite features is the voice acting. At first, 
 I thought the acting was cheasy but eventually I started to like the characters. Different from 
 many WWII shooters, the game is very sad because of the traumatic events.
  One of the game's flaws is your squad's intelligence is decent. They can die too suddenly sometimes. 
 When I say the enviroments are too small, the maps seem to be huge but you are often stopped by 
 debris or walls that stop you from fully exploring the levels. You often have one or two paths 
 to take from going up one road to using the only entrance to an area to flank the Germans. Multiplayer 
 is okay but not very exciting. The mulitplayer community is a bit too small.
  One of the greatest parts of the game is it's ability to throw a little horror into the situation. 
 Your going to love the hospital level. When I say missing levels, I mean the game seems to stop 
 too early. Your group of soldiers dont enter the worst part of operation of market garden where 
 the british paratroopers are heavily beaten by the Germans. You always win! Market Garden was an 
 epic fail. 2,000 of the +10,000 paratroopers returned to tell the tale. Your group of sqauds were 
 part of the huge covoy of tanks that were meant to save the paratroopers but didn't make it in 
 time. You miss the most pivital moments in market garden.
  
  Overall, the game is great in gameplay, graphics, and storyline but like what gamespot says ."There 
 are a few bumps". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocRoe92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The game is a brilliant continuation from Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, it follows Baker and 
 his men through the daring airborne drop of operation market garden, the biggest airborne drop 
 in history. The game starts with an easy training/tutorial mission that takes you through the basics 
 of moving, firing and using the cover system to your advantage. The game then moves on to the second 
 mission, it starts with a beautifully put together sequence showing Baker and his men landing in 
 Holland. You then get another 'training' mission which takes you through the basics of squad based 
 combat and the 4 F's, Find, Fix, Flank and Finish, this is the basis on which most of the combat 
 in BiA: HH is based.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY:
  The Gameplay in BiA: HH is incredibly enthralling, and sucks you in to the point where you feel 
 like you're in the thick of it, with bullets whizzing over your head and the dirt getting in your 
 face! The squad based gameplay is just as good as it was in the original BiA, if not better. The 
 flanking on the game is helped by the introduction of the 'Tactical Map' as opposed to the spacial 
 awareness view in the old games. The AI of your team mates is good however, they occasionally move 
 to a totally illogical piece of cover which soon results in them getting cut down and you losing 
 all capabilities of suppressing your enemy. The enemy AI is also good but has the occasional flaw, 
 they react to heavy fire by being less accurate and not moving out of cover as much but they also 
 seem to be totally unaware of grenades exploding behind them or cover being destroyed until it's 
 totally gone. Over than that they do a good job of making the missions challenging and fun as you 
 have to think out every move and can't just run out guns blazing. The threat effects you receive 
 just before you are going to be hit is very useful and there is no real, 'regenerating heath bar' 
 like there are in most modern games, this brings a welcome change to the genre as you have to be 
 more conservative and patient. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS:
  The graphics of the game are generally very good, there are rumors of rendering problems and popping, 
 but i personally haven't seen any of these, as well as this, many people are moaning about how 
 some of the smaller features in the game are 2D, personally i'm not that bothered, i don't run 
 up to a bush crouch down and say ooooh, it's only 2D, how disappointing! No these are small thing 
 that make little difference, as well as this, other reviews say that everything has a grainy, sheen 
 to it and it's 'constantly drawing attention to itself', personally i think the balance is just 
 right, the colors are rich and aesthetically pleasing. The models of the characters, weapons, enemy, 
 and vehicles are brilliant, each model has separate parts, moving independently from each other 
 depending on what the character is doing, also the footplanting in the game is good, characters 
 don't just rotate on the spot, each foot moves separately, staying and moving. 
  
  THE SOUND:
  The lip-sinc of the characters are good but not brilliant, the weapons have brilliant 
 sound effects, each with a different sound. The Germans all speak German, not the dodgy English 
 you get in many games. You get nice ambient noise in the game, gliders swooping overhead, fire 
 crackling and the sound of distant fire fights.
  
  THE MULTIPLAYER:
  The MP is good but not great, you only have one game mode and you can only play as Attacker, or 
 Defender, i own a PS3 and as a result use the free online play, which i have to say, isn't all 
 that great if you have a poor connection, however if you have a good connection, the MP can be 
 fun and slightly addictive, you get to use the similar squad mechanics as the singleplayer if you 
 choose to play as the Squad Leader, however as a grunt you get to choose from, Tank Driver, Specialist 
 or Squadie. You can choose from a Rifle, SMG, Squad Support Weapon, Sniper Rifle, Recoiless Rifle, 
 or an LMG. Choosing to play as a tank operator you can be either the driver, gunner or spotter 
 (top hatch MG) . The basic aim is to defend your flag, kill all the attackers, raise your flag or 
 kill all the defenders. (Depending on what role you play) .
  
  EXTRAS:
  The game doesn't support the trophies system.
  The game has no mini games.
  The game DOES have 
 great cinematic cut scenes which tell you all about what really happened on Hill 30. This is great 
 for all the old BiA fans who have played Road to Hill 30, not so much Earned in Blood.
  However the game is still fun and entertaining for newcomers to the series. I would recommend getting 
 the first BiA (Road to Hill 30) if you have a good PC or a 1st gen XBox. If not you can always 
 watch the story on YouTube or something similar.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Gameplay: *****
  Graphics: *****
  Sound: ****
  MultiPlayer: ***
  
  Total: 17/20
  
  PSN: DocRoe92
  
 
  Please be nice, first review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is a World War II squad tactical shooter. In the game you play 
 as Ssgt. Baker, commander of an airborne army squad. The story is like a epic theatrical movie. 
 There are many characters to know and some you might get attached to.
  
  The campaign takes you through many environments from warehouses to the open fields of Holland. 
 The gameplay is mostly move here and suppress that enemy. There's a lot of tactics to put in. Your 
 MG squad will suppress the enemy and tear up wooden cover (destroyable cover is pretty fun) , while 
 your assault or fireteam squad flanks them, and the bazooka team is the most fun. Grenades, bazookas, 
 and headshots will slow the gameplay down and zoom in to the bloody gore of bloody heads and blown 
 apart enemies. Every gun has its own sound and its easy to tell whats what. AI is okay. They will 
 use cover and shoot at targets of opportunity, but when you lob a grenade at them they will most 
 likely stand there. When you move your teamates, they most likely will go through cover instead 
 of behind making them vulnerable. There's also quite a few solo runs for a squad shooter.
  
  Multiplayer isn't so popular, but if you do play you choose a class and you work together with 
 your teamates to complete your objective.
  
  Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway has a valuable campaign, but its multiplayer isn't popular so 
 its a good game if your looking for a game with a good story, but you might want to play the other 
 Brothers in Arms to understand it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Detailed graphics and environments
  - Heartfelt and gripping cut scenes
  - In depth tactics
  - Kick ass action camera
  - Smart AI
  - Great use of Physics
  
  The 
 Bad:
  - Serious frame rate issues
  - Somewhat blurry cut scenes
  
  Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway follows a group of Allied soldiers through Holland to capture 'Hells 
 Highway'. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice are the beautiful graphics. From buildings, to your weapon, to the 
 flora, the game just looks great. The environments in levels are well thought out, and each level 
 stands out from each other, from dark, dank hospitals to lush, green Dutch countryside.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll learn about your squad mates and care if they go down or not, regardless 
 of the combat situation. When a friend dies, you may have to sit back, put your hands in your hair 
 and go 'phhhwwooo', just to try and get over it. This makes it stand out from other WW2 shooters, 
 as it's not all 'The general wants us to capture this hill' as it's ' C'mon boys, lets get this 
 hill!!!'
  
  However, your team mates are more than just pretty faces. The game features in depth squad based 
 tactics. You usually have 2-3 squads at your disposal. These vary from MG teams (great for suppression) 
 to Bazooka teams to Assault teams, who you can send up to enemies and watch them spread lead. You 
 can order them to cover, but they're smart enough to find cover if they are under fire. The tactics 
 also comes in on who to put where. Should I place the MG team up close to give greater suppression, 
 or keep them back to cover my other squads?
  
  Let's not forget enemies though. They're broken into the same categories as your team mates. You 
 have MG, bazooka and assault teams to put up with from the enemy. They will also adapt to their 
 environment. They'll usually take up sand bags and stone walls as cover. raid the house they're 
 in from the flank and they'll try to run out the door, and take cover behind barrel's or maybe 
 a fence, which they normally wouldn't do. 
  
  Then, you can shoot up that fence and leave the in the open, and with a death sentence. That's 
 because weapons will shred to fences. As with sandbags, only explosives will do them. Stone wall 
 can't be taken down. but sometimes the Bazooka will take out part of the windows. There's also 
 Action Camera. Hit the enemy from an unusually long range on the head and it will slow time, zoom 
 in, and let you enjoy his blood explode over his head, and his helmet drop to the ground. Got a 
 frag? Throw it at their cover, and watch their limbs fall of and go everywhere. Sheer slickness.
 
  
  However, you have to get involved in combat yourself. Your team mates are for pinning down the 
 enemy, and you're for flanking and taking them out. Well, usually. You can take cover, and carry 
 2 weapons, and your silver pistol, at any one time. You can hang back and pick off enemies with 
 a rifle, or run up close and shred them with a Sub machine gun. You also go into a red flash when 
 your hurt and have to go under cover until vision becomes normal, to stop yourself from dying.
 
  
  To distract you from the constant cover and shooting of the game, which might frustrate some, you 
 have a couple of levels where you control a tank. this too has tactics. You can stay on top of 
 the hatch and use a .50 cal MMG, or stay under the hatch and be limited to you cannon. These can 
 be more frustrating than the shooting (not that it is frustrating) , as the tank doesn't regain 
 health like you do, total buzz killer.
  
  What's even more frustrating is the terrible frame rate. Although it only pops up after pro-longed 
 playing, it seriously hampers the gameplay. You will be stuck with a still image for 3 seconds 
 sometimes, or you'll move at snail's pace. It's a real drag, and I don't know why it wasn't addressed. 
 Also, some of the cutscenes can take time to load, and because of this, they're often blurry. Faces 
 will be all white and stuff for a couple of seconds. Once, a soldier was hit, and holding his wound, 
 but for 5 seconds all you saw was his hand going through his green uniform.
  
  Overall, this is actually a good game, but some issues drag it down. If you can withstand these, 
 then I recommend you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because it was $29.99 at gamestop and I wanted it since it came out. I went home 
 popped it in and was amazed. The movie like feel to it pulled me in. The graphics were amazing 
 and with amazing framerate, it was beautiful. The faces and shadows, the emotions, it all looked 
 real, but for a game, this is quite an achievement. The gritty feel of it and the darkness infused 
 together make this a great game to look at. The controls were precise and the sound was top notch. 
 The only complaints I have with the game are the online play and length of the story. The online 
 play is only good when you can find a match that is not lagging, and the story was great, but it 
 was to short. Other than those little things, it is a game that is worth a buy, or at least a rent.
 
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Control-8/10
  Playability-8/10
  Originality-8/10
  
  Overall-8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: World War 2 related games have been milked almost dry for the past several years and 
 few of the titles released have covered the action or the tales of the soldiers in the field like 
 Gearbox's Brothers in Arms series. In Brothers in arms: Hells Highway once again following the 
 footsteps and drawing from the experiences of the actual 502nd Parachute Infantry, 101st Airborne 
 Division. This time the game takes you away from fighting in the fields of France into some of 
 World War II's most colossal failures for the allies. The story revolves around Operation Market 
 Garden, and the whole plan is to capture a highway through Holland and punching through enemy lines 
 into the heart of Germany. So pretty much it's set against this backdrop of the war, telling the 
 tale of Staff Sergeant Matt Baker and his squad as they try to survive the hazards of Holland that 
 are constantly thrown their way. Much of the story is reflecting on past events or thoughs and 
 stresses of battle or the battle ahead which you really get to know and get emotionally connected 
 with the characters. If you've seen HBO's Band of Brothers, Hell's Highway feels like a lost episode 
 of the show, and has the sense of scale and cinematic grandness that you'd expect from Hollywood. 
 As far as the standard gameplay mechanics are concerned, Hell's Highway plays out exactly like 
 the previous titles in the game, so veterans of the series will have no problem getting in to the 
 game quickly. There is also a fun multiplayer part of the game which is great for playing against 
 a friend but online you can't really find that many people playing this game for some reason which 
 is sad because the multiplay is always fun.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are not pretty good and everything is very detailed and colorful but at times 
 when you are talking to your men there emotions don't show up right away. There is a new feature 
 called the "action-demo", this is a slow-mo type of thing when you shoot a guy in the head and 
 there is blood everywhere, when you hit something with a rocket or something along that line that 
 is grand.
  
  Sound: I have to say that the sound is really good in this game. Everything from the voice acting 
 to the gun fire is really good quality and sound the way it should sound. The sound track is quite 
 good too and sounds like a opening scene of Band Of Brothers. 
  
  Value: The only thing I did not like was that sometimes you team is stupid when responding to commands 
 manuvering them to safety like when you tell them to fall back and go behind a wall, they would 
 jump over it to get behind it instead of staying low and going around. Also I found it hard to 
 aim at times due to constant movment of character for some reason. All in all this is a great tactical 
 shooter with a good multiplay segment which is fun to play with friends. This game is really worth 
 buy, playing and keeping. I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yayio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  The campaign mode is reasonable. Good variation, e. g. controlling a tank, sniping, commanding your 
 different teams ect. But the story lacks alot, for instance the first thing me and my friend noticed 
 when we begun the game is how the loading screen made us dizzy (it's a helmet rotating) and how 
 all the characters seemed to look the same, oh apart from the ginger one. You seem to only be able 
 to tell you character, Matt Baker, by the scar on his face. With that said the atmosphere of the 
 game was intense in alot of places, some of which where so intense that my mom and dad ended up 
 watching (as well as making unhelpful comments) but all in all the game is worth playing, but not 
 something i would personally play again and again. 
  The online play kept me entertained for about an hour, it was dull. You play on an American or 
 German team defending or attacking. Something like that, didn't pay much attention :/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This market has been tapped to the extreme. Brothers in Arms, Call of duty, Medal of honor, and 
 the dozens of other, less well known, WWII shooters on the market. So a shooter like this one has 
 to stand out from the crowd in some way, be it good or bad. Hell's Highway does not.
  
  The story puts you in the shoes of a soldier during the waning days of WWII, closing in on Germany 
 after D-day. The kick here is that you have to know the background of the story from the other 
 games (which I do not) , so I found the story to be convoluted and refer to emotional attatchments 
 to characters of whom I had no idea. The story itself would have been pretty good without all the 
 references needed from the past. There were some good emotional points that had to do with your 
 team's current mission and those worked well.
  
  The audio is really good. The music and voice acting is done really well, helping set the mood 
 and portraying a sense of whatever scene you are in. The actors hit certain emotions dead on and 
 I didn't detect anything flat.
  
  Visuals are above par as well, especially during cut scenes. The cut scenes themselves are dramatic 
 and fun to watch, regardless of whether you know what's going on or not. I absolutely loved the 
 slow motion kill shots, but I never quite figured out the circumstances when they happened, I was 
 just happy when they did.
  
  But, at the end of the day, you're killing Germans, with the same old weapons. Your squad is barely 
 any more useful than having a couple NPC's running around doing the same thing, and most of the 
 game I would just put them at some cover to provide covering fire while I handled most of the bad 
 guys. You were repeatedly asked to take out tanks and 88's, which became rather repetative after 
 you realized that the tanks can't shoot you while you're moving, and the 88's are as simple as 
 shooting the operators in the leg, at which point they leave the 88 and are toast.
  
  If you need a WWII fix (which I didn't) or you have played the previous games and understand the 
 story (which I didn't) then pick this one up. For everyone else, give it a shot with the demo, 
 or a rental, it's definitely worth at least that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumbum2288
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am sure there are people out there who might get upset by with my headline, but I am going 
 to give an honest viewpoint from someone who was is a huge fan of the series and objectively rate 
 this new game in respect to the old ones. I have to start off with some of the positives of this 
 game. The gun mechanics in this game are fantastic! The distinct sound of each gun in the game 
 is terrific, and each one has their own unique chatter. Nothing is more satisfying than hearing 
 the chat-chat of your thompson taking out a few Nazis. The guns just feel authentic and right. 
 Second, the enemy's AI seems to step up to the plate in Hell's Highway. When their cover is shot 
 up, they run, and when they know they're being flanked, they usually run for cover father back. 
 Occasionally, there is a hiccup in the AI when the enemy is standing at attention, or hiding behind 
 bad cover. Your squad mates will sometimes make the mistake of jumping out into the line of fire, 
 but quick command changes can fix this. Baker's face looks very emotive at times, but your comerades 
 faces sometimes look as blank as two by fours when speaking in cutscenes. The voice acting is fantastic 
 and authentic feeling in some spots, giving you a feeling that these guys were actually like brothers, 
 although sometimes the monologue can be a little cliched, like the bit about a soldiers heart and 
 brain. The difficulty can be a little punishing when you're running from cover to cover, but chances 
 are once you're behind cover, you won't have a hard time plinking off jerry as he pops his head 
 up from behind the cover (not on authentic though when you have no crosshairs) . This game calls 
 for a little bit of patience, as you must get your teams to fire on positions as you fire and maneuver, 
 otherwise you will be dying frequently out in the open. Sadly, in an era when more often than not, 
 replayability in a game is defined in terms of how good the multiplayer is, Hell's Highway is not 
 as impressive as say, Bad Company's run and gun blow some s*** up online gameplay or COD 4. As 
 of yet, there are many bugs, such as your soldier disappearing, and also lag time is tremendous 
 at somepoints. As everyone knows, there are also no leaderboards, so people really cannot tangibly 
 gauge how well they are doing. However, fans of the series and many other fps fans will love the 
 authentic feeling of the guns, and the satisfaction of takin' it to Jerry with the mighty BAR, 
 or even the MG42 (which works like a daisy cutter when the enemy is out in the open, the enemy 
 just crumple to the ground!) Although the action in this game is similar to the others (no one 
 touted this game as that different anyway) , the melodrama of the story and the satisfying action 
 will keep veteran fans happy (at least until the next one!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  hells highway was no more than a very pleasant surprise for me, the story in this game is really 
 strong, and the more developed and unique gameplay makes it an awesome world war II journey.
  
  first just an advice, play if possible the previous games of the series since the story in 
 this one is all based in the previous ones.
  
  beggining with the good points.
  hells highway delivers an unique and challeging experience more than ever. i have to say that the 
 level design in this game was just terrific, since in every level you have a lot of options to 
 attack and flank the enemy, and thats what makes brother in arms series so awesome. but the coolest 
 is that the strategic gameplay is even more interesting in this one.
  and now they included the same cover system as rainbow six vegas and gears of wars.
  making hell's 
 highway a much more satifyng game to play.
  the story doesnt stays behind as well, because will suck you in till the very last chapters of 
 the game, making you just desperate to find out what really happened with matthew baker (the protagonist 
 of the game) .
  
  but now the bad points.
  well if you consider yourself a guy that really cares about graphics be careful with hells highway, 
 the graphics in the game are way worst compared to other recent shooters.
  the weapon design is poor and many visual effects just dont excites you enough.
  the vivid colors 
 and the art design will help to put a mask in those problems, but still if you care too much about 
 graphics (what it is really not my case) , be warned that this game may disappoint you.
  the A. I. sometimes becomes a problem too, gotta say that many times the enemies impressed me by 
 being so smart. but still sometimes the enemies and your friends get lost while looking for cover 
 and just end up in the middle of the fire, getting themselves killed.
  and the cover system rarely fails too.
  but this bugs surely arent enough to really affect the 
 great ride that hells highway delivers.
  
  in the end gamespots review deck just defines hells highways, it is a great game even with a few 
 bumps along the way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I've seen first teasers and interviews with developers quite a long time ago - I think, like 1.5 
 years ago, and I immediately thought that this game is going to be great! The squad tactics, destructible 
 cover and many other things looked like something I would really enjoy having fun with.
  
  When the game came out, I couldn't wait till I get home from work to play it. And when I started 
 playing - it became obvious that this is the best game about WWII ever!
  
  Graphics, while not something incredibly outstanding, is great. The best part is that this is one 
 of the games, which plays on PS3 just as good as it is on XBOX360. It's great to see that developers 
 have finally learned to use the PS3 power to make great games.
  
  I think, however, that for a game about war, the graphics were too bright, with happy, vivid colors: 
 deep blue skies, green grass, bright sun - all that looked rather odd, when compared to the story 
 being told.
  
  And story is the one thing this game tells very nicely. There's plenty of cut scenes, some longer 
 than others, but unlike, say, MGS4, where cut scenes don't add much to the game and are, quite 
 frankly, exceedingly boring, here it's the opposite. Every cut scene makes sense, and tells part 
 of the story and helps you make sense of what's going on.
  
  And of all the games, I think this one for the first time made me have a lump in my throat at some 
 points in the story. While most of the games about WWII don't really make you feel the horror of 
 what's happening, this one _does_. It really makes you feel what kind of hell it was. And about 
 people who fought that war.
  
  $60 well spent, worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  There are so many WWII games out there that no one could ever memorize them all. There are some 
 series which always brought something new to the table. Games like Medal of Honor, Call of Duty were 
 always considered to be the best in the genre. But a couple of years ago Ubisoft made Brothers in 
 Arms (BiA) . It was well received by the general public but I didn't like it much back then. BiA is 
 now at it's third game: Hell's Highway.
  Hell's Highway isn't really different from the other two games in the series. And for the fans, who 
 always enjoyed the new feeling and thrill the game had, everything is here too.
  The story want's to be grand but it just isn't, there aren't many FPS games with a good story. No 
 exception here but the cinematics are great. The characters are well done and the voice acting is 
 pretty good. On the other hand the drama which is more than apparent in this game can make you stop 
 playing the game as you feel nothing towards the story and characters. Speaking of characters, there 
 are a few from previous game which some of you will probably enjoy.
  The graphics are quite good, everything looks pretty good and the lightning effects are great. So 
 graphically the game looks good, somewhere near Battlefield Bad Company.
  The gameplay is the same from previous games. You take control of some soldiers and can give them 
 orders on what to do next, which enemy to attack, to hold their position and many more. Eventhough 
 the weapons aren't that great, you won't really mind as you won't be doing much shooting. If you 
 are used to ordinary FPS than this game will make you slow down and think a little before getting 
 outside of cover. This approach is different but it doesn't work for me.
  This is a great game for those who are fans of the series or like games like Rainbow Six Vegas 
 and such. For the rest it can be interesting but if you don't like this type of FPS than it's a 
 no no.
  
  My Score 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I loved BIA 1 and 2. Getting BIA HH was an excellent choice in spending my money. It has everything 
 in it that make a great game.
  
  Gameplay- the gameplay is standard Brothers In Arms. its super intense and requires strategy to 
 survive. There are a good amount of guns to choose from, and they all work well. One thing I really 
 like are the new ultra gory showtime moments or whatever they are called. they add even more of 
 a visceral punch to the game. Another thing to point out is that Hells Highway follows the Rainbow 
 Six series somewhat with the over system and being able to fire from third person at times. I think 
 its a cool addition. And another thing they adopted was a kind of regenerative health system. If 
 you are exposed to danger too long, then only a couple shots could drop you for good. But stay 
 under over for a short while, and your danger will be gone and you can fire away again.
  
  Story- What an excellent story. If you're a fan of the BIA games, this has the best story. Its 
 brutally violent, touching and very emotional. It is the core of the game, and touches on the more 
 arabesque facets of war.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics are decent. The character models are pretty good, and the environments 
 are decent. I didnt have much problem with the graphics as so many people did. I thought the other 
 aspects of the game overshadowed the graphics. The sound is excellent. From the machine gun fire 
 to the voice acting, its superb.
  
  Technical- I heard a lot of people complaining about a large amount of glitches and bugs. I have 
 not come across 1 glitch or bug throughout the entire game. I never had a bad framerate drop either, 
 an issue that many people were complaining about as well.
  
  Fun/Value- This game is tons of fun. The story runs about 10-12 hours, and deserves another playthrough. 
 I wouldnt bother with the multiplayer though, as it was tacked on. I think the game is worth the 
 full price tag for the campaign alone.
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of the BIA games, or just a fan of smart, tactical shooters, than get 
 Brothers In Arms Hells Highway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms hell's highway is set in WWll, your main mission is to reopen a highway. through 
 out the game you will get the real experience of a war. you play as a squad leader who has the 
 fateful task of trying to reopen one of the most dangerous roads there. the sounds are great, you 
 get the realistic sounds of the old weapons. as well as the vechicles and surronding sound of war. 
 the story may sound simple and we all know that fighting games set in WWll seem to all be alike. 
 but this one will suprise you. its much deeper in the story and you get pulled into the characters 
 lives and death. you see some of how extreme their conditions can be, mental, physical and emotional. 
 the graphics even draw you in more. you have beautiful landdscapes that are gone in second, destroyed 
 by bombs. the characters look amazing as well. the cutscenes move the game along real well. as 
 far as the charaters themselves, you will learn their stories. and actually be drawn into the game 
 in a way that most of the other games now a day, does not take the time to do. the fighting aspect 
 of the game is fun and realsitc and revolves around team work. fighting side by side with your 
 brothers in combat. the only thing that i thought could have made it better was 2 player option. 
 
  overall: i really enjoyed this game and wish there were more games like it. i think you can tell 
 all the time that the developers put into the game, not only the fighting side but in thee story 
 line as well. the mission is based on a real event that really makes you think about what all the 
 soliders go thru. i enjoyed the game a lot and it also made me thankful for such people who will 
 sacrafice themselves for our country. great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalGearNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway today and I found it very hard at first but after 
 playing it a while I was absolutely stunned over how great this game looked. The graphics are stunning 
 and the levels are amazingly satisfying and well made. The Four F's theory (Find him, Fix him, 
 Flank him, Finish him) and the awesome gore system made this game a very believable and realistic 
 WWII game. The cutscenes in the game are very beautiful and moving. This First Person Shooter has 
 everything that makes a great game a great storyline, great gameplay, great Audio and as I mentioned 
 before great graphics. The weapons in the game just kicks ass and you have many to choose from. 
 It is so fun to blow a Germans head off and blow them up in the air with a grenade and make their 
 body parts scatter all over the place. The time limit is just right but since the game is so wonderful 
 I would't mind having some extra hours in it. It is without a doubt the best in the series. If 
 you are a person who is interested in war history like me and especially WWII then I really recommend 
 this game for you go pick it up right away. Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway well worth the wait 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms (BIA) is a good game, it becomes a great game if you enjoy tactical approach with 
 using squad members majority of the time.
  
  Those who haven't played the previous BIA games should note that is a thinking and strategic shooter. 
 You will "kiss" any cover that you can get to as you can only take very little damage before it's 
 game over. 
  
  Using your given squad members and placing them to provide cover, suppress fire is a key to victory 
 as you flank the enemy. This isn't a pretty story either, aside from following the previous games, 
 it's a brutal, emotional, psychical and psychological struggle that everyone are fighting, especially 
 our main protagonist Sergeant Matt Baker.
  We continue his story as he and his squad get new replacements but the old memories don't go away. 
 
  New comers to BIA might feel little lost with names like: Leggett, Allen, and Garnett, but as game 
 moves on, the story will laid down its cards.
  
  It's a well told story that majority of first person shooters lack in past and today.
  
  The 
 game is broken into many chapters and save points are well placed. 
  BIA isn't an easy game, even on lowest difficulty level, you will still die if not being careful 
 with every corner. Cover is your best friend and should be your first line of thoughts when engaged.
 
  
  Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway is probably the best World War II game I have played to date and 
 I have played them all. 
  The struggle and insanity that WWII was is not something anyone can take with easy, BIA had showed 
 many painful sides of what war is. 
  
  PS3 version installation takes about 2.4 GB of hard-drive space.
  There are few technical issues 
 with the game, but they are minor. During few cut scenes, the frame rates would slow down noticeably 
 for 2-3 seconds and few glitches like enemy solders shooting through the walls of their own cover. 
 
  This happens on few occasions, however it doesn't make the game any less enjoyable. 
  There is an multiplayer aspect as well which I got to play for 2-3 hours. However, it's hardly 
 worthwhile since it only included hold the flag missions and is over quicker then you can join.
 
  In my opinion, they shouldn't had bothered with online, since single player is plenty long and 
 done well, but kudos regardless. 
  
  Solid story, excellent gameplay and fantastic sound drive this shooter into another memorable Brothers 
 In Arms arc, rest assured, this will not be the last time we see Baker in action.
  
  If you enjoy your shooters with dole of strategy, commanding squad members as well as taking critical 
 parts yourself along good story, Brothers In Arms delivers.
  If you're BIA fan, like myself, you should be playing right about now. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Well it is the first time playing a game from teh franchise, i did play 2nd one but only 1 mission, 
 so i dont really ahve much comparasion. still its a very soild game.
  
  Good: Well the graphics are great, if you have a good HD 1080i TV. I had a good comparasion sinice 
 i did get a new TV WOOT. lol, ok back to business. Dont know what the gamespot dude was talking 
 bout when he said the faces were all blurry and needed time 2 load but i didnt get that problem. 
 Guns all feel relistic and not in-balanced. cover system is basically like gears of war or rainbow 
 6.
  
  Bad: Well i ahvent seen much bad but there are a few glitches like i could'nt finish teh last mission 
 so i ahd to restart the whole mission from teh satrt that was pretty annoying. 
  
  Well its a great shooter all in all. it plays basically like rainbow 6 veags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm as guilty as anyone for ragging on the ubiquity of World War II first-person shooters, but 
 just because a game features an overly familiar setting doesn't make it a bad game as a matter 
 of fact. Having not played any of the prior games in the series, I definitely came into Brothers 
 in Arms: Hell's Highway with expectations that this would just be yet another WWII first-person 
 shooter, and was pleasantly surprised by the focus of the story and the unique and engaging squad 
 tactics.
  Squad dynamics are significant to Hell's Highway beyond just the gameplay, as the story of the 
 game focuses almost entirely on the interpersonal relationships between your squad members. The 
 game takes place during Operation Market Garden, but instead of grand and violent Saving Private 
 Ryan set pieces, you get discord between officers, the burden of guilt over a soldier's death, 
 and the resentment of being passed over for promotion. The game lays out its cinematic aspirations 
 early on with a showy, Altman-esque tracking shot, and while there are some resonant moments, it's 
 hindered by inconsistent voice work and characters that are difficult to distinguish visually. 
 
  Hell's Highway is a World War II first-person shooter, but it's also a lot more than that. Gearbox 
 doesn't nail every aspect of the execution, but it's unique enough to warrant a look, even if you 
 think you're done with WWII. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms: Hell's Highway talks the story of soldiers during the World War two. Excellent 
 storyline with the introduction of simulating gameplay makes it a little different from other FPS.
 
  
  That said, it still has it's problems and it has taken just too long for it to come out. Unlike 
 MGS4, the cutscenes and gameplay time has it's balance to make the game entertain and not too short.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  You take the role of a elite solder named Baker. Commanding different types of troops, you clear 
 paths and make ways for solders in Hell's Highway.
  
  Unlike other WW2 games, BIA focus a lot on the storyline, and how it progresses. You get to play 
 in many different settings with a set of pistol, and two rifles/MG. Teams are specifically the 
 MG, Assault and Fire team. With the aid of commanding your troops around only can you clear enemies. 
 A very tactical shooter if you ask me, gun and run would probably get you killed in seconds.
  
  You get to command troops where to go and who to fire, the AI intelligence is great, your teammates 
 are very smart but sometimes they do make mistakes and get themselves killed. Enemies AI on the 
 other hand is very clever as well, they take cover and shoot you on sight, which is why run and 
 gun just won't do in this game.
  
  The only vehicle you get to use is the Tank. The bad thing though is that you consistantly uses 
 the same tank in the game, with the same person firing the MG on ur tank. Speaking of customisation, 
 this game is very limited on that part. Just a few weapons for you to use, the worst thing is, 
 you don't get to choose your weapons, but it might be something good as sniper rifles is quite 
 imbalance.
  
  Controls wise, there's many settings, i believe i used the default one. It's very responsive, so 
 no complaints there. Whenever you shoot or something explodes, the Dualshock 3 comes in good.
 
  
  Coming to the bad part, is the customisation like i said, very limited, they should introduce a 
 menu before every mission to pick your weapons, but that doesn't happen. Another thing is ammutition, 
 theres just far too much for your charactor to use, even after a long fight you still have plenty 
 of ammo, but on the other hand, granades are very limited so do use them wisely. Other than tanks, 
 they should have implemented parachute, althought not very important, it does make the game fresher.
 
  
  I didn't really like the dug in feature in the game, where you take cover over a object and peep 
 out occasionally to shoot enemies. It makes the experience kind of cheap and repititive especially 
 when you have play similar games such as Gear of War, Uncharted, Army of two, rainbow 6, and even 
 GTAIV. I find that the take cover system is a brilliant idea, but just too many games uses it, 
 it becomes a bore sometimes, also pretty unrealistic as you will not see enemies when you're taking 
 cover unless in a modern situation where you have a side camera.
  
  Graphics:
  Besides some framerate issues and clipping, the graphics is all beautiful. It's obvious during 
 daytime and not so when you are at night. But hey night time fires are better looking. 
  
  Charactors looks good, very detailed and so is the environments, colors are great. The major complaint 
 of this game is probably the graphics, especially framerate issues during cutscenes might spoil 
 the experience a little.
  
  Sound:
  Weapons sounds great, very accurate with enough bass, very important in a shooting game. Dialogs 
 sounds good but lip-sync is a small problem there. I just find that tanks are a tad loud. Voice 
 acting is excellent as well.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a World War 2 game, this is a must-get to tide you over COD if your 
 waiting for it. If you like simulation shooter, it's the best of it's kind yet. But.. but.. if 
 you're looking to play it online, look elsewhere, the online is very laggy with plenty of teleporting 
 of players in the game.
  I would recommand this if you like shooters and all the more a WW2 and simulation fancy gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormer454
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  It all started Tuesday the 23. I was home and my friend called me and told me to go pick up this 
 game called Brother in Arms. I said ok ill try it out. I went bought it installed it and began. I 
 WAS IN SHOCK. I love the game straight from the beginning the graphics were great and the new features 
 they've done with all the new systems. Like throwing grenades and someones arm falls off or the 
 fact if you get a head shot you rip a hole in they're head and blood goes every where. Of course 
 the game has its ups like when you go and dig into cover (or hide behind something) you go into third 
 person but when running around its FPS which is the B&A style but it would of been better in third. Also 
 the multiplayer was not the best like you can only play capture the points no death match or free 
 for all. Another thing is that you can choose your squads or what type of solider only what weapons 
 your allowed to choose from but other than the multiplayer overall the main story mode makes up 
 for it with its squad command and smarter AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarine08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, I will start out with the single player/ campaign. First I have to say this game is truely 
 amazing. The graphics are stunning, and the gameplay is unbelievable. The dig-in cover system is 
 just like Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas, and I have not come across any glitches yet. The story 
 is great, especially if you have played the recent Brothers In Arms games. I won't give anything 
 away though. The gore system is awesome, and pretty funny at time. One time a German was behind 
 cover and I threw a grenade. He started running but he was to late, and by the time the grenade 
 blew up, the German split in half. By the way, the camera does not zoom in on the German everytime 
 you get a head shot or something. The multiplayer really is not anything special, and it is a little 
 glitchy. I would not even recommend playing the multiplayer. The one last problem that really made 
 me mark the game down was the lack of being able to play the game over game. Once you beat it, 
 it is like you cannot play the game for a couple months. But the campiagn is great despite this 
 problem. When you get the chance this is a game 100% worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Wow one of the best ww2 games out there, only played it for about 2 hours and I'm hooked.
  
  I love the fact it's not just run through and shoot everything game you will have to thinks 
 a bit not much but just enough to make it entertaining.
  
  I love how you can commend your team members, cover system is good and it plays good nice and smooth.
 
  
  To be honest this game have pleasantly surprised me I wasn't expecting it to be as good as it is, 
 I would not compare this game to COD4 because it need to be compared to other WW2 games and in 
 that case it's a winner all the way.
  
  I know ww2 thing is getting old now and that's why cod4 was a big hit but this game looks promising 
 so give it a go. 
  And to all the developers out there stop making WW2 games they are just getting boring no matter 
 how well they made 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Some may gasp at Brothers' all-too familiar backdrop initially, but writing off Hell's Highway 
 as just another WWII shooter would be a big mistake. The amount of care and realism that has gone 
 into recreating Operation Market Garden (the largest airborne invasion the world has ever seen) 
 is second to none, and the increased brutality on the battlefield this time around only helps the 
 meaningful dialogue and cutscenes stand out. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is truly unlike any 
 of its competitors, and thanks to some newly enhanced gameplay elements, it manages to provide 
 an overall experience that surpasses both previous installments in the franchise. 
  
  One of the most noticeable changes has nothing to do with the gameplay, though. Since much of the 
 game takes place in Holland - the cities of Eindhoven, Nijmegen, and Arnhem play major roles in 
 the plot  you can expect to see vast acres of sunny hills and green pastures laid out before you 
 and the sheep are so juicy and fun to shoot at. This is a far contrast from the gray, dreary color 
 palettes of Normandy that most are accustomed to, and for the most part the visual design does 
 a terrific job of convincing you the levels are bigger than they actually are. While some invisible 
 walls do exist, the game encourages you to take alternate routes to achieve your objectives and 
 doing so only reinforces the fact that each map is well thought out and large enough to plan successful 
 ambushes or flanking tactics. Of course, there are still a few situations where you must traverse 
 smaller buildings and landmarks, which are very nice diversions from previous levels. One chapter 
 in particular has your squad escaping a war-torn rain-soaked city, which not only resembles something 
 from the vein of Saving Private Ryan, but ultimately stands as one of my favorite experiences the 
 genre has ever produced. Needless to say, the level design is much more diverse than you would 
 expect, especially considering the games peaceful starting point. 
  
  
  Of course, none of the above would even matter if the gameplay wasn't up to par, and thankfully, 
 Hell's Highway is able execute admirably in this department. The ability to dig in and take cover 
 is a feature long overdue (think Rainbow Six) , and the option to throw grenades (with a nifty new 
 impact indicator) and command your squads from the cover position is groundbreaking for the series. 
 Certain barriers like fences and sand bags can break away and disintegrate upon contact too, so 
 choosing the right protection for the scenario is a must. Seeking refuge behind a vehicle or wooden 
 fence with a MG bearing down on your squad likely won't produce the desired results. This not only 
 adds to the realism and intensity of each situation, but it also keeps you planning several steps 
 ahead, which is the only way to safely achieve your objectives in most cases. 
  
  Once you do discover a safe hiding place for the moment, you will likely want to check out the 
 new tactical map. From there you can view recon points (finding these will reveal enemies and objectives, 
 along with providing real-life photos and documents for scenarios) , study the terrain, and plan 
 your tactics accordingly. This will help you decide where to send any squads you may currently 
 be in control off. Assault, Bazooka, and MG teams are usually available depending on the situation, 
 and commanding them correctly can mean the difference between success and failure. Assault teams 
 are useful for suppression, MG squads can clear obstacles such as sandbags and small barriers, 
 and Bazooka battalions are more than capable of taking out tanks, elevated MG's, and any vehicles 
 that may reside in your path. I did have a little trouble with the occasional squad member or team 
 standing around after an order was given, but for the most part controlling the battlefield with 
 a flick of the left and right trigger was seamless. 
  
  Once the fight is initiated, you will notice one of the smaller, yet more gruesome additions to 
 Hell's Highway. Landing a head shot, grenade throw, or direct hit with a Bazooka will trigger the 
 Action Cam. This causes time to slow to a near-halt, where you'll see any enemies who happen to 
 be caught in your attack ripped apart limb by limb in slow motion. Legs, arms, torsos, and even 
 heads will scatter throughout the battlefield and nothing could be more gruesome. And as horrifying 
 as this sounds, it doesn't happen so frequently that it seems out of place or overblown at all. 
 War is downright dreadful, and this game does a fine job of treading the line between realistic 
 and deplorable. 
  
  Collectively, this is the impression you inherit after playing a title like Brothers in Arms: Hell's 
 Highway. It's both shocking and beautiful at the same time, much in the way that a series like 
 Band of Brothers is. Sure, some of the backstory could've used a little more clarification, and 
 the squad member AI fails to impress at times, but the intuitive new features thoroughly outweigh 
 any negatives you may uncover while playing. Despite the tired subject matter, Hell's Highway is 
 the pinnacle of an impressive ongoing franchise, and is a collective tale of friendship and misfortune 
 that does everyone involved proper justice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that if all you want to do is play online. Then you should probably 
 stick with COD4, because this game will not fulfill your desire of shooting real people and talking 
 trash about how awesome you are. However if your looking for a game with a deep campaign mode along 
 with a purpose to every move made in the game then THIS IS FOR YOU! Don't get me wrong i was a 
 big COD4 guy because of the multi player but off line was just senseless shooting of enemy after 
 enemy after enemy after enemy and also no gore besides a tiny splatter of blood, and trust me if 
 gore is watch your looking for than you'll find it in BIA HH. Every possible aspect of this game 
 is tremendous, only drawbacks would be multiplayer and the computer A. I. is really freaking stupid 
 sometimes but its still fun for you because it gives you more chances to say BOOM HEADSHOT! Plus 
 there is a weird grainy look to the shadows but you'll never notice it until cut scenes because 
 the action is nonstop during game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeeko17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting and following this game for years now and I was a HUGE fan of the first two 
 games. They were absolutely amazing. They brought an entire new way of playing first person shooter. 
 The previous games were also VERY polished which is something I look for in a game. And considering 
 this game had been in development since March of 2005 I expected it to be extremely polished and 
 sharp. Yet unfortunately this is where the game falls short. I was not expecting destructable enviroments 
 but I was expecting more than what this game brought to the table. First off simple things like 
 the effect of a bullet when it hits an object is down right rediculous. When a bullet hit the ground 
 in the previous game there was an amazing effect of dirt and then a small cloud of dust that would 
 drift away. In BIAHH all you see is a blue line that shoots up into the air. What is that gearbox? 
 This is the playstation 3 we're talking about here. And 90% of the windows that you shoot have 
 NO effect at all. It almost feels like the game was rushed out, which is crazy considering their 
 first release date was January of 2007!!! I could go on about some of the effect issues but I won't. 
 
  
  Another problem I had was that the "action camera" rarely works. Maybe 1 out of 10 times it actually 
 works. 
  
  Some other visual hiccups I had saw were that the grass is COMPLETELY 2D which just baffles me 
 since its 2008. I mean the old BBIA had much more detailed objects and that game is 4 or 5 years 
 old. Also when holding your characters gun, it does not reflect a single bit of light or anything. 
 It has very bland textures and just looks out of place. My last negative comment is that the AI 
 can be downright broken at times. I've been standing right in front of an enemy and he never saw 
 me. Thats the last of my negative comments. 
  
  On the positive side the story is outstanding and so are the cutscenes. Gamespot says there are 
 texture pop-ins during the cutscenes but I have yet to experience them.
  
  On the gameplay side of things its pretty much the EXACT same from the previous games. Which isn't 
 a bad thing. It just feels a little dated I guess. 
  
  Overall BIAHH is still a good game but it just didn't live up to my expectations. I think they 
 spent too much time on the story and the cutscenes instead of focusing on the gameplay and technical 
 side of things. Let me know what you think of my review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfried001
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I can't comment on the multiplayer mode as of yet. I have spent about five hours playing, first 
 on veteran mode and then for one mission I changes it to casual. I am totally impressed with this 
 game, but I am a fan of the series. Even if I were not a fan of the series I would like this game. 
 Some of the negative reviews say there is not enough action. Well this is how WWII was fought, 
 slowly shooting targets and making small but decisive moves.
  
  Sound is excellent on PS3 as well as the graphics. The difficulty is just right. If you let yourself 
 go, you will feel like you are in Holland during Operation Market. The few glitches I have come 
 across, such as seeing the enemy walk in circles, or my partners disappearing suddenly do not happen 
 that frequently and do not impact the game play. People who are giving this game a bad rating either 
 do not like this type of game or have not really played it. I would not miss the opportunity to 
 purchase this game. So far it has been everything I had hoped it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stagga99
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first 2 games so have been looking forward to this for a long time. It 
 wasn't worth the wait. Really it's barely a progression from the old games. You want destructibilty? 
 Buy BF Bad Company because you WON'T find it here. At least barely! You're shown in the tutorial 
 that wooden tables can be destroyed by bullets so don't provide good cover. Sure enough a wooden 
 fence shatters when machine gunned. But suddenly you're faced with Germans crouched behind an old 
 wooden door. Your bullets have no effect on this. Nor do grenades. Is that a sofa or a 6 inch lump 
 of iron? It looks like the former but it might as well be the latter! Sandbags collapse when hit 
 by a bazooka but see that flimsy wooden shed? No chance! As for props, most of the ammo boxes and 
 crates spread liberally around the play area are totally static and don't bunch an inch when a 
 grenade is tossed between them. Some windows don't even get scratched when shot! Also the cover 
 system only works on objects that the designer has chosen and attached the appropriate node to. 
 In other words if you approach a wall where there's not likely to be an encounter you can't take 
 cover and lean around it. But later on the same type of wall works perfectly thus breaking the 
 continuity.
  
  As for graphics.. well the textures and some of the models are nice. On the other hand some buildings 
 look like they've been made out of a couple of cubes. Where are the fancy shaders we've got used 
 to? And the lighting is for the most part quite horrible. It suffers from the same thing that all 
 UE3 games seem to. Characters don't receive colour information from their surroundings. So your 
 soldier has a strong green tint (including his skin) while walking through a room with a strong 
 purple tint. Hard to describe in text but it's ugly and it just looks wrong. .
  On the other hand characters look pretty good and they're animated nicely, some textures are beautiful 
 (though others look like the old games) and it seems to get better looking the nearer the end you 
 get. 
  
  None of this would matter if the gameplay was great but really we've seen it all before and i actually 
 think the older games had better level design. Here there really is only one way to go every time. 
 What's wrong with giving the player freedom to make their own decisions? I read another player 
 review on here which praised the game for it's realism. Well realism isn't a small walled in arena 
 masquerading as a village street! I want to go BEHIND the house if there's a machine gun emplacement 
 up this road but of course I can't! Operation Flashpoint was realism. This is very much a game 
 that forces you to do what it wants you to. And why don't the enemy ever try to flank you or outmaneuver 
 you in some way? All they do is stay behind cover and occasionally retreat to some different cover 
 when really they should be using the same tactics you do to kill you! Still if you liked the old 
 games you'll enjoy this but i was certainly expecting more. 
  
  Not good enough.
  
  
  (and here's a great example of the intelligence level of some of these Player Reviewers. Having 
 given the game 10/10 and describing it as Perfect one guy then writes "The multiplayer really is 
 not anything special, and it is a little glitchy. I would not even recommend playing the multiplayer." 
 So that's their idea of the perfect game then?!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SFGIANTS2529
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for months for this game to come out. I am a big WWII buff, so i was very excited 
 to finally get a WWII game that was historically accurate, everything from combat tactics to small 
 details on uniforms. i had this game pre-ordered for about 5 months, and let me tell you, it was 
 worth the long wait.
  
  i spent a good amount of my night playing it, but i have not finished it, nor have i played enough 
 to give a full and accurate review. however, from the first few levels, i know it can only get 
 better. 
  
  the Unreal Engine doesnt disappoint in the graphics/A. I./physics dept. beautiful, colorful game 
 with attention to detail, and destructible cover. for those of you who dont like blood and gore, 
 theres an option to turn it off, along with the adult language. 
  
  this is the first game that hasnt candy coated the violence of war. for the first time, you see 
 brains scattered, limbs blown off, and plenty of blood. while the game slightly glorifies this 
 aspect for show, and some shock value, it stays within reason. you might not want to play it in 
 front of a WWII vet. im sure the veterans wont be very thrilled with a close up slo-mo of a guy 
 getting his head blown off.
  
  all in all, if you like the European Theater of World War II, and movies/series' such Band of Brothers 
 and Saving Private Ryan, you will love this game. controls take a little while to get used to, 
 but the return is a never before seen, new style of combat, in which you have to command the squad, 
 and strategize on how to take the objective. rather than letting your buddies be controlled by 
 dumbed down A. I. that controls itself, and that really isnt a factor in your gameplay, you have 
 the challenge of giving orders. much different from the Medal of Honor style running around in 
 solo missions, plowing your way through a company of Germans and somehow surviving.
  
  dont buy this game expecting the online play to match COD4. it wont. the few negative reviews ive 
 seen were people who expected this to be COD4 online with WWII weapons. different style of game, 
 but definitely worth your 60 bucks. 10/10, Gearbox did a phenomenal job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedanner0326
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  For a genre that has more titles than just about any other, this game may top them all. The game 
 provides enough challenge for experienced players, while leaving an enjoyable experience for inexperienced 
 players. By far the darkest chapter in any historic shooter, the writers and developers of this 
 game hit a home run. The graphics are beautiful for gearbox and ubisoft standards and the controls 
 don't take too long to get accustomed to. The weapon variablity is similar to what we have seen 
 in previous titles, but the accuracy of detail and firing characteristics are outstanding. It was 
 nice to see some "Band of Brothers" references with Lt. Col. Bob Sink, played by Capt. Dale Dye 
 (in both the game and movie series) , along with the continued extreme historical accuracy that 
 we have come to expect with this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMisterQT
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  SUCKS A Waste Of Time, A Waste of 65 Dollars, & lastly No Leaderboards On Multi-player mode. Don't 
 waste your money....... I personally thought this game was going to be worth while. I in fact see 
 that this game is horrible. No game will ever meet up to Call of Duty 4's criteria in a long time. 
 Maybe CoD World at War will but Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway is not worth 65 dollars. They should 
 have known people were going to get it for the multi-player and made it way better. Can't even 
 function the tanks without crashing every two seconds. The mechanics are so terrible. I would in 
 fact give this game a 3 but at least gearbox tried but c'mon, step your game up. Activision & Infinity 
 Ward are the best. There isn't even a leaderboard on BIA so it's a waste of time playing this game. 
 So with that being said i cant believe ubisoft would actually publish a trashy game like BIA. But 
 oh well. COD: WW i will be waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roma28
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Well worth the wait , best WWII Historic first person shooter to date. Builds on old characters 
 while bringing on new ones. New weapons, and in game finds such as recon and Kilroys give it a 
 little extra. Impressive cut scenes, addictive game play and limitless tactical options. The multi-player 
 is similar but with more accessory choices and of course destructible cover. Games like this bring 
 added life to a dying genre. Historical accuracy and detail are maintained throughout the entire 
 game. Enthralling story to boot. The Brothers in Arms franchise has been revived with this latest 
 installment. The gore and slow-mo death shots are awesome. Some death scenes are a tad over the 
 top, and the casual setting is too easy while the authentic mode is intense. Control settings to 
 match any game style. The wait is over and the long awaited title is worthy of praise. Brothers 
 in Arms Hell's Highway does tribute to the men and women who fought and died during WWII's Operation 
 Market Garden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Some may gasp at Brothers' all-too familiar backdrop initially, but writing off Hell's Highway 
 as just another WWII shooter would be a big mistake. The amount of care and realism that has gone 
 into recreating Operation Market Garden (the largest airborne invasion the world has ever seen) 
 is second to none, and the increased brutality on the battlefield this time around only helps the 
 meaningful dialogue and cutscenes stand out. Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway is truly unlike any 
 of its competitors, and thanks to some newly enhanced gameplay elements, it manages to provide 
 an overall experience that surpasses both previous installments in the franchise. 
  
  One of the most noticeable changes has nothing to do with the gameplay, though. Since much of the 
 game takes place in Holland - the cities of Eindhoven, Nijmegen, and Arnhem play major roles in 
 the plot  you can expect to see vast acres of sunny hills and green pastures laid out before you 
 and the sheep are so juicy and fun to shoot at. This is a far contrast from the gray, dreary color 
 palettes of Normandy that most are accustomed to, and for the most part the visual design does 
 a terrific job of convincing you the levels are bigger than they actually are. While some invisible 
 walls do exist, the game encourages you to take alternate routes to achieve your objectives and 
 doing so only reinforces the fact that each map is well thought out and large enough to plan successful 
 ambushes or flanking tactics. Of course, there are still a few situations where you must traverse 
 smaller buildings and landmarks, which are very nice diversions from previous levels. One chapter 
 in particular has your squad escaping a war-torn rain-soaked city, which not only resembles something 
 from the vein of Saving Private Ryan, but ultimately stands as one of my favorite experiences the 
 genre has ever produced. Needless to say, the level design is much more diverse than you would 
 expect, especially considering the games peaceful starting point. 
  
  
  Of course, none of the above would even matter if the gameplay wasn't up to par, and thankfully, 
 Hell's Highway is able execute admirably in this department. The ability to dig in and take cover 
 is a feature long overdue (think Rainbow Six) , and the option to throw grenades (with a nifty new 
 impact indicator) and command your squads from the cover position is groundbreaking for the series. 
 Certain barriers like fences and sand bags can break away and disintegrate upon contact too, so 
 choosing the right protection for the scenario is a must. Seeking refuge behind a vehicle or wooden 
 fence with a MG bearing down on your squad likely won't produce the desired results. This not only 
 adds to the realism and intensity of each situation, but it also keeps you planning several steps 
 ahead, which is the only way to safely achieve your objectives in most cases. 
  
  Once you do discover a safe hiding place for the moment, you will likely want to check out the 
 new tactical map. From there you can view recon points (finding these will reveal enemies and objectives, 
 along with providing real-life photos and documents for scenarios) , study the terrain, and plan 
 your tactics accordingly. This will help you decide where to send any squads you may currently 
 be in control off. Assault, Bazooka, and MG teams are usually available depending on the situation, 
 and commanding them correctly can mean the difference between success and failure. Assault teams 
 are useful for suppression, MG squads can clear obstacles such as sandbags and small barriers, 
 and Bazooka battalions are more than capable of taking out tanks, elevated MG's, and any vehicles 
 that may reside in your path. I did have a little trouble with the occasional squad member or team 
 standing around after an order was given, but for the most part controlling the battlefield with 
 a flick of the left and right trigger was seamless. 
  
  Once the fight is initiated, you will notice one of the smaller, yet more gruesome additions to 
 Hell's Highway. Landing a head shot, grenade throw, or direct hit with a Bazooka will trigger the 
 Action Cam. This causes time to slow to a near-halt, where you'll see any enemies who happen to 
 be caught in your attack ripped apart limb by limb in slow motion. Legs, arms, torsos, and even 
 heads will scatter throughout the battlefield and nothing could be more gruesome. And as horrifying 
 as this sounds, it doesn't happen so frequently that it seems out of place or overblown at all. 
 War is downright dreadful, and this game does a fine job of treading the line between realistic 
 and deplorable. 
  
  Collectively, this is the impression you inherit after playing a title like Brothers in Arms: Hell's 
 Highway. It's both shocking and beautiful at the same time, much in the way that a series like 
 Band of Brothers is. Sure, some of the backstory could've used a little more clarification, and 
 the squad member AI fails to impress at times, but the intuitive new features thoroughly outweigh 
 any negatives you may uncover while playing. Despite the tired subject matter, Hell's Highway is 
 the pinnacle of an impressive ongoing franchise, and is a collective tale of friendship and misfortune 
 that does everyone involved proper justice.
  Yours Truly
  Y
  P. S. thanks matt for helping me out here !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed765
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  i know i know your think oh man ANOTHER WWII game well my friends this game is far from feeling 
 like any other WWII games, i mean lets face medal of honor you r always some different protagonist 
 that you dont really care about but that series has died slowly , call of duty got the hint making 
 a modern warfare game that was a hit but still they decided to go back and make another WWII game 
 but this, game is nothing like any other WWII game you will ever play it has some of the richest 
 and nicest graphice you will see to date, and the gore is amazing i dont think i've ever cringed 
 at a game before , my point is is that hells highway is just that some body smack dab put you in 
 the middle of hell and then beat you sense less and then said go kill those guys , you will lose 
 a lot of men and you will feel it every time you do , when it comes to seeing people write there 
 names on the walls of germany or you lose one of youe squad members with apin flash backs in the 
 mix this game is a definate must ahve and buy, you need to have this game to see one of the bravest 
 fights of this gamming generation brothers in arms gets a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
