-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Burnout Paradise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/burnout5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Racing and wrecking is as thrilling as ever.
 Open-world design creates a great sense of destructive freedom.
 Showtime mode is a hoot.
 Online functionality is seamless and addicting.
 Superb visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could have used more variety in race and event types.
 Soundtrack and DJ dialogue are awful.
 Early in the game, you'll probably be a little confused and overwhelmed by the whole thing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Criterion Games
Genre: Racing
Date: Jan 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Burnout Paradise includes all the fast-driving, hard-wrecking action you'd expect from a Burnout 
 game, but with a fantastic new open-world design that gives it its own stand-alone flavor. "-//W3C//DTD 
 HTML 4.01//EN"        Burnout Paradise Review for PlayStation 
 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Get ready to smash your way through Paradise City in this video review with Alex Navarro.       
 Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Racing and wrecking is as thrilling 
 as ever  &nbsp;      Open-world design creates a great sense of destructive freedom  &nbsp;    
   Showtime mode is a hoot  &nbsp;      Online functionality is seamless and addicting  &nbsp;  
     Superb visuals.                The Bad            Could have used more variety in race and 
 event types  &nbsp;      Soundtrack and DJ dialogue are awful  &nbsp;      Early in the game, you'll 
 probably be a little confused and overwhelmed by the whole thing.                      After The 
 Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy Support    Posted: Nov 
 4, 2008 1:58 pm PT      In September 2008 trophy support was implemented in Burnout Paradise via 
 a free update. There are no fewer than  64 trophies  to collect, including several that can only 
 be earned while riding a motorcycle. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev Update &nbsp;|&nbsp;  All Updates 
 (2)  &nbsp;|&nbsp;  Next Update &raquo;            

  Is there any developer buzz term more meaningless these days than "open-world gameplay"? Let's 
 face it, it's kind of been done to death at this point, so you have to look on with a bit of skepticism 
 when a developer touts the concept as the next big thing for its franchise. It's understandable, 
 then, if Burnout Paradise's concept freaks you out a little bit. Burnout has, by tradition, been 
 a fairly structured arcade racing game up to this point, and one would have to wonder exactly how 
 well an open environment would serve the series' crash-happy gameplay methodology. Evidently, the 
 answer is quite well. Developer Criterion has invented a world wonderfully suited to Burnout's 
 nature, a city built exclusively to cater to your destructive whims. And while a few design hitches 
 here and there get in the way now and again, by and large Burnout Paradise delivers an experience 
 that is both true to the Burnout name and wonderfully fresh-feeling all at once.  

           It might be in an open world, but Paradise is still a Burnout game through and through. 

  The star of the show is Paradise City itself. Coming complete with the titular Guns 'N Roses song 
 (because Burnout: Night Train or Burnout: Mr. Brownstone probably wouldn't have been as catchy) , 
 Paradise City is, at first blush, a pretty standard racing game city, complete with all the usual 
 landmark locations and boring background traffic. But it quickly becomes evident that Paradise 
 City is meant for a greater purpose than just being a simple city to race around in. In effect, 
 the city is a blank slate, a pristine canvas on which to paint your own obliterative masterpiece. 
 The simple act of driving aimlessly around the city constantly presents new roads, shortcuts, and 
 destructible objects for you to experience and, often, destroy. Nearly every intersection of road 
 hosts a new event of some kind, and even after you've worked your way through the game's progression 
 of driver's licenses (the only specifically linear portion of the game design) , you'll still be 
 finding new things you didn't even know were there.  

  That might sound a little overwhelming, especially if you've grown accustomed to the rather specific 
 brand of racing that Burnout has always subscribed to. And at first, it most definitely is. Though 
 the in-game tutorials do a decent job of explaining the event types and basic mechanics, you're 
 initially left to your own devices and only have the small minimap to guide you through the many 
 twists and turns of the city as you race -- unless of course you want to hit the pause button regularly 
 and use the larger map, which is a bit annoying to do. Those well accustomed to Burnout's previously 
 track-based racing model might find having to explore to find the best route to the finish a bit 
 frightening, but the good news is that it doesn't take a great deal of time to get a feel for the 
 city's various ins and outs.  

  Until that time, you will experience some trial and error (with a heavier focus on the error) , 
 but the funny thing about that is that while you may initially find yourself failing races, it's 
 not often you have to just go back and keep doing that same race again and again. The focus of 
 Burnout Paradise isn't on doing specific events so much as it is about doing whatever you feel 
 like. If you fail a race, odds are that there are roughly a dozen starting points for other races 
 near the finish line of that previous race, and unless you've done them all, you can just hit up 
 any one of them to get another notch on your license. Toward the very end of the game, when you've 
 bested the bulk of the game's events, you may find yourself lamenting the lack of a quick return 
 feature to get back to a race's starting point. But for the majority of the game, it's not really 
 an issue.  

  It's a strange design to get used to initially, but once you do, it becomes incredibly rewarding. 
 You can spend hours at a time just dawdling around the city and still make forward progress within 
 the game. Don't feel like racing? Just go break through shortcut gates or bust up billboards, which 
 are tallied up as you break each one. Or, track down one of the cars you unlocked on the road and 
 take it down to add it to your collection. Or, you can opt to pick a road and attempt to "own" 
 it. There are two types of events associated with each of the major roads in the game. Time trials 
 are as you'd expect -- you simply start at one end of the road and start driving down it, attempting 
 to get the fastest time you can. Secondly, there are showtime events, which are the game's effective 
 replacement for the crash mode found in previous installments of the series. Whereas crash mode 
 was sort of like a puzzle mode in the way it made you create elaborate car crashes out of painstakingly 
 built traffic designs, showtime is the polar opposite. These are elaborate car crashes born from 
 little more than a bunch of nearby cars and your ability to control what is, in essence, a sentient 
 car wreck.  

  In a word, showtime mode is absurd. The goal is similar to crash mode in that you're aiming to 
 create as much damage as humanly possible, with various types of cars offering up different cash 
 bonuses that feed into your final score. All the while, you can move your busted husk of a car 
 around by pressing the boost button, which causes you to bounce around like a rubber ball. Again, 
 totally absurd, but also totally awesome. It might lack the puzzling nature of the crash mode, 
 but for pure visceral thrill and laughs-a-minute wrecking, showtime mode delivers in spades. It 
 would have been nice if Criterion had found a way to have both the crash mode and showtime mode 
 coexisting, as neither would make a particularly good replacement for the other; but on its own, 
 showtime is a great deal of fun.  

           This game contains some of the most downright erotic car crashes not featured in a J. G. 
 Ballard novel.      

  A number of other elements from previous Burnouts are also missing or altered here. The lack of 
 aftertouch (the mechanic that let you steer your wreck into opponents during races and take them 
 out) is a real bummer, as it makes wrecking during races a pure nuisance rather than an opportunity 
 for more destructive glee. Traffic checking is absent as well, though it isn't sorely missed. The 
 racing artificial intelligence has seen a bit of tweaking here and there. You still get the sense 
 of rubber banding that the series has always employed, but as the game goes on and the racers get 
 tougher, your opponents become more aggressive and don't just tank right before the finish line. 
 By and large, the game is actually a bit easier than the last couple of Burnout games, but the 
 challenge toward the later stages of the game definitely ramps up significantly.  

  The racing itself is as exciting as it's ever been. Standard races are intense and thrilling, road 
 rage events are full of wreckful delights, stunt runs have you jumping, barrel rolling, and flat 
 spinning all over the place, marked man races are tense fights to the finish line as multiple enemy 
 cars bop you around trying to wreck you beyond repair, and burning routes have you taking on challenging 
 time trials to earn new cars. If there's any flaw to be noted with the core game design, it's maybe 
 that there aren't enough event types. There's no shortage of events and random stuff to do, but 
 running the same event types, and even some of the same specific events again and again, can grow 
 a bit tiresome after a while. After each license upgrade, all the events you've raced (except for 
 burning routes) reset, so you end up doing a lot of them over and over again. This wouldn't even 
 be an issue if there were a greater variety of event types, but as it stands, there are only those 
 few, and you may wear out on doing races and marked man events again and again.  

  If you do get a bit bored with the single-player action, you can always hop online and race against 
 others. Doing so is quite seamless. Simply press right on the D pad to bring up the online menu, 
 and then decide if you want to join up with other existing games or create your own. Online in 
 Burnout Paradise is quite a different animal than that of previous Burnout games. You don't just 
 hop into a lobby menu and pick races to engage in. Instead, the city itself is the lobby, and while 
 the host decides what he wants to unleash upon you, you can just mess around and do whatever you 
 like.  

  When hosting, you have the ability to both race and take on challenges. Races are of your own design, 
 with you setting the beginning and ending points anywhere in the city. Challenges are set, and 
 there are literally hundreds of them. The trick is that there are a limited number of challenges 
 depending on how many players are in a group. There are 50 challenges for two players, 50 for eight 
 players, and 50 for each denomination in between. This means that once you've exhausted all the 
 challenges for two players, you'll have to get three, then four, and so on and so on if you want 
 to complete them all. That might prove unwieldy for those who don't have a lot of friends online 
 to play the game, but at least the challenges themselves are creative and fun. The challenges range 
 from competitive bouts of drifting, crashing, and jumping to cooperative versions of all the same 
 stuff. It's an inventive mode to be sure and an exceptionally fun one when you've got a good crew 
 of friends to play with.  

   

  It also bears mention that while online, you can use the PlayStation Eye or Xbox Live Vision Camera 
 to take shots of your rivals online. When you take down a rival player that has a camera hooked 
 up, the cam will take a mugshot of that player's reaction. It's kind of a neat feature that, unfortunately, 
 will probably be abused by all manner of nudity over the course of the game's lifespan, but that's 
 inevitably what happens when you let people do things with cameras.  

  Paradise's visual presentation is precisely the kind of top-notch work you've come to expect from 
 the series. Once again, the game sets a standard for how a sense of speed should feel in an arcade 
 racer. This game is lightning fast, and the frame rate in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 of the game holds up regardless of the chaos onscreen. The car crashes in this game are absolutely 
 fantastic, thanks to some dynamite particle effects and camera work in each and every mangled wreck. 
 Cars deform to wonderful effect, scrunching up like an accordion in head-on collisions and bending 
 and twisting nicely in other situations. The only thing that continues to look a little weird is 
 the total lack of drivers in all the cars around the city. It's understandable that Criterion would 
 leave out mangled corpses or what have you for the sake of an E 10+ rating, but it still looks 
 strange seeing all these disembodied cars driving around like a society of Turbo Teens.  

  It's also worth noting that Burnout Paradise is a game that commands an HD display, and not just 
 for full graphical effect. On the standard-definition TVs we tried, we found the minimap to be 
 borderline useless unless we squinted like crazy. On an HD set, the minimap is detailed and blown 
 up enough to rely on, but when playing in standard definition, it simply became a hassle to use. 

           Showtime mode won't make you forget about crash mode, but it's a lot of goofy fun in its 
 own right.      

  If you're looking for differences between the two versions, you won't find many. The PlayStation 
 3 version looks maybe a hair crisper than the 360 version, but that's about the only visual difference 
 to speak of. On the flipside, the 360 version has a slight edge in that you can use custom soundtracks 
 to drown out the miserable collection of songs EA has amassed for the game. There are a few highlights 
 that fit well with the theme of high-energy racing, but the vast bulk of the music consists of 
 irritating modern rock that's about as ill-fitting as humanly possible. Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend" 
 might, itself,  be  a car wreck of a song, but it doesn't fit the vibe of the game at all. Add 
 in the collection of original Criterion-produced guitar rock tracks from previous Burnout games 
 that sound like they were culled from Joe Satriani's nightmares, and you have a pretty unpleasant 
 musical experience all around. The annoying radio DJ who pops up now and again to give hints, mock 
 you obnoxiously when you fail, and make one glib comment or another about something going on in 
 the city doesn't help matters. He's merely an annoyance that probably wouldn't even be worth mentioning 
 save for the fact that you cannot turn him off. At least the sound effects are still top-flight 
 in every regard. Crashes thunder, engines roar, and tires screech with terrific clarity all throughout 
 the game. If you've got a surround-speaker setup, it's all the better.  

  It's entirely possible that some people might not enjoy Burnout Paradise's significant shift in 
 direction, specifically those who simply wanted another incremental Burnout sequel. Indeed, Paradise 
 is anything but incremental, and while it might prove a polarizing experience for some, most will 
 likely appreciate what a radical overhaul this game really is. The open-world design isn't just 
 a lazy gimmick -- it's a wonderfully executed concept that doesn't rob the game of the series' most 
 beloved tenet: the act of driving fast and wrecking hard. If you're one of the people who tried 
 the Burnout Paradise demo and formed a rather negative opinion of the game, you're not alone. But 
 if you have any affection for the series, you really owe it to yourself to give the full game a 
 look. The demo did little to truly represent what a superbly fun racer this game can be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (246 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dark_massenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is without a doubt the best in the series, and one of the best racing games out 
 there. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics is well designed, it has superb visuals, Paradise City is perfectly designed 
 with the connection of it's shortcuts, jumps... etc. 
  
  You'll drive as fast as a bullet without experiencing any frame rate issues, the crashes are very 
 well demonstrated and also the physics when you crash into another driver or just wreck the hell 
 out of your car. 
  
  The cars look beautifully rendered, colorful and look much more realistic than before.
  
  Gameplay: 
 In Burnout Paradise, you don't choose events and race or crash or do burning laps; this time you 
 are in Paradise City, the whole city is yours to explore, the events are around the city in the 
 intersections, just go to where an event is held and push L2 + R2 and you're in! 
  
  In Paradise City they have introduces "Mark Man" events and "Stunt Run" events. In Mark Man you 
 are the marked man! you have to reach a point and there are heavy cars that try to crash you, just 
 reach it safe and you finish the event.
  
  As for Stunt Runs, you have a score to beat and you've given a set of time, you must do jumps, 
 barrel rolls (Jumping and rolling your car and landing safely) , hitting billboards, boosting, drifting.. 
 etc and rack up your multiplier to beat the target score.
  
  Also in Paradise City there are many things you can do other than events, like finding the 120 
 Billboards and crashing into them, the 400 yellow gates, drive thrus, beating the Showtime and 
 Time Challenge on every road.
  
  Showtime is just like Crash in the previous Burnout games but this time you just drive to a road 
 and press L1 + R1 and your car will start rolling and jumping in the street, as long as you have 
 boost, press X to roll it more and hit cars for more score, and hit buses for multiplier. 
  
  The time challenge is just driving from the beginning of a street to the end in a set of time, 
 you can find out that time buy hitting "Up" and see what's the time on this road and beat it.
 
  
  The other events are just like the previous Burnout games (Races, Burning Route instead of Lap 
 and Road Rage)
  
  Burnout Paradise is one of the best racing games you can get your hands on, it has superb gameplay, 
 and I forgot to mention the great multiplayer the game has to offer to you, if you have a PS3 of 
 a 360 then this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paraidse, now running on better hardware, looks amazing, setting the bar even higher. One 
 of the best looking Burnout games before this was the PS2 and XBox version of Burnout 3, it looked 
 awesome. Compare it to that times 3. The gameplay has changed drastically, now implementing a free 
 roam mode instead of a linear menu's system, much like Midnight Club. There are some cool things 
 to do in free roam, like trying to hit all 400 Burnout signs in the city (i'm pretty sure there's 
 that many) , or just having fun going off jumps or crashing. Now to the racing. It's really, really 
 fun. Burnout is one of the exceptions to the rule that keeping the same gameplay style makes a 
 game series boring, because it's still shining. Another thing Burnout excels at is that it's just 
 plain fun overall. Also, the online mode implements some more stuff to do, including taking Paraidse 
 City Mug Shots with a PlayStation Eye or other camera that's compatable with the systems, and racing 
 with friends in different matches.
  
  Overall, Burnout Paradise is very fun and will easily take at least 20-40 hours of your time, if 
 not more. I give it a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev909
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding! Amazing! I have loved the Burnout games for a while now and Burnout Paradise is by 
 far the best. The graphics are great and the music list is pretty good. Theres a highly detailed 
 wreck every time you crash and doing events are really fun. You start off with a learner's permit 
 in a open world "Paradise City". You start off with a wrecked "Hunter Calvary" a car that resembles 
 a old Mustang. Anyhoo you need to win events across Paradise City to upgrade your license, unlock 
 new rival cars to takedown, and to complete challenges. Theres about 75+ cars in this game, and 
 all of them have a different feel. The muscle type cars feel heavy and spins out easy, while exotic 
 type cars have amazing grip and turning abilitys. Every car falls under three boost types, Stunt, 
 Aggression, and Speed. Stunt type vehicles are way easier to use for flatspins, drifts, barrel 
 rolls, ramps, and more. They fill up their boost meters by doing stunts, as listed above. The Aggression 
 cars fill their meters by taking down vehicles, and driving crazy. The Speed cars have to wait 
 for their boost meters to fill up before using. You have to drive taking risks to build up their 
 boost. Once filled you can hold down the boost button all the way to the end, while doing more 
 risks, to receive a "Burnout". Burnouts add more boost and add multipliers and so on. After you 
 upgrade your license you get a new vehicle. You can also get new rides in three more ways. Win 
 enough events so that a Rival car starts to roam the city and take em down ( a takedown is crashing 
 into the other car, until that other car crashes) to receive that car in the Junk Yard, complete 
 Burning Routes of vehicles, buy new cars in the store, and through upgrading your license as said 
 earlier. Every car has a upgraded model, which includes a new paint style, and usually takes off 
 a stat point and adds a stat point to another catagory (Theres speed, strength, and boost) , and 
 adds a new name to it. To get this upgraded model, you must complete the original cars burning 
 route, which is pretty much a start and a finish and you have limited time to get there.
  The events are well designed and they are Race, Marked Man, Road Rage, and Stunt Run. Races are 
 simple get-to-the-finish line-as-fast-as-you-can events, Marked Mans is you trying to get to a 
 place while alot of vehicles try to crash into you and stop you. Stunt Runs are events where you 
 have to barrel roll, fly ramps, drift, and more for points. Getting Burnouts, big air, flatspins 
 and more give you point modifiers. Road Rages are you against other cars as you battle it out to 
 takedown each other. You must get the target amount of takedowns to win. The city itself is truly 
 amazing in its design and detail. Theres Burnout signs everywhere for you to destroy, along with 
 Super Jumps for you to fly, and theres Yellow Smash Gates that are usually laid out to show you 
 secret shortcuts. Collect and finding every one of them are certainly a tough challenge. Multiplayer 
 is really fun as you and 7 other players go against each other in events, challenges and just foolin 
 around in "Freeburn". You simply press right on the D-Pad and select Freeburn and away you go. 
 Theres about 500 challenges for online which are simple things from takedown other players to harder 
 things like get xx amount of air time with xx amount of drift yards, then race back to this car 
 lot and jump onto another car lot then take down someone. You will definatly be busy completing 
 these challenges. Events are the same as offline. Or you can just fool around online, doing whatever 
 floats your boat. Trophies in this game are amazingly easy and theres a crapload of them too. They 
 are really easy such as "win your first race" orFly off Dead Mans Cliff" .the hardest ones are 
 probably the DLC ones because you have to pay for them. This game has been constantly updated for 
 a year or more now and is perhaps the only good EA game. The DLC is great too although i think 
 10 bucks is way too much for the 1mb file of the Party DLC.
  
  Anyway i recommend this game to everyone. You must buy it no matter what kind of games you like. 
 Theres a high replay value so you will never be bord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFmyrddin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This the kind of games in which you need to make a choice about it. Will you be an amateur racer 
 or does it like a pro? Because, you can do much of the game, in, let's say 15 hours, but you can 
 easily go for 40, 60 even 80 hours of play if you want to catch every little things the game offer.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome, the landscape, the details of it, the building, everything's seem like 
 work have been put on it. Globally, it's more than you could expect for a game of 19.99$ and even 
 for a ps3 game (Oh yeah? Not really but still) . It's all about a big city, Paradise City. There 
 are 64 roads in it. Mountain drive, harbor, downtown, airfield, dirt track, stadium, highway the 
 game offer everything's a big city have with a wide possibility of stunts, races and challenges. 
 This is the strength of the game; the environment is so vast, and so well detailed, that you feel 
 in a real city. The banner, the pub, the traffic everything feels so, there! Even the crash is 
 something funny; you see your car crash in slow motion. Simply beautiful.
  
  For those familiar in the NFS series, it's a bit like Carbon or underground style. Big city that 
 you can run through it to finds events. The advantage with Burnout is that they mix everything's 
 in a well balanced city. 
  
  The goal of the game is to win various types of events, getting new license after a certain number 
 of wins. There are 120 events in the game like: Stunt, race, marked man, road rage and burning 
 route. The facts is that those 120 events are available right from the start, so you can choose 
 to have wins for your license for the one you want and forget about those that you have difficulty 
 in it. 
  
  Race is typical. You race against opponents from one point to another, your mission being to be 
 the first to finish it or it's a fail race. Road rage is all about taking down car. You have to 
 get a certain amount of takedown to win the event. You can also get a one against all game. It's 
 the marked man, where you got to reach a point on the map without being takedown by the others, 
 you're the target, so run for you life! Stunt run is doing stunt throughout the city, getting barrel 
 roll, jumps, flat spin etc. Every one of them gave you points and multiplies them by a bonus you 
 get from it; the goal is to beat a certain amount of points. Burning route is specific to each 
 car; you need to have a certain car to be able to play the race, beating the time target unlocking 
 a new car, in fact, an upgrade of your actual car.
  
  Getting through the license, a certains number of special cars will begin to appear throughout 
 Paradise City. Those special cars need to be takedown in order to get them in your junkyard. That 
 way, with 75 cars total available for the game, you won't be worried about racing the same car 
 every time. You can't do upgrade on them, no modifications unless their color. Note also that they're 
 no speedometer, meaning speed is really a question of feeling, since you can't see your own speed. 
 
  
  This is the surface of the game. Everywhere in the city, there's smashes, billboard and jumps that 
 you need to break or do to raise your stats. They're anywhere, so that while you race through the 
 streets, you find most of them easily without going around finding some. Breaking all billboards, 
 smashes or getting all jumps unlocks you special cars, some of the best in the game. Only for this, 
 it can raise you game experience from 20 to 40 hours. Getting the burnout elite license, which 
 is winning all 120 events is long and can add time to your game play. You have also some special 
 burnout awards for doing something special in the game. For example, accumulate an X10 boost limit. 
 
  
  Cause, even if there's no modification that can be made on the cars, they're still some stats for 
 them. You have speed, aggression and stunts type cars. Some giving the option of when you reach 
 the boost, if you're able to keep it going, you can reach X2-X3 of whatever you can reach number 
 of accumulating boost. You're getting boost by doing some dangerous stuff, jumps, drift and incoming 
 traffic, takedown. So it's encouraging you not to be conservative.
  
  For the 64 roads, there's a time set for them. From the start to the end of the road, if you beat 
 the time set, you rule that road. Interesting cause you don't have to enter any race to do it. 
 So between any points of the maps, they're always something to do to make the travel fun. You have 
 also the Showtime mode, which is crazy. You enter in a mode where you're goal is to smash everything, 
 cars signs, truck and bus. You car is just jumping everywhere, like a dance through the traffic, 
 gaining points and bonus depending on what you've hit until you're getting out of boost, which 
 fill with everything you found on your way to crash on. Beating all 64 roads unlock also a special 
 car for each of them.
  
  The Showtime and road rule can be done online with up to eight players in the city. Someone host 
 a game, and starts challenges for people, between them you can try road rule, air time and barrel 
 roll to compare your score with opponent. There's a lots of challenge. Reach some points of the 
 map in group, jumping over the others, doing some weird stuff in the city. 
  
  This game is the best racing game I've played seen since a long time. 
  
  The pros:
  - amazing 
 graphics
  - You're in control of what you're doing
  - Large environment with lots of different skills to show off
  - Online mode is fun and easy
 
  - Possibility to listen to your own music in the game
  - Lots of cars in a wide range of type
  - Amazing downloadable content
  - Anywhere you are 
 in the city, there's something to do
  - World racing rank system (See cons)
  - The easy drive system (Cross pad function) is a relief
  
  The cons:
  - To see the game at 
 its best, you need to play a minimum of 30-40 hours 
  - The original soundtrack is annoying, I didn't think I could be tired of hearing Paradise City 
 from Guns
  - The collision system can be very frustrating in the beginning
  - The rank are cool, but not enough details are shown and you would enjoy have category of cars 
 instead of everything's mixed
  - Traffic glitches, cars appears and disappears
  
  Even with this, this game is a must have for every ps3 owner. At such low price, there's absolutely 
 no reason to avoid this title. We can always find something to critic on a game, but when those 
 stuff are so little compare to what the game brings as gaming experience, it's nothing you should 
 care about, it's something you know that they work on now to bring you, let's hope, a Burnout paradise 
 2. What a game!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackadder51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game at the beginning of last year and so therefore has seen all the updates, patches 
 and has spent a hell of a lot of time into a game. (72hrs) This is the longest i have ever put 
 into a game, so it has to mean something if im still playing it and enjoying it. :)
  
  Lets start with what type of game it is. Its an open world racer were you race around a city that 
 has no arrows or cut of routes to get to were you are going. This is of course the major selling 
 point of the game. However until you learn the map itself (which is quite huge) you will have to 
 pause the game every 5 seconds which does break your concentration of the game. 
  
  The game is a very nice looking game on the actual cars itself which excellent damage visuals that 
 crumple and break very panels in satisfyingly way when you do crash (you will crash, a lot) but 
 the backgrounds are rather bland and the other civilian cars are actually rather ugly close up.
 
  
  The controls feel perfect and are always responsive, however the placement of the horn/lights/hover 
 mode should be relocated to a different button then L3 as it is easy to accidentally press it, 
 also on the topic of lights/sirens they are to distracting when playing and put me off one of the 
 favorite cars in the game.
  
  The game isn't a difficult one and can be finished easily, however the sheer amount of time that 
 it takes to unlock and continue on is ridiculous.
  
  Now lets get onto the issues of Free Updates and Packs. The free updates added a lot to this game, 
 for example night/day visuals and new vehicles however the free stuff is very gimmicky and really 
 a one time use. E. g the motorcycles however on the flip side the premium download stuff is also 
 gimmicky and very overpriced, im not saying there fun (the General Lee) but there not worth $3.25 
 AU for a tiny "toy" version car. 
  
  The multiplayer in the game is highly recommendable if you have friends that play the game on the 
 net as there is no offline multiplayer (apart from the "party pack" which im never paying for) . 
 however the online is easy to use, little lag and a good time.
  
  To sum it up i like this game, i like it lot as its very fun, easily accessible and is going to 
 impressive the most hardcore or softcore racers out there .
  
  9.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  In the past, burnout carved its own path in the racing genre with its system of rewarding players 
 for risky driving. For me, that was always the reason Burnout was my racer of choice. In Burnout 
 Paradise, the high speed swerving and marvelous crashes are taken to a whole new level and the 
 open world gives the whole game a more connected feel.
  
  First off, Paradise looks stunning. The day/night cycle lends an ever changing feeling to the beautiful 
 scenery of Paradise city. While you cruise through the crowded downtown streets or the curving 
 mountain passes, you can't help but be distracted by the breathtaking surroundings. But beware! 
 If you lose focus for even a second, you may find yourself marveling at the shear spectacle of 
 a Burnout crash. There's nothing quite like it- tires, shrapnel and glass flying through the air 
 in slow motion as your car is crunched into an unrecognizable chunk of metal. 
  
  The presentation in Burnout Paradise is pure perfection. From the menus and map to the vicious 
 crashes, you'll be fully immersed from the starting line. 
  
  With hundreds of races to win and over 70 cars to collect (all of which can be customized on a 
 basic level with awesome paint jobs) there's plenty of content. And the fact that the developers 
 keep pushing out more content means you'll always have something to do.
  
  Whether you're looking for an awesome single player experience or some groundbreaking multiplayer 
 fun, Burnout Paradise is your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Burnout paradise starts off by allowing the player to use a personal camera to take a mug shot 
 for your very own learners license, once you do that your then given your very first car. The most 
 basic of cars, each car has a classification ranging from stunt cars to speed and aggression class 
 cars. Every car you drive closely resembles that of the real car. Your first car is an old stunt 
 car that was in a horrible wreck, to use it in the many different types of races, which also widely 
 rang from things like stunt runs to drag races, you must first take it to the nearest garage, drive 
 through it and your all fixed up. 
  
  From there your free to go about your routine,. Driving up to any street light and burning your 
 tires will trigger an event. If you win the event such as a race, finish in first and you will 
 be one point closer to your next license. Upgrading your license unlocks a brand new wreck for 
 you to parade the streets in. Each wreck you unlock will be available for use in one of the many 
 available junk yards, grab it and fix it up in an available garage, and grab a brand new paint 
 job in the paint shops throughout the city. Once you have won enough events and progressed halfway 
 through your license you will be updated with a car cruising the streets of paradise city, find 
 it and ram it off the road to take it down. All taken down cars will be rewarded to your junk yard. 
 You progress through the game by upgrading your license until you've achieved your very own burnout 
 license, the top class on the streets of paradise. Until then your free to collect all of the cars 
 possible and take on challenges of road rules, where you go as fast as you can down a street to 
 beat the time. All of your event wins and road rules are updated online for all players to see 
 and beat. 
  
  When the player has had his fun with the offline mode your free to partake in a free burn online, 
 accessible from a simple touch of the d-pad. The host of an online free burn can trigger events 
 for all players to participate in. Every car you unlock offline is usable online. Aside from the 
 main mode in the game you can have the choice to use Burnout bikes, these give you an option of 
 up to about six motorcycles. If the motorcycles don't interest you, you can download one of the 
 many additional download content form the play station store, these features new cities, and cars. 
 
  
  Paradise city features many lush textures and beautiful scenery. The graphics though not the best 
 on the market, if not inspected closely look realistic and enjoyable, Besides, you end up driving 
 to fast to notice. The only real time you get a chance to inspect the details of the graphics is 
 when your viewing one of your MANY slow-mo crashes, flips and rolls. 
  
  Burnout paradise holds titles to a very strong and enjoyable soundtrack, with bands like Guns N' 
 Roses, it's hard not to like it. Aside from the wonderful soundtrack, good graphics, many playable 
 features and wonderful replay value. The game holds two very notable and painful flaws, the game 
 has no driver inside of the many cars, however there is one on the motorcycles, the game also suffers 
 from one of the most annoying radio announcers on record. The announcer has a set script that is 
 repeated upon itself way to often, and the high voice doesn't add anything positive to the matter. 
 Get past the very few but major flaws in the game and you've got a strong and solid racing game, 
 possible the best on the market today, Burnout paradise deserves every but of attention it gets, 
 being a must have for addition to anyone's collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cody13_2012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is my personal favorite in the Burnout series (the others I have are Burnout 3, 
 Revenge, and Legends) . For those who are new to Burnout I will give a short summary of the series. 
 In Burnout you race high speed cars, that are often modeled after real cars but do not bear the 
 same name because of licensing costs. You never buy a car, you win all of them, and the only customization 
 you can do is changing paint color. In the actual gameplay the racing is super fast paced. All 
 the car's drive at very high speeds, and the game feels much faster when compared to other racing 
 games. Racing relies on boosting, like many other racing games, but the twist on the boost is that 
 you gain boost by doing risks and fighting the other drivers. You can "Take Down" other cars by 
 slamming them into traffic, obstacles, or walls. Other drivers can also take you down.
  
  There are several changes that distinct this Burnout from previous entries in the series. Paradise 
 is the first to introduce bikes. It is also the first open world Burnout. Also, Paradise introduces 
 boost types, which is the only new thing which I cannot stand, all the other new things are great. 
 The multiplayer is also completely reworked. And paradise brings the new mode, Stunt Run. 
  
  The Bikes control very well, I prefer the bikes in paradise over Midnight Club. The bike challenges 
 are fun, but I wish there were some challenges that involved racing against other bikes. The only 
 time you can race other bikes is online.
  
  Burnouts new open world eliminates most loading screens. The races let you choose your own route, 
 versus a set path. Some Burnout fans may find the open world very different, but it is easy to 
 get accustomed to. The world is a little overwhelming at first but within a few hours of playing 
 you will know the city very well.
  
  Now, the boost types. There are 3 boost types, these being Aggression, Speed, and Stunt. Aggression 
 cars are typically heavy, but fast, even though acceleration is slow. The get the most boost from 
 taking down other cars, but you loose boost segments for crashing, and gain them for taking out 
 other cars, like the cars in previous games. Speed boost cars are not good in my opinion. In order 
 to use boost you have to have a full boost bar and when you let off the boost you have to get a 
 full bar to use it again. This is horrible for drifting. Speed cars are therefore useless, which 
 sucks because I prefer fast, light cars and they all have the speed boost type. And last, Stunt 
 boost types. They are they type of cars I typically use. You gain the most boost from jumps and 
 aerial maneuvers. You boost bar always stays the same length, but you lose boost for crashing. 
 They should have gone with the original boost type (the aggression boost) for all the cars.
  
  The multiplayer is absolutely great. You access multiplayer from in game by pressing left on 
 the D-Pad. You are brought to freeburn online, a type of lobby where you can set up challenges 
 while cruising the city. These challenges range from races to random tasks such as "jump dead mans 
 edge 5 times" or "get a 5 times near miss chain". Many drivers in Paradise have headsets, which 
 makes it much more fun.
  
  The new mode Stunt Run gives you a time limit to rack up points doing stunts. The stunts are barrel 
 rolls, flat spins, super jumps, and several others. It is a fun new mode added to burnout.
  
  The old crash mode is taken out but replaced with Showtime, which is very similar. 
  
  
 Burnout Paradise is and extremely great racing game that should not be missed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto-19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  Burnout: Paradise, is without a doubt the best game in the series. Everything in this game is amazing, 
 the graphics are beautiful throughout the whole game. The variety of cars available, are amazing. 
 They range from slow, to fast, to weak, to strong, to perfect. This game is now cheap as well and 
 with the free download of the bikes pack, this game is at the best price it could ever be at. The 
 bikes available (even though only 4) are still highly addictive, just like their wheeles. In other 
 words, just get this game! Trust me you will not regret it, it's the best buy there is! 
  
  
  
  
  -Crypto-19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best racer out there right now. 
  
  The good:
  
  Best racing game.
  Amazing Graphics.
  Great control and gameplay.
  Awesome cars.
  Best 
 online for its genre.
  
  If you are looking for a good arcade racing game this game is for you its easily the best. This 
 game has a lot of things to do. Smashing billboards for trophies along with gates and super jumps 
 give this game extended playtime. But thats just an addition to the already great game. Did i mention 
 they added motorcycles!!
  
  The Bad: Hahaha.... can't really say anything everything is so good, i guess it can get a little 
 repetitive at times because in order to upgrade your license you might have to re-do events but 
 thats only after you get to the last license because there are 120 events in the game. The only 
 real reason i ever redid some events was because some were much harder than others.
  
  Bottom line: 
  
  If you are looking for a racing game you must buy this game.
  With free 
 new content additions such as motorcycles along with the cheap ass price of $20 dollars you would 
 have to be stupid to pass this deal up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  EA/Criterion Games gave gamers two of the best arcade racers in the forms of "Burnout 3: Takedown" 
 and "Burnout Revenge". That was last-gen, starting in 2008, the developers introduced "Burnout 
 Paradise" to the public and had drastically changed the formula. No longer confined to track racing, 
 the game went the way of EA's "Need for Speed" series in which open world racing was the name of 
 the game. However, just like "Assassin's Creed", the open world truly impressed, but the variety 
 was a bit lacking. A year later, two major updates have caused the game to feature "Midnight Club"-like 
 motorbikes and weather/night cycles. The game has also benefitted from a restart option. Unfortunately, 
 it can get a bit repetitous. Also, purists will hate the open world. But for fans of destruction, 
 there are plenty of destructible areas and opportunities for big air. If you liked the "Midnight 
 Club" games, than you'll probably love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amin848
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  this game will be great if they remove starting music and bad menu news page. original game is 
 better dont update it to 1.6 you will have auful very slow motion and dummy game play.
  the original game is much fun and the demo was great.
  i have the game and i didnt like the 1.6 
 upgrade.
  this game is much fun u cant stop palying. cars and crashes are awesome.
  the only drow back in the game (if u dont upgrade) is the navigation - finding you way arround- 
 which is very diffecult as you can go any ware even if u are racing. unlike burnout 3 were the 
 wrong turns are closed.
  graphics are nice.
  sound is great (not the music not the menu auful music) .
  gamepaly is great.
  online play is 
 fine.
  one of the best racing games ever.
  u most have this game.
  in the next game we like all this to be fixed to have the real best game ever as will if we have 
 real cars not fection ( NFS and Burnout 2 in One=best game ever) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rey_Sword
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  You search for the ultimate challenges for your senses? Then this game is right for you! Burnout 
 is always mentioned when it goes to realistic crash animations and high speed racing. So if you 
 want to see your car flying in slow motion over the street, then Burnout paradise is worth your 
 money!
  
  You start with rusty and slow vehicles but you unlock many different types of cars towards the 
 end.
  
  + fast arcade racing
  + the feeling for speed is the best in series
  + graphic is brilliant
  + no slow downs
  + many cars and bikes to choose from
  + fun on-line 
 play with many challenges
  
  - no crash course like in older games of this series
  - many secrets you can only solve with guides
  - stupid traffic A. I. which crosses permanent 
 your line
  - repetitive races
  - no restart option in races
  - races are frustrating at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise somewhat steps away from the old-school Burnout formula to bring a new take on 
 the series. Burnout has a lot of good things about it, and its lasting value with many things to 
 do should keep you coming back for more.
  
  You have a job to do in Paradise City, the place you will be spending all of your time. Your job 
 is to "own" Paradise City. You have five licenses to earn: Class D, Class C, Class B, Class A, 
 Burnout and Burnout Elite. If you're familiar with the Burnout series, then you should be pretty 
 familiar with what the game has to offer. You will find different game modes such as Racing, Stunt 
 Mode, Road Rage, Marked Man, Burning Route, Crash Mode (Showtime) and an event that requires you 
 to make to certain check points within a set time limit. Showtime is different from the other Burnout 
 games because you can start it at any time, but it really has no other purpose other than to see 
 how high you can rank up your score. Burning Route is a game mode for each vehicle available in 
 the game. You must race against the clock to a certain location, and if you win, you get an upgraded 
 version of that vehicle. For each of the 76 vehicles available in the game, they have certain features. 
 You can win cars by chasing after them and shutting them down by winning events. You also get awarded 
 vehicles by upgrading your licenses. The Vehicle features include Speed, Boost, and Strength. There 
 are a maximum of nine slots each for these categories, and, depending whether or not you successfully 
 complete the Burning Routes, fills in one more slot. Vehicles cannot get an extra slot if all nine 
 slots for a category are filled up. Other events to get high scores include street drag racing, 
 near-miss, drift, jump, barrel roll, etc. 
  
  Since you can freely explore Paradise City, there is much to do other than try to complete all 
 120 events in the game. Each event can only be started at stoplights. It is very unfortunate that, 
 if you were to fail an event, cannot restart the event as soon as you lose, or for a better time. 
 If you do lose, however, there is usually another stoplight another .2 miles up the road. Other 
 things to be found in Paradise City are 400 yellow gates, 120 billboards, 50 super jumps, and 35 
 drive-throughs. Speaking of things to do in the game, that brings us to the multi-player. Online 
 can be really fun, even if you're playing on the Xbox 360 version or the PlayStation 3. Just like 
 every other awesome game out there, you will have to put up with those who are trying to ruin your 
 good time of playing the game. Many other events await online, where your stats will be kept track 
 of (online or off) . It will be quite difficult to get all of the events online because only a few 
 actually want to get the achievements. What is really great about Burnout Paradise is with all 
 the attention of downloadable content already available, and what is soon to come. There is no 
 offline multi-player which is surprisingly excluded.
  
  Other drawbacks might include the really tiny map that is located in the lower right of the screen. 
 This can make it difficult to get from Point A to Point B even though your vehicle will have turn 
 signals to point you in the right direction. Burnout will get very frustrating and will have many 
 cheap wins. This is an unbalanced problem that will turn many away, unfortunately. Even with the 
 attractive visuals, great crash effects, and loads of replay value, Burnout Paradise surprisingly 
 misses all the small, fundamental elements that makes a racing game perfect. Burnout Paradise just 
 is still a great game, it still beats out every other racing game out there on the market, but 
 it could have been the best racing game in years had the developers included the little necessities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarine08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me start out with say Burnout Paradise is the best racing game I have ever played. There 
 are hundreds of events, challenges, and things to do in Paradise City. The single payer is absolutely 
 amazing. With 83 cars in the game, it should keep for busy for a while. Personally, I have had 
 this game for about a month and I have already played it for about 45 hours, and I am still not 
 bored with it. This is just simply too many things to do in Paradise. In single player there are 
 many events such as road rage, races, stunt runs, and marked man. These all combine into the game 
 very nicely. The action is intense, and you will always be at the edge of your sit. I also forgot 
 to mention that the map it HUGE!!! You can go anywhere, do anything, anytime you want to. (Sorry 
 for not explaining the events. If you are confused head over to www. Criteriongames. com and search 
 Burnout Paradise. This should explain any question you have.) The crashes, and graphic are also 
 amazing, and when you are going 200 miles per hour down a highway, this game with not disappoint 
 you. Last but not least, if you have friends that play online, SUGGEST THIS GAME! This game is 
 a blast online, trust me. It is just plain fun crashing each other into walls, and using the PlayStation 
 Eye to send Mugshots. 
  
  Overall, I would give this game a 9.5. If you are looking for a racing game, you don't need to 
 look any father. THIS IS IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl00dnFl4mes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is one of the greatest racing games ever! There is probably only one reason why 
 I didn't give this game a 10. The soundtrack. While there are many great songs (like Paradise City 
 by GNR) about half of the soundtrack just doesn't fit into a racing game. About 30-40 of the 92 
 songs are classic, and about 10 are from previous Burnout games. I would've given the game a 9.8 
 if I could.
  
  There are
  
  50 Super Jumps for you to find and make
  150 Billboards for you to break
  400 Smash gates for you to smash through
  120 different events 
 (5 different types)
  
  These are my ratings
  
  Graphics: 10.0
  The details are amazing, and the crashes are awesome. It's like perfect
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
 
  While there are 120 different races, there are only 5 types.
  
  Online: 10.0
  You can go online by pressing right on the D-pad, and there are over 400 challenges to complete 
 (around 490)
  
  Extra-Content: 10.0
  This game offers many extra-content, almost all for free. So far have been Trophy Support, Cagney 
 pack (online road rage, online marked man, online stunt run) , and Motorcycles (along with day/night 
 cycles)
  
  They are also making more (new island, legendary cars, party pack) in 2009
  
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Although the races might get boring, just driving around and smashing 
 cars is still fun. In any case you can go online and try to beat those 490 challenges
  
  Soundtrack: 6.5
  This is the one thing I don't give the game 10. While there are a lot of great 
 songs, half of the soundtrack doesn't sound very well. Although I heard this can be fixed with 
 the 360's custom soundtrack.... (but this is a PS3 review... sooo)
  
  Bottom Line: BUY THIS GAME! ITS AMAZING! ONE OF THE BEST RACING GAMES YOU'LL EVER PLAY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game allows the player to rise from a lowly guy who has a couple of muscle cars to a guy who 
 has more cars than the country of (name censored)
  this games allows you to reach the highest level of speed, it is just intoxicating, blasting through 
 the city at over 250 mph, everything becomes a blur and then a stillness comes, when you've run outta 
 boost. Just jump on to the oncoming to start it up again.
  Online is great, it's actually a great way to bond with your buddies, especially if u are window 
 to window to them and u can curse your mouth off, when you mess up.
  There are a number of things you can do in this game.
  The best driving game till midnight club. Midnight 
 club is serious while this is for casual drives. Also you may play the music present in your ps3 
 while you play which allows you to enjoy the game.
  
  Worth every cent, rupee, pound or what have you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:47 am PT
Review:  You won't know what to think to begin with. The first thing that hits you is how sprawling Paradise's 
 map seems. (Burnout's entered the free-roaming age, in case you didn't know.) Then you realise 
 you can drive from one end to the other in only about four minutes, and around its entire circumference 
 in about ten, and it's a little disheartening. But then you discover just how dense Paradise City 
 is, how much there is to explore away from the main roads and all seems rosy.
  
  Except that, although 120 race events sounds like plenty, it isn't - we uncovered 97 of them within 
 six hours, and although you can only take part in some events with certain cars, a dedicated gamer 
 could polish off the bulk of the action in a couple of days.
  
  
  
  But let's rewind a bit, and tell you what most hardcore Burnout fans really want to know - yes, 
 it's fast. Hurtling along with your boost bar at top whack is a rush unsurpassed by any other driving 
 game, and - hurrah - the frame-rate is perfect. If Paradise had fallen victim to the slowdown plague, 
 like PES and The Orange Box, it would have killed the game stone dead. That it can look so beautiful, 
 and shift so much around the screen so quickly (other cars, crash debris, palm trees, road sign, 
 buildings, lakes, mountains - there's rarely a time when the scenery looks sparse) , is cause for 
 celebration. If this is what Burnout looks like in the early days of PS3's life cycle, when the 
 machine is still wobbling along on stabilizers, we can't wait to see how the game looks a few years 
 down the line.
  
  Event management
  But the new free-roaming structure won't be to everyone's taste - having all the events open from 
 the beginning (OK, so you have to find them first - they're all at traffic lights; pull up and 
 press p and i to begin) impacts negatively on your feelings of progression. You race, you win. 
 So what? You don't unlock any new levels, you simply get a mark on your driving licence (i. e. you 
 level up) . 
  
  This rewards you with new cars (there are 75 in total) whenever you go up a rank. This is all well 
 and good, but new motors aren't as exciting a reward as new tracks or areas, as happened previously. 
 And to actually get your new car, you've got to find it - it'll be driving around the city somewhere 
 - ram it off the road, and then collect it from the junkyard. It's a process designed to artificially 
 lengthen the game and can become a bit of a chore.
  
  In fact, if you're not the sort of person who enjoys collecting every little thing in a game and 
 nailing it 100%, you might have trouble in Paradise. Aware that the free-roaming thing has muddied 
 the game's focus, Criterion have injected BP with a stack of other objectives. 
  
  
  
  There are GTA-style Super Jumps to find - 50, in fact - which you might discover at the top of 
 a hill, say, or above a multi-story car park - and it's massively exciting when you're pelting 
 down a road, spot a hidden alley out the corner of your eye, hit a ramp and soar skyward. There 
 are 400 secret gates to break down and 120 Burnout billboards dotted about to find and smash through.
 
  
  So if you adore playing games until they're drained, empty husks, Paradise is quite the proposition. 
 If you don't, though, it's a tiny bit shallow. But complaining about Burnout lacking depth is missing 
 the point magnificently - Burnout has always been about speed, mangled metal, heart-pumping near 
 misses and sheer, outrageous fun. And Paradise is a tremendous example of all that. 
  
  Variety box
  There's no lack of variety. Our favourite new mode is Marked Man, which tasks you 
 to race to a checkpoint while a herd of computer cars gang up on you and try to ram you until your 
 car is a write-off. Then there's Stunt Race, which baffles the first time you play because you 
 won't have uncovered enough ramps and jumps to do stunts on and will fail dismally.
  
  Once you've found them, though, you can perform a satisfying array of leaps, slides and near-misses 
 with the traffic and walls. Then there's the traditional Takedown offering, which feels meatier 
 and heavier and more like, well, ten tons of traffic mangling together than ever before. There 
 are 'Get from A to B in X seconds' challenges, and, of course, straight races. These can be problematic, 
 mind, as the giant Burnout arrows herding you in the right direction are no more. Instead you've 
 a map in the bottom-right of the screen and a compass that pings when you should change direction. 
 
  
  
  
  But it's still easy to hare off the wrong way and keeping an eye on the map and the on-road chaos 
 at the same time is... well, 'tough' doesn't even describe it. You get used to it, though, and 
 as you learn the layout of Paradise City you'll rely on your compass and map less.
  
  Brave new world
  At its core, this is Burnout at its finest: it's the best-looking, it's got 
 the widest range of cars, traffic-checking's been toned down so you can't just plough into anything 
 that moves without fear. You can put your photo onto your licence with the PlayStation Eye, each 
 individual road has its own Time Trial and Stunt modes... and it's got an immense soundtrack - 
 Jane's Addiction? Guns 'N' Roses? (Guess which song.) Faith No More? Yes, please. Avril Lavigne's 
 Girlfriend? Erm, if you insist. Oh, and there's the online game, with its promise to let you invite 
 friends into your world via a couple of simple D-pad taps with no break in play. We've been unable 
 to try it yet - full online test soon.
  
  It's not perfect and it might not last some players long (although CoD4 is only six hours in length, 
 and we'd hardly recommend you shun that) , but this latest Burnout oozes confidence. It sucks you 
 in, distracts you from its faults and, for a while, takes over your world. Paradise? Not quite, 
 but it's not far away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvkrijger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing in its Quality, especially when you play an a HD Television. I mean 
 the moments when you crush with a car, brings the sharpness and the wheels really to your home!
 
  
  The burnout series has sure grown over the last years, and i believe there now on the level of 
 Epic. 
  
  + Invite your friends
  + Good music + 75 Cars (collection)
  + Download Content for even more Cars.
  + Plenty of events
  - One thing could sometimes be 
 frustrating, the moment when you race, it will be all up to you! So when it comes to avoiding all 
 those traffics and opponents during the race, there might very well chances that you missed the 
 turn and could lose that race.
  
  But still.. that won't take anything away from this game.
  
  For all those race gamers, **This** 
 is a must have!
  A lot of people shall agree this fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't purchase driving/racing games because I tend to find them very repetitive and dull. 
 However, Burnout Paradise feels completely fresh and is a game I would recommend to anyone.
  The environment in which races and challenges are played in is completely open from the start and 
 free to explore at any time. It is rich and colourful and filled with amazing areas in which to 
 perform stunts and tricks in the fantastic selection of cars (unlocked throughout the game) . The 
 in-car "radio station" Crash FM complements the driving experience brilliantly, and there's nothing 
 quite like driving around Paradise City whilst listening to the song of the same name by the infamous 
 Guns 'N' Roses. 
  I must stress, Burnout Paradise is not a racing simulator - far from it. The driving is extremely 
 unrealistic, but this is what makes it all the more fun. Being able to jump metres into the air 
 at a speed of 200mph in a van with boost is extremely enjoyable and never gets old! 
  Multiplayer is fantastic in Burnout, and uses the best most intuitive interface of any game I have 
 ever played. Simply press the right d-pad button and select 'Online' and the single-player world 
 seamlessly becomes an online world with no load screens at all. All the modes from the single player 
 are avilable to play with/against other players from around the world and this is also an entertaining 
 experience.
  The game has been given two fabulous (and free!) update packs since launch - adding extra online 
 capabilities and the amazing motorbikes and day / night cycle. The game is constantly being improved, 
 and it has been revealed that Burnout Paradise's first Premium content, the legendery cars pack, 
 is due to be releaseD next month (February 2009) . This constant, good quality updating of the game 
 by Criterion keeps it feeling new and gripping, even over a year after release!
  Overall, I couldn't rate this game high enough. I actually struggling a lot in deciding what classification 
 to give it, but settled for "Best in Series". In fact, it is going to be very difficult for its 
 successor to gain this honour once it is released! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Burnout continues its series with the newest installment called Burnout Paradise. I picked up Burnout 
 Paradise for the Playstation 3 about a month ago, and it has been one of the best games I have 
 played this year. The game is an arcade-style racing game that offers dozens of cars, amazing crashes, 
 and an open-world environment. The game is set on an island called Paradise City. There is an abundance 
 of traffic, and at every intersection, there is an event to be conquered. Burnout Paradise features 
 five types of events: Race, Stunt Run, Burning Route, Marked Man, and Road Rage. These events offer 
 fun experiences, and there is a total of 150 of these challenges. Basically, you drive through 
 the city and find these challenges as well as collectibles, which contain smashing billboards, 
 driving through shortcuts, and going off super jumps. By beating these challenges and finding the 
 collectibles, you unlock various cars which can be driven on future races.
  
  The game looks amazing because the graphics are very crisp and detailed. Whenever the car scrapes 
 against a wall or nicks a sign, the car shows the damage where it happened. Also, the Burnout series 
 is renowned for its crashes. Whenever the car hits an object at high speed, the game goes into 
 a slow-motion cinematic video of the car crashing. It shows the car bending and breaking in great 
 detail. However, since there are a lot of cars and objects to dodge, it is difficult to keep from 
 crashing into them going at a high rate of speed. Because there are so many crashes, the slow-motion 
 cinematic video, while fascinating, gets repetitive. When I am trying to get to a place and I end 
 up crashing, suffering through the video for an innumerable time gets frustrating and repetitive. 
 The reason I say "high rate of speed" and not a specific speed is because the game offers no speedometer. 
 Sometimes it is fun to see how fast the car can go, but the game provides no way of knowing the 
 exact speed. This is very puzzling since the game offers an odometer which is completely useless.
 
  
  No racing game is complete without good sound effects. Burnout Paradise accomplished sound effects 
 with their engines very well. However, there are some flaws in the sound department. There is a 
 D. J. that will be playing on the car's "radio". He gets very annoying, and after playing the game 
 for a few hours, you will start to hear him say the same things. Also, the soundtrack is not the 
 most entertaining one the developers could have chosen. At the main menu while loading the game, 
 the song Guns and Roses' "Paradise City" comes on each time. This was not bad the first ten times 
 I loaded the game, but now I want to reach for the mute button when loading the game. It offers 
 a good deal of soundtracks, but then it has about 50 tracks of classical music, such as Beethoven. 
 Even with the few players that are classical music fans, this seems an odd choice while racing 
 down the highway and witnessing enormous crashes. In addition, you can skip a song with the click 
 of a button, but it is infuriating when you skip over the song you want to hear because you cannot 
 go back to it. However, they did release a patch so that you can create your own custom soundtrack 
 using the songs saved onto the hard drive.
  
  The gameplay is my most sought-after feature of a game and is the reason I enjoy this game. It 
 offers hours of exploring Paradise City, and driving the cars is just plain fun. Also, another 
 thing I look for in a game is depth. This game provides good depth, which requires hours of gameplay 
 that keep you coming back for more. In addition, you can download free add-ons, such as bikes, 
 that offer new challenges. With more add-ons coming out next year, players are sure to enjoy this 
 game for months to come. However, the lack of variety of the events can be disappointing; since 
 there are only five different types of events, it can get somewhat repetitive. In addition, if 
 you fail an event, there is no restart option. Instead, you have to go back to that intersection 
 and replay it again. This can be one of the most frustrating parts of the game. Some races go across 
 the entire map and if you lose, then you must make the long drive back to restart.
  
  The amount of content in this game is enormous. There are over 80 cars to choose from, and each 
 drives differently from the others. Also, this game can be played online, which allows for racing 
 against users across the globe. The online capability is seamlessly put into the game. You can 
 be driving anywhere in the city, and with just a few hits of a button, you can be online with up 
 to seven other players. Also, when you do join an online game, you are in the exact same spot as 
 you were when you joined. Online gameplay enables you to take part in challenges that specifically 
 require two to eight players. There are over 450 of these challenges that will keep you busy for 
 weeks. A good deal of the challenges requires you to work with the other players. These cooperative 
 challenges require players to do such things as jumping over one another or making it to a specific 
 destination in a given amount of time. The downside to this is that a majority of the players are 
 not cooperative and want to do something else. You can kick these players out of the room, but 
 in doing so you forfeit the challenge, and to do it over again, you must get that exact amount 
 of people in the game.
  
  Burnout Paradise is one of the deepest games I have come across in a long time. With over a million 
 players playing Burnout Paradise on the Playstation 3, it is no wonder that this game is being 
 nominated for game of the year. Its miscues are small and forgivable enough that players who pick 
 up this game will be more than satisfied. The graphics, gameplay, and the amount of content are 
 what make this game one to purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayushd
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is like the first racing game for the PS3 which is not based in the desert or some country 
 side place with weird cars. Although there aren't any real cars in this game (manufactures can't 
 let their cars get bashed up) they are quite well made with nice environment design BUT....... 
 HONESTLY THIS IS NOT A VERY GOOD GAME. 
  
  The graphics are truly amazing but seriously no one really looks at that if the rest of the game 
 sucks. Well of-course the crashes are spectacular, with a few frame rate problems which i didn't 
 see in Burnout Takedown for PS2 which was MADE IN 2004!!!!!!!. I don't know why this game was given 
 a 9.0 rating??. It is not that good. 
  
  Ok Ok i will come to the point 
  THE GOOD
  crazy graphics, crazy dynamics, crazy crashes, crazy city... No like.... seriously crazy city it's 
 massive with a downtown a countryside, a residential area and some more. 
  
  THE BAD
  horrible gameplay, no fun races, all the game developers concentrated on was the graphics and left 
 out the rest. So basically the actual things which you do in racing games like races, road rages 
 etc. are just crappy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiesah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  I'v been reading everyone's reviews and wondering whether I've been playing the same game! I loved 
 Burnout Takedown 3 and it was one of those games that I used to show off my PS2 with my friends. 
 Thus I was looking forward to Burnout Paradise. So I played the Demo and thought "wow this is pants!" 
 : I'm travelling at 600 million miles an hour and I have to consult a little dot in the corner 
 and tiny side map! So, with a heavy heart I put Burnout out of my mind. However, nearly a year 
 on, I read of the "improvements" made to the game, so I bought it. I really really wanted to love 
 this game-and yes, the graphics are amazing; the DJ should be led out back and shot and the music 
 can be turned down (phew, relief!) . But still navigation will best even Christopher, Columbus with 
 a GPS. And look, now they've introduced "night" races i. e. the screen goes black-is someone taking 
 the pi**?! 
  After a couple of hours playing and with a migraine developing, its clear that paradise cannot 
 be found in this city and its going back to the store -such a shame. One reviewer stated that he 
 felt betrayed and I must admit that this is how I feel. I'll stick to GRID. Hell, even Pro-street 
 looks better than this-at least you can see where you're going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstationboy7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  overall: this game got great reviews but its not that fun. its only fun for about an hour or two 
 then it gets boring. at the beginning of the game you will be overwhelmed and confused. i know 
 i was. the animation is great.
  
  cars: the cars are pretty cool and fast. there are 3 different kind of cars strength, stunt and 
 speed. i recommend driving strength cars. i hate the speed cars because you have to wait until 
 the boost meter is filled and then use it if you let go of the boost before its done then you have 
 to wait until its filled. i also hate speed cars because they are really weak.
  
  music: the music sucks really bad.
  map: the map is really confusing. during races its hard to 
 notice turns. the map is ineffective and when your lost it really doesn't help.
  
  licenses: as you win races your license is upgraded (d-elite) as your license gets upgraded you 
 have to win more races to progress.
  
  Races: there are many races in burnout paradise such as marked man, stunt run, speed, takedown, and 
 many others.
  
  online: the online is really fun. Instead of menu screens to choose races, you just join an existing 
 party and drive around in free roam with them until someone creates an event.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a free roaming racing game from criterion games. The 1st from the Burnout franchise 
 to have a free roaming aspect in the game system.
  
  Welcome to the paradise city starts with the song "Paradise City" by Guns & Roses and as u start 
 the game u have no menu whatsoever the game just starts as it meant to be a free roaming experience. 
 The Radio DJ is your guide for the game play rules, Strategy, tips, information of the race and 
 the map. 
  
  The graphics and animation are fantastic. The damage on the car's are well done. Music can be changed 
 through the controller.
  
  U get started with one car then u get to have more as u compete around the city... All cars are 
 divided into 3 main groups Stunt, Speed, Strength.
  All races start signal of the road, you have to go to a particular road on the map to race that 
 event. 
  Likewise if you lode you again have to go all the way back to race over again. Which is very frustrating 
 indeed.
  Even if u want to repair the car you have to go to a repair shop by searching in the map. 
  The 
 Map is pretty massive and is filled with good design and lots of opportunities to do stunts and 
 tricks, but sadly its very hard to follow it as the map does not turn according the direction you 
 are going and confuses you mostly as you go to the opposite direction u want to to go unlike the 
 GTA games.
  In speed race, where u should reach first to win, u hardly have time to see the turning, even though 
 the game indicates which road to turn it's completely ineffective as u get lost and the map does 
 not help in this regard to as it is confusing to follow up and with no pathway shown other than 
 the logo in the finish line.
  
  As the more races you win you driver's license gets upgraded , the higher the level the more races 
 needed to be won for the next upgrade. As your reputation around the city goes up rival car's come 
 and try to overtake you if you manage to crash them they are automatically taken to the garage 
 and you can use them. 
  
  Personal Opinion and view:
  The whole reason i got this game was was a huge fan of the Burnout series on the ps2. I am not 
 a fan of racing games burnout was the only exception a bit. But upon purchasing and playing this 
 game it was a huge disappointment... i had broken game play mechanics most noticable are you have 
 to drive the whole way back to finish the race if you lose and a very confusing map where u get 
 lost easily especially in speed racing. i played it for just a few hours and was already bored. 
 Even my friends found the game to be very frustrating. This game is highly overrated and i do not 
 recommend it to anyone unless you just wanna waste time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinKisaragi
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw a next-gen burnout I was very excited, because Burnout 3 and Burnout Revenge were 
 my favorite racing games. 
  
  Instead of picking a map and racing through a certain route, you now have the ability to roam around 
 freely. Now this has some good and bad sides. 
  The good to me was.. you could just drive around without racing, and you could discover major shortcuts 
 in races since you can ride wherever you want, however this could also be REALLY frustrating.. 
 If you have bad navigation skills (like me) . You'll have to constantly look at the map to see where 
 you're going, when doing this you'll often find yourself crashing into another car, wall or pilar. 
 Of course you can also follow the arrow at the top of the screen and take the turns it indicates, 
 but you might miss a few turns anyway.. Anyhow I'd much rather just drive a simple route and watch 
 the road instead of constantly looking at the map/arrow. 
  
  Also since it's a free-roam game, you'll be stuck in the same city the entire game. No more Italy, 
 no more Asia, just Paradise City..
  
  There are 3 sorts of cars and they all gain boost a different way. Racing, Power and Stunt. I suppose 
 it was a decent feature, nothing major though.
  
  The graphics were nice and the cars looked alright, takes ages for the cars to load though when 
 switching in the garage.
  
  Finally the music, since the sound effects just sound like they should. Most songs weren't really 
 that interesting to me, there were a few exceptions but they weren't as good as the previous soundtracks 
 by a long shot. I also don't get why they censored the words "Hell" and "Damn" in Avril Lavigne's 
 "Girlfriend" song.
  
  This game isn't neccisarily bad, I just don't like it, and if you were a fan of the previous Burnouts, 
 then you might feel a little betrayled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Burnout has always been series about two things racing and crashing. The series has been successful 
 in doing this and in Burnout Paradise it has been taken to a new level. With beautiful graphics 
 and tons of cars. The way you race is completely different too. It's no free roam and you drive 
 around the city and when you want to race you pull up to some lights and you can start and event. 
 The physics of the game have been greatly improved also. When you hit a wall or car you see almost 
 every single detail of the car being destroyed similar to Motorstorm. The singleplayer contains 
 races, road rage, marked man, stunt runs and burning routes. Also some extras such as driving through 
 billboards, yellow gates, super jumps and road rules. The online is also a great new way to play. 
 Instead of menu screens to choose races, you just join an existing party and drive around in free 
 roam with them until someone creates an event. Burnout contains trophies as well as a free expansion 
 which contains motorcycles and there will be another expansion soon but not free. This game is 
 available for only $30 in stores or as a download on the Playstation network. I strongly recommend 
 this to anyone who likes racing games or just crashing cars for fun. This is the best racing game 
 so far on any of the new systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Criterion games has released several patches to its brilliant first entry on the PS3 - Burnout 
 Paradise. The game was a stunner when it was introduced, branching away from linear racing that 
 burnout had become known for and its challenges where you had to cause large wrecks, to an open 
 worlded game with 'Showtime'
  (more on that later) . 
  
  Needless to say Burnout fans will be suprised by how different the game is, but how familiar it 
 still feels in your hands. The races are no longer linear, there are no circuit races, which some 
 may view as a pity, only sprints. This means you can get to your finish line whichevery way you 
 choose. Although there is a handy map in the corner, unless you have a massive tv, this is pointless 
 and its probably better to follow the indicators in the top of the screen telling you when to turn.
 
  
  The game starts off with you going straight to the junk yard to pick up your first ride, you can't 
 choose what ride you start with, but you pick up new cars so quickly in this game you won't be 
 playing with it for very long. At first the game is a bit overwhelming, no area is blocked off 
 from the start. You drive around, stop at any set of traffic lights and hold down the accellorator 
 and the brake for a race to begin.
  
  Before long you've earned your first proper licence, this resets all the races you've completed, 
 ramps the difficulty up on it a bit, and then finally gives you a new complimentary car as a way 
 of saying congrats, you've got this far.
  
  The graphics in Burnout Paradise are second to none, its is absolutely breathtaking the first time 
 you crash, slow-mo, wheels break off, the glass shatters into tiny fragments as the windscreen 
 is thrown forward, i almost had a tear in my eye (of joy) this thrill never really fades away, 
 even in the middle of a race you don't mind when you crash because its so damn unique and awesome 
 looking every time.
  
  Burnout has a wide variety of races, sprint, road rage (where you have to take down other cars) , 
 stunt run, burning routes (you have to complete a sprint with a certain car within a time limit, 
 if you do you unlock the upgrade of this car) and marked man. Marked man is by far the most challenging, 
 where you have to make it from A to B without being taken off the road by drivers who are trying 
 to total you. Its difficult and requires you to use your wits, but it is extremely satisfying when 
 you do make it to the finish unscathed.
  
  You also get new cars in a variety of ways, some come when you get your next licence, some come 
 when you win a race. But by far the coolest way to get new cars is when you are driving to a new 
 race, a fast car will come along and drive past you, you have to shut it down (crash it into a 
 wall or car etc) and then the car is delivered to your junkyard. Cool idea, and its extremely well 
 implemented, making you sure to swear everytime you miss it and it gets away, but cheer when you 
 actually do it because it gives you a feeling as if you worked for this car, it wasn't just given 
 to you.
  
  Paradise City ( the setting of the game hence the name Burnout Paradise ) is huge, there are 4 
 different areas (there are meant to be 8 so to speak but there are really only four areas where 
 the scenery differs) ; there is uptown, where you can find the promenades, downtown, where there 
 is a heavy traffic flow, the country club area, lots of long winding roads, with modest amounts 
 of traffic, and the mountainous area, where again long winding roads with tiny amounts of traffic.
 
  
  Criterion games recently introduced several patches to make the game even better. Motorbikes have 
 been introduced, they handle like a dream and although as soon as you crash the driver dissapears, 
 eliminating the fun in crashing motorbikes, its still awesome to drive and have their own set of 
 challenges. There is now also day and night, at night time visibility worsens but to compensate 
 there is less traffic on the roads. Its a cool feature and races really feel unique between day 
 and night time.
  
  The online is quite good as well, although its confusing at first, you can eventually create your 
 own races, and jump into someone elses Paradise city and crash into them if you want to, or you 
 can try and go up the world rankings, i remain unranked due to the fact i usually don't go online 
 on a game untill i have completed the single player. I decided to go on however just to test it 
 out, the game has very little latency online and the bits you notices are hardly race changing, 
 more like the car in front being a few centimetres further ahead.
  
  There are only two gripes with this game that i can really moan about. The DJ, who provides the 
 music, and gives advice, he is criterion games attempt at reaching out to the teens and frankly 
 it doesn't work, he's sarcastic comments only infuriate and his grating voice makes you want to 
 mute the game and miss out on the brilliant sound effects in the game.
  
  My other gripe is the lack of good music for a racing game, although personally i like any music, 
 in games like need for speed its nice driving along to metal and stuff like that which Burnout 
 does have, its just its also accompanied by Girlfriend by avril Lavigne and Mozart's 5th, it just 
 doesn't feel right to be driving along crashing into other cars with classical music going on in 
 the background.
  
  If you are a racing fan, or even just a casual gamer that wants a game where he can feel like he's 
 going fast. I would get Burnout Paradise, it is by far better than the other racing games for the 
 PS3, the only game coming close to it being Motorstorm. Its graphics, great gameplay and wide range 
 of things to do within the game Makes Paradise City the place to be for racing this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyf55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.0
  Unfolding in front of you as your cruise around is Paradise City, a beautifully rendered, huge, 
 cityscape with no load times that is virtually limitless. From huge skyscrapers, to baseball stadiums, 
 to farm houses, to movie theatres, Paradise City has everything that makes it a very realistic 
 and believeable city. Recently, the game has recieved a night/day cycle which makes it all the 
 more exciting as the city looks just as beautiful during the day as at night. Each vehicle and 
 motorcycle has a distinct look, both while driving and in horrific crashes, but with nothing flashy. 
 Not revolutionary or ground-breaking but great great graphics none the less.
  Sound: 8.5
  With a very varied soundtrack and the "Crash FM" DJ, Burnout does a fantastic job at supplementing 
 graphics with background music. Although a little repetative at times, due to the length of time 
 you can play the game, it isnt too bad. A suggestion that would be great would be a music track 
 pack you could download to get new soundtracks for the game to reduce the repetativeness. Other 
 than that, vehicle soundeffects and soundeffects around the city are pretty standard with nothing 
 showy.
  Gameplay: 10.0
  Here, Burnout really shines. For any racing fans out there, Burnout is a down and dirty race game 
 that keeps what it has always been famous for: HUGE, BEAUTIFULLY DETAILED CRASHES. Besides race 
 and time trail (called Burning Route) games, there is also the ever popular Road Rage, and new 
 additions called Stunt Run and Target Man. All these games are available both online and offline 
 (at an intersection) at the click of the right analog button as you can exit and enter online Paradise 
 City at a whim. Online you can choose to enter ranked events (races, road rages, etc.) or you can 
 just "freeburn" in Paradise City with other racers. The best thing about this is that you can play 
 online and unlock bonuses outside the single player mode that are carried over into your single 
 player mode once you exit online. Seemless and wonderful.
  Value: 10.0
  Burnout was the second game I recieved for my PS3 but it has an amazingly high replay value as 
 I am still playing it to this day. The city is huge and exploring is mandatory as it is impossible 
 not to get caught up in all the cities little hiding spots and secrets. Besides the regular racing 
 events, every street in Paradise (and there is A LOT of them) has 2 events on them, a time trail 
 and a crash event. This means is you really want to complete the game to 100% you have a long way 
 to go.
  Tilt: 10.0
  I personally love this game and love the high replay value it provides. I highly reccomend it to 
 anyone who loves a racing game but also loves exploring a huge city on both a motorcycle or in 
 a sexy racer. Highly reccomended also as a gift as whoever recieves it will have countless hours 
 of gaming in front of them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This is another open-world game that is pretty exciting, even to wreck your own car, yes I know 
 sounds crazy. This is an arcade racing game that is its first open-world game. You are located 
 in Paradise city which has an awesome sound track from many great artists including Guns n' Roses. 
 This is a place for you just to tear up your and other people cars. That is the funnest part. This 
 city has jumps every where ranging from Huge to small. You will work your way through different 
 driver licenses. Every where you go you will see something new. I promise.
  
  The tutorial of this game is not that good, and you are left by yourself and not the game holding 
 your hand anymore. What i mean is that the tutorials kind of leave you wondering what to do next, 
 and don't explain that well. This is like a Midnight Club where you try to get to the destination 
 the fastest. If you lose a race it's not a big deal because you can start the race from a lot of 
 different places on the map and it's all fun. It's just trial and error to know the best route 
 to take. 
  
  Their are time trials where you stop from one end of the road and try to get to the other end 
 at the fastest time. Then their is showtime mode which you try to cause the most damage as possible. 
 This event is awesome because the wrecks look real for how you hit an object to do flips to turning 
 your rectangular car into a perfect square.
  
  Also a lot of stuff the previous Burnout's had are taken away such as steering your wrecked vehicle 
 into another wrecked vehicle. The opponents don't take crap either. The more you progress through 
 the game, the harder the races become. They try to crash you more.
  
  Now to the modes which are exciting as ever due to wrecking (sorry I can't express that enough) . 
 They have standard androad rages are intense. The stunt runs have you doing all kinds of jumps 
 even barrel rolls. Marked man is when you are trying to get to a destination with numerous cars 
 chasing you and trying to wreck to destruction of your vehicle. Burning routes have you taking 
 on time trials to earn new cars. The downfall is you end up doing some of the same races over and 
 over again. It gets repetitive. Because after each license upgrade all of the races are reset and 
 you are able to do them again.
  
  The online is pretty cool by the map is the lobby itself. When you are a host you can set beginning 
 and end where ever you want on the entire map. But sometimes it takes a lot of friends to get some 
 of the trophies. And yes that includes motorcycles now!
  
  Now to the graphics which are awesome with the crashes (yes I know I should stop talking about 
 them but I can't) . The cars turn into nothing more than scraps of metal, but when the camera slows 
 down to show you the wreck you see not person inside. Kind of lame! I didnt't expect a person to 
 fly across the pavement skidding but at least a body strapped into his seatbelt. The game is rated 
 for E 10+ but I guess they are looking for a younger age group for this game. 
  
  I have heard it's hard to read some of the menus in game on standard TVs. So go with HD. But that 
 is no reason to not buy this game. The sound track has some of the music from previous Burnout 
 games. The sound is awesome with the tires just burning rubber to the engine purring, and the wrecks 
 just crunching.
  
  To most this game is fun but like some games out their; it is the same thing over and over again. 
 Now this is a game to own though just to have in your collection or just to get the trophies which 
 are recently added through an update. So just go out and get the wrecking-carnival of funness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aXidZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  As much as you love racing games, you will not consider this game as a 10/10. Getting from one 
 side of the map to the other takes a while. The west side does not have much marked mans, road 
 rages, stunt runs, and burning routes. It still has a lot of races. Also the west side makes me 
 feel lonely. If the game was split-screen, that could have made a huge difference. And pretty much 
 everything is easy only if you know how to follow maps, and if you have a good reaction, timing, 
 and if you are good at noticing things. 
  
  There are some really bad aspects about the game that will get you annoyed. The night time is useless, 
 so there is no point in putting it on night time. You can't get rid of the fog in the air, and 
 if you want to change your car, it will take you 5 minutes to get to the junkyard if you are far 
 away from it. The aggression cars have extreemly horrible handling. Most speed cars have horrible 
 handling too. Some stunt cars have bad handling. Lastly, car customization is really limited, as 
 against to the freedom in the NfS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBullLordy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I Dont know where to start! It is just exceptional in everyway. There is nothing wrong with the 
 game. It is a massive step in the right direction. It is so nice to see a game thats does what 
 it sposed to do. 
  
  First of all, Additonal content, the bikes and online gameplay is awesome. The Bikes are just exceptional, 
 its better than SBK 2008, so responsive and so fast! The game modes online just add more fun to 
 the cauldron of laughs.
  
  Gameplay is fast, adventurous and beautiful looking, Racing is racing, you go really really fast 
 to begin with in the banged up Hunter Calvary you start with. Opponent AI can be annoying but when 
 you get out in front they do seem to dissapear but whos complaining. My favourite is the Hydros 
 Techno, i got to Elite with it with 67 races remaining but as i have all the trophies i just cant 
 be bothered. Online play adds numerous amounts of hours, i easily have spent 120 hours alone online.
 
  
  Revving Good Criterion, looking forward to the party pack, legendary cars and PLANES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRaider087
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Its a rly good game but if you beat every single thing it can get boring, usually it doesnt because 
 you just replay the events and can always play it online. Im usually not a big fan for racing games 
 but all of the burnouts have been great by far one of the best racing series out there. This is 
 probably the best one in the series since you can drive around paradise city smash through billboards 
 do insane jumps and all that stuff without even being in a race. There is so much stuff to do in 
 this game though so it will take a while to finish but you dont even have to play an event to play. 
 You can just drive around Paradise city like a crazy maniac crashing into things, landing on cars 
 to vertical take them down. And then you can play online were you just take down other players 
 race them and all that stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparx213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  I bought this game around when it first came out and it was just so amazing.
  Online is so fun and amazing, whether your taking your friends down or doing some freeburn challenges.
 
  And with some breath taking cars with all different classes/types there's Speed for when you need 
 to pace a guy in a race whether its online or in an offline race, then theres Aggression for when 
 you need those takedowns in Road Rage, and last but not least theres Stunt class for Stunt Run 
 or for when you just wanna pull of some stunts in Big Surf Beach or in the Airfield.
  Theres so many things to do in Paradise City and the fun never stops, especially with the free 
 regular updates (patches) from Criterion with stuff like Trophies or new cars or new City's.
  Burnout Paradise should be on everyone's collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the original Burnout games will be surprised, perhaps shocked, then confused and then ultimately 
 amazed by Burnout Paradise.
  EA games brings us the first massive multiplayer online racing game. 
  Burnout Paradise is set 
 in Paradise City, a Hollywood - esque metropolis snuggled between majestic mountains and a vacation 
 perfect beach. Racing is not exclusive to street level. Players can zoom over elevated train bridges, 
 jump off of many parking garages, and plunge underground through tunnels. 
  The name of the game is racing and stunts, but with a difference. The races are located at every 
 intersection of the city, and absolutely everything in town is a stunt and crash waiting to happen.
 
  As if all of this weren't enough, players can enter Showtime mode at any time to simply crash 
 their car (a la oldschool Burnout) for points at any time.
  Graphically the game is stunning. It is one of those titles that amazes every time you replay it. 
 From the intense car modeling (there are over 70 cars to collect) to the incredible detail in the 
 environments, BP is gorgeous to look at. And the carnage is as diverse as it is awesome. Crashing 
 may be frustrating during a breakneck race, but it is never boring.
  Eventually the eyes are jaded to the feast they are constantly fed in BP, and our ears start to 
 realize that the buffet is open for them too. On top of top notch detail and precise metal grinding 
 and unique engine sounds, the music selection is a testament to today's eclectic listeners. There 
 is something for everyone, from the titular (giggle) track Paradise City, to selections by Vivaldi, 
 there is something for everyone.
  Driving is a joy in Paradise City. It is addictive and intuitive. The Dual Shock 3 is utilized 
 perfectly. Everything is within reach when it needs to be, and split second decisions are exactly 
 that. The rumble feature is definitely tasty too.
  Perhaps the only downside to this practically perfect title would be to say that it has to end 
 some time.. but it does not!
  The men and women of Criterion have changed the face of race gaming forever with Paradise City. 
 Since it's release the game has been augmented and improved with a truck load of free download 
 content. Upgrades like day/night racing (customizable no less) , a new set list, more online modes 
 and races seem almost natural. However, fans of the game were recently awarded an unprecedented 
 treat when suddenly Burnout Paradise adopted a fleet of motorcycles to race as well. It's like 
 a free sequel!
  There is too much good stuff to say about Burnout Paradise. From the ever awe inspiring look and 
 play to the seamless and actually FUN online multiplayer, there is something here for everyone.
 
  
  Oh and you get trophies for having all this fun. Crazy world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of burnout, I have poured hours and hours of my time into previous installments 
 of the franchise. Criterion has been making burnout for years and you can really see their experience 
 of refreshing (if not renewing) the franchise.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a great example a free-roam game, however people complain that you can't jump 
 to events, but jumping to events keeps people from exploring the city and just plain makes the 
 game boring. If you look at need for speed carbon for example, I beat the game in a day and I didn't 
 even know where the starting garage was. This is because when the "jump to location" feature is 
 incorporated it is just to tempting to use it, which causes a lack of want in the exploration area.
 
  
  The city is molded for a free-roam genre to an almost perfect position, however their is a VERY 
 steep learning curve when learning the routes of the city. So don't through your controller through 
 the TV screen and call it quits straight away.
  
  Now there is a problem with the traffic, the damn cars look like they are trying to put an end 
 to you. The traffic will do one of three things:
  1. Swerve into you (they want to take you with them)
  2. Continue on the same path as they normally 
 would.
  3. Run into your already crashed car ... yes you heard me after you crash into one car others will 
 go out of their way to extend the lengthy crash scenes (which at first look absolutely insanely 
 OMGBBQ awesome) . At the start the traffic count seems fine, but after some sort of mind trick the 
 traffic count explodes which causes all the more traffic run ins. 
  
  Burnout Paradise has plenty of content, 120 events all scattered round the city, 120 billboards, 
 400 gates (Finding the last 1 is a real pain) and 50 super jumps. This will keep you busy for at 
 least 30-50 hours. I have played through burnout paradise 3 times (once for well first time through, 
 second for a speedrun (21 hours) and the third time was to get trophies (never been a better time 
 to buy paradise) .
  
  When you complete an event it is put forward to your license which is upgraded six times after 
 the learners license. Each time there is an upgrade the events that you have completed are refreshed 
 and you are required to complete more.
  
  Now one big thing to mention is the awesome developers of criterion who are very in touch with 
 the community due to their new forum. However there is more, they keep on developing FREE upgrades 
 which so far have included more challenges and game modes, more cars and bikes. Next up is the 
 "secret" pack and the island pack, which is really amazing seeing not many developers take the 
 time to continue making content for their game at no cost.
  
  I could go on and on about the online (multiplayer does have its flaws like the inevitable lag 
 ... which makes takedowns hell) .
  I will rap this up and say, Paradise is a little different from previous burnouts, with crash being 
 replaced with showtime, barrier guarded race tracks with go anywhere and make a lot of stupid mistakes 
 gameplay ... But it is still completely and utterly what burnout stands for ... go fast, crash 
 a lot and take people down with you!
  
  *if you every get angry/frustrated from the evil traffic cars watch zero punctuation's review on 
 burnout paradise* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  There are so many good racing games out there that it's very hard to pick your favorite. Well things 
 just got a little harder. Burnout Paradise is worth checking out. If you're tired of all those arcade 
 racing games, than look no further than this game.
  The game is an open world racing which let's you cruise around a huge map. It is similar to the 
 one in NFS series but a lot better in almost any aspect. While in NFS you were supposed to do all 
 the races, and if there was one causing you frustrations and and you couldn't finish it, you'd just 
 let the game be and play something else. Burnout Paradise doesn't let you do that, as it doesn't 
 cause that feeling of frustrations when you can't finish a race on the 1st place. There are tons 
 of races all over the entire map. They are not all shown on you map but at almost every lights at 
 any junction there is a race available for you. The great thing about the game is that if you don't 
 win a race, you don't have to keep trying it until you succeed or eventually give up. There are other 
 races waiting for you, that you won't end up doing the same race over and over again. It's highly 
 unlikely to ever feel frustrated in this game.
  Graphically the game looks very good. All car models, eventhough they are not real cars, look great 
 and their crashes are very spectacular. The game has very few low-res textures and there are no 
 pop-up problems whatsoever despite the huge map. The framerate is always steady and never drops 
 despite tremendous things happening on the screen. Burnout Paradise is one of the best looking racing 
 games.
  Probably the worst part of the game is probably it's music. The soundtrack is horrible. There isn't 
 probably any good song in the whole game. EA has usually great soundtracks in games but they blew 
 it with Burnout Paradise. Besides that, the narrator, the DJ, also has a pretty annoying voice which 
 will make your hair turn gray.
  Overall Burnout Paradise is a must have for racing games fans and also for those looking for some 
 fun. This game is fun and addictive.
  Good:
  -great graphics
  -great crashes
  -great sense of speed
  Bad:
  -bad music
  -no GPS system
  
  My Score: 8.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkcrusher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Criterion has outdone themselves, this game is simply amazing. I have over 100 hours plus into 
 it and its still extremely fun. Even after the trophies I was able to play through the game again 
 I am 70% finished and it was a blast even the second time. 
  
  This game has everything from smashing billboards/barriers (with trophies is gratifying) to crashing 
 tons of cars in showtimes, setting online and offline timed road rules, collecting all the cars, 
 racing with friends, or solo unlocks. 
  
  I love the fact that there are NO people in the game, this allows me to play with my 3 year old 
 son with absolutly no guilt, so if your worried about car wrecks for your children worry not, no 
 people= crashing cars only. The crash physics is very fun the cars are EXTREMELY detailed, nothing 
 like watching bumpers, wheels, spoilers and radiators flying across the map when you roll your 
 car 20 plus times on the freeway.
  
  This game at minimum is a rent, PS3 owners MUST play this game its almost a perfect 10/10. The 
 downside, repetitiveness, but with the unlocks and all the rewards for getting new licences/smashes 
 and unlocks etc make it worthwhile even if you have raced to the windfarm 50x... Also online takedowns 
 can be unfair/unrealistic at times, but I attribute that to network speed/lag.
  
  Bottom line, this game is one of the best titles on PS3 hands down, a must own for any gamer even 
 if your not into racers this one is over the top action and plenty to do! Fun for all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criinok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that this is truly an awesome game. Burnout Paradise is the game that I have 
 spent the most time with on my Playstation 3, and with many good reasons. It has beautiful graphics, 
 a fun open-world, a great selection of cars, and a good challenge to go along with it. I've had 
 this game for a little over two months and have spent many late nights playing it, so I've gotten 
 a good grip on what the game is all about.
  But there are a few amazingly frustrating factors in this otherwise amazing game.
  
  My compliments: 
 The graphics are nice and shiny, the huge range of cars is great, the ginormous world is wrought 
 with plenty of diversity ranging from tight, clustered city streets to open mountain paths, highways, 
 and train tracks. All the different game modes also provide plenty of room to play how you feel 
 at the time.
  
  My complaints: The car crashes are cool looking, but sometimes they can take way too long when 
 you just want to get back up and continue the race. "Yes, yes, I know I crashed, please let me 
 move on..." There are also some amazingly weird reasons for crashing, where I can be rammed against 
 the side and not crash, but if I scrape against the side of a passing car my car will be blasted 
 into the air and do twenty flips and be a wrecked heap of twisted metal, frustrating me all the 
 more. Grr. The last main hate of mine is how during a race, I can be a whole mile ahead of my opponents, 
 but if I crash, the next time I respawn they're all right behind me as if they magically teleported 
 up to where I was... And then if I were to be just 100 feet ahead of them and crashed, I would 
 respawn and they'd be the same distance from me then that mile-long crash.
  
  So overall, I love the game. No doubt about it. In fact, even with these hiccups in the game, it's 
 so fun.. It almost proves those flaws irrelevant. It's just a plan fun racing game. Enjoy!
  P. S.- The free DLC is wonderful, and I loved the bikes pack... Gave me a lot of extra play time
 
  P. S. S.- DJ Atomica needs to be murdered this instant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Burnout is an arcade racer with your option of cars, trucks, vans, and even bikes to 
 drive. 
  
  Positives: Graphics look very nice. There is a huge variety of game modes: "showtime" where you 
 try to smash as many cars as possible, "road rules" where you set time records for each and every 
 road, and then races, stunt runs, timed races, marked man, and takedown. Difficulty is just right. 
 Finishing the game will take you 30+ hours and you'll still have more to do when its over.
  
  Negatives: When playing online you cant name your room so its hard to find people that want 
 to do the things you do like timed challenges or races.
  
  Final Thoughts: This is a great game. It's as good as everyone says. Trophies are a great bonus 
 and they aren't too hard to get. At the moment i only need 2 more to get my platinum trophy. The 
 bikes were a great addition to a great game and best of all, they were free!
  
  Rent or Buy??
  Definitely worth the $39 i paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HobosNeedCable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is great! Its as simple as that. It doesn't matter if you like racing, it delivers enough 
 fun for anyone. Although it can be somewhat repetitive. The people get harder to race, but there 
 isn't the much varity custumizing. But that's what burnout pretty much is, adrenline action filled 
 game. I would like to see some changes though. It is ingnoring when you go to far and get a little 
 lost because you try and take a short side road that turns, and you lose for sure and get so far 
 behind, and you cannt exit out of the race or press start and restart the race. Also i would like 
 to see some more destructive enviroments. If you hit a curve or something go crash and burn. But 
 other then that the game delivers a great experience,. And for $30 its worth every penny. The graphics 
 are decent but not highest quality, and the gameplay is just mind-blowing-fun which exacatly what 
 you would expect. I wish the main menu had more options like multiplayer that doesn't need online 
 to play. And crash mode which i loved in the previous ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is fantastic. EA and Criterion have really outdone themselves this time round, 
 and they're constantly making it better with great DLC. 
  
  When you first arrive in Paradise City, you're not given a heap like usual racing games give you. 
 You're thrust into the game with a muscle car that looks like it'll run over anything in its way, 
 and it crashes oh so magnificently. 
  
  Progressing through Burnout Paradise is as easy as doing a skid at any random intersection. From 
 that point you're put into one of five different events from time trials to pulling tricks like 
 barrel rolls to get points. Racing is amazing, and you can complete it any way you like. You can 
 roll with the AI burners and race dirty, or if you prefer it you can take your own route and see 
 who's smarter. The whole open world concept has been extended into every event type, and it works 
 very well indeed.
  
  Might I add that EA and Criterion have just added motorbikes into the game, which is a first for 
 Burnout. They've made that work too and it just goes to show that they're a good bunch up there.
 
  
  I recommend this game to any fan of arcade racing games, especially burnout fans. You must be crazy 
 if you don't have this already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  After the release of trophies this game has had a rejuvenation from it's first launch.
  
  It's amazingly fun and with the addition of bikes also you can have some good overpowered stunts.
 
  
  Trophies give this game the finishing touches as now you have more reason to play, Beating your 
 friends by getting platinum when they have bronze is just good fair competition.
  
  It's graphics are to no surprise very well done, The gameplay is great and keeps you in the game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is great, It takes the press or 2 or 3 d-pad buttons and you're connected to a 
 burnout session.
  
  The PS Eye allows you to get a caption of what the player you just took out is looking like, So 
 you can see if they're angry or just plain laughing stupidity...
  
  This really is a good game to get if you enjoyed the previous burnout series or you want to join 
 in on the fun and have amazing smash-up with your fellow gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Heyz, well im not into racing games but i picked this one up as a rental. It was pretty fun!
  
  Story
  No story at all really. Just doing challanges to get more points to get a better drivers 
 licence.
  
  Gameplay
  Driving around, smashing stuff, racing stuff, its all fun. In single player theres challanges you 
 do to get points on your licence so you can get better cars and a better licence. Its free-roam 
 driving so you can just drive around doing your thing and if you feel like a challange then you 
 can just go do the challange when you feel like it. When you crash or take someone down it goes 
 into a really cool cinimatic view, but this can get pretty annoying if you just wanna keep driving 
 and not watch some little cinimatic of a car smashing into a wall at 100 MPH.
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is really fun. Theres LOADS to do! Well loads of challanges or you can 
 just randomly just drive around doing what you want. You can easily join a multiplayer game or 
 invite mates without any loading screens or wait time. You just do join quick match and your pulled 
 into the game instantly, without having to watch any little loading bar at the side.
  
  Good
  Lots to do.
  Once you disable the critation games and classical music on the game the 
 soundtrack isnt half bad.
  No loading screens once after the first loading screen when the game starts off.
  
  Bad
  
 Cant go back on music so if you wanna listen to a song and you go past it by accedent you need 
 to skip though the rest of the songs to get back to it again.
  Not enough diferent single player challanges.
  Cinimatic view can get annoying sometimes.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ne0man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is back, in an age where every racing game developer is trying to approach a sim like experience 
 Criterion follows the destructive path of pure fun.
  Every game in the franchise until now has thrown in only simple tweaks to the formula, like the 
 introduction of Takedowns and the Revenge factor, Criterion has managed to hold on their success 
 and even though the previous games where still fun it was running out of fresh ideas and starting 
 to turn into a yearly franchise and the case that of quantity over quality, and let's stop right 
 here cause I could express my opinions towards the publisher and drag this review into a different 
 path...
  
  Welcome to Paradise! Criterion felt like their first true outing on the new generation of consoles 
 (i'm not considering Burnout Revenge for the 360 a true next generation game) should be remarkable 
 and revamp the Burnout series considerably. Instead of taking the player through the world in linear 
 tracks, they've embraced the open world approach, allowing for everyone to choose how to progress 
 through the game, with different race modes spread around the map. The race modes now are: 
  
  --Marked man- where the player has the start marker and the finish marker, and while he tries 
 to reach the finishing line, ruthless AI controlled cars will try to take you down;
  --Race- there's also a start marker, finish marker and the player has to reach the finishing line 
 in first place against as much as 7 AI controlled cars.
  --Road Rage- You are given a number of takedowns to accomplish that progressively increase as you 
 complete these challenges
  --Stunt- The goal is to reach a number of points while drifting, using boost, gaining air jumping 
 through gaps scattered around the map, crashing through the "smash" fences and billboards, and 
 might I say this mode isn't well implemented enough and sometimes you won't be able to chain these 
 things together to reach the absurdly high scores you're asked to accomplish later on in the game
 
  --Burning Route- For each car you earn there is a "Burning route" which is a time-attack race 
 which earns you the ultimate version of that car if you finish it within the time. One of the weak 
 points in the game also shows here, cause you'll sometimes drive from one edge of the map to the 
 other to start these races and if you fail you can't simply retry with the press of a button so 
 you'll have to drive all that way back to the "Burning Route" location to drive it again in case 
 you might fail it again.
  
  In top of all this there's the alternative to the Crash mode found in previous games: Showtime
 
  While you are relentlessly, aimlessly driving you can at anytime hold the two bumper buttons of 
 the gamepad and start crashing around, jumping and destroying the traffic in your way, collecting 
 multipliers from any bus you hit, until your showtime meter's empty (your boost meter will state 
 the showtime meter once you enter this mode and it will fill a bit for each traffic car you hit) . 
 With Showtime you can set a new record for each of the roads in map (there's 250 miles of asphalt 
 for you to wreck havoc in case you are wondering!) , and if you are online these records will be 
 submitted and the other players can try to beat your score. 
  
  Now let's try to sum the multiplayer experience... so you are playing by yourself on the huge map 
 and you want to crash against human beings such as yourself, so you'll access the multiplayer options 
 on the Directional buttons, choose a host of host a online game yourself and voila, you and the 
 other players appear on the map in the same spot where they were in the single player game, and 
 the players will drive freely through the map just like in the single player until the host chooses 
 if there'll be a race, a road rage, a boost dispute... whatever, you get the idea, the multiplayer 
 is seamlessly implemented. You'll earn achievements for the online challenges you beat, you'll 
 make online rivals, and when you are tired of destructive socializing you simply drop out and you'll 
 continue driving from where you were but now in single player.
  
  The presentation is great, the menus have a great design and are simple to use, the graphics engine 
 is great and it could be called realistic if you were not crashing your car to have it shiny and 
 new in two seconds and if you weren't driving so fast that your reflexes don't work, only your 
 intuition. =)
  
  The sound is great, the car engine roars and helps a lot to give the great sense of speed only 
 this game delivers, when you crash in showtime mode all the cars use their horns, the tires screech 
 when you use the handbrake...
  Now the soundtrack... well it features Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City", Alice In Chains's "Would?", 
 Faith No More's "Epic", "My Curse" from Killswitch Engage and... Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend"... Now 
 everyone's tastes in music are subjective, but how many people who enjoy's teen pop rock are there 
 in Burnout's target audience? It doesn't help the feeling of adrenaline provided by the game's 
 speed and destruction. But we've got Xbox 360's music player and the recent Cagney Update also 
 added this feature for PS3 users. So top notch sound effects.
  
  The gameplay is great, each car handles differently, and you can feel the difference between Stunt 
 cars, Agression cars and Speed cars.
  
  Now about value... well, 250 miles of road, 74 cars to unlock, about 5 licenses to master, 5 distinct 
 race types, leaderboards, achievements, a completely separate number of online challenges and events... and 
 now we're able to ride Bikes for the first time in the franchise's history, there's a Day/Night 
 cycle, and more content coming soon from Criterion... so YEAH great value!
  
  If you are looking for pure entertainment and adrenaline this game was made for you, If you can't 
 handle extreme speed and destruction you can look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a fun game. But it gets old quick to me. It kind of lacked the charm that burnout 
 revenge had. The environment is huge. Theres alot of ecxotic vehicles the speed is intense and 
 the crashes are devestating. But yet it was not as fun as the last game. 
  
  Graphics: The game is beautiful and well laid out. The damage on the vehichles are very realistic. 
 When you crash you will feel like you're in the car yourself.
  
  Gameplay: Very fast racing, blazing throught the traffic and running your opponet in the wall is 
 fun as usual. Cops would have made the game more intense though. 
  
  
  
  The music is tedious. The level gets boring considering the weather doesn't change, there's no 
 night time racing (way to much sun) and with way these cars speed through the city it wont take 
 long to see everything. The announcer is annoying as well. It's a good game in general when it's 
 all said and done. But I'll just wait for midnight club L. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reventon94
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Amazing driving game, with lots of fun with the online play yet. Stunt run, road rage and marked 
 man online are such great fun and i've gotten over 80 friends just through socialising with other 
 people on the game. Burnout has a great cummunity, and with 490 online challenges to do, it needs 
 it! But if u want a racing game, this is not the game for u. Cross traffic, and the constant supply 
 of bad takedowns with silly respawns will soon frustrate u. 
  The offline is to repetitive, just going through the same events over and over, but just having 
 to do more of them as u get a better licence. The offline is nothing compared to GRID. 
  The new bike gameplay is good, but won't last long. U cannont race them for starter's, with no 
 online modew, it's just 38 burning routes, all on your own that are far to easy, 64 new road rules 
 (x2 for night and day) and 70 challenges online, which if u've got good people in your will only 
 last u a few hours, and if u have bad people in your room, u'll soon get really annoyed.
  The night-day cycle is pretty cool, but when u're racing, all u have to do is turn up the brightness 
 and u can't tell the difference between night and day, giving u a huge advantage in races. Which 
 is just silly. None of the street lights were actually street lights in the end. Night makes the 
 envirenoment look amazing from a good view, but close up it's not so good, as most of the lights 
 u see are not really very light.
  Trophies, they're a laugh. Stupidly easy and u have to have a USB camera to get the platimum, and 
 u have to dtart all over again to get them if u've already completed the game.
  Overall, this game really is brilliant, and well deserves it's 9/10 ratings. I've only really talked 
 about the bad bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I always knew that Burnout Paradise would be a good game based on the Burnout games I've played 
 in the past but, with the addition of the bikes, this game is worth the price of admission 10x 
 over.
  
  The visuals are impressive. The way the game looks while you're speeding, is impressive. I haven't 
 experienced any problems playing on line; another plus. But, D__N! what a difference these bikes 
 make a game feel. I am glad I recently brought this game as I got this bonus.
  
  Also, I wanted to point out that despite the fact that it is true that once you lose a race you 
 have to find your way back if you want to replay that specific race, WHO CARES!!! There are so 
 many races, it doesn't matter.
  
  FUN! FUN! FUN! (says it all)
  
  (Please ignore this section as I am short 71 characters according to www. gamespot. com}
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaZdawg_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is exactly what the title says. It's paradise. I got it the first day out and 
 have not got bored of it yet. Yeah, it has a few glitches here and there but with the Criterion 
 Games updates coming out every 2-3 months it fixes everything. Cagney update fixed over 1000 glitches 
 and the Davis update added bikes. Bikes are a lot of fun in a Burnout game. But i think they could 
 of added online events instead of just doing freeburn challenges.
  
  The graphics are sick in HD and are still brilliant in SD. For all of you that think that this 
 is a bad game go get a life and stop complaning about it and go get a new game and play one you 
 like!!!!
  
  So i suggest you try this game and see if you like it. If not you will have to wait for Midnight 
 Club Los Angeles or Need for Speed Undercover. This is HaZdawg out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paskari
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game that had the potential to be great, instead it's frustrating. It seems like developers 
 these days make perfect games, then inject some character flaws into them
  
  So you have super fast speeds but for some reason you can crash into EVERYTHING. Oncoming traffic, 
 same way traffic, crossing traffic, parked cars, pillars, posts, hidden corners. You name it, you'll 
 crash into it at 200 mph. In fact, the whole game feels like you're travelling at the speed of 
 light. At least in Burnout Revenge you could hit same way traffic, in this one it's impossible 
 to boost in the city.
  
  Then the open ended world means you have to either learn every street in the city, or use the map 
 to navigate from A to B. Except the map doesn't compensate for which direction you're going, instead 
 it points north. Imagine going south at 200 mph and trying to figure out whether you're supposed 
 to turn left, or stage left. Chances are you'll crash into something before making the right or 
 wrong decision.
  
  There's no split screen, which is totally gay
  
  They just took the fun aspect out of this game. It's like someone got up and said "hey I got an 
 idea, lets run this franchise into the floor" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a great game by itself, but as a continuation of the burnout series, it falls 
 flat on its face. Allow me to explain. 
  
  Burnout has now become a staple in the racing game genre. Many of its fans regarded Burnout 3: 
 Takedown as the series' peak. Burnout 3 was the best package of the series. Everything came together 
 as a great package that really should have been the foundation for every other game to come in 
 the series. The problem with Burnout Paradise is that it takes more steps backwards than it takes 
 forward. If you have never played a previous title of the series, than you will find nothing fundamentally 
 wrong with the game. Otherwise, prepare to be disappointed. 
  
  One of the great features that is missing for some odd reason is crash mode. Crash mode was introduced 
 in the second title, Burnout 2. For some reason, the beloved mode is absent. Curiously, the splitscreen 
 mutilplayer that made crash mode so memorable is also missing. There is no multiplayer outside 
 of the online which makes playing this game pretty much impossible with a group of friends in your 
 room (which sucks, a lot I mean a lot) . Where the splitscreen fails, the online succeeds. Online 
 is a very nice feature that is well implemented. The great thing about the online is how seamless 
 it is integrated into the singleplayer game. While racing through the city, one of your goals is 
 to smash through many barricades that signal shortcuts. While online you can continue that challenges 
 just as if you are not online. Anywhere you can go in the singleplayer, you can go in the multiplayer. 
 The downside to this is that if you don't have any friends on PSN that play this game, then racing 
 can get stale quickly. This is the major flaw with the game. 
  
  The rest of the game plays fairly well. The graphics are decent and work well with the style of 
 the game. The music isn't bad, but it isn't anything that you will want to listen to over and over 
 again. The physics engine does a nice job of realistically throwing cars around having them deform 
 as they would in real life. The only annoying thing about the physics is that most of the cars 
 feel too weak and every little touch will total your car. While this does make the game more realistic, 
 it tends to add a lot of frustration that doesn't need to happen. 
  
  The gameplay itself is fun as many of the Burnout games of the past have been. One annoying aspect 
 in this department is the exclusion of all of the aftertouch control and the crashbreaker. Getting 
 "Takendown" now is the end. There is no way to affect the race after crashing. Without being able 
 to steer your wreck to take down a rival, a huge chunk of the strategy of this game goes out the 
 window. This, in a way, makes the races feel stale, boring, and frustrating. 
  
  The open world sandbox is a fun fresh idea for the series but having all 120 races (most of which 
 you must do several times) end at only 8 finish lines was not a good design choice. While you may 
 start at a different point, you will soon find yourself making your way to the exact same route 
 to get to the finish line. This adds a whole lot of repetition that did not need to be there. 
 
  
  Overall this is a fun game that is fun for what it is. I do not in anyway regret the purchase and 
 I would probably recommend it, but I do wish that more had been done with this game. The game is 
 great but not as great as its potential. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieyabo
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  OK. I loved the other Burnout games, they were awesome. But a free roaming Burnout game? Thats 
 one bad recipe for s***. First, coming first in a race, then only to take a bad turn onto a highway 
 or railway and being stuck there without being able to get out for another 12 minute makes you 
 want to snap your controller. Second, theres no split screen multiplayer to be found! The excuse 
 is that theres online multiplayer. But that online multiplayer is absolutely c***. Third, theres 
 no option to simply restart a race. Forth, no walls to help you if you sucks. Fifth, abysmal online 
 community. Sixth, poor crash animations. Seventh, awful soundtrack, voice acting.
  
  The only good to be found here is the graphics. So in my opinion I found Burnout: Paradise to be 
 bad. There was really nothing I liked to be found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  As I mentioned, this is the best racing game of this generation. Completely recommended IF you 
 have loved every racing game you have ever played.
  
  However, this is not an entry point into the genre. For gamers who don't particularly like racing, 
 the first few hours are entertaining, but slowly descend into, quite literally:
  
  -Drive to race
  -Lose race
  -Drive to another race
  -Win race
  -Lose next 5 races in a 
 row because of the lack of a marked route
  -Win race
  
  If you are lucky, you will manage to find one of about TEN road rages scattered across the repetitively 
 dull city, which, along with Show Time mode, are the only good parts of this game. Road Rage is 
 classic Burnout, the objective being to ram other competitors off the road. Unfortunately, the 
 Road Rage: Bland annoying race ratio is horrible (1:50 maybe)
  
  Show Time mode is activated by pressing L1+R1 at any point after getting a D License. Your car 
 will dramatically spin into the air and somehow turn into a wreck. The objective, like Crash mode 
 in earlier games, is to get money by crashing into cars and covering long distances. This is repetitive, 
 but still quite a lot of fun.
  
  Also missing is offline multiplayer. How on earth can you have a racing game with no offline multiplayer? 
 
  
  Stunt Run is useless.
  
  And with a few exceptions, the sound track is horrible.
  
  
  Now onto the (perilously few) good points:
  
  These are the best graphics of any racing 
 game I have ever seen, even putting some other genre games to shame.
  
  The promise of new cars manages to keep you interested, at least at the start when you think there 
 
  might be some difference between them (there isn't)
  
  The sound effects are top notch
  
  The controls are superb
  
  Winning is extremely satisfying, 
 simply because it is so god damned DIFFICULT!
  
  The open ended city is great, but being able to leave your car *ducks audience throwing tomatoes* 
 would add some interest and kill some of the repetition (notice how many times I have repeated 
 the word repetition/repetitive)
  
  As I said at the start, definitely worth a pick up for any fan of racing, but otherwise, there 
 are MUCH better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Burnout paradise has good elements but also many flaws that make the game annoying and extremely 
 frustrating.
  First of all I would like to say that the music is horrendous. other burnouts had some great music 
 but this is a disappointment. Over 90 songs and only about 20 are actually bearable and about 10 
 you will like. Luckily an update allows you to play your music in game. The graphics are good, 
 nothing amazing or spectacular, but they are good. Online is fun with over 420 some what fun challenges. 
 The best thing about online is that there is no lag and you can jump right into a game at any moment 
 in literally 2 seconds. The sound is excellent, when you crash a car and see all the glass and 
 metal shards scatter, you can hear every piece hit and scrape the ground. the car engines sound 
 powerful and accurate. The most frustrating part comes when you are going for awards, or doing 
 events and you fail one and there is no restart button. Like when you are doing a burning route 
 from one side of Paradise to the other and you fail infront of the finish, you have to drive all 
 the way back to the start. eventually this becomes extremely annoying and the game is no longer 
 about fun but it is now intense labour. Especially when you fail because your car randomly flips 
 or smashes into an invisible wall.
  
  Try before you buy. Then again it only gets annoying after you get really far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't tend to give a crap about racing games except for maybe Mario Kart but when Burnout Paradise 
 rolled around, I felt I had to try it. Why? Because open-world sandbox games have always had this 
 weird inexplicable appeal to me and despite the fact I don't particularly like Grand Theft Auto, 
 the idea of a GTA-esque racing game was strangely appealing. But when you get down to it this is 
 not a particularly well-executd open world and while it's better than most standard Need for Speed 
 crap that I've played before, it leaves an empty feeling after playing it. 
  
  So, Burnout Paradise is set in Paradise City, a futuristic metropolis where cars drive themselves 
 after having wiped out the human race (ominous foreshadowing, if you ask me) . Paradise City is 
 named such solely so that EA could use Guns N' Roses song of the same name, and if you don't like 
 Guns N' Roses you shouldn't buy this game. Their song Paradise City is blaring for a solid 80% 
 of the time you play. Talk about grating -- and it's not a particularly auspicious start for the 
 game. 
  
  So, you play the role of a driver-less vehicle and have the one non-obliterated human being on 
 the radio to help you out -- a weird guy with a native-America-sounding name and refers to himself 
 as a DJ, despite playing the same three songs over and over again. There are two ways to play Burnout 
 Paradise: you can go through and compete in a variety of events or you can ride around creating 
 the most spectacular crashes you can and laughing at the utter destruction that you can so easily 
 cause. 
  
  Needless to say, going with the former option is probably the way to get the most out of Paradise 
 City. There's a different event at every intersection, ranging from races tomore racesto some 
 takedown events that prove to be pretty entertaining. It's a really standard racing game, with 
 go and stop buttons and some boost to boot. Oh boy. 
  
  Where fun really comes into play with Burnout Paradise should be with mapping out your own route 
 to get from point A to point B during a race. Sadly, this potential is wholly squandered thanks 
 to some pretty serious design flaws. Firstly, the AI generally knows the fastest way through the 
 city to the finish line; following the AI opponents until the last leg is a surefire way to win 
 just about every race. Secondly is the fact that frankly, it just feels that the game doesn't want 
 you creating your own paths. Thanks to a really cramped map, you'll often take a path off the beaten 
 track only to find out it doesn't merge with a road you thought it did. 
  
  Flying around in some pretty sick cars, taking down opponents, and crashing into innocent bystanders 
 (cars) should be pretty fun. And in many ways, it is. But during events the open city mechanic 
 really does more damage than anything else, because there are so many little roads in the city. 
 You'll be constantly opening your map every several seconds, making sure you're going the right 
 way. This completely messes up any pacing that the game might have and doesn't mesh well with the 
 idea of high-speed racing. 
  
  One good thing that I can say for Burnout Paradise is that the open world approach, aside from 
 causing a significant problem during events, works out pretty well outside of races. The city is 
 fairly extensive and there are tons of varied environs, from curving mountain roads to inner-city 
 gridlock. But the biggest problem is that Burnout Paradise doesn't feel like a cohesive package; 
 there are two separate aspects to this game and they never really get along to provide the racing 
 experience that could have been possible. 
  
  On the one-hand, you've got the exploration, and on the other the actual events. Riding around 
 the city is fun enough, and it's in this area that the sandbox idea works quite well. Cruising 
 through Paradise is an enjoyable experience because it's varied and because you really can do whatever 
 you want. The second aspect of Paradise, and the one that works less well, is the actual races, 
 takedown challenges, and other events. 
  
  These are just superimposed on the open world mechanic and frankly, it just doesn't work. It's 
 a creative and ambitious idea, yes. And yet it's not so much a fault of the developers as it is 
 an inherent problem with the idea. Like I said, having to constantly check the map just isn't conducive 
 to a good racing game. The development team tried to combine two styles of play and the fact of 
 the matter is that these two styles just shouldn't be combined. 
  
  On top of this, you've also got the fact that because the events are scattered throughout the city, 
 there is a very finite number of them (you can't unlock new intersections like you could unlock 
 new events in a more menu-based racing game) . As a result, the game has you repeating the same 
 events over and over again. It's a shameless move on the part of the developers to extend the life 
 of the game and comes off as decidedly lazy. 
  
  But this isn't as huge a problem as you might think, because in actuality there's very little difference 
 between ANY of the events. Sure, they're all "different", but there are only eight finish lines 
 throughout the city so before long you've pretty much finished up all the game has to offer. Burnout 
 Paradise's events just sort of meld together to form one big, uninteresting mega-event. The different 
 races all feel so similar and the idea of an open city gets lost anyway when all you care about 
 is reaching the finish line. 
  
  If you do bother unlocking all the unlicensed cars and completing all the events the game has to 
 offer, you'll never really encounter much of a challenge. Even at the end of the game, there's 
 no noticeable change in the AI. Your opponents tend to be dumb as bricks and the only time they 
 really prove a hindrance is when the accidentally whack into you and knock you off track. You'll 
 seldom have to try an event more than once, and when you do lose it's almost always because of 
 a wrong turn thanks to the map. 
  
  I admire the idea behind Burnout Paradise, but ultimately it just never comes together as the game 
 it wanted to be. It's still a decent racer, but you're going to have to get over some seriously 
 annoying design issues to get the most out of the title. As a game, it just never really figures 
 out what it wants to be and as a result tries to blend to mediums that don't mix well. The end 
 result is a game that feels awkward and clunky, and it's one that's hard to enjoy. Yes, it's better 
 than a lot of racing games out there and if you're looking for a more ambitious racing title than 
 Burnout Paradise may very well fit the bill. The way I see it, we've not yet got a really stand-out 
 racing game. And sadly, Burnout Paradise is not the game to fill that void. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbabvi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise a real fun game. It is highly addictive and has great online play, that never 
 freezes. Unfortunatly, Paradise has some features the I am not a fan of... When you first buy the 
 game and you crash for the first time it is awsome. However once you have had the game for a couple 
 a days it is just boring and you can't skip the automatic shortmovie that it does for everycrash. 
 Now don't get me wrong Paradise is a great game after all, and they has made many patches for it 
 to make it better. I think they have made a motorcyle patch and a whole other part the the map 
 patch, just a couple weeks ago they made a patch for some new online cars, and one of my freinds 
 says they may be making a police patch. Overall I think the game is worth what you pay for even 
 with the annoying crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghani123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  awesome game worth of buying and playing . burns out the game . must have this game burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
 burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  You won't know what to think to begin with. The first thing that hits you is how sprawling Paradise's 
 map seems. (Burnout's entered the free-roaming age, in case you didn't know.) Then you realise 
 you can drive from one end to the other in only about four minutes, and around its entire circumference 
 in about ten, and it's a little disheartening. But then you discover just how dense Paradise City 
 is, how much there is to explore away from the main roads and all seems rosy.
  
  Except that, although 120 race events sounds like plenty, it isn't - we uncovered 97 of them within 
 six hours, and although you can only take part in some events with certain cars, a dedicated gamer 
 could polish off the bulk of the action in a couple of days.
  But let's rewind a bit, and tell you what most hardcore Burnout fans really want to know - yes, 
 it's fast. Hurtling along with your boost bar at top whack is a rush unsurpassed by any other driving 
 game, and - hurrah - the frame-rate is perfect. If Paradise had fallen victim to the slowdown plague, 
 like PES and The Orange Box, it would have killed the game stone dead. That it can look so beautiful, 
 and shift so much around the screen so quickly (other cars, crash debris, palm trees, road sign, 
 buildings, lakes, mountains - there's rarely a time when the scenery looks sparse) , is cause for 
 celebration. If this is what Burnout looks like in the early days of PS3's life cycle, when the 
 machine is still wobbling along on stabilizers, we can't wait to see how the game looks a few years 
 down the line.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhsjazzman
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Just wanted to put in my two cents. The action is OK. The graphics and sound are good. The game 
 just doesn't pull off the racing feel. It's too unrealistic to be a racer, and the destruction 
 sequences and bouncing are just a bit too far fetched. DiRT and any Colin McRae series game is 
 much better for racing and have destructible vehicles. GT5 is better if you want hardcore driving. 
 I wouldn't but this game again if I could. I plan on selling it any putting it toward DiRT or maybe 
 even GRID.
  Don't read the rest, I'm too lazy to break 100-word minimum so the rest is just copy-pasted repeat.
 
  Just wanted to put in my two cents. The action is OK. The graphics and sound are good. The game 
 just doesn't pull off the racing feel. It's too unrealistic to be a racer, and the destruction 
 sequences and bouncing are just a bit too far fetched. DiRT and any Colin McRae series game is 
 much better for racing and have destructible vehicles. GT5 is better if you want hardcore driving. 
 I wouldn't but this game again if I could. I plan on selling it any putting it toward DiRT or maybe 
 even GRID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I started playing Burnout Paradise back when the Demo was released on the PSN in December of '07. 
 Even then you could tell that the game was going to be something special. 
  
  Previous games in the series have all been linear racers and thats fine. If you're into those kind 
 of games more power to ya, however I am one who prefers an open world to explore. This is one thing 
 Burnout Paradise does extremly well. Many times in the game the fastest route is not the most direct 
 as traffic density is greater on the larger roads. So it becomes nessecary to take back roads or 
 even go offroad in order to complete the challenge races and unlock new cars. 
  
  The cars are to put it lightly extremly well designed. Theres about 40 different cars with each 
 having another version for a total of about 82 cars. Of the 40 most have their own unique feel 
 and handle quite differently. Each car falls into one of 4 types which in turn define the type 
 of boost you use. Speed, Stunt, Agression, and Online. 
  
  Speed Boost can only be used when full and is the shortest total Boost, however preforming drifts 
 and other feats while boosting will cause it to recharge instantly once it finishes.
  
  Stunt Boost can be used at any time and is usully the best when trying to preform challenges. Jumps 
 and other stunts fill this bar up.
  
  Agression Boost is both the longest and sometimes smallest boost possible. There are 3 stages that 
 the boost goes through. Each time you take down another car the boost increases to the next stage, 
 if you are taken down it decreases. Swipping paint and taking other players down is the most efficent 
 way to recharge this boost.
  
  Online Boost is new as of the July '08 update. As of this review there are only 2 cars that use 
 it and they are online one. This Boost is in reality No Boost. However both of the cars that use 
 it have max Speed, the racer actually being the fastest car when Not boosting in the game. 
  
  Graphics are hard to judge as each update seams to improve them, the next update will include 
 a day/night cycle. The Last update increased Non-HD clearity for us without HD TVs. Overall everything 
 just seams right about the graphics for this game.
  
  Sound is a large plus, the game comes with a good soundtrck thats customizable to turn off any 
 songs you dont like. Thanks to the last update the game has recieved the ability to play custom 
 soundtracks as well. Any playlist you have on the PS3 can be used in the game. Crashes sound well 
 done. I might have like a bit more ambient noise when driving through from NPCs but its not a deal 
 breaker.
  
  Replayability is something each person is going to have to find for themselves, theres no real 
 reason to start the game over from the very beginning, but you are able to replay all races. 
 
  
  Online offers many more challenges that need to be compeltes with other people but many are repetitive. 
 It is however fun to watch other people try to complete a task that you were able to complete the 
 first try. There are also many of the same gameplay modes available in the single player online.
 
  
  Overall this game is well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise had a lot of things to live up to. Burnout 3 was considered one of the best games 
 last generation and Burnout Revenge was raved about across the internet. Could Burnout Paradise 
 live up to those expectations considering that it completely changed the direction of the franchise?
 
  The short answer is yes. Burnout Paradise does a phenomenal job of re-inventing the Burnout franchise. 
 The game is now an open world racer, much different from the menu based racers of previous Burnout's. 
 There have been racing games in the past that have tried the open world racer idea but failed to 
 execute it. Burnout Paradise however, does a great job though it does have its share of issues.
 
  You start off with a low ranking car, the Hunter Calvary. You then are put to race around Paradise 
 city to unlock new vehicles. Burnout Paradise follows the same rules as previous Burnout's just 
 has a very creative way of doing them in the open city. You have to do racing events to unlock 
 cars. Once you do unlock a car, it will race around the city and you will have to take it down 
 in order to own it. This is a really great idea though it can sometimes be frustrating to take 
 down a car. Also, if you go from event to event, you will sometimes forget that you have that car 
 running around the city. Once you take it down, its shipped to your junkyard. You're junkyard is 
 the equivalent of garage and you store your cars there. New cars have to be taken to auto repair 
 shops to be fixed up.
  That brings me to something that is new to Paradise City: drive thrus. There are 3 kinds of drive 
 thrus: Boost Refill, Auto Repair, and Paint Job. Going through these give you repairs that you'll 
 need to help you win races (or just a paint job) . They are great although they do have a slight 
 flaw that you slow down after coming out of one which could hurt you in a race although its usually 
 not the case. Another thing is that if you go through a Paint Shop, the only way to change back 
 to your original paint job is to go back to a Junkyard and change it yourself (which is annoying) . 
 
  Burnout Paradise has several modes as is to be expected. Classics Race and Road Rage are back along 
 with new modes Marked Man and Stunt Run. In Marked Man you have to reach a destination before being 
 taken out by other drivers. In Stunt Run you have to reach a certain number of points, obtained 
 by doing stunts, before the time runs out. These two are fun new modes though you'll probably still 
 choose Road Rage and Race over either of these. There are also Burning Routes that you can do to 
 unlock new versions of owned cars.
  The game also has you beat events in order to get higher leveled licenses. These higher level licenses 
 dont really do anything special, they just look prettier and take longer to get as your progress 
 through the game. In addition to that, there are now 3 car types: Speed, Stunt and Aggression. 
 Each of these are very different and you will have to learn to master them and learn what to use 
 for each event.
  Something that is somewhat annoying about the game are crashes. Sometimes they will slow down to 
 show the pure carnage of the crash which looks really cool (especially with the high quality of 
 the graphics) but can get old really fast. Its not too big of a deal really though. Another thing 
 with the crashes that can be like a double edged sword is the new feature: Drive Away. After some 
 crashes, you'll be fine to just continue driving after a small slow down. This is cool as it saves 
 time but occasionally it actually does more harm than good as sometimes you'll start back up pinned 
 against a wall or something like that. 
  Something i was disappointed about was the loss of the Crash feature. It was scrapped and instead 
 replace by "Showtime" mode where your car just starts bouncing around and you try to hit other 
 cars. The more cars you hit, the longer you can bounce. Its a cool feature to see once, but afterwards 
 it becomes kinda pointless. I also thought it annoying how you have to set a record on every street 
 of Paradise City with Showtime in order to beat the game 100%.
  The game, as I mentioned before, has superb graphics and audio to match. Every crash almost makes 
 you cringe from how detailed it is. Sadly, the games soundtrack does not match the quality of the 
 audio and visuals. Luckily, the new addition of custom soundtracks no longer makes this a problem 
 and severely improves enjoyment of the game. 
  The Burnout License takes a while to get (about 20 hours or so i'd say) but if you want to be the 
 game 100% and get the Burnout Elite License, it will take much, much longer. 
  The game has a good amount of depth with over 70 cars, 120 events, and a ton of locations to find 
 across the city. It will keep you entertained for a good amount of time offline.
  The game also has a wicked fun online feature. My biggest suggestion though before going online 
 is spend some good time with the game offline. Not only so that you can have a good car but so 
 that you can get to know the city. The game has a somewhat steep learning curve as the city's roads 
 can be hard to master and remember at first. Once you get that down however, the game gets significantly 
 easier. 
  Online you can do freeburn where you just cruise around the city with people online. One of the 
 things the game does excellently is the ability to just bring up the easy drive menu with the d-pad 
 and join friends online at anytime. Aside from freeburn you can partake in races, road rages, marked 
 man events, and challenge events exclusive to online mode. There are over 300 challenges all differing 
 from the last. Lag is occasionally an issue online but its very seldom. Overall, the online feature 
 of this game will keep you coming back for days and days. 
  In the end, Burnout Paradise is a fantastic racer. It has a few issues but its fantastic gameplay 
 and heavy amount of content and variety definitely make up for it. This game will keep you entertained 
 for a very, very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is the latest in the burnout series. Fun driving, awesome gameplay, and hidden 
 goodies make this game wanted for anyone who likes racing.
  
  The good
  --------
  
  - Gameplay is fun, multiple things to do
  - Graphics are amazing, every little detail is perfect
 
  - Cars are well designed, multiple stunts rock
  - Free Roaming is a nice addition
  - Watching Super Jumps succeed is, just... WOW
  - Pulling off Barrell Rolls is fun
  - Flying 
 off the roof of a parking lot is fun
  - Wrecking new cars and adding them to your collection is fun
  
  The Bad
  -------
  
  
 - Can be hard to see sometimes
  - WAY too easy to crash
  - Watching Wrecks and DriveAways take too long
  - Pulling off Barrell Rolls and more stunts is 
 EXTREMLY hard
  
  The game is awesome. Burnout was good before the free roaming. Adding that and new stunts, races, 
 and the Marked Man events, this is a definite game for any fan of Burnout or anyone who likes racing 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambomambo7984
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I dont know why gamespot gave it 9 but i couldnt play the game for more than 10-15 min max. It 
 has serious gameplay flaws, which i thought EA fixed when they released the 1.1 Giga update.
  1- First this is an fast arcade game so it would have been better to be closed circuit as most 
 of the time you will try to find the route or get back as you r going the wrong way. The game doesnt 
 help you much in this issue it displays a signal and a Map, but the signal flashes 2 sec before 
 the turn which doesnt give you much time, given that you are driving on a high speed focusing on 
 dodging traffic and competitors. The map is ok, cant be without but it isnt sufficient for this 
 game to be and open city racing as its a bit small and seriously if take a sec or just 1 eye on 
 it, you will eathier end up crashing or missing a turn and going the wrong way. Too disappointing, 
 you dont race or indulge in to action as 80% of the time you are trying to navigate the map and 
 finding your correct route.
  
  2- SO after the open city flaw, EA just added to the dissapointment where you cant restart the 
 race or race again if you lose. After you managed to find your route and ofcourse couldnt get to 
 be #1, you would like to race it again, but no there isnt that option. you will have to drive all 
 the way back to the start of the race. you will not remember the route so you end up with playing 
 what is around u in that place.
  
  
  EA please please, bring back Burnout original gameplay. Closed Circuits, race again option, instant 
 driving to a race.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monochromatic-7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  everything just better, faster and the real paradise is here! best of it's series and it's near 
 to be a perfect open world racing game. graphics are great, wrecks are more real, sixaxis option really 
 made the game enjoyable and everything has just improved. but there's a very very little lack in 
 this game and that's those repetitive soundtracks used in the past games but also we have a few 
 more soundtracks just added to this game. 
  there are 75 cars in the game but there is just one car to choose in the first screen. the system 
 of owning the new cars is vey interesting and that's when you win more events and improve in the 
 game, new cars just enter to paradise city and if you see them around the city you must take'em 
 down to own them. really simple, isn't it? you have a driver's license in this game that improves 
 with winning enough number of events. we have these events in this game:
  
  Race - race with opponents from start to finish.
  
  Road Rage - Take Down enough number of 
 cars in the given time to win. when u improve, u have to take down more cars.
  
  Burning Route - a special event for special cars.
  
  Marked Man - it's like race but with no 
 time or opponent. u should finish without being destroyed by unknown black cars or someway else.
 
  
  Stunt Run - u should reach enough score by using nitrous, drifting and flying in the air before 
 the time ends.
  
  If u didn't buy this game recently, buy it before it goes to late! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tscourge
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  "The racing game" is a terrible attempt to sell a product under the false pretense that it is related 
 to a well-known and respected series. True, some elements of the Burnout series have been shamelessly 
 copied into this game, especially anything to do with cars crashing. The spirit of the series is, 
 alas, missing.
  
  The graphics are decent, and the cars break up nicely with shards of glass and pieces of metal 
 flying everywhere.
  
  The music goes from some really great tracks from the good ole' 90s to abysmal ones. The DJ, however 
 is all bad. He frequently mocks you when you lose an event and ranges from smug to outright nasty. 
 So not only are you disappointed after losing, you also have to cope with this guy's sarcastic 
 remarks. 
  
  As for the gameplay offered by "The Racing Game", unfortunately this is completely broken. While 
 your car can crash at 20 kph when scraping a wall, it can also avoid a seemingly unavoidable crash 
 when going head-on into a brick wall at 200 kph (rare, but it happens) . This is completely unpredictable. 
 The fact that you can choose your own route to the end of a race is also quite broken. Sometimes 
 after a crash, you respawn a couple of blocks away from where you were supposed to be. Unfortunately 
 if you crash close to the finish line you may find yourself several blocks after the line, driving 
 in the wrong direction. Also, your rivals are always behind you or closely in front of you and 
 there's no way to shake them. This means that if you crash your car a billion times on the way 
 to the finish line you actually see your opponents on the map almost standing in place waiting 
 for you. And if you have a clean run when you're at full speed with boost constantly on and using 
 all of the available shortcuts, you can be sure that your opponents are right behind you. Crash 
 once and you are overtaken. Crash close to the finish line and you lose the race - no matter what.
 
  
  Also missing in this poor Burnout clone is the beloved Aftertouch effect. Unfortunately the people 
 who made this distant Burnout facsimile forgot to copy this element from the original series. Nor 
 are there any real explosions. A damn shame.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enbee05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best burnout game in the series because of the huge free roam feature and the 
 extreme detail of every item in Paradise city. Because Criterion games are releasing three major 
 update this year this games life span is at least doubled and seeing as that it takes about 50 
 - 60 hours to complete, you wont be getting bored any time soon. 
  
  the new online multiplayer feature allows players from around the world to compete in several different 
 events. to start multiplayer in the game all the player has to do is press the right button twice 
 and the game will automatically connect them to a "freeburn" event (which is just free roam online 
 with 7 other player at one time) and the player also has the option to start a race road rage or 
 online stunt run. each player is given a world ranking has has the ability to takedown and create 
 a rivalry with any player in the world. when you take down another player, if they have a camera 
 connected it will take a snapshot of them and display it on your screen for you to see their face 
 at the moment they got taken down.
  
  In total there are 150 events in the offline mode a to start an event all you have to do is pull 
 up by a junction and hold R2 and L2. the events include marked man, stunt run, race, road rage 
 and burning route (which is basically time trial) . the game also features something called showtime 
 and road rules. road rules are just set times that the player has to complete a certain section 
 or road under in order to complete the road rule. showtime allows the player to do as much damage 
 as possible in order to beat the record for that section of road.
  
  the next burnout update will include bikes and much more stuff to do which increases the gameplay 
 time. the new bikes also add to the collection of 80 cars that are already in the game.
  
  There are some points in the game that can get a bit frustrating and some parts can become a little 
 repetitive over time but all in all the game is a must have for any ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved all the previous Burnout games I had played before Paradise. I had high hopes when I played 
 the demo, but I was let down. When I heard the demo was sucky compared to the actual game, I decided 
 to rent it and try it out. I was surprised how fun Burnout Paradise really is.
  
  Gameplay- Paradise is based on mixing an open world feel with a racing game. It seems weird at 
 first, but its a very fun experience. You can do whatever you want in the game world. If you want 
 to race, road rage, marked man, burning route, just go to the event to start it. One thing I didnt 
 like was how after you fail an event, there is no quick restart feature. This is especially annoying 
 when the rwces typically take you all the way across the map, which is huge. But that is a minor 
 qualm. There ar eso many events to have fun with. And with free updates like motorbikes, weather, 
 and even a new area to play in coming up in future free updates, its hard to not have fun with 
 Paradise.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics are great. The art style, lighting, and cars all look excellent. When 
 you smash your car up, its an excellent experiene because of how cool and realistic it looks. The 
 sound is good. The cars sounds and sound effects are done superbly. The soundtrack has its highs 
 and lows. It has some great songs on it like Epi by FNM, with Soundgarden, Twisted Sister, Alice 
 in Chains, Janes Addiction as well. The problem I have with it is that as always with the Burnout 
 series, there are waaaay too many indie/pop punk songs displayed. But the soundtrack is still good, 
 and you can use custom soundtracks as well.
  
  Fun/Value- This game is very fun, period. It has a lot of value from tons of events and little 
 sidequests to do, its great. And with the inclusion of motorbikes and nightime and driving weather 
 added to the game next month, that will add much more value. All the Burnout Paradise updates are 
 free, and all add lots to the game. The next update after the motorbike update will include a brand 
 new area to race and crash in. This game has tons of value.
  
  If you like racers, or if you'r like me, and you just like a great, crazy game, get Burnout Paradise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  What is it about this game i love so much. The sheer beauty of the visuals. The challenging yet rewarding 
 system of take... downs. This is an orginal burnout and i think by far the best and the one with 
 the longest life span.... It is truly an amazing racing game.
  The gameplay is orginal and sweey and the cars feel like they are different unlike other burnouts. The 
 gameplay is superb and the racing to me never gets old and the takedowns.... more viscous then ever.
 
  The stong points about this game is its mangler the ripper of cars.. Tht takedown system which 
 shows more car crashes then bravos cops uncut and the map is preety well designed but sometimes 
 can really bite you in the ass when your in a race... whats up with the navigation !!!!!!!
  
  This game has some flaws though like... if a car nudges you you go tumbling to your fiery death 
 and the sometimes the races get really, really, really repititive.
  The game does what it says on the tin and i respect it for that and as far as casual gaming boes 
 its right up there with the very best... uncontrollable fun...8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DebitOrCredit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  To those of you who have not played a Burnout game before, it is NOT a driving simulator. So if 
 you loathe unrealistic driving games, then don't waste your time on this game. Regardless of the 
 reality of the game, it's the best driving game I've played so far.
  
  The predecessors of this game took place in closed circuit maps in which you race against opponents 
 or simply try to destroy their ride. Burnout: Paradise takes place in an open city, similar to 
 the ones in some Need for Speed games. To some Burnout fans, this may seem like a bad idea at first. 
 But once you buy this game, it will grow on you.
  
  There are four main events in Burnout. These events are activated on specific points on the map 
 in which you have to search yourself. There's no Teleport button to get you to the point and there 
 isn't a Restart button if you fail. Many people dislike this, but the truth is that this system 
 helps drivers explore the entire city thoroughly.
  
  1. Racing- I hope you know what racing is. If not, you need a wake-up call of some sort. In this 
 game, there are no closed roads so you have to decide which route to take for yourself. The numerous 
 amounts of shortcuts make the racing experience in Burnout better. There's a mini map on the screen 
 all the time to make sure you know where your destination is.
  
  2. Road Rage- Burnout fans should know what this is. Destroy as many rival cars within the alloted 
 time without wrecking your own. As I mentioned before, this game takes place in an open city. No 
 worries- rival cars will spawn whichever route you take. The alloted time increases for each enemy 
 taken down
  
  3. Marked man- A new addition to the Burnout series. Reach your destination without completely 
 wrecking your car. You have an unlimited amount of time. The catch? Opponents try to hunt you down, 
 so you have to duck and weave through alleys and jumps to avoid them.
  
  4. Stunt run- Yet another new addition to the series. Rack up as many points by barrel-rolling 
 and spinning in mid-air. Kind of like a Tony Hawk racing event where you have to keep your tricks 
 in a chain. And like skating, you have to land those stunts in order to get the points.
  
  In addition to the main events, there are many secrets to discover around the city. There are 400 
 "yellow gates" in the city which lead to shortcuts.
  There are 120 Burnout billboards to smash. Some are extremely easy to smash, others require looking 
 around for the path to it. There are also Super Jumps (I forgot how many) . Have you ever played 
 GTA? Yeah, these secrets are similar to Red Balloons and Stunt Jumps.
  
  Sorry, Burnout fans, there's no Crash event. There's an extra called "Showtime" where your car 
 bounces along a street while causing havoc and bumping into traffic vehicles. The more havoc caused, 
 the higher your score. It's fun at first and always a bit strange, but it gets repetetive because 
 you have to to this for all 64 streets to get your 100% completion.
  
  The crashes in this game is worth mentioning. When you crash, the camera takes you into slow-motion 
 mode so you can see every crisp dent in your car's interior. Some beginners are so fascinated by 
 it, they purposely crash just to see it again. But once you play this game long enough like me, 
 going into slow motion and seeing the crash can get really annoying sometimes. The crashes are 
 realistic graphic-wise but not what would happen in real life... you know what I mean? No? Moving 
 on.
  
  There are a total of 86 drivable cars in this game. Some people complain that half the cars are 
 just the same as the other half except with different stats and paint job. And 7 of those are "cheat 
 code" cars that you can only get for specific regions (5 cars for U. S., 2 for PAL countrie, 1 for 
 France, and none for other countries) In a way, they're right. But that still leaves us with around 
 40 cars, right?
  
  Criterion also introduced car boost types. Stunt boost fills quickly when drifting and jumping. 
 Aggression boost fills quickly when you attack rival cars. Speed boost fills when going in the 
 wrong side of traffic, but it is continuous and can only be used when filled to the brim.
  
  Now I just summarized half of the game right there. The other half? That's in multiplayer. 
 One game holds up to eight people. The "lobby" is the city itself in which you can drive around 
 along with your friends to find secrets. The host can start the four main events, except online.
 
  
  1. Race- In an unranked race, the host can create their own path and even place checkpoints along 
 the city. Pre-made races are also available to choose from. They can turn traffic On and Off and 
 choose which car everyone's going to use. In a ranked race, the host can choose the car's boost 
 limit, but nothing else. This is because of a recent update that improved the gameplay of Burnout. 
 The host once had the power to change the race into their favor, but not anymore!
  
  2. Road Rage- I don't really like the online version and it's really odd and sometimes confusing. 
 Two teams are created manually. One team gets to the destination without being taken down. The 
 other team tries to take them down. If one of the chased drivers are taken down, then they are 
 disqualified. Ignore this event. Nobody even does this.
  
  3. Marked Man- The Marked Man is chosen randomly and everyone else has to take him down! The Marked 
 Man has no radar and no boost. Everyone else has unlimited boost. Score points by taking the Marked 
 Man down. If you're the marked man, survive within the allotted time and take out the chasers for 
 points. If the Marked Man crashes without being taken down by a chaser? Nobody scores! Everyone 
 eventually has a chance to become the Marked Man.
  
  4. Stunt run- Just like offline stunt run, except you can steal points by taking rivals down.
 
  
  And for the Online extra, they're a little something called Challenges. Drivers need to complete 
 a certain challenge using TEAMWORK. There's a HUGE flaw in this though. If you don't have many 
 Burnout friends, then you may need to rely on random people to help. Now some of these random people 
 will help you, but others can be complete jerks. Say you're doing an eight player Challenge. Everyone 
 needs to complete the objective or else it wont be added to anyone's Challenge list. if ONE person 
 out of the eight fails, what a bummer. Many jerks simply wander around and purposely don't complete 
 the challenge. Some people wait for eveyone else to complete the challenge, then leave. When this 
 happens, the challenge ends and everyone has to redo it. Some beginners don't know about challenges, 
 and that also poses a problem. There are 450 challenges in total. There are 50 challenges for each 
 2,3,4,5 (ect) player challenge set and 10 for each Timed challenge set.
  
  Now for the really bad part about Burnout. The online takedowns. (By the way, a Takedown is the 
 Burnout term for "wrecking another rival's car" if you haven't known already) . The online takedown 
 physics are so broken, that a puny F-1 racer can easily take down a big monster truck head on. 
 It's a huge problem during races and other events. At the start line, the cars are so close together 
 that it's near impossible to avoid a collision. If you do as much as scratch a rival car, it could 
 send you or your opponent flying off the road. It all depends on luck.
  
  Additional notes:
  -Taking people down when an event isn't underway is rude, unless the other 
 driver provoked it. Taking people down during a challenge can get you kicked.
  - You can't set the controls to your own desire. R2 is the gas button and that's that.
  - Burnout 
 supports DS3 vibration!
  -Burnout supports the PS2 Eyetoy and the PS3 camera. When you happen to take someone down, you 
 can get the picture of whatever their camera is pointing at. Yes, this can cause some explicit 
 problems.
  - Burnout is rated E. If you have a mic, you may hear some screaming baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the demo version of this game, and I, simply love it. Man, this game sucks you 
 in, it's addicting! SO FUN!!!! So if you have only played the demo, like me, your main entertainment, 
 will be crashing. CRASH AND CRASH AND CRASH. But believe me, you can buy this game and have it 
 for a week, and you still wouldn't have done any races. Why? Cause the crashes ALONE, are enough 
 entertainment for you. My only real problem with this game, is the races. They aren't bad, but 
 they get in the way of the game's main objective, crashing. Its obvious to see that the crashing 
 is the main point, because its the funnest point! Everything else distracts from it. Same with 
 Motorstorm. The crashing was the best part of the game. That aside, Burnout is a great game, a 
 must have, for crash fans.
  
  PS: Happy Crashing ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Lets get this out. There is only one thing in this game that REALLY annoys me.
  
  You can't restart or quit a race, once you're in it. I REALLY hate that. If you're losing horribly 
 and you know there's no point, you have to finish it anyway. At least allow people to quit the race. 
 Why the hell didn't they add the restart feature?!?!? It's nothing big, but it drags the game down 
 a little.
  
  Wait there's one more thing that annoys me. The open concept is taken a little too far. In a race, 
 you're not told where to go or which way to go. You must find the finish line for yourself. I don't 
 really like that, because you have to keep pausing and looking at the map to make sure you're going 
 the right way. It stops the action time and time again. Gets annoying.
  
  Now on to the good stuff. The sense of speed in this game is amazing. You feel like you're going 
 a little too fast and that you should maybe slow down a little lol.
  
  The visuals are amazing also. Looks as realistic as ever, and the damage on the cars look amazing. 
 Watching little pieces fly everywhere doesn't get old. And as you get faster cars, it only gets 
 better.
  
  I haven't really played online much so I'm not going to speak about that, but the couple times 
 i've played it was good.
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azul_Cobra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is the greatest racing games ever made, simple as that. Why? Mostly because the freaking 
 criterion gang just keep coming with patches to make this already awesome game into a masterpiece. 
 A perfect example is there adding bikes soon, which will have 70 new challenges, and also trophies 
 most likely. The game itself is a very long and sometimes hard game to beat. 
  
  Some tedious parts in my opinion are the showtimes since they can get hard and/or annoying at times 
 when your in the country area with less traffic and buses. The replayability is ridiculous, I mean 
 I find myself just roaming the city online just chatting with friends and not even doing anything 
 except just smashing into each other or trying to dodge each other or whatever. 
  
  Everyone basically has mics btw, it would be rare to not find one or two people in almost every 
 game to have a mic. There are so many challenges to keep you busy for weeks and some of the Paradise 
 awards (specifically the 10x,20x chain boost, doing it the legit way mind you) are amazingly hard 
 but all of them are fun to do. Overall though... basically a flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yingnay000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is one of the best racing games ever!!! The graphics are great. The events are 
 intense. The city is HUGE and incredibly detailed. And it's so fun just driving around and exploring, 
 going off jumps, driving off the roof of 4 story parking lots. I still can't get over how the city 
 even has a main highway to get around the city! It took a while to get used to free roaming aspect 
 because it's so different from the other burnouts. But after driving for a while, I began to realize 
 how free you actually feel just being to drive wherever you want and pick whatever events you like. 
 And because of it, you have more leeway on what events you to pick to progress your license. Oh, 
 and best of all, there are practically no loading screens! 
  
  On the down side, racing in the free-roam environment can be frustrating. One wrong turn can possibly 
 cost you the race. But it's not that hindering. It adds to the intensity of the races and if you 
 drive carefully you end up doing just fine. It would have been nice if there was a feature that 
 would bring you to a certain location instead of having to drive all the way back to the event 
 that you want to attempt. But at the same time I think it encourages you to try out other events 
 and it gives you a feeling of spontanaeity. Other things from previous burnout games, like the 
 after touch and the traffic checking, would have been nice, but I really didn't notice that they 
 were missing until I read another review that pointed it out. So even some things are missing, 
 it really doesn't detract much from the game. The soundtrack isn't that great, the DJ can get annoying, 
 and the constant slow-mo can slow things down, but thankfully there's options to turn them off 
 or at least keep them to a minimum 
  
  Overall, this game is A LOT of fun. Definitely give this game a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23_jordan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for ps3 owners. All the game types are great especially the new Showtime 
 mode in which you make your car bounce and have to destroy as many vehicles as possible. The races 
 are the same as always, road rages are fun because you have to make other cars crash. Marked man 
 events have a destination where you have to get to before getting totalled by the other cars. stunt 
 runs have you trying to get a certain score you need to get or higher to win. Burning routes are 
 like time trials but you can only do them with the cars they are meant to be done with and you 
 unlock a new version of the car. Hunting burnout billboards to destroy is fun and so are the smashes 
 which are fence you have to destroy but its annoying to go all the way back to location where you 
 start the event to retry it but finding you own route to the finish is fun
  
  In overall this game is great for burnout and non burnout fans and is great fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This is honestly one of the best racing game I have ever played. You will love this game. It has 
 a nice map great and funny cars nice graphics and everything in this game is just perfect. One 
 part that might get you mad though is when your racing and you crash but that is just the challenge. 
 The online is also pretty kick ass to. It can have headphones theres a lot you can do. You can 
 have wars and just crash all of the enemy cars that are in your way. You can have races to see 
 which car is the best doctor. There is also a ranking thing were it tells you like who had the 
 most air or longest drift honestly it's a lot of fun. The soundtrack is also really good my only 
 complain is girlfriend but all you have to do id turn off that song so you know whatever. It is 
 a pretty big challenge when it comes down to racing. you have to do your best not to crash and 
 you have to know when to drift and stuff. So basically really great racing game and if you like 
 crashes and going fast then it's the perfect game for you. It also has updates for it like to make 
 the city bigger and a night time with bikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paddy-mac
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  Ive been a big fan of the burnout series since the first few but i always wanted a free roam city 
 to tear around in and now at last my prayers were answered it is the best burnout to date and the 
 best car crashing game by far and a must buy for any car fan or speed demon a very good game and 
 youll have hours of fun to complete it and then lots more hours of reckless driving online and 
 messing about theres loads of cars to bash about and even upgrade to make them even or worse in 
 some cases but the best thing about paridise is the racing and endless amount of tracks to chose 
 from and a great sountrak as well i got it when it came out and myself still going back now half 
 a year later so all i can say is bring on the next burnout and if its anything like tis one its 
 going to be one hell of a ride ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I bought Paradise coz i needed a game with some long single player... i reckon i made a pretty 
 good choice. Paradise is what i would call the best racer on the PS3, i've been buying burnout 
 games since burnout: point of impact (and i played the original burnout before that) . The series 
 has given me great racing pleasure from xbox to PS2 and now to PS3 i was hoping for a wonderful 
 draw dropping re-make of burnout: dominator, just a quick game so that they had time for a sequel 
 which would be amazing. But when i heard that they we're going to go onto the next-gen consoles 
 with a whole new concept i was very scared. 
  
  After it was released i went onto the PS store and got the demo, when i tried it out i was shocked 
 it was, simply a piece of trash. Two events out of a huge area was confusing along with no actual 
 gps to work with, once one found a race it was confusing again to find your way around to places 
 you didnt know with the help of some small navigation tips you never knew about. As soon as i was 
 finished with it a deleted it, i seriously could not stand to see what Burnout had become.
  
  Along came the day when i was in dire need of a game and it was a decision between GRID and 
 Paradise... what made me change my decision? Lol, the fact that the store i go to didnt have GRID 
 in stock so i thought why not i had heard reviews of high scores and people saying the demo was 
 the worst represtentation of the game possible. 
  
  It is a very good game and the smaller details are really taken care of, cars look stunning and 
 crashes are extremely realistic and to differentiate from previous burnouts hitting a car doesnt 
 always mean your car is dead and gone suitibly titled "drive away" you could clip a car and still 
 continue on. Thus starts the damages... and driving starts to become difficult with a seriously 
 beat up car. For example there was a time when i had come of a jump an a bit of an angle hit a 
 car but it was declared as a "drive away" my car was seriously damaged and if i turned ever so 
 slightly the steering would become locked so i would have to swerve this way and that. I would 
 have preffered to have just crashed but it was an enjoyable experience. Bit somethings missing, 
 you can feel it when i play i can only play for about an hour and a half at a time because it just 
 doesnt feel right... the fact is its Burnout a game that was built around boost and when u finish 
 up your boost you would get a burnout. Problem is with paradise only one out of 4 classes of cars 
 can do a burnout! So that means out of the 75 cars in game approximately only 20 can reach burnout, 
 is it so hard to understand what might be missing?
  
  What i would like to see is the implimentation of FULL car customization, the choice of paints 
 is nice but to actually do some nice paint jobs would be great. Also the map is extremely small, 
 when seen on the map it looks pretty big but when going so fast especially with events like road 
 rage you can end up on the otherside of civilization... with nothing around and just having to 
 drive straight back, so in the back of your head you need to keep in mind where your going whilst 
 plowing through opponents. I'm also praying that this update will come along with night and day, 
 motorbikes and trophies! Small problems dont really limit this games potential they just limit 
 how long you can go on wreaking havoc through the streets of paradise city. Its Trouble In Paradise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Burnout Paradise is amazing. Best in the series, and maybe even the best racer 
 on the PS3. It's up there with Gran Turismo. I only have one problem with the game. The crashes, 
 namely the whole driveaway/wrecked thing. It seems crashes where your car barrel rolls and does 
 stuff that should get it wrecked, you end up driving away from. Then I've bumped into the back 
 of a pedestrian car at a low speed, and I was wrecked? Something is wrong there, and it's the only 
 thing that stops this from being a 10 in my books. 
  
  The graphics, and crashes them selves are beautiful. The city is amazing, and the fact there is 
 no loading times except when first starting the game, and going into the junk yard is great. Not 
 only that, but the speeds you can get up to are insanely fast, even for Burnout. I never experienced 
 them in Revenge (PS2) or Dominator. (PSP)
  
  A couple of the features I really like are the different car types, and that the Crash FM DJ chimes 
 in every once in a while, giving tips and stuff. I think the idea of having a radio station just 
 for the Burnout drivers in the city was a brilliant one.
  
  I applaud Criterion on another success in the Burnout series, and look forward to more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pridak123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  To start out, i am a huge fan of the Burnout seris. Burnout 3: Takedown is my number one favorite 
 racing game of all time. I have even gotten over 90% of the game complete. When i learned Burnout 
 Paradise was coming to a next generation system, i knew i had to have it. The game is a blast, 
 the free roam addition is the greatest addition to the Burnout series. Its a blast roaming the 
 city looking for all the billboards, smashes, and super jumps (all of which i have) . Doing stunts 
 in the game is also hugely entertaining. I could mess around in places like the quarry and airfield 
 for hours on end. When Burnout decidced to get rid of crash mode, i was very disapointed about 
 that desicion. But now, showtime has been added, and gives you the feel of crash mode, ther only 
 thing missing is the puzzle part of the crash mode. Road rage is as intense as ever, and Mark man 
 is very fun, but at times you can get the feeling that u want to smash the S*** outta the TV screen 
 (the same happens during most events in the gam) . The game gives you a load of cars to choose from, 
 and they made the burning routes much easier than past games (none of which i could get golds on) . 
 Theres only a couple things that brings this game from a 10 to a 9.5. RAces can get extremly aggrivating, 
 thanks to one wrong turn you may make. The same can happen in Burning route. Another thing is the 
 fact that they have no restart option, but i guess thats ok, since that gives it the feel of a 
 free roam racer. The multiplayer never gets old, since it has 350 online challenges, and you can 
 just mess around with your buddies and show off. This game offers loads of entertainment, and i 
 would reccomend this game to all racing fans, and to those who want to start playing racing games. 
 This is by far the best PS3 racer on the PS3 yet. And with new updates to come (the addition of 
 a whole new island area, and the ability to drive a motorcycle) , this game is shaping up to be 
 one of the best racers yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Burnout is the one game that we all know and love. Its not any ordinary racing game with fast cars 
 and race like Mom, no, the only way to win is TO KILL THE OTHER CARS! This game is the ultimate racing 
 game. Every crash is great to watch, but a bit long to get back in the race. The road rages are, by 
 far, my favorite events, is just a great way to see all the action. The new race style, Marked Man, is 
 a cool event because you feel like your the most wanted man in Paradise CIty. The people at EA 
 and Criterion Games knew how to keep a great game and change it with an open world. I also like 
 the places you have to smash the gates and the billboards. Its also cool to go off the SUPER JUMPS. 
 Sadly, DJ ANNOYING is back YET AGAIN to annoy the hell out of all of us again. Also, the soundtrack 
 could've been better if they took out the music the game creators put in. All in all, the game 
 will bring you back to demolish your foes to the big junkyard in the sky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktooth360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game combines a great free roam, great challenges and fun online play. You almost immedietly 
 have the feel that you can do absoulutley anything you want, and you can! The challenges arent 
 too difficult and you get a wide variety of cars. You also dont have to buy anything at all, which 
 in some games may limit you to only having 1 or 2 cars at a time. The super jumps and the short 
 cuts are a great way to win races. However, i find the fact that you can take any route you want 
 difficult, because i sometimes get extreamly lost and lose or pay so much attention to the mini 
 map i crash. Also, you cant retry races and if you want to stop a race you have brake to a stop 
 and wait for about ten seconds , which by the way took me FOREVER to figure out. So overall i rate 
 this a 9.5. Nice work burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemuffin4
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  THE best driving game I've ever played.
  
  This game is easy to pick up and play instantly, the controls are simple, even a moron could get 
 good at this game (*Jack?) . There are 35 car models and 78 vehicles, soon to be 80 in the pal version 
 of the game. 
  
  The graphics are awesome and rival most games that are available now, which is astonishing as the 
 city is entirely seamless.
  There are five types of events:
  
  RACE - Obvious 
  MARKED MAN - Escape from the idiots who don't like you very much.
  ROAD RAGE - Destroy everything 
 in sight.
  BURNING ROUTE - A time trial which earns you a new vehicle.
  STUNT RUN - Get as many points as possible in the time limit, my personal favourite.
  
  There 
 are 60 offline challenges in the game, these offer a challenge, of course, to those who want to 
 show off their shiny cars once they've done them.
  
  The online features are also great and work (almost) perfectly. 
  
  The main disadvantages 
 are - road rules (especially showtime ones) get VERY repetitive, traffic deliberately steers towards 
 you and you are stuffed if try to race online without completing the game.
  
  *My friend lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4life247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Burnout : Paradise is the latest installment in the Burnout series, but you already knew that. 
 It is an incredibly fun and rewarding game that boasts some of the best graphics on the PS3 that 
 I have seen and the racing is fast and furious. The open ended game play is a welcome change and 
 it is truly fun discovering all of Paradise City, the city within which u will be travelling. There 
 are no police in Paradise city which slightly odd, but hey, no-one likes the po-po. All of the 
 cars in the game are beautiful in their own right and all of them handle differently. Speed cars 
 suck coz u cant boost when u wan to 2 but hey, watever. I have just one bad thing to say. Friggin 
 hell, the new open wolrd is sweet, but making turns is friggin impossible at junctions. But i am 
 a pretty bad gamer so watever. If u like fast cars and stuff like that, u will definately love 
 it.
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spexwood
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I have played Burnout 3: Takedown and Burnout Revenge and absolutely LOVED them both! That said, 
 I had very, very, VERY high hopes for Burnout Paradise, but was actually let down. Do NOT get me 
 wrong, because this game is actually pretty good, but there are just some things that are so different 
 from the PS2 Burnout games that really changes EVERYTHING.
  
  Let's start with the good:
  1) GRAPHICS are pretty good.
  2) MUSIC TRAX are pretty good, but only if you like rock (which 
 I do) . I must say though that although it is good, it isn't as good as other Burnout games, with 
 the exception of Burnout Dominator, which was basically the same Avril Lavigne song sung in different 
 languages.
  3) CRASHING IS BETTER THAN EVER! I almost feel as though I get whiplash just by sitting on my couch 
 with my PS3 controller!
  
  Now, the bad:
  1) Although it was an interesting change in pace for the Burnout series, the free-roaming environment 
 didn't quite impress me ENOUGH. It was fun to be able to take a break from racing, road-raging, 
 and the other events once in a while and just play around without any penalties. However, once 
 you entered a race, I think that the programmers should have closed off a course because it is 
 WAY too easy to take a wrong turn or miss a turn and end up hopelessly lost, which means that you 
 come in last place. There ARE these little turn notification things that are supposed to help you 
 out by hinting to you when you should turn, but honestly... when you are driving at like 120+ mph 
 and the scenery is nothing but a blur, HOW CAN YOU TAKE YOUR EYES OFF THE ROAD TO SEE IF YOU SHOULD 
 TURN OR NOT!?!?!?! Yes, the things also make a sound too, but you cant hear them over the SFX. 
 Simply put, when you enter a race, the race track should become closed off. That is all.
  2) THEY COMPLETELY ELIMINATED OFF-LINE MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!! WTF EA!?!?!?!?! It seems that the programmers 
 over at EA think that the players either have no real-life buddies who come over and play videogames 
 with them, or they seem to think that all the players' friends have PS3's and a copy of this game. 
 My buds and I used to have hours of fun hanging out at my house and playing Burnout Revenge. Now, 
 the most fun we can have is passing the wireless controller around as we take turns in offline 
 mode. Yeah, they COULD all go out and buy their OWN PS3 and Burnout Paradise copy, but guess what? 
 NOT EVERYONE CAN AFFORD THEM!!!!
  For me, this detail was a MAJOR disappointment.
  3) The cars in this game just aren't as great as other Burnout games. There are some cars that 
 are like the older games, but it seems that most are junk-yard cars; covered in rust and dirt and 
 hardly even run.
  4) Plain and simple: This getting seems to get boring very quickly.
  
  I have owned this game since day 1 of its release here in the USA, but overall, I could only stand 
 playing it for a total time of about 30 hours before I completely got sick of it. Now, the game 
 is just sitting on my game shelf collecting dust. When Soul Calibur IV is released, I will be trading 
 Burnout Paradise in to help in the cost.
  
  In conclusion, this game is ok, but not as good as the older Burnout games. I think that this game 
 requires a certain taste. You may even need to play 90% of the game online too in order to have 
 fun. My recommendation is that if you are thinking of buying this game, RENT IT FIRST! This way 
 you can determine if you want to fork over the 60 bucks to buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theMockingNoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is, hands down, the best game i have had the pleasure of playing on the PS3 until 
 now. The graphics are excellent. Every single crash looks unique and just amazingly real. The cars 
 are well designed. The sound accompanying these crashes are just, well music compared to the actual 
 tracks. Because the sound track for the game is bad. Not that bad. But bad. That's a bummer. Especially 
 for PS3 owners.
  
  The game play is also great. Takedowns have never been so much fun. Nor has the game itself been 
 so much fun. I would spend hours just looking for those yellow gates, or super jumps and all those 
 burnout billboards. Gone is the Crash Mode and has been replaced with Showtime. This can be activated 
 at any time of the game and can last four 20 or even 30 minutes and its just so much fun. I never 
 realized that a thing this simple could be so much fun. Oh and did i mention its FREE ROAM. Online 
 mode is also great and it's actually very easy to get online. There is PS Eye integration which 
 I guess is fine. I mean i really don't want to see the guy i just took down showing me the finger. 
 Yeah not really.
  
  There are other, very few, negative things. As i mentioned before the music is not that good. Also 
 what i missed during the time i was playing the game was a retry option. You don't have the ability 
 to go to the map and just choose a race to do. There is an event at every traffic light and after 
 every license upgrade all those events do get reset so you can do them again but still a retry 
 option would have been helpful. I would say that if you have an Xbox 360 and the PS3 then get it 
 on the Xbox 360. You can listen to your on music.
  
  Other then that if you have loved Burnout games before you should definitely get this and even 
 if you don't like the Burnout series you might want to change your mind. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The current consoles allow for some truly amazing technical feats. Nowhere is this clearer than 
 in Criterion's stunning, open-city racer Burnout Paradise. From the start you literally have the 
 entire city at your disposal, with no load times, no menu screens and no hiccups - it's seamless. 
 The big question then is not if what Criterion set out to do with the Burnout Paradise has been 
 achieved, but if it was right to take it in this direction in the first place? Is Paradise still 
 Burnout?
  
  When I say that Burnout Paradise is a seamless experience, it really is. To start with you must 
 create a Drivers Licence and add a photo (if you've got a webcam hooked up to your console) , but 
 from then on all you'll be seeing is game. You start with a pretty slow (relatively speaking) car 
 and you're off, exploring Paradise City and taking part in the 120 events scattered about. You're 
 free to do as you wish.
  
  The structure of previous Burnout games has been replaced with a pick and choose system where you 
 simply cruise up to some traffic lights to start the associated event, be it a Race, Road Rage, 
 Marked Man, Stunt or Burning Route. Some are familiar, some play very differently and some are 
 brand new.
  
  Road Rage events see you taking down a required number of opponent cars, smashing them into walls, 
 into oncoming traffic, into each other or however else you manage to remove their wheels. It's 
 brilliant fun and made all the better thanks to the free-roaming city, with the carnage being taken 
 far from the starting line.
  
  Marked Man requires you to drive from one location to another while a pack of powerful black cars 
 attempt to take you out, relentless in their attack - total your car and you'll be staring at failure. 
 This mode perhaps makes best use of the open city, with your cunning often being the key to survival 
 - shortcuts and small alleys are perfect for staying out of harm's way.
  
  Stunt events ask you to tally up a certain number of stunt points by driving with some style. It 
 works by utilising a combo system, so it's key to link together stunts. Whether you're simply power 
 sliding around a bend, barrel rolling off a ramp or getting big air, your stunt combo will continue. 
 An on-screen clock will indicate how much time you have to perform another stunt and keep the combo 
 going, ramping up the pressure on spotting another stunt opportunity. Luckily a tap of the boost 
 button acts as a stunt so you can use this to move between awkward areas of track.
  
  Of all the event types it's Stunt that seems to have benefited from the city's design the most. 
 After a while you'll be spotting ramps all over the place, getting big air off a side road or power 
 sliding for whole roads at a time. Had we still been racing in closed streets this event type would 
 likely reach a score limit pretty quickly, but in Paradise City you're always discovering new routes 
 and stunt possibilities.
  
  Burning Route events are car specific and ask you to complete a time trial. The problem is that 
 unless you complete each route as you get into a new car, towards the end of the game you're going 
 to have to do a lot of car swapping and repetitive driving to get back to each event.
  
  It's the Race events that will polarise opinion on the game though. The only way to complete an 
 event (and in turn get one step closer to increasing your drivers licence rating) is to win it, 
 and this soon becomes pretty tricky. The open nature of the city isn't a problem in the other event 
 types, but in races it's all too easy to miss a turn while you're moving at an insanely high speed.
 
  
  The game tries to help you out, with the on-screen compass and blinking indicator-like street name 
 image telling you a turning is coming up, but in the heat of the moment these are nowhere near 
 as helpful as giant flashing corner signs seen in previous Burnout games. During races on the more 
 restricted roads, you'll often only have one route to take towards the end, so miss that one vital 
 turn and it's effectively race over - and there's no option to quickly restart. The open nature 
 of the city is brilliant, but the race events don't suit this set-up and I'd have preferred barriers 
 to be put in place during these events, making for less frustration and more fun.
  
  How well you do in each of these events also depends a lot on the class of car you're driving. 
 You've got three types: speed, aggressor and stunt. They're pretty self explanatory but do handle 
 and use boost very differently. The speed class cars can only boost when you've got a full boost 
 bar, but the benefit is the ability to perform burnout chains, effectively giving you an endless 
 boost reserve - if you're good enough to use an entire boost meter in one go.
  
  Aggressors are the heavy duty vehicles that can take more damage before getting totalled, making 
 them the vehicles of choice during Marked Man events. Boost for these beasts is most easily earned 
 by taking down other drivers. And stunt vehicles can perform the best power slides and barrel rolls, 
 can boost at any time (essential for stunt runs) and can take a bit of damage - making them something 
 of an in-between car class.
  
  As you progress you'll unlock new cars, but only the cars awarded for a licence upgrade (something 
 which requires more and more event wins as your licence improves) and Burning Route victories are 
 added instantly to your junk yard garage. All the rest need to be taken down first, which is both 
 fun and slightly annoying. While you're driving around you'll often notice a car speed past, and 
 it's these cars that are waiting to be fully unlocked. It adds an element of fun to what otherwise 
 would have been another standard unlock system, but after a while it becomes a little tedious.
 
  
  The same goes for changing your car. This has to be done by driving to a junk yard (there are five 
 to find in the game map) and then picking the car you want. I'm all for seamless gameplay, but 
 some things are better when done in the conventional way. The whole process always takes longer 
 than I want and a menu would have solved the problem completely.
  
  I don't want to give the wrong impression, as Burnout Paradise is a thrilling racing game, but 
 Criterion has taken a backwards step in a few key areas, most notably Crash mode. In Paradise Crash 
 mode has been replaced by Showtime - probably the most ridiculous game mode I've ever played in 
 a racer, arcade or otherwise. Essentially Showtime makes every road in the game an event, where 
 there's a high score to beat - both on and offline. Press two shoulder buttons together (L1 + R1 
 on PS3, LB + RB on 360) and you're off.
  
  Once activated you have one goal: crash into as many cars as possible. Rather than managing your 
 crash like in previous Burnouts (which featured some brilliant multiplier pick-ups and superb crash 
 breakers) , here you have a boost meter that determines how many ground stomps you can perform, 
 propelling your car forwards. Hit another vehicle and your boost increases, so you can go on for 
 ages on the busier stretches of road. The score multiplier pick-ups have been replaced by buses, 
 which multiply your score. The problem here is that the number of buses that arrive is down to 
 luck. Showtime is good for a laugh, but not nearly as skilful as Revenge's Crash mode.
  
  Each and every road also has a saved fastest time for online and offline, essentially giving you 
 a time trial for every road. It's a nice feature and something to do whenever you're driving to 
 another traffic light triggered event, but really only comes into its own when your console is 
 online and getting updates from everyone, including your friends.
  
  It's the online integration that sets Paradise apart from many other racers. It is without doubt 
 the best integration I've seen and all accessed by simply pressing right on the d-pad. From this 
 in-game menu you can race against friends or take on some random players. Criterion has included 
 race events and challenges for every permutation of players (up to eight can play together online 
 - although there's no road rage or marked man events) and the way the game uses the consoles' webcams 
 to take snap shots of victorious and not so victorious moments (smugshots and mugshots) is a stroke 
 of genius.
  
  Burnout Paradise is an excellent game when played alone, but online with friends it reaches another 
 level. Racing from point to point with friends is insane fun, with the carnage making for plenty 
 of frenzied shouting and incredible near misses. And when you're bored of standard races you can 
 tackle the many Freeburn challenges - a mode which somehow manages to make trivial tasks hell of 
 a lot of fun.
  
  Much has been made of Criterion's decision to use the PlayStation 3 as the primary platform for 
 development and this seems to have been a good choice for gamers. Both versions of the game look 
 great, sporting a great frame rate, superb lighting, incredible car damage, an unrivalled sense 
 of speed and no loading at all. No matter which version you buy, you'll be getting one of the most 
 technically proficient next-gen racers to date. But there are differences.
  
  After extensive play it was nearly impossible to pick between the two games visually, but whereas 
 I never spotted slowdown while playing the game on PS3, the 360 game stuttered on one or two occasions. 
 It's minor and barely worth mentioning, but a difference all the same. Certain areas of the city 
 also exhibit different lighting, although it's subtle and hard to say which version looks better 
 - don't be fooled by the way the game drains of colour as your car becomes increasingly damaged. 
 One thing neither version does is allow you to watch replays - something I wanted to do only moments 
 after starting my first race. In a game full of so many insane moments I can only assume the game's 
 open nature made this somewhat of a technical challenge.
  
  More important to many will be the things missing in the PS3 game. The fact that there's no custom 
 soundtrack support is odd, considering every PS3 comes with a hard drive. This is something the 
 Xbox 360 offers and makes the less than spectacular soundtrack a lot easier to bear - you can just 
 listen to something else. The 360 game also includes some excellent Achievements and rumble support 
 in the controller. Online performance is nigh-on identical but, given the game's strong online 
 functionality, playing on the console where you have most friends will make a big difference.
 
  
  Also worth mentioning is how the city is completely devoid of people. Cars are everywhere, but 
 there's not a person in sight. There's no doubt this decision was made to ensure the game received 
 a family-friendly rating, but I wonder if there would have been a way to include pedestrians without 
 the risk of them being mowed down by boost-happy drivers... Picking holes in the presentation is 
 being harsh on Criterion though, as the variety in the huge city is incredible and the draw distance 
 at certain points has to be seen to be believed.
  
  And we've arrived at the tricky matter of summing up all Burnout Paradise offers. It's without 
 doubt a marvellous achievement on both consoles, but do the new additions and free-roaming city 
 make it a more entertaining game than Burnout Revenge? I went back to Revenge on the Xbox 360 for 
 an afternoon and it made the strides made in Paradise all the easier to see.
  
  Going back to the standard menu-driven system of the past was pretty jarring after spending days 
 cruising from event to event in Paradise. I was simply having more fun in Criterion's latest racer. 
 I'm not budging on the issue of navigating during race events though - the closed track races in 
 Revenge are far more enjoyable. Even so, for true next-gen arcade racing thrills Burnout Paradise 
 is most definitely your best option. Criterion has delivered a game that every gamer should have 
 in their collection.
  
  Don't want to read the review? Head over to the VideoGamer. com video player to check out our Burnout 
 Paradise video review.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Overall: 9
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Gorgeous visuals.
  - Incredible sense of speed.
  - Online integration 
 is superb.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Races are awkward in the open city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHomind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  If you are in the mood for a fast-paced racing game than look no further than Burnout Paradise. 
 It has a huge overworld with hundreds of miles to drive through. There are also hundreds of off 
 road trails to go out and find. There super jumps and drive thrus where you can paint your car 
 and repair it. There are hundreds of races and other events to do. If you need a game to keep you 
 occupied over the summer get Burnout Paradise this is definitly not a rent becaus this will take 
 you weeks to finish. There are so many cars to get events to beat places to find and stuff to destroy. 
 If you need some racing action burnout paradise is ur game but youll also find you need to do a 
 lot of destruction to complete the game 100% which is almost impossible. So get this game it is 
 wicked awesome. So please go out and buy this game becaus if you dont you will regret it for the 
 whole summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  As far as gameplay, Paradise is a blast no matter what you're doing. Even when you're just wankering 
 around, Paradise is a fantastic way to kill some time. Events and races are initiated by coming 
 to stop lights and hitting the two trigger buttons simultaneously. Events vary from a standard 
 point-to-point race, to Marked Man, Stunt Run, Burning Route, and Road Rage. So, as opposed to 
 selecting from various modes, as you would in the past, all of Paradise's contents are now within 
 its career mode. 
  
  Marked Man is my favorite event; here you'll be chased by a horde of the same black cars as they 
 try to destroy your car for good, preventing you from reaching a specific destination. It's very 
 much like a cop-chase (the black cars even resemble the new Dodge Chargers) , except they back off 
 once you've crossed the finish. If you take too much damage too many times, you'll lose. But you 
 are able to blast through a repair shop and have it all fixed up
  The soundtrack is rather decent, but I was rather appalled to see Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend" 
 in the track roster. But hey, you have the option of turning individual songs off, and a large 
 collection of tunes from previous Burnout games are featured here - which is a plus. Some of the 
 more solid acts include: Alice in Chains, Jane's Addiction, Killswitch Engage, Depeche Mode, Airbourne, 
 Faith No More, N. E. R. D, Soundgarden, Twisted Sister, Guns N' Roses, Mexicolas, Junkie XL, and Jupiter 
 One. And before you wonder, yes, Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City" is the game's theme song. Finally, 
 online gamers will be happy to hear that voice support is also present 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashinho
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  First of all I would just like to say that I have owned every Burnout ever and I am still not bored 
 with them. They have always been one the best graphical games, as present in this latest release, 
 and always fun to play. It's like demolition derby on the roads. I am not going to say "This game 
 isn't realistic enough" because if you bought Burnout thinking its going to be a realistic racer, 
 you are a complete ignorant idiot. Burnout is an arcade style game which is still as fast paced 
 as ever as you drive round Paradise city, which is paradise it is simply visually stunning and 
 brilliant (And also has a kick a$$ theme song.) Yet as you play this game more and more you begin 
 to realise this game doesn't like the player. It takes every opportunity to screw you over. There 
 are no people present in this game apart fromf the annoying DJ Atomica who should come with a mute 
 button attached. None of the cars have drivers in them which is sad as i would loved to have seen 
 babies and people flying through the windowscreen of cars when you smash into them at Mach 2. 
 
  
  Burnout graphics are stunning, as I have said, the crash models look superb and the scenery is 
 brilliant. 
  
  The game-play is same burnout, drive from point A- to point B creating as much carnage as possible 
 whilst coming first. 
  
  As much as I love Burnout as with every game it has its problems, I am going to point them out 
 but don't let them put you off the game as it is still F**king Awesome.
  
  1) After a while the races get boring as with this burnout when you are achieving you lat licence 
 (Elite Burnout licence) you have to do more or less every single race again. Why didn't they invent 
 new races for every licence it's not hard. This can make the game tedious
  
  2) The physics crash engine, Though it is brilliant the first 10000 times you see it, the 10001 
 time you start saying seen it all before, jus let me skip it and carry the hell on. It is rather 
 annoying when you are in a race and you are winning only to hit a rogue cat (I know this is impossible 
 as there are no cats) only so the physics engine can show off how good it is while it tee-bags 
 you in the face, leaving your car inches from the line while someone just zooms past and takes 
 the win.
  
  3) The other cars on the road which seem to drive like old people learning to drive. They are so 
 slow, and stupid, you could be zooming along when he decides to turn, sending you into a twisted 
 pile of metal and the physics engine leaps into action once more. We get the point EA you have 
 a good physics engine.
  
  4) The open world is a great idea in theory. You get to roam about doing what you like even with 
 some friends. But in the races it should set you a path, because if you TV is any less than 700 
 inches you won't be able to read the mini map. So you have to pause the game plan your route which 
 spoils how the game flows. Also try looking at your minimap whilst driving at 200 mph, its not 
 easy and with crappy drivers all over paradise. You just end up in twisted metal wreckage every 
 two seconds.
  
  5) The lack of variety of races can make the game tedious.
  
  6) The fact that if you are one of the human gamers that does lose a race every now and again, 
 you will find that there is no Restart Race option. Which EA is very F**KING stupid because it 
 make people angry having to drive back to the start of the race, which on some of the complicated 
 racers could be a 5 minutes drive depending on how happy the physics engine gets.
  
  7) Get rid of Atomica he is bloody annoying and doesn't have a mute button.
  Why do EA persist 
 on having a stupid radio DJ on all of their games?
  
  Now I'm just gripping on.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a good game, not without its problems but it's one of them games that is meant 
 to be played on occasion and not constantly. It's one of them games you play when you don't have 
 much time and you just want a quick game and buzz. It's a game meant to be played 30 mins at a 
 time. It's a cool game in all fairness, and I would recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The latest addition in the burnout franchise is a smash hit. i was completely hyped when i heard 
 about it, and i was optimistic when i learned of the 'free world' concept. i was skeptical though 
 when franchises tend to vary from the money maker. but i have to say that am in love with this 
 game.
  
  the game takes virtually no time to get accustomed to except for the norm as far as controls. you 
 simply drive to an intersection and start a race. i like that ability to unlock different versions 
 of you unlocked cars to get supped up versions. i have to admit i do hate losing a race, and being 
 dropped off immediatley where i am, but it forces me to drive around the town some more in order 
 to get back to the start line. i helps you to learn the city.
  
  online capability is the easiest i have seen. you can effortlessly switch between on and offline 
 by one press of a button. automatically just jump into races/worlds/ challenges. 
  
  i can't wait for the expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marud_9403
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  It is a great game for you who likes driving simulator.
  It really is a game which talks to you and make you wanna play more.
  There is no limitation 
 in the game. Of course you can lose a challenge by crashing too much, but you can crash several 
 times before you lose. When you are getting a new licence you can do the same challenges all over 
 again, but this time it is harder. It is a game you really want to own. And if you are tired of 
 doing challenges you can go online and beat your friends. You can also explore Paradise City with 
 your friends or challenge them too see who's the best drifter or are driving longest in the oncoming 
 lane. If you choose to explore Paradise City you can smash 52 bilboards and 400 fences. If you are 
 the type that checks rewiews before you buy games this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayu13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I think orange box is better but this is still a very fun game GET IT IT WORTH THE MONEY !!!
  I also think people should go check out the top 10 game depending on which type of game you like 
 choose 6 of em what the movies and read the reviews on em if it lookes good to you get it and theres 
 a 99% chance you'll love i also suggest you get insurance so if you don't like it you bring it 
 back and say its damaged you can get a eb card or another game and just in case it actully is damaged 
 this is the best way to save your money and i think every one should do make sure you do this with 
 EB games though some other places don't let you choose a different game. 
  
  THE ORANGE BOX
  A must buy from the top 10.
  Portal is a very sweet game it has humor and has 
 a huge suprize at the end you actully do get cake a the end..... (weird ending) 
  
  Half life 2 i suggest you play half life 1 first or you don't know what going on.
  
  the other 
 game needs internet!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frjack
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  One of the best Driving games on the Ps3. This game is great fun to play and has incredible GFX.
 
  
  The Crash animations are so well done when i first got the game i just crashed over and over for 
 a while to see the different ways the car reacted based on where on the body it impacted.
  
  Collecting all the different cars became almost an obsession. It is great fun trying to unlock 
 all of the cars. The game has multiple different game types included. Meaning there is something 
 for everyone. My personal favorite is "Marked Man". Where the Target is to get from point A to 
 Point B without getting your car wrecked.
  
  The game could never be called too short. Just on the single player i have invested countless Hours 
 in this game. 
  
  One Peace of advise i would give it back up your save games regularly. I did have the game lock 
 up on me while saving the first time through (when i had about 25 hours of play time) And it corrupted 
 my save game. Since then i have backed it up to an SD memory card after Every Session
  
  Great Game that gives you a lot of bang for your Buck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  The idea of a free roaming racing game seemed inevitable what with the success of grand theft auto 
 and other similar titles. Burnout, known for its high speed city racing and cringe-inducing crashes, 
 was a good place to start. Burnout Paradise - the 5th instalment of the Burnout series  is absolutely 
 brilliant.
  
  Paradise city is your open world in which to wreak havoc. The massive city is separated into a 
 number of different areas, each varying from built up streets to open mountainous roads. You move 
 throughout these areas seamlessly, with no loading screens or menus, which is quite an achievement, 
 considering that everything looks magnificent. 
  Aside from the detail on the traffic, everything is polished to digital perfection. The cars gleam 
 elegantly, the background is atmospheric and inspiring... and the crashes are superb.
  
  Before I talk about crashes though, here are some details on how the game actually plays. You start 
 with one car and are let loose into the city. From the off, every single inch is reachable; no 
 invisible walls or unlockable areas. You then make your way around the city, and at pretty much 
 every junction there's an event, you simply pull up and hold R2 + L2 and you're taken into it. 
 Straight into it. No Loading. The events include races, stunt runs, time trials, crashing into 
 people and avoiding crashes. By finishing these events you upgrade your licence and unlock new, 
 awesome cars. It's a simple enough system, and thanks to the genius flow between free driving and 
 taking part in events, it works brilliantly. You always feel like you're working towards unlocking 
 something. 
  
  So what is there to unlock? Cars, of course. 75 in all, and its surprising how different each model 
 is to drive. For example, the Hunter Vegas is a very fast stunt car that handles corners terribly, 
 whereas the Krieger Pioneer feels extremely heavy to drive but takes corners very well. The cars 
 are also customizable, though this isn't really an in-depth system that allows you to change your 
 cars stats, just a simple changing of paint jobs.
  
  Aside from the open world, the other factor that takes Burnout above other racing games are the 
 crashes. Whether it be seeing someone you're racing with suddenly smash into something and fly 
 off into the background, or if you're having your own crash, they're amazing. Speaking of the latter, 
 the effect it awesome, with all the music stopping and the only sound being the very detailed crunch 
 of your car turning into a cube, spinning through the air in slow motion. 
  Crashes happen often, what with the fact that things start to get really fast, and just looking 
 down at your mini-map for a second can easily lose you a race. This, in a way, is one of the games 
 weak points, in that it gets extremely frustrating trying to see where you're going when you're 
 going so fast, and it's best to just hope you're heading in the right direction or follow other 
 cars (there are no markers  it's an open world after all) . But then again, that's just the kind 
 of racing this is, and it means you have to put hours in to get to know Paradise City, which in 
 time you most certainly will.
  
  One final way Burnout has revolutionized racing games is with its online play. Once again, no lobby's 
 or loading screens, you just say you want to go online, and before you know it a bunch of people 
 pop-up on your map. It's something new, and definitely something that will be used in games from 
 this point onwards. Racing with friends allows you to complete online only challenges, as of which 
 there are over 300. These range from racing to seeing how many cars you can barrel roll over... 
 great fun!
  
  In presentation, the game is very similar to EA's skate. The stats screen is detailed and let's 
 you see how much of everything you've done, which is great for people who want to finish it all. 
 
  
  So what's wrong with this game? Not much at all. When you lose a race you carry on from exactly 
 where it ended, making restarting it a pain, but there are so many other races on the way back 
 you'll be tempted to start another. Perhaps a more in depth car customization would have been good 
 for car enthusiasts, but it doesn't really feel like the game is missing out on much. 
  There's so much that will keep you playing this game, from breaking through all the billboards 
 to the excellent multiplayer. This is a 'racing' game like no other, and deserves to be bought.
 
  
  9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I must admit, I can't wait to get behind the wheel, (1 more year now!) But i'm a bit confused, 
 because I actually want to crash the car!!! I personally blame this not because of my sadistic 
 nature (lol) no no, but because of this game, it just so influential. The moment you start playing 
 Burnout paradise, the feeling of power overwhelmes you because of the great gameplay that is offered, 
 as well as the superb graphics. The detail of every crash seems as if it was specifically made 
 as a setpiece, which makes the whole game seem as if it has been made especially for you. Although 
 many pros are included with paradise, there are a few cons to, especially when it comes to crash 
 fm, it's just so bad because of the DJ who randomly states random facts about paradise city (a 
 GTA style radio theme would have suited the game much better) As well as this, the game can seem 
 overwhelming at times because of the sheer number of things to do, which can also become boring 
 because of not being able to access them. The Multiplayer thought is a breath of fresh air as it 
 is addictive and very easy to access. Overall the game has flaws but the amount of pros that come 
 with burnout paradise do make this game a decent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAXPAINE_1989
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  as i sayed i only tried the demo and got addicted on it this game visuals graphics are stuning 
 and vivid and the dj atomika makes it more fun and kinda reminisce expert players like me of ssx 
 on tour and ssx generally hehe.
  
  one thing in the game that itches and b1tch$s me that the game is that the gameplay itslef or the 
 original controlling mechanism is still light if you know what i mean it didnt really truly overhauled 
 the whole mechanism regarding the gameplay thats the only thing. otherwise and generally this game 
 is a must get for people who likes DESTRUCTION! like me 
  
  and there's a big pros. in buying the game name a bogart patch (psn account and internet required) 
 is on the way that you can learn about it feats.
  
  if you find the article [wont mention site i cant risk deleting the review but it star with p... 
 .com] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Usually, I do not like racing games, but this opened my eyes to a new generation of racing. Most 
 car games you just keep making a left turn (or so it seems) , however, the free roam on this game 
 is so much fun I can play it all day.
  
  Even new-comers can enjoy playing this because it is very universal. Like every game, Burnout has 
 its flaws. Whenever you loss an event, the DJ humiliates you with words. this does not make you 
 want to try again.: ( Also, after a race or stunt run, you can't respawn to the start and retry 
 it. You have to drive all the way around the city to restart the event. 
  
  its key features are also its best. My favorite things are how you get different cars and the road 
 rage, where you crash cars to win. Crashes in the game are unique because of the detail that is 
 put into them. But in races or other events they get bothersome because you fall behind drastically.
 
  
  Any gamer couldn't be called a gamer without at least renting the game to test it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotusQ
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up this game, I was excited because I really like race games and while waiting for 
 GT, this was good. I enjoyed this a lot. The controls are great and easy to get use to. I found 
 myself playing online against other racers rather than myself trying to get new cars. lol The task 
 of getting new cars was quite challenging (which is why they are called CHALLENGES, I'd assume) 
 and time-consuming, especially to get to that Elite level, but it can be fun. The feeling of taking 
 down your new car and picking it up in your garage is exhilarating. As well as the feeling of taking 
 down 15 cars, or avoiding being taken down in the marked man challenge. All great fun. 
  
  The race challenges are also good. The roads are smooth and easy to maneuver through. You really 
 have to get to know your map. Once you've mastered the map, the game is yours. I was a little shocked 
 at first that you have to win EVERY race you participate in. There's no 2nd, 3rd, 4th place. Even 
 if you do fail at one race, there's always another race waiting to be started at the next block. 
 
  
  I have to add the graphics on my 720P set are incredible. All in all, this definitely is a game 
 to add to your collection, PS3 owners. I'm looking forward to more updates in this game in the 
 future.
  
  
  PS - We need more F1 and Grand Prix-like cars. The Walmart car is sexy and we need more cars like 
 that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 16, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed burnout legends for the PSP so I had high expectations for this one sadly I was 
 extremely let down 
  
  The Good: Jumping through billboards is pretty fun. I bought it at EB so I could return this disaster 
 of a game. 
  
  The Bad: The graphicas look worse than most wanted which was made 3 years ago. All the cars are 
 boring. The races are repetitive you'll either be racing on the highway or the hills. There's no 
 restart button which is really annoying because with one mistake you'll be last and it'll stay 
 that way. You have to come first there's no reward for 2nd or 3rd. You have to go to the junkyard 
 to pick up another of your boring cars. The license thing really has no purpose. It has a extreme 
 lack of customization. Terrible voice acting and songs. 
  
  Just steer clear of this one and get ridge racer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Last time, when I've played with burnout, i was playing with the "Dominator" episode, but it was 
 a big biiig dissapointing. I can't even really say, that it's a real burnout. It's just a "half 
 burnout" :D. And now! A new, REAL burnout is here! A full burnout! It is called: Burnout paradise. 
 And i have to say, it's almost like the third one was. It's full of adrenaline, it's full of speed, 
 it's full of... Burnout! Damn, this is the continue, what i've waited for. After revenge, and after 
 dominator, this game is great!!! It's a true burnout. It's nice, it's fast, it has great cars, 
 it has great tracks, it has... well idiot musics. And even more idiot voice acting! The only reason, 
 why the sound score isn't that bad, is that the sounds of takedowns, cars, and crashes, are great. 
 Burnout paradise is a great game, and finally, it's close again to the burnout what I've met in 
 2004.
  
  Graphics: Nice! Nicer than NFS: pro street, that's sure. 10/10
  
  Controlls: Well, it's great, Not perfect, but great. 8/10
  
  Sounds: Could be muuuuch better. 
 6/10
  
  Gameplay: One word is enough: TAKEDOWN!!! 10/10
  
  The Good: Fast, and exciting gameplay, with good graphics
  
  The bad: Idiot sounds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelorDesigN
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the only games that combine the sandbox genere and the racing genre, and for 
 the first time in the series allows you to go anywhere you want whenever you want. Wether you want 
 to beat up some opponents in a Road Rage, rack up some stunts in Stunt Run, or just drive around 
 the city in insanely fast speeds crashing into trucks flipping them over, is completely up to you. 
 The game gives you that feeling that you have endless events, ramps and areas to cruise, and believe 
 me, that there won't be an occasion where you will find yourself without anything to do. The car 
 selection is as wide as 75 cars, each suited for different situations. The game mechanics work 
 very well and the graphics are stunning, especially the amazing ultra-realistic crash animations. 
 The controls are stable and easy to learn. One of Paradise's top portions is the Online Play, which 
 can be accesed as easily as presing the right button and selecting wether to compete in a race, 
 cruising around knocking people out, or choose from one of 50 different Freeburn Online challenges. 
 The game's only downside is the lack of a "Restart Event" button. If you lose a race or burning 
 route, you will have to go all the way back to the starting point to restart it, although you could 
 just go to a nearby event instead.
  
  Overall, this is a must-have game for all racing genere lovers. Very addictive and fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertino007
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I've own this game for long now but haven't got around to write a review. This game is pure bliss. 
 It is the best driving game I ever played and I've been a gamer since back in 98 with Tomb Raider 
 1. Nothing comes close in a driving game. Need for Speed used to dominate the genre but not anymore 
 since that rip-off of Pro Street. 
  This title is much more than just a racer, the graphics are almost perfect, true HD quality, sound 
 is amazing, listening loud through a 5.1 the engines just makes feel you're actually in the game 
 making everything happen not just on the couch.
  The minute detail of the crashing is astonishing, it makes you wanna hit everything intentionally 
 for the spectacle to unfold.
  The cars are so polished, so detailed, the surroundings so realistic it feels like you're watching 
 a movie. 
  The online part is just as amazing with lots of challenges, especially the Take-Down part which 
 is addictive.
  Overall this game is a must-have, a true representation of PS3 technology and high-res, high-def 
 visuals. 
  I know a lot of people already own this piece of art, but if you don't just grab a Demo off of 
 PSN and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  finally a free roaming burnout!!!!!!!!!
  i will start by listing the good points,
  graphics 8/10
  gameplay 9/10
  online 10/10
  SIXAXIS driving great fun 8/10
  huge map 9/10
 
  things to find jumps to make 10/10
  music 8/10
  the bad things :
  i wish there was a storymode to keep me adicted.
  when you start a race you cant quit or restart 
 how annoying you hava to keep racing and finish it,
  great fun online eg the challenges,
  a good variety of offline races not just A to B races.
  good cars and paint jobs.
  its worth 
 buying if you have a ps3 online if not its touch and go. thank gods mines online :)
  it would be good if it was 2 player split screen or something,
  i like the idea of the badges 
 and having a display picture, but a camera is needed, and mugshots online where you take down some 
 one and get there mugshot ,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DQManiac
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  My first Burnout game and I think i've picked a good one. It doesn't have the same level realism 
 as, let's say, Gran Turismo 4 but its twice as fun!!! The new open-world is a great step forward.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is why I love the game so much. The controls are very easy to pick up but its takes a while 
 to master skills like power parking. It also feels very natural to accelerate using R2 instead 
 of X.
  
  Graphics:
  This is where the producers out-done themselves, travelling at 100 km/ph but everything still looking 
 beautiful. One of the best looking games on the PS3.
  
  Content:
  There's a lot of this!!! Around 80 cars to unlock and over 100 racing points to start from. And there 
 is 55 achievements to achieve too. Also rumoured new downloadable maps will make this this game 
 much better.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is a blast, with 8 players competing in high-octane races and getting some excellent 
 takedowns makes this one of the games highlights.
  
  But with all this there is a downside. Races become repetitive and once you upgrade your license 
 it feels like your just doing the same things again.
  But the positives beat the negatives so the game gets a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Well burnout: paradise has obviously done justice. its a great game, looks jsut great, and its 
 burnout! the gameplay is smooth yet rough (cause its burnout) and theres no loading screans so that 
 makes it that much better unlike the rest of the burnouts. getting more cars though is pretty easy. 
 all you have to do is when the dude on the radio says theres a new car around, you just sit and 
 wait for the car to go past you and just try to take it down and its yours. interesting concept 
 but would be alot more interesting if the car was only in one area of the map. and the car keeps 
 going around the area. the few game modes are very very fun but there is only so many modes so 
 it get boring after you get a b licence. also the licence stsyem is alright but dosent do much. 
 online mode is where burnout: paradise really stands out. it is great just crusing around the city, 
 crashing into billboards or doing made stuff like huge jumps, or racing each other. Overall this 
 game is a must buy or atleast a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csista
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Now that I've played this for a while, I have to say this is probably my favorite burnout yet. 
 The open map is a lot of fun, took some getting used to, and I find myself doing more challenges 
 I used to skip, just because I'm at that particular intersection. Just tried online, worked great. 
 Will play a lot more when the new online modes get released.
  
  I miss Crash mode, but after playing two Burnout games to Crash Mode completion, It would have 
 probably gotten to the point of being same $#!+, different day. 
  
  The one thing this game REALLY needs is quick restarts on failed events. It's fine at first, since 
 there is always another event right around the corner, but later in the game you run out of uncompleted 
 events before your next license, and it can be tiresome driving all the way back. This goes double 
 for the timed races that are specific to a vehicle, that you need to complete in order to upgrade 
 the car.
  
  Lastly, I've played my initial hours on this game, have already bought it back out for a second 
 go-round, and will be giving it many more hours in the future, after the announcement of the addition 
 of motorcycles. For me, that usually doesn't happen, once I'm done playing, I'm done playing. And 
 that's a huge plus to the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been a long-time fan of the Burnout series, and they get better with each iteration. This 
 one rarely disappoints. Only a few questionable decisions keep this from being the best console 
 racer on the market. 
  Some pros and cons:
  Pro - Excellent sense of speed. When you hit that Boost, you're gone, and it feels awesome!
  
 Con - A few too many things stop that speed. Unlike other Burnout games, there are just a few too 
 many things that can stop you in your tracks. This is a design decision to keep the game open-ended, 
 but it can be frustrating.
  Pro - Amazing graphics. Simply stellar models and the city thrives with traffic. A rare sight to 
 behold.
  Con - I understand the decision to keep the car driverless, but it's a bit jarring to see a bunch 
 of cars with no one in them. The city is literally dead. Not a soul to be seen. The racing is over-the-top. 
 I think we can handle some over-the-top people animations as well, ala PAIN.
  Pro - Excellent courses. There are so many ways to complete a race, it's like a different game 
 each time you start it up.
  Con - You make one wrong turn, it's nearly impossible to get back in the race. 
  Pro - HUD is 
 fantastic. Except . . .
  Con - The map is all wrong. It has no option to be able to turn with your car so you confuse whether 
 to turn left or right too often, and you spend far too much time viewing it instead of the road. 
 Even races I have done a dozen times, I still need to check the map, and that split-second often 
 can lead to a mistake. It's awkward and needs to be addressed.
  Pro - Challenges. Who would have thought finding yellow gates and Burnout Billboards would be so 
 fun? I nailed a 100% parking challenge yesterday! Sweet.
  Con- Too many are way too easy. More ramp jumps to solve puzzles would have been better.
  Pro 
 - Showtime! Most are complaining about the loss of Crash Mode, and I lament its loss as well, but 
 Showtime rocks. It's like nothing before, and I do it endlessly as I try to top my score. 
  Cons - Buses. I love smacking into busses, but Showtime is entirely dependent on them. If you can't 
 find buses to multiply your score, you might as well stop trying. 
  
  If you're on the fence about whether to try this, you should rent first, as it is different. But 
 I'm willing to bet, once you try, you'll buy.
  Now go have fun!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazieHuricane0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  i love this game it is fast furious and filled with non stop racing action. the graphics are amazing 
 it makes you feel that you are actually in the game. the maps are great it has lots of fun places 
 to race in and the cars are just absolutely awsome it is very detailed with lots of fun and crazy 
 styles to it. overall i think this is a great game and is very fun to play. The racing is very 
 powerfull and makes you feel like you are actually speeding through a real beach the opponents 
 are great but be cearful not to crash or they would speed past you like you do not exist. i also 
 enjoy the atmosphere it is very intense and has an impact on you every time you crash every time 
 you play your eyes would witness a colourful burst of fun and excitement. This is a very very interesting 
 game i would even say it is a must get game, it is really worth playing and a furious racing game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logghie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Burnout paradise rulez., its one of the few game that real can be called a next gen race game. 
 The graphics are beautiful and the cars are very realistic. The city looks very nice and very big 
 its like your in a smaller version of a GTA city. You begin as a lower class driver. How further 
 you get in the game the more cars and respect you get. Like in all the burnout games you have a 
 couple of different races. You have the road race (takedown) , the survive races were you have to 
 get to the point on the map without crashing and also the time races and the ordinary races. In 
 the races you are free to take any road you want to the finish. This can sometimes be annoying 
 because you have to watch the road and the map ( our the compass at the top of your screen) at the 
 same time. In the races you also can use car repairs and boost refills. Wean you unlock a car in 
 a race, the car will drive through the city and if you pass it in the city you have to take it 
 down. I didn't yet tray the online mode but I heard it is great. this game is almost prefect that 
 is way I give it a 9,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neily1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  I find the races in this game very hard due to the compass indactor thingie. I would rather if 
 it was like other race games like nfs when u see the arrows over the roads which u are not ament 
 to go. I really enjoyed the free roaming in this game though. Found some really nice jumps and 
 i love the barrel roll thing. Very nice graphics light shining off the car fantatstic. The city 
 is huge and overall this is a great game :) the multiplayer is brill as well. The junkyard is where 
 u get ur new cars ( wrecks as they call them ) and u can go to gas stations paint shops and also 
 the junkyardto pick up your wrecks. To get new wrecks you can do this thing when it says there 
 is a new driver in paradise city and u have try and find him and take him down and if u do that 
 u get to have his wrecks and u can also get new cars when you get a new license or its a secret 
 car. I like the music in this game adam and the ants and guns and roses are my favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miguel530
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really like the rest of the burnout series but when i played burnout legends for the PSP 
 thats when i really liked burnout. When i heard burnout paradise was coming out i thought it could 
 be ok so i bought it. As soon as i played it, it drew me in i played it for about 12 hours straight. 
 it was totally addicting. I was totally surprised. The only real thing i hated was the soundtrack 
 the rest was gold.
  
  I read some of the other reviews and some where like oh "i gotta drive here in order to do this" 
 or like "why cant i jump from place to place" or "there is too much traffic" and blah blah blah. 
 The point of the game is to drive your car place to place and cause mayhem!!! If you complain that 
 you gotta drive to a certain area to do a specific thing, why did you buy the game? But overall 
 the game was COOL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  BEST BURNOUT EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Graphics: Best graphics on a racing game by a mile. Crashes look mad realistic and cool. Every 
 car has a unique crash unlike any other. Sparks that fly when you scrap another car are nice. Particle 
 effects are beautiful Paradise City is a huge graphical masterpiece.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is a bit disappointing, it has a huge soundtrack but I only listen to ten 
 select songs, but being able to hear exclusive tracks from past burnout titles is a plus. Crashes, 
 burnouts, traffic, collisions, drifts, etc. are all A+.
  
  Controls: Controls work well, very responsive.
  
  Overall: This is one of the best racing games 
 ever created. There is so much stuff to unlock its crazy. Super Jumps, Cars, Billboards, Races, 
 Junkyards, Paint Shops, Repair Shops, Smashes, Power Parking, etc. My favorite thing to do is chase 
 down cars you have seen racing threw the city to unlock them. You will be doing something else 
 and see it fly past you and you just drop everything and start chasing it. Its an adrenaline rush 
 trust me. As you can see there is always something to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say, apart from this game rules and if you don't like it then you can go home, 
 get a wash and then jump out of your bedroom window naked, because I feel that this is by far the 
 best racing game that I own or have been on.
  
  Reasons to like this game:
   Graphics are great
   Crashing detail is fantastic
   Showtime crashing is just so entertaining 
 you can't get enough of it
   Taking-down cars has never been so fun
   A variety of races to choose from
   Great set of cars to race with
   And if you get bored 
 you can just go around destroying the place
   Jumps beyond imagination
   Reaching exceptional speeds in your car
   It just glues you to the TV
   Bouncing your car 
 around when it is about as usful as a one legged man in a but kicking contest, but still it will 
 blow up anything it comes in contact with :)
   If I had to describe it in one word, I would use: insanelygood
  
  Reasons not to like this 
 game:
   I can't think of one, can you?
  
  So if you don't have this game already then I sujest you save up and get it people because it is 
 just so entertaining and racing has never been so fun. Great game, nothing bad about it at all! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Paradise City, a place that packs more punch than a heavy-weight boxer, more pizzazz 
 than a back-street burlesque, and err, more yellow than The Simpsons.
  
  Burnout Paradise is essentially an open sprawling world chock-full of Burnout goodness, and a huge 
 world at that. In fact it can take up to ten minutes just to drive from one side of the map to 
 the other, which is pretty impressive when you consider the speed some of the cars can reach. What's 
 also mightily impressive is the fact that's it's all done with no in-game load times whatsoever, 
 once the games hefty initial load is complete then you're left to your own devices. The whole city 
 is accessible from the very first minute and can be pretty overwhelming at first, with so many 
 roads and events and other such things scattered all over the place. Look to your left to see a 
 huge mass of mountain terrain, with roads winding off far into the distance, while to your right 
 you have a series of tightly-packed bustling streets. It's only after the first couple of hours 
 that everything starts to come together, routes start becoming recognisable and your ultimate goals 
 start to form.
  
  The game is split up into a number of different areas, and there are many ways to approach each 
 one. The main brunt of the game can be found within the events, and one can be found at every set 
 of traffic lights throughout the city. Just pull up at a junction, screech your tires and watch 
 as you're thrust into a fierce race across the map, or a 'Stunt Run', or become the 'Marked Man', 
 and need to get to a certain point on the map whilst a group of suspicious-looking black vehicles 
 surround you and attempt to smash you into the nearest wall. Each of the five events on offer require 
 you to use an entirely different tactic and you may find that some come easy to you whilst others 
 take a while to master. For example, you may find the 'Burning Routes' easy enough, taking a specific 
 car and driving to a certain point within a set time period. However, the 'Stunt Runs' may prove 
 a little more challenging, as you attempt rack up a high score by stringing together a series of 
 tricks, jumps and flips.
  
  Then you have 'Road Rules' which require a high score on every single road found in the game, yes 
 you heard me right, and there are an insane amount of roads to discover. You can 'rule a road' 
 in two ways, by beating a fastest time on it, or by smashing into as many vehicles as possible 
 and building up a score that way. The latter has been drafted in to replace 'Crash Mode' which 
 has been removed from the series. Instead you now push L1 and R1 (or in the case of 360 owners, 
 both triggers) to start your crash, and continue it by bashing a button which propels you forward, 
 and in turn exhausts your boost. The more cars you crash into, the longer your boost will last, 
 and this is how you prolong your run and increase your score. It's actually pretty fun and provides 
 a lot more interactivity than its predecessor, although it doesn't hold quite as much value and 
 tends to get old pretty fast.
  
  If that's not enough you have 'Billboards', 'Smashes' and 'Super Jumps'. These are similar to collectables 
 and act as side missions that help break up the action and add value to the whole experience. The 
 'Billboards' are placed throughout the map in an assortment of hard to reach places and there are 
 120 to find and break through, some are right in your face but hard to get to, and others are hidden 
 deep in the mountains, and only by using your intuition and the right car can they all be tagged. 
 'Smashes' are slightly easier to come by, these are fences that block off shortcuts and most will 
 be discovered whilst tearing through the city in general play. Then there are 'Super Jumps', 50 
 in total and each one is marked by a line of flashing cones across a ramp. Most of these are relatively 
 easy to hit and usually send you soaring over a mountain, or a river, or something, via a nifty 
 looking camera sequence.
  
  Overall there is a nice platter of dishes to get your teeth into, and while they could have added 
 a few extra events for variety here and there it all comes together to make for a pretty impressive 
 single player package that should keep you going for quite some time. While it may all feel a little 
 random at first, it matures with time, and if you're anything like me you'll find yourself frantically 
 driving through the city looking for that last 'Billboard' in the hopes of achieving one hundred 
 percent completion.
  
  The online portion is both rewarding and original, and access is achieved through a few simple 
 button presses, making the journey into cyber space easier than ever before. The challenges found 
 here are both different and, depending on your preference, bags more fun. Most of them involve 
 two-to-eight people simultaneously working together as a team to achieve a common goal, this could 
 be barrel rolling over each other, or jumping off a bridge at a certain angle so you all land on 
 the same piece of tarmac. It really is a bizarre social experience and you will probably never 
 have seen anything like it before. It's not without its shortfalls though; it can become a very 
 tiring process when you have to watch the same person attempt a jump for the umpteenth time because 
 they're just that lame, or you're driving around waiting for somebody who has left the game to 
 go grab themselves a cup of coffee. Criterion really has hit the nail on the head with this interesting 
 concept though, and it will be interesting to see how it develops if, and indeed when they bring 
 the next free-roaming instalment to our consoles.
  
  The entire city looks beautiful, from the back drop of the mountains that are visible as you cruise 
 down country roads, to the realistic glint that you get from buildings and landmarks as you dodge 
 in and out of traffic through the town. All the different settings integrate seamlessly as you 
 drive from one location to the next, and you can tell that a lot of work has gone into this aspect 
 in particular. They've also shown an incredible eye for detail, with thousands of different signs 
 and posters littered throughout, the cars even have indicators that blink when they're about to 
 change lanes. Perhaps the most impressive factor is the ultra-smooth frame rate, and the effects 
 that accompany it really create the sense that you're travelling at super high speeds. The car 
 models are also impressive, while they can't compete with the likes of Forza, Gran Turismo, or 
 even Project Gotham Racing; they do come packed with a fair bit of detail. It's just a shame they 
 have no drivers, nor any official licences, that would have given the game that extra level of 
 realism.
  
  The sound isn't nearly as pleasing, and I personally found myself reaching for the mute button 
 on more than one occasion. It's mostly down to the commentator who spurts out a bunch of nonsense 
 every chance he gets. The music isn't the greatest either, and if you take out the inclusion of 
 the ever-awesome Paradise City by Guns N' Roses then what you're left with is a bunch of pop rock 
 tripe and un-catchy techno tracks that grate on you after five seconds. The car-based audio isn't 
 half-bad though, while each model may not be licensed you can certainly decipher what each model 
 is based upon and use that as a comparison, each one revving and roaring like it's real-life counterpart. 
 
  
  This abrupt change to the Burnout series may have been a huge risk on Criterion's part, but it's 
 one that's paid off big time. When you break through the games overwhelming exterior, there is 
 a solid and extremely playable game to be found, with an absolute feast of events and challenges 
 to partake in. Dig a little deeper and there is a whole host of extra content waiting for the more 
 committed gamers amongst us to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99X
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the obvious things - Burnout Paradise is no where near as good as the series was 
 before. The game is a lot of fun to play when you're doing events, but the problem is getting to 
 those events, and more importantly failing an event, is really annoying. here's what I really didn't 
 like about the game, which was most of it:
  
  1. No retry, restart or try again - What good is a racing game if you can't restart the race or 
 try it again if you don't get 1st place. Nothing is worse then coming in 2nd place a hair behind 
 1st to realize you have to drive allllllll the way back to start it again. 
  
  2. no instant jump around the map - Lets take a hint from Test Drive: unlimited... which was an 
 open world racer with events around the map - that if you were really far and wanted to do a race 
 you didn't have to drive for a half hour to get to it. You could go to your map view and quickly 
 jump to where it was pointing. 
  
  3. No crash mode - Crash mode was one of the things that made the burnout series so great, yet 
 they decided to take it out with a far less realistic version. I wasn't really a fan of the power 
 ups, but this version is even worse. 
  
  4. Poor race makers - The little compass arrow that tries to point you in the direction of the 
 finish line is not that helpful at all. Most of the time I spent looking at the mini map hoping 
 I was going the right way, only to realize that I accidentally got on an on-ramp in the wrong direction. 
 I get the idea of wanting you to find your own way, but this leads to me trying to look at the 
 mini map more then road to make sure I'm still going in the right direction. 
  
  5. Switching Cars - I hate the fact that I have to drive to a junk yard to change vehicles - If 
 I'm 100 miles away at a race that is for a specific model and I have the car - I don't want to 
 have to drive to the junk yard, get it and drive all the way back - I just want to race. The fact 
 that I HAVE to, especially since they're isn't a quick jump - really makes me get frustrated fast. 
 
  
  6. Traffic - Part of the fun of the burnout series was that you couldn't hit any traffic (oncoming 
 or not) . The thrill of barely squeaking by a semi truck and a car, inches from being smashed to 
 bits was exciting. Now with the way you can traffic check and run into people, etc etc.. it just 
 doesn't leave that excitement anymore. 
  
  7 . People? - I understand that they probably didn't want you driving over the people on sidewalks 
 and what not - but no drivers? are we in some world where everyone has vanished and all is left 
 is self driving cars? at least put some drivers in the car. 
  
  Overall, this game is a great disappointment, mostly because they left out simple things ( like 
 quick jump on the map view, restart race) that would have made it much more enjoyable to play. 
 I say don't bother with this game and buy Burnout 3: take down instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a difficult game to think about reviewing. Whilst you may assume that this 
 may be simply due to a mixture of both good and bad in the game, you'd be wrong. The game is almost 
 all excellent, rather, it seems that the amount of time you spend playing the game will have a 
 direct (ish) influence on how awesome you truly believe it is. 
  
  If you've ever played one of Criterion's previous offerings of Burnout goodness before (and you 
 really should) then you'll know that the Burnout games have always had the ultimate goal of forcing 
 you into being scared of taking your eyes off the screen for a split-second. Not only does this 
 have the effect of making the game incredibly immersive, but also makes you feel like a complete 
 bad ass. Who honestly doesn't want to at least once try rocketing through the streets in a sexy 
 muscle car, staying inches away from dancing merrily through the air in a rapidly diminishing tin 
 can? From this perspective Burnout Paradise delivers on almost every level: it's eye-blisteringly 
 fast, and runs very smoothly to boot, and for the most part is just plain fun. 
  
  You start the game by being given your first license, picking a car, and then being dropped off 
 outside a junk yard with your new ride. From here on the entire city is open to you, you could 
 go and fix up your car if you wished, try a burning route to unlock a souped up version of your 
 car, or maybe try and explore the city, smashing billboards or finding hidden routes. Or maybe, 
 just maybe, you'll wanne try a race, in which case all you need to do is pull up to a set of traffic 
 lights, pull on both triggers, and instantaneously have drivers race past you to the finish line. 
 During the brief explanation before you 're returned control of your car you learn your destination, 
 which will be one of eight corners of the map. With their being only several destinations possible 
 for any race, you'll soon know the areas around each of the finish lines very well, allowing you 
 to navigate these areas quickly and easily. Whilst staying in Paradise City you may also want to 
 try any number of other events on offer including the burnout staples of the aforementioned burning 
 routes and races, as well as road rages, but you may also want to to try new event types, the marked 
 man event tasking you with getting to a destination without being totally by other angry drivers, 
 and stunt run, where you're free to roam the city earning a certain amount of points which you 
 get from doing stunts.
  
  Navigating the map may be a little more difficult at first and means the game has a bit of a steep 
 learning curve to start off with. Burnout Paradise is a truly open world game and as such you'll 
 find that there's never only one route to the finish line. Once you get used to it, the open world 
 gameplay becomes a blessing. Instead of just following the pack across the main roads of the city 
 you may want to find a set of steps that may or may not lead down to where you need to go. Once 
 you find optimum routes around the city, the open world mechanic feels so perfect. However, all 
 to often your left following a dirt track, wondering whether it would be quicker to sit it out, 
 or return the way you came. As you can probabely guess, moments like those puncture Burnout's wheels 
 somewhat (Ed: consider yourself PUNNED!!!) . For the most part though, Criterion have done a great 
 job of finding your way around the city as quick and painless as possible, and you rarely find 
 yourself cursing for taking a wrong turning.
  
  Unfortunately this honeymoon period doesn't last for long. After you complete enough races to unlock 
 a new license, all the races you've completed will be cleared off the map so you can go and do 
 them again. This leads to a certain amount of repetition in the races and when you consider that 
 they're also all set in the same city, you may find yourself passing a few points of interest a 
 little too often. 
  
  On the shiny side of the things, Paradise is one shiny beast. Cars look amazing, even more so when 
 you find yourself engaging in one of your many crashes around the city. Clearly a whole load of 
 effort has gone into making these cars crash just right, they'll crumple nearly exactly where the 
 collision happened, and when they fall apart you could be forgiven for thinking that Criterion 
 have been in a few crashes of their own. The environments look just as good whilst you're hurtling 
 by them, which is how they should be experienced, and the city is varied enough in its architecture 
 to really give you a sense that this city could exist in reality. 
  
  Sound-wise, Burnout delivers to a satisfactory standard. Car crashed sound adequately visceral, 
 and sliding around a corner at 150 miles an hour was always going to sound good. The soundtrack 
 however, seems as though Criterion let their ten year old children decide on it, and then let them 
 tell the DJ (Atomica!) what to say. The less said on the subject of the soundtrack the better, 
 but suffice to say, I played the game with the music turned off, with a stereo behind me pumping 
 out my desired soundtrack. 
  
  At the end of the day, Burnout Paradise delivers exactly what you'd want a Burnout game to deliver 
 on. It's fast, pretty, and is really fast, but unfortunately there just isn't enough here to do 
 after you've completed all the races a few times. If you're an existing fan, go nuts, but if you're 
 looking for something a little different, you'd best look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Some people might have thought that this game would have been a bit iffy. Open world gameplay? 
 Dispensing with the old A to B tracks and set routes, Burnout Paradise really puts gamers to the 
 test as to whether they have what it takes to drive... or not.
  
  As you must find you're own way around, the fastest routes, those sneaky little shortcuts that 
 will give you just that tiny edge over your opponent - it's all part of the fun. 
  
  One downside may be the lack of variety within they race types, which consist of four main ones. 
 However, the races never seem to bore as you zoom through traffic, jumping off ramps at full boost 
 through a billboard and then through a fence... just as a little detour, not knowing where to land.
 
  
  Another annoyance would be the lack of retry option, failure means either doing something else 
 or driving all the way back to where you started. More or less though, there will be another event 
 where you can start which will more often than not bring you back round anyway.
  
  Lovely game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Years back, I was a huge fan of the first Need for Speed Underground for PS2. I played the crap 
 out of it, and was pumped when NFSU2 came out. Unfortunately, what I found out, was that EA has 
 totally messed with the Underground formula. Gone were the quickly launch-able events and simple 
 menu system. In its place, was a game in which I had to drive to events and drive to shops to tune 
 my car. It took way too long to find everything. So after about 2 days, I gave up on it. However, 
 there was one redeeming feature of that game... it came with a demo of Burnout. I was unaware of 
 the franchise at the time, but I learned a whole lot about it very quickly very soon after that.
 
  
  After playing that demo more than I ever played Underground 2, I bought Burnout 3 Takedown and 
 loved every minute of it. The fast paced, highly addictive racing and takedowns of the demo were 
 just the tip of the iceberg. My favorite feature of the game was the Crash mode in which you would 
 launch your car into and intersection or cluster of cars and try to rack up as much damage as possible. 
 It became a minor obsession of mine.
  
  Fast forward a few years. After losing touch with my PS2 while finishing up college and working 
 part time, I decided to hop on the PS3 bandwagon and reacquaint myself with the gaming world. Much 
 to my simultaneous delight and disappointment, I learned of Burnout Paradise. Delight obviously 
 due to the fact the Burnout was back, but disappointment due to the fact that EA was once again 
 forcing an open world driving game upon one of my favorite franchises. 
  
  To my surprise, I actually prefer the open world style in a Burnout game. It works much better 
 than NFSU2 did, and the world that Criterion has created is fun to drive around in and explore. 
 Also, the multitude of events (at every street intersection) means that you don't have to drive 
 all over the map to make it to the next event. You choose which event to launch and it makes no 
 difference what order you complete them in (other than repeating an event, which doesn't earn you 
 anything) .
  
  Some of the event types include; Race, Stunt, Road Rage, Marked Man, and Burning Route.
  
  
 Race - the typical Burnout race mode, with takedowns and boost... however, this time, given the 
 open world, you can take any route to get the finish line. This took some patience at the beginning 
 due to the fact that I had no idea where I was going. However, I learned to watch for the turning 
 cues on the HUD that act almost like GPS, in that they will correct you if you make a wrong turn.
 
  
  Stunt - exactly as it sounds. Drive around the city, look for ramps, split ramps, billboards to 
 jump through, and jumps to earn points. Again, this takes a little patience given that the world 
 is completely open and you need to find stuff before you launch the event. This was, you can map 
 out a route and rack up the points.
  
  Road Rage - classic Burnout takedown match. You are given a target number of take downs, and you 
 must complete them before you are taken down 3 times (without repairing your car at one of the 
 drive thru service stations located around the map) or before time runs out. This is classic burnout 
 with a heavy emphasis on the cinematic car destruction they crafted. This gets challenging beyond 
 the first few rounds and is my favorite event.
  
  Marked Man - you must complete a route before you are taken down 3 times (unless you repair yourself) . 
 This can be frustrating given all the traffic, but also rewarding given it difficulty.
  
  Burning Route - this is the only type of event that must be sought out. Each vehicle has one intersection 
 that launches its burning route, and if you complete the route in the time allotted, you win a 
 souped up version of that car.
  
  Now, given that my favorite part of BO3: TD was the crash events, an open world doesn't really seem 
 to fit that type of event, but again, Criterion has come through, and proved my doubts wrong. By 
 pressing L1 and R1, at any point on the map, you launch yourself into "Showtime" mode and try to 
 crash in to as many cars, trucks, and buses as possible before your boost meter runs out. The boost 
 drains over time, and also when you press the X button to launch yourself back in to the air if 
 you have settled to a stop. You can direct yourself while in the air, to hit as many cars as possible. 
 Hitting a car not only racks up points, but it recharges your boost meter. Buses act as score multipliers, 
 and its fun trying to keep a roll going, waiting for just one more bus to come along and really 
 push up your score. 
  
  Although the "puzzle" aspect of crash mode is mostly gone, Showtime more that fills the void. This 
 is once again my favorite part of Burnout, and I have spent a fair amount of time trying to beat 
 my own best scores.
  
  Burnout Paradise also includes an impressive multiplayer component. This is the most seamless integration 
 of multiplayer I have even seen in a game. While driving around the city (not already in an event) , 
 you bring up the online menu, which does not take you out of game, and invite a some friends in, 
 or join an instant match. No matter where you are on the map when you launch multiplayer, that 
 is when you start in the multiplayer map. Totally seamless and very impressive.
  
  Playing online is a lot of fun, especially with friends. Takedowns are much more meaningful when 
 you know the other driver. There are events and challenges that the host can launch, or you can 
 just drive around town, plowing into the other drivers. No matter what you do, its a good time.
 
  
  I have been playing for over 10 hours now, and am only about 40% of the way through the single 
 player game. There is so much to do in the game, that I am now thrilled that they made the game 
 an open world. Kudos to Criterion.
  
  From a more technical standpoint, this game is great graphically, includes a diverse (although 
 not brilliant) soundtrack, and has a "DJ" that will provide clues as to where to find all of the 
 hidden goodies around the map (which, I think I forgot to mention, is pretty huge, but not so big 
 as to make it a burden to drive from one end to the other) .
  
  This is a great game, and with the promise of more content on the way, its only going to get better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spon234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This is nothing like any other Burnout game (in a good way) . You can experience so much more than 
 the previous games and the online mode is awesome and VERY fun! I think that the "open" world gameplay, 
 as they say, is totally bogus though. It doesn't feel so open. I mean, if you see an area that 
 has easy access, can you drive it? NO! You will just get wrecked instead. And why the heck is the 
 railroad blocked off after every mile? I don't know. Despite all of the cons of this game, I still 
 think that this game is very addicting and hard to detach from. Maybe it will get better after 
 future updates. Who knows...... With awesome gameplay and even more awesome online features, this 
 has to be my favorite game of the year. Once you start playing it, you will never play any other 
 game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrison91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Although its still called burnout it's completely different to the previous games.
  It's still about cars and driving insanely fast but it's not as fast pasted as burnout 3 and the 
 others were.
  
  If you're a new comer to the franchise you should just plain like it but if you are looking for 
 the burnout you love and remember, prepare to be surprised. If it's a good or bad surprise it depends 
 what you're looking for. If you want a sandbox style racer, look no further, but if you want the 
 old burnout signature racing style you'll be appalled at what direction the developers have sent 
 the game franchise. It's not as fast pasted as the last ones the races are more like who can find 
 the quickest route first if you take a wrong turn it's all over you've lost. In the old games if 
 you crashed because you couldn't make wrong turns back then you could easily catch back up, but 
 that's changed here you'll have to stop wait for the auto quit and start again. The other race 
 modes are inventive like marked man is were you are being chased by insanely stupid blood thirsty 
 cars, road rage returns this mode has no track you just drive aimlessly in what ever direction 
 you want because there is no route but you do have to take down other racers, stunt run is were 
 you have to send you car up ramps round corners and through billboards to get you're score, Burning 
 route where you have to be driving a certain car and get to a certain place in a certain time as 
 you can tell this can be certainly annoying and finally Shut-downs this isn't really a mode more 
 of something to do in you spare time between races basically you drive around and wait for another 
 racer to drive by from then on it's you goal in life to end his.
  
  The graphics look brilliant but the cars always gets dints in the same place on the on the car 
 you are driving no matter how you crash the only thing that can determine what the dint looks like 
 is your speed but that just makes the mark bigger, a bit last generation with the dints. But when 
 the car is wreaked it's hardly noticeable because you usually hurtling through the air at 200 miles 
 per hour. The most annoying thing in the game besides the absence of a restart option and the announcer 
 witch you'd think the developers would have realised is one of gods mistakes put in a video game, 
 is the slow motion it doesn't do anything apart from show off a few graphical glitches, it takes 
 you away from the action and is one of the reasons why you grow tired of this game.
  
  So, the game play is fun but gets tired easily, the crashes take to long and the announcer is giving 
 you a reason to hate video games.
  
  So with all that said this is a bad game right, well no it isn't bad the online mode is fun and 
 just the knowledge of knowing you destroying your car and the city is just plain awesome. 
  
  So I liked this game it was good game but not a good burnout game. Pretend it's another insanely 
 fast racer and you'll be fine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Finally the first Burnout game on the PS3 and the first real next gen burnout on next gen consoles 
 are finally here. Even thou Revenge was an amazing game. This one just got better with one big 
 huge city for you to play in. 
  
  First you start off at a junk yard they give you a nice trashed muscle car to start with and you 
 have about 200+ events that you can start off at any traffic light within the city by pressing 
 R2+L2. 
  
  Races are basically racing with other AIs and whoever gets to the finish line first wins. There's 
 no arrows to help you like in the previous burnout so you'll have to figure out which is your best 
 path to get to the finish line before the AI. I wouldn't suggest following to AI either if you 
 planning to win the race. 
  
  Another Mode that's in this game that made the previous Burnout games so great is crash mode which 
 has now between changed to Showtime. You can start this mode of any time within the game once you 
 crash with another car. You simply just have to press L1+R1 to start it and as long as you keep 
 hitting cars you'll get boost and you can continue getting points until you run out of boost. This 
 is one of my favorite modes in the game right after takedown, still was popular in crashing, and 
 still is !
  
  
  You also have the easy jump in online multiplayer by simply press the right d-pad on the dualshock3 
 oh and yes it does support rumble. So the online mode is seamless with the single player campaign 
 mode.
  
  The graphics in this game look just jaw dropping beautiful. Paradise City has some really nice 
 settings and if you've played the previous Burnout you'll notice some similarities in some parts 
 of the city with other burnout cities. It's like one big World of the previous burnout cities. 
 The sound in the game is tremendously rad !
  
  
  So yea, most or shall i say, ALL of them are just awsome, know i kn ow why does it have tha word "Paradise 
 "in it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  
  The latest entry in the Burnout racing series, Burnout Paradise gives you (and me, of course) license 
 to wreak havoc in Paradise City, the ultimate racing battleground, with a massive infrastructure 
 of traffic-heavy roads to abuse. Gone is the need to jump in and out of menus and aimlessly search 
 for fun like many open world games; in Burnout Paradise, every inch of the world is built to deliver 
 heart-stopping Burnout-style gameplay. Every intersection is a potential crash junction and every 
 alleyway is an opportunity to rack up moving violations. Feel the adrenaline course through your 
 veins as you take to the road for the first time in Paradise City, where the action is all around 
 you. Explore the city, discover events, and look for the best opportunities to crash, jump and 
 pull signature take downs. In Burnout Paradise you are given the keys to the city, and it's up 
 to you to earn the keys to the meanest and most dangerous cars on the street, and earn your Burnout 
 license. Burnout Paradise marks a complete and fairly radical reinvention of the series, bringing 
 together all the best stuff from the past games, adding some new stuff in and then wrapping it 
 all up in a totally free-roaming urban environment.
  
  Burnout Paradise is, by far, the most open and interesting Burnout game I've ever played. Burnout 
 Paradise this time is an extremely elegant solution, re-designing the entire game so effortlessly 
 and naturally that you might struggle to believe that there was ever a Burnout game that wasn't 
 like this.
  
  Does it have flaws? Yes, of course. The most major one is obvious when you fail a race and have 
 to hike back across the entire map in order to restart  a simple quick-travel or retry function 
 would have been a welcome addition. The same is true when you want to change the car and have to 
 spend a while hunting down one of the five junkyards on the map.
  
  Still, Burnout Paradise is clearly a new highpoint for the series. The game is a must buy for any 
 racing fan (and who loves to crash and smash his cars as well ;) ) ...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Criterion brings revolutionary changes to the series. Getting rid of closed tracks is just right. 
 I hated towns in NFS (that's why i love Pro street) but in Burnout Paradise city is right what 
 gamers need. Full of destruction and free to explore. Shutting down addictions for ya car collection 
 is pretty fun, searching for billboards and smashes is too - thanks to showing how much you need 
 in each place. Driving around is cool, because you can activate something anytime - each traffic 
 light has it own race plus road rules, destruction's and achievements. Paradise city - place which 
 never become boring. Anyway you can go online. Full of fun with friends - achievements and road 
 rules presented here too, and it giving even bigger fun than offline one's. Just a few bugs - Criterion 
 will fix it soon, so don't look at them - they don't affect gameplay much. New Burnout - game for 
 everyone and everybody will get a lot of fun from this article. Finally, graphics here is cutting 
 edge and car damage here is just perfect to be displayed on your Full-HD TV... And sorry for my 
 spelling if something is not right - im not very familiar with english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtylarrygb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I generally hate car games, you know 1-5 hours of viewing the tracks try some fast cars and I'm 
 bored.
  
  Now to me thebest car game ever was the GTA series, as you could jump out and shoot the idiot who 
 cut you up.
  
  Now In BPC like the other Burnout games turns driving into a contact sport.
  So for the minute 
 you start you start to get the idea although driving skills will help, being agressive is even 
 more important.
  
  The huge city which takes 5-10 hours to learn your way round. Is filled with several types of races.
 
  
  Simple races, were generally the speed style cars will win. You drive from a-b.
  
  Road Rages, Basically knock a set amount of cars into the nearest wall as you drive around the 
 city as they try to ram you into the wall.
  
  Stunts, were you find the jumps in the city and string combo's together to beat a score.
  
 
  Marked man where you drive a car from a-b and several cars spawn to ram you into the nearest wall.
 
  
  And special events where you use a certain car to perform a time run.
  
  Now add to that you need to smash so many billboards, find secret routes and spend days finding 
 the best routes across this vast city what you have is a great looking and sounding arcade racer 
 like sandbox game.
  
  Mix ridgeracer speed with Tony hawks meets GTA sandbox with missions like test drive unlimited 
 and you have BPC.
  
  It's fun, its silly, it entertaining, it has great SP and MP content.
  
  Loads of cars, tons 
 of unlocks and hidden extras to find.
  
  If you want realism buy GT5, want some fun buy BPC.
  
  Right now its one of the best titles 
 on the PS3.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AB13_HardRocker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  the game is great, i have it for the PS3 and the graphics are really cool. The crashes in the game 
 are very awsome. My friend came over so i could show him this game. I was showing him and we were 
 both in awwww of the graphics, sound, and the crashes. Then i went to go play multiplayer so we 
 both could play and race against each other. I looked for it and i couldnt find it. I looked on 
 the back of the game box and saw it was only up to 1 player. That sucked when i saw that. The single 
 player game is really fun for about the first hour or so. After that, it feels like you are repeating 
 the same race over and over again. I give this game a 7.5 out of 10. It is a great game because 
 of the graphics and crashes but after a while it gets preety boring and feels like you are doin 
 the same thing over and over again. If they put mutiplayer on this it would have been such a better 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatkky
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I first got this game after i read a review of it on Gamespot. expectations were sky-high since 
 folks rated it a whopping 9/10. However when i first started out i was in for a shock. this game 
 is nothing like Burnout Revenge and in fact bore more resemblance to GTA instead (think car paints/ 
 booster/ repair shops) . i was also rather disappointed when i realised that they took away features 
 like traffic checks and take downs weren't so spectacular anymore. 
  
  HOWEVER (thank God) , it really does grow on u after that initial disappointment. races are tougher, 
 unlocking cars become more fun because you need to take them down on the road (called shut down 
 in the game) before you really own them in your junkyard. cars also are more unique compared to 
 those in burnout revenge as their appearances and qualities totally vary. this motivates us to 
 want to win more races and unlock more interesting cars.
  
  Overall, enjoyable. I just wish those fun factors from the previous burnout game weren't taken 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyrupJunkie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  I've never really been a burnout fan, the older games never did anything for me, but Paradise has 
 converted me.
  
  Its original, for starters. What other racing game lets you drive around for the sake of smashing 
 up the scenery, and of course, your car.
  
  There are over a hundred events, from the simple race and stunt events to marked man and road rages, 
 where the whole purpose is to 'take down' a set amount of cars. Mucho fun! Theres also the burning 
 route events, which is just a timed run in a certain car, if you win, you unlock an upgraded version 
 of that car.
  
  The multiplayer part of it is what makes the game. Free roam driving with another 7 players? Carnage! 
 Being able to hook up an eyetoy and get snaps of other people as you take them down is a nice touch 
 too! :D
  
  My only annoyance is not being able to restart a race, and having to drive back to the starting 
 point.
  
  But of course, at least the stunning graphics will give you something to look at... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_biggin
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I love Burnout. Burnout 2 on GC is only surpassed by Burnout 3 on XBox and I completed them both. 
 I also love PGR 2&3 on XBox&360. Playing through Paradise I initially was very impressed and found 
 just a few things annoying = 9/10. 2 weeks later the annoying things are bugging the hell out of 
 me while the bit I liked is getting stale. The game looks beautiful but is let down by awful mode 
 choices, cluttered urban environment, the lure of achievements over core play, and loss of arcade 
 collision forgiveness. Overall it hasn't come close to hitting the heights of Burnout 3 and is 
 getting itself confused trying to be too much of a serious GT \ PGR rather than the fun arcade 
 game it was. I now consider the game a 7.5/10 and await the next instalment.
  
  Firstly open world - I don't like it.
  I didn't like it in NFS: U2 and I don't like it here. There's 
 nothing worse than playing for an hour and realising you haven't actually done anything or gone 
 anywhere. It's sort of cool to drive around but there's times I just want to do the events and 
 having to go find them annoys the **** out of me. The open world should have been optional to explore 
 and put the damn achievements in there for those that give a toss. Also I constantly find myself 
 at the same races and by A license time you've done those same races 5 or 6 times already. That 
 makes the game seem really stale and repetitive PLUS racing in cities just doesn't do it for me.
 
  
  Races - The most enjoyable part of the game by far.
  Sure there's some strange AI where you can never get past an AI car on turbo because it will ALWAYS 
 turbo when you do (even if not quite as obviously as MotorStorm) . Also collision detection seems 
 to be a lot less forgiving which for an arcade style game detracts from the fun of it.
  
  Stunt - CRAP!
  Talk about awful. Every time I find a stunt run I find myself wishing it was anything 
 else. Burnout's too fast to see detours and the like coming so you tend to pass them before you 
 know it and then have to turn around to get them or drive slow and be on the lookout - sort of 
 defeats the purpose of Burnout to me. The alternative is to check out a stunt car but then you 
 have to go around looking only for those - yawn!
  
  Takedown/Marked Man - Fun.
  Although altered by replacing fixed length races with timed ones due to the lack of dedicated tracks. 
 Still a good staple of burnout play and more time for good performance is actually an improvement 
 (though some will get to the point of stopping takedowns just to finish the race) .
  
  ??? - I MISS CRASH MODE. There I said it.
  I haven't even seen the new mode of play. By hiding 
 it off in a separate area I feel as if it's not even part of the game. Ultimately I feel like the 
 game has no focus and leaves me meandering around feeling like I'm doing lots of km's while achieving 
 nothing. This left me with the strange desire to trade a game in for the first time ever. I'm both 
 scared and confused by this feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is by far the best game for PS3 so far and I will tell you why.
  
  Paradise City is a huge free roaming racing stunting crashing paradise, it is everything you want 
 from a driving game. There are 78 cars to choose from which is plenty and theres some really nice 
 ones in there.
  
  Events include race, stunt run, road rage, burnout route and marked man which are all a great deal 
 of fun.
  
  Graphics are decent, ive seen better but they have a very nice arcade feel to them, paradise city 
 is beautifully designed.
  
  Online mode is where this game really shows what it can do, one little click of the d-pad and boom 
 you're online, no loading no lobbys just suddenly theres people with you in Paradise. It is also 
 very easy to invite friends.
  
  With 350 different online challenges and races to enjoy online mode is brilliant, the races are 
 good because its just a start and a finish and you have to find your own way.
  
  I have clocked up around 600 hours in paradise and Im not even the slightest bit bored of it.
 
  
  I would give this game a 10 but there are obviously things that could make it better such as custom 
 soundtracks more online modes etc... 
  
  Criterion are talking about big plans for DLC, new cars, modes, events, islands, its going to be 
 a great year in paradise.
  
  So overall a near perfect game, im not even sure if GTA will be able to top this, we will have 
 to wait and see.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freebird8877
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because all my mates were going to buy it, and for the first week, it thought 
 it was good. Then, it became very boring. I'm going to trade it in for GTA IV. I recommend renting 
 this game first. And in all honestly, I didn't have as much fun with this game as I did with Burnout 
 3: Takedown. It's a pretty solid game, don't get me wrong. There are tons of challenges to do, 
 and the online is innovative. But essentially, all you're doing is driving a car around with no 
 real objective other than raming your friends car online. Well, I don't have much else to say for 
 this game, and their is a character limit. Burnout is a decent game, but boring, kind of like 
 
  Warhawk. I'm still playing RFOM online, which is sad, because it was a launch title but is the 
 best online game on PS3 : / 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex8000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  A Great Passtime
  
  Story: While the game does not technically have a story, it does a pretty good job in trying to 
 tie things together with a little bit of realism. 8/10
  
  Presentation: The graphics are great, and the physics engine is one to envy, while the cars aren't 
 actual models, they each have their respective actual model; it isn't a Gran Turismo, but it's 
 really nice eye candy. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fantastic, you can cruise around, just jump things and crash, or drive 
 with 7 of your friends through a massive city. 10/10
  
  Design: The game has a wonderful way of allowing you to race or hit other cars, and playing online 
 is a blast.10/10
  
  Overall: 9.25/10
  
  Burnout Paradise is a great game to play whenever you need some intense crashes or want to cruise 
 with your friends. And the immense number of cars will keep you wanting to unlock more and more 
 of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The racing game genre in recent years has split between varieties of themes. Most racing games 
 can be categorized under street, simulation, or arcade racing. The Burnout series squeezes a little 
 bit from each of those categories and makes the thesis of the game quite clear: wreck havoc. Burnout 
 Paradise takes a turn into new territory this time around, giving the opportunity to freely cruise 
 throughout an open-ended city. The city's name is pretty obvious given the title of the game, but 
 many rock fans catch the Guns 'N Roses reference. According to Guns 'N Roses, the grass is green 
 and the girls are pretty in Paradise City, I think it is safe to say there is a good reason why 
 they are biased in their lyrics.
  
  What sets the Burnout series apart from the mainstream is the realism in crashes and the techniques 
 the game play uses to take advantage of it. Crashing in Paradise City can either be beneficial 
 or a complete waste of time (just extending the lead for the opposing players in races) . Crashing, 
 in a close head to head race or whilst trying to rack up combo points in a stunt run, generally 
 always sets you back. Either because of the time lost on the clock or due to everyone else in the 
 race just zipping on by as you barrel roll down the intersection. Yet on the other hand, smashing 
 into traffic is exactly what you want to do in a little mode called Showtime. No matter where the 
 car is, whenever the player sees fit he or she can tap two buttons at the same time and enter Showtime. 
 When Showtime is activated, the car shoots up into the air and the ability to steer the car in 
 any direction is given. With the tap of a button the car can be bounced up into the air again to 
 keep the mayhem going just to rack up more cold hard cash.
  
  When I first revved my engine in Paradise City I was clueless as to where I should've begun. Don't 
 let that cross your mind when you pick up this game for the first time; one of the stronger points 
 of this game is the freedom to do whatever you feel. It's not confined to race after race after 
 race, unless of course the player wants it to be. The layout is pretty simple; at most intersections 
 there's an event that can be entered and there are different locations that are evenly distributed 
 throughout Paradise City. While the layout is simple, having the ability to "teleport" to pin-pointed 
 locations would be a huge plus but alas, we are restricted to emitting more CO2 into the precious 
 air of Paradise City.
  
  Driving around the city shortcuts, billboards, jumps, events, and drive-thrus will be found. But 
 the most important of all them is without a doubt the events themselves. As events are beaten the 
 license, given at the beginning of the game, upgrades. Simultaneously cars are unlocked and put 
 out on the street just waiting to be taken down, sent to the Junkyard, and added to the collection 
 (there's a total of 75 cars that can be unlocked) . Burnout Paradise does a good job of maintaining 
 a diverse array of cars that just wait to be totaled. The cars are divided among three categories: 
 Stunt, Aggressive, and Racing. They are different due to the way boosts are attained. With Stunt 
 cars a boost is given whenever the driver performs a drift, near miss, etc. and can be used whenever 
 the driver sees fit. Aggressive cars are similar, only the boost bar extends whenever the driver 
 takes down the competition. Then there is Racing cars, they cannot use the boost anytime. The gauge 
 in a Racing car has to be capped in order to start a boost and if the driver goes through an entire 
 boost without being interrupted a burnout occurs. A burnout is simply a freebie boost that seems 
 to feel a whole lot faster than a regular one. 
  
  It took me a while to fully understand that some cars should be used for specific events just to 
 make them a whole lot easier. For example, for a Race event one should undoubtedly use a Racing 
 car for its insane boost. For the Road Rage events an Aggressive car would be the ideal choice 
 considering the point of the event is to take down x-amount of cars before the clock runs out. 
 Every car has its own unique perks, which is good; that way, every player will flow through the 
 collection of cars rather than stick with just one.
  
  Once anyone unlocks a sweet ride they are going to feel the need to showcase it online. Thankfully, 
 the transition from burning rubber offline to online is seamless. No matter where I am in the city, 
 if I get the itch to go head-to-head with some friends or random buffoons all I have to do is hit 
 one button to activate the online menu. The online menu (dubbed Easy Drive) pops up on the side 
 of the screen while still racing, the game does not pause. Choosing Freeburn Online will toss in 
 seven other players into the city without any load times. During Freeburn Online a ton of challenges 
 can be activated by players such as races and whatnot, but throughout the session there is a scoreboard 
 that displays the best air times, barrel rolls, burnouts, drifts, flat spins, jump distances and 
 so on. Freeburn Online just continues to justify why the non-linear aspect of this game is so great. 
 Everything online can be accessed with so much ease. Having an online component to this degree 
 adds to the immense replay value Burnout Paradise holds.
  
  While the games laid-back style of game play and engaging online mode are huge contributors to 
 Burnout Paradise's arsenal, nothing would be the same without its eye-candy visuals. The racing 
 genre of this generation has a tendency to generate amazing graphics. Burnout Paradise continues 
 that streak without fail. When a crash occurs it's visually immaculate. With the exception of a 
 few screen tearing happening once in a blue moon, it is hard to believe it can get better than 
 this.
  
  One of the few gripes I have with Burnout Paradise is the use of its infamous EA Trax. I am sure 
 you have read it elsewhere, but I am still asking myself what was running through the developers 
 minds when they decided to toss a few odd tracks on there. My personal favorite is Avril Lavinge's 
 "Girlfriend". Oh yes, that is exactly what I want to hear when I am roaring down I-88 into oncoming 
 traffic. With the exception of that, DJ Atomika of Crash FM does a good job showing the ropes and 
 tossing in a few tips every now and then.
  
  All in all, Burnout Paradise's new approach to the series works wonders on so many different levels. 
 Paradise City provides an immense amount of things to do and leaves it all up to the man behind 
 the wheel. I am going to quote a tidbit from that creepy Cadillac commercial: "The real question 
 is: When you turn your car on Does it return the favor?" I am going to finally answer that question 
 in relation to my topic here with a resounding yes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggamuffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  So burnout paradise is a amazing game, and it steps away from driving game conventions to produce 
 something that is fun and compelling. The issue then is that it probably wont last. It is fun because 
 you feel like you're doing something new but unless they make something different it wont keep 
 you going forever. The games way of justifying what you're doing is just by giving you a license 
 and then asking you to do a bunch of tasks consisting of ramming other drivers off the road and 
 demolishing them, running away from big tough black mustang cars and surviving the trip, go anywhere 
 stunt missions and races, to get better ones. The game gives you many options in terms of how to 
 achieve those goals because you perform these tasks in a large scale city which is reasonably detailed 
 though lacking of A SINGLE HUMAN BEING including a driver; regardless, you can choose a path to 
 get to the end of a race or a survival mission and stunt and road rage missions allow you to go 
 anywhere which makes each task somewhat fresh though the whole idea of doing these 4 task so much 
 gets old eventually. The world has some issues in it to, there are sections of the road that are 
 closed off and require you to divert a while down an offroad path and if you're the type of goal 
 driven person I am you will likley ignore these and it is disapointing that it is probable you 
 will not see every jump and turn before you're done playing this game. The physics and damage in 
 the game is "awesome" but it's just ridiculous some of the things that happen. The way the parts 
 fall off is often stange and the difference between an impact that causes you to go into a full 
 fledged movie style crash and just bumping the cars in front of you is often painfully small leading 
 to a variable cause and effect that will often make for a frustating ride. There are sometimes 
 pop ins of cars you destroy as they will perpetually respawn during events and there are a few 
 times when the whole game suddenly stops and starts again but this happens rarely and if anything 
 makes it slightly easier to play. in terms of difficulty the progression can get midly frustrating 
 but if you're not playing it non-stop the pacing is pretty much perfect. The online play is fun 
 but it's also hard to scratch up the people to do most of these tasks unless several of your friends 
 have the same system as you and have the game, for example me and my friend both have it but I 
 have a ps3 and he has a 360. The online has basically a bunch of tasks that amount to getting air 
 time, getting billboards or doing some pretty complicated tasks and kutos to Criterion for making 
 that stuff work. The game looks good; it runs at a good frame-rate; the car models look good though 
 the crazy physics makes crashes look ridiculous. The controls are great though, very responsive 
 which makes it easy to dodge oncoming traffic . The tricks are fun but require some mastery, but 
 most of the time it feels like it's mostly up to luck in terms of actually landing the tricks. 
 All in all the game is fun and will occupy you for about 20-40 hours and with completing a good 
 number of the online challenges you might go for 50-80 hours and it's fun and more so addictive. 
 While it might not be a compelling game to replay, the ride there is a great example of a new type 
 of simple, addictive racing game that lets you find a city and have your own 20-40 hour affair 
 with it before eventually getting sick of it. That's how I roll and that's why this game gets an 
 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  this is the best racing game for ps3 buy it good soundtrack good gameplay good crashs not realistic 
 but fun new crash called showtime is better than crash but we may still miss it but lets hope they 
 put the same feature in burnout 6 and im talking about freeroam go freeroam the lack of restart 
 button is bit bad cos u dont want to drive all the way back to the starting line when u do a mistake 
 near the finish but it makes u somehow just drive away from the race unless it the last race to 
 do. when you driveaway in a crash its a bit annoying when you cant see where you are going like 
 i did a driveaway then i couldnt see then i got wrecked. when i lose a ace the annoying thing is 
 that ur drives for u but just goes forward. on road rage great race in my opinion when u takedown 
 the computers car the car and about to crash the computer somehow make u not crash ok the rating 
 gameplay 10/10 sound 10/10 and ps3 version 10/10 xbox version 1/10 ps3 30/30 xbox 29/30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coruscant
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a revolution in the Burnout series: it's free roaming. When you first start 
 out it's hard to work out where the challenges actually are, but after a while you get used to 
 it. Also, the controls take some getting used to; they are rather odd and can't be changed.
  
  Even just driving around is fun, as there are shortcuts to discover and cool jumps to jump 
 over. The map is very large and there is something to do at almost every turn.
  
  The challenges are mostly the same as other Burnout games, including races and road rage but some 
 new, such as marked man and stunt run. Unfortunately, in my opinion, there are very few road rage 
 events, instead most of them are races.
  
  The thing I was most disappointed with was the lack of two-player offline mode. Without an Internet 
 connection with my PS3, I feel that it could get boring on my own; I'd love to play a race against 
 my younger brother, for example.
  
  Overall, the gameplay and graphics are excellent but the lack of two-player left me slightly disappointed, 
 which stops me giving it a higher rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Now before I begin let me just say me experience with Burnout games is somewhat limited. The first 
 I ever played was Revenge on 360, and that was merely a friends copy. I thought the game was quite 
 fun but never really pursued getting myself a copy. 
  
  Then Burnout Paradise was announced and I saw the first trailer and thought, hmm maybe this would 
 be a good time to get into the series, its pretty popular so it must be good. So from then on I 
 watched video after video, every review I could find and read up on every detail I could. Getting 
 myself quite hyped for its release indeed. And then to hear it was 1 of 2 games developed for PS3 
 first and 360 second things seemed promising. And until recently I was amazed no one besides Yahtzee 
 Crishaw (zero punctuation reviewer) picked up on the same issues I did.
  
  Burnout Paradise was a good idea, a great idea in fact, who wouldn't want there own 'burnout world' 
 to mess around in and generally speaking the game delivers but and heres where my overall opinion 
 of the game goes downhill, it is THE most frustrating experience I've ever had in any racer ever.
 
  
  Everywhere you go, everything you do occurs in this made up city. And in theory doing so at ridiculous 
 speeds would be fun but when 99% of anything that is even slightly grazed by your vehicle at these 
 speeds sends you into a glorious slow motion black and white ball of twisted metal death I for 
 one get agitated. I played my friends copy of Burnout Revenge quite extensively and expected paradise 
 to flatten it (in a 'fun' sense) but boy do I wish I had bought a copy of that game instead, and 
 for that matter kept my 360 instead of giving it away but thats another story.
  
  This game suffers due to the one thing that also makes it so much fun.
  This enormous city. And 
 as city's go not every corner is a smooth long curving road, no there are many MANY tight turns 
 and many MANY protruding objects such as bridge pillars, jagged building corners, etc. Basically 
 anything you would be use to finding in a city. But this is burnout.
  Burnout is a game about driving at speeds equivalent in real life to a fighter craft or a space 
 rocket. When you combine that speed with a 'gta like' city it just doesn't work. You spend the 
 MAJORITY of your game time crashing.
  And the fact you don't just crash but rather the entire sequence of crashing is dramatically drawn 
 out makes it that much worse.
  
  Add in thousands of npc vehicles that seem to ALWAYS be in the wrong place at the wrong time and 
 it becomes a nightmare.
  
  And thats just REGULAR driving, I haven't even gotten to the events.
  In these you're expected 
 to do just what you did in previous games, race, takedown opponents, whatever, your typical assortment 
 of burnout events.
  But they just don't work, not in this city, not in this game. The entire series of mechanics is 
 broken because of this horrible horrible design choice.
  And don't give me that 'just check your map, follow the signs on your hud' crap. No I that doesn't 
 work and it doesn't fix the problem.
  
  What would have easily fixed this and made the game worthy of a score above 9? Walls. JUST like 
 in the older games. Bring back the invisible walls for the LOVE OF GOD please. It is the difference 
 to me between a game that fails and a game that is crack in the form of digital entertainment.
 
  
  And it wouldn't have been hard for them to do this either, EA did it with Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 and Carbon and..., it hurts me to say this, did it WELL! Why didn't criterion do this? Did their 
 testers never ever crash? Did they have the reflexes of a super human with a memory to match?
 
  
  That brings me to another thing, Criterion's idea that we are capable of memorizing this ENTIRE 
 CITY? What the F*** were they thinking with that?
  Who has a memory as good as that? I play games for years and still get lost in there large worlds. 
 I played wow for 2 and I still cant remember where all the inns are, how could I possibly remember 
 every single corner, turn, object, shortcut, ramp and otherwise significant part of this games 
 city?
  Its just not going to happen. And they BUILT this game world thinking it would. The heads at criterion 
 must have been smoking something thats for sure. 
  
  I almost returned my copy of burnout paradise but I am praying that at some point someone at criterion, 
 hopefully along with many people like me informs them of the need for the walls and they implement 
 them via a patch. And while they're at it, reduce the number of npc vehicles or at the VERY LEAST 
 make these 2 things options.
  
  I know thats probably just wishful thinking, they've made there game and they're probably too busy 
 to have there artists, designers and programmers completely retune the game in order to add these 
 elements. 
  
  Now ranting aside heres some positives. The game looks AMAZING and when I'm not crashing I'm having 
 a ball, the speed, the takedowns are all just as glorious as ever but again I cant experience those 
 wonderful things without this problem stampeding all over my fun.
  
  I should note I also bought Burnout Dominator for my psp a few weeks before paradise released here 
 in Australia and that game is wicked fun.
  Its a shame their high def, 60 frames per second next gen offering isn't as fun. I'm sorry to say 
 Criterion but I for one am disappointed and I can only hope that if you don't fix paradise you 
 at least don't make the same mistake with the next sequel.
  
  My advice to anyone yet to experience burnout? If you own a 360 get Revenge, its a budget price 
 game now and it is in my opinion the best they've made yet. If however you don't own a 360 the 
 PS2 and PSP versions of Dominator are excellent as well.
  
  Oh and Atomica in Paradise is THE MOST ANNOYING PIECE OF S*** VOICE OVER IN ANY GAME EVER! KILL 
 HIM WITH FIRE!
  Man oh man did Criterion drop the ball with this game. Lol but not like my opinion matters, its 
 already sold millions. Hell I bought a copy didn't I hah.
  Ah well not like this is the only game thats been a huge disappointment to me recently, Halo 3 
 to name one.
  
  Thanks for reading my rant review. Peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  In Burnout Paradise you're a lone driver whose goal is to become the best in Paradise City and 
 to use every twist and turn to take you one step closer to reaching the finish line. In this newest 
 installment of Burnout things take a whole new turn as you get to unlock events and a whole variety 
 of different vehicles. Burnout has continued to live up to its name with full-fledged crashes that 
 will leave you on the edge of your seat. In this sequel you begin with a driver license that you 
 must level up in order to gain access to cars and events. What's great about this game is that 
 there are no loading features at all which has truly given next-gen racing a new meaning. 
  
  The up side to this is that the soundtrack is really motivating and great to listen to for 
 those who like alternative and punk music like Avril Lavigne and Sugarcult. An addition are the 
 cars that you can unlock that you'll be spending hours to do to so to show them off to other online 
 players. The down side to it though is that there aren't really anything to unlock once you get 
 all the cars and happens to be missing some add-on's from its previous games. Another thing that 
 might make gamers pretty annoyed are the voice overs that the DJ makes during your cruise among 
 the streets of Paradise City. It may be a big city to explore and might be a thrill at times but 
 it doesn'treally have a variety of events to go by.
  
  There are only about five different types of events which can make the game seem pretty repetetive 
 at times but still has its great moments. It can be pretty frusturating though to find that you 
 would once again have to do the same race over and over again whenever you proceed to the next 
 rank. The only difference would be the difficulty and the distance to get to the finish line. You'd 
 expect more from the design of each car but continues to have the same old type of color and Vinyls. 
 
  
  It may not have much to do on single player but could prove to be really fun when you go head-to-head 
 among other players online. There are different array of unlockable features that can be unlocked 
 only by having a certain amount of racers attending that event which can be difficult at times. 
 In this fast pace game you can expect not much but just enough to keep you playing for months online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzo1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  The burnout series has always been good when Burnout Paradise came out again criterian has shown 
 all of us how good burnout really is 
  
  Gameplay: Great not complicated you dont have to think much and just plain fun realistic in most 
 ways and impressive just one downside is that their aren't many race types but that doesnt matter 
 much framerate is excellent multiplayer has no lag is smooth and awesome
  
  Graphics: The best part. On the ps3 graphics are wonderful crashes amazing you can seriously see 
 all the little chunks of glass flying around every little nook and crany in paradise city is well 
 desinged 
  
  Sound: very importned in a racing game and once again burnout delivored great sound effects crashing 
 sound speechless just one thing that didnt make me give this game a 9.5 is the D. J he is so annoying 
 even though his helpful he is annoying 
  
  Anyway if your a fan of burnout or racing games look no further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyunjoon123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be the game that would get me hooked on racing games, or even partially 
 interested. Sadly, I was wrong Burnout took a big chance by changing up the game play and style 
 of the Burnout series. To some people's opinions it worked to others it didn't. To me it didn't 
 only because of the fact the game had me bored after a week or two of play. Its unique and innovative, 
 possibly something another racing game could improve on in the future but the game is just not 
 a hit for me. The crashes, sounds, and online play is excellent but the game gets old way too soon 
 to be a worthwhile purchase. A great rent maybe, but 60$+ for a game that cannot keep people's 
 interest is a waste. First off the racing mode of the game really had me ticked off because of 
 the sharp turns or twists you had to make when the map would either be wrong or the signals would 
 pop up too slow telling me when to turn. I would either have to drift 70% of the time or go back, 
 putting me in bad positions to win. Road Rage is fun, but it is also repetitive and relatively 
 easy to complete. Show time is a decent mode at best a good mini game that will keep you busy or 
 just wasting time. The variation of the game modes were not really there and it seemed to me one 
 game mode was a slight twist on another and it didn't really work. The annoying DJ that kept talking 
 was irritating me out of my mind and I would often turn off the volume all together and just turn 
 on the radio because of the soundtrack/DJ which took away the fun of the great sound effects. Decent 
 game, way over hyped, rent first before purchase. Even though all of these things make the game 
 from being perfect, I have to be honest and admit as I started playing the game heavily for about 
 a month or so the game started to grow on me. As I learned the streets I started to get better 
 and I'll admit I was quite critical of the game. The game still to me is over hyped, first of all 
 it could've been so much better on a lot of levels. But I feel that a 7.5 is too low after the 
 time I've spent playing the game, it has really started to appeal to me. So, now I would officially 
 suggest this game to be played and enjoyed. Give the game some time and try to play it as often 
 as possible and you'll eventually see how it gets better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutdude
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Hardcore Burnout fans, start your engines!
  
  First of all GRAPHICS:
  
  Best graphics I've seen so far in a game, with a 60 fps frame rate! 
  The graphics in the game 
 were truly astounding. Everything looked so real!
  Not much else to say here.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Crash sound effects were very good. The engines in the cars all sounded different. 
 All of the sounds were well balanced.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Superb! Physics were very realistic, along with the crashes. You will stare in awe as your car 
 gets smushed against the wall! Takedowns are awesome, except online were if someone hits you with 
 a stronger car, the game forces your car into the wall to crash, lame. Online is addicting, but 
 needs more events to do. Events can get repetitive and cause you to get very frustrated at the 
 fact that if you lose an event you have to DRIVE all the way back to the starting point, since 
 there is no retry button. The game could have used more cars too, rather than just duplicates with 
 cooler paint jobs and upgrades. The game has no offline multiplayer, so if you have no internet 
 you're basically a loner.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  In my opinion this was worth $60 for all of the fun I have gotten out of it. This is a very well-made 
 game that anyone could enjoy. Unless you're a hardcore Burnout fane then you probably won't finish 
 the game 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webswinger-93
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game and really wasn't impressed at all. Then I heard that the real game 
 was so much more. It isn't.
  
  I bought Burnout a few days ago. I played for 20-30 minutes and had already seen most of the map. 
 While driving around I kept coming back to the same place all the time. The game really became 
 boring within the first hour. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You drive a car around Paradise City while crashing and jumping. At times the crashes can become 
 really insane and will certainly make you smile for a while. But only for a while. When the car 
 resets and your back driving it once again gets boring.
  The races aren't that fun and they tend to get frustrating. If you miss where you should've turned 
 you'll probably going to lose and everything is so fast paced that you'll probably miss your turns 
 alot. 
  It's sad that there is no multiplayer except for online. So if you have no way of getting online 
 you'll be playing alone.
  The PS3 version has motion sensor steering which is kinda nice and feel natural although it feels 
 like it turns a little to much at times. 
  
  ONLINE PLAY:
  The online play is confusing but really easy to connect to. You'll be playing and then press right 
 on the D-pad a few times and suddenly you're online, driving around with others. Challenges will 
 appear at the bottom and they are hard to notice. And quite often someone jumps out of the game 
 so that the challenge gets cancelled. The challenges aren't very fun either but I haven't played 
 online that much yet.
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is a dissapointment. You might get some entertainment out of Burnout Paradise if you're 
 a hardcore fan of the franchise or of racing/driving games. 
  It's really a shame that you can't play with a friend on the same console. Though if you can play 
 online it's fun to wreck other players. 
  If you're not obsessed with Burnout games you should stay away from this one. Go play some CoD 
 instead :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeg17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great. The cars all feel unique and solid - and they handle like real cars. The 
 sound is great. The action is over the top and non-stop. This game is simply stunning in every 
 way. However, if I took the time mention every single thing this game did right, I'd lose my job 
 because I'm writing at work when I should be making sales.
  
  Instead, I'll point out the few things that REALLY PISSED ME OFF.
  Don't get me wrong, this is 
 a great game. But it could have been better.
  
  The game screwed up because it was too ambitious. At first when I loaded it up, I loved the announcer. 
 My first crash was totally cool and I kept crashing over and over on purpose jsut to see the cool 
 slow motion eye candy that I got. Soon, both of these things grew incredibly tiresome and very 
 f$%#@! g annoying.
  
  The slow motion crash was cool the first few times, but when I'm in a race or trying to get from 
 one end of paradise to the other, the crashes break the pace and frustrate the crap out of me. 
 With my crappy driving, it's 10 seconds of high-speed racing and 10 seconds of slow-mo crashing 
 - and that's just stupid. I searched through and through and still haven't found a way to turn 
 this off. I just want to scream. Yeah! I crashed! It looks cool! I get it! Let's get back to the 
 stupid race now, shall we?!?
  
  Then the announcer started getting on my nerves. He sounds too much like Mr. Movie Phone - and 
 he just doesn't want to shut up.
  
  Finally, another thing really started to tick me off - the race start and end screens. I want to 
 jump in and race within 3 seconds - not have to wait through the same 15 second intro every time. 
 Then when I lose, a different screen loads, I lose control of my car, and the computer drives me 
 halfway accross town as I listen to more Mr. Movie Phone. Then I ahve to drive halfway back across 
 town to join the event I wanted to participate in the first place.
  
  Overall, these things are cool and I liked them at first - but the game would have received a perfect 
 10 simply by giving me the option of turning all this crap off.
  
  There are other things that frustrate and annoy me - but I won't mention them. They only frustrate 
 me because I'm really bad at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Developer Criterion Games tend to spice up Burnout's gameplay in each installment, bringing something 
 new and fun to the table. And Burnout Paradise is no exception. The Burnout series has had a complete 
 makeover, and puts every other Burnout game to shame.
  
  Welcome to Paradise City, the home of DJ Atomica, the radio DJ who you'll hear a lot of throughout 
 your stay in Paradise. Well, if smashing cars, barrel rolling into walls and doing some overly 
 aggressive racing is your type of Paradise, then you're in the right place.
  
  Two words describe this gameplay overhaul: "Open" and "World". No more invisible walls or big yellow 
 arrows pushing you along a confined track. You go where you want, when you want, no questions asked. 
 Well, there may be some questions asked, if by question you mean "two tonne truck," and by asked 
 you mean "pummeling you into a cube." Just because it wouldn't be a Burnout game without the ferocious 
 driving, spectacular crashes and aggressive opponents.
  
  And these aspects are better than ever! When doing a race, the AI opponents will all go their separate 
 ways to the finish, and they are constantly trying to shunt you into the closest solid object. 
 When you or the AI wreck, it looks frighteningly realistic. Metal crumples, windows shatter and 
 sparks fly. And if it's not a big wreck, you won't respawn with a shiny, undamaged car. You could 
 drive around the city with doors missing and huge dents down the side of your car.
  
  Fortunately, it's simple to start an event in Paradise City. All you need to do is pull up at any 
 set of traffic lights and spin your wheels. The radio DJ will then present you with a map telling 
 you where you are, and what you need to do. For example, if you're doing a Stunt Run where you'll 
 have to chain crazy stunts in a set time to accumulate points, DJ Atomica will tell you how much 
 points you'll need to win the event, and other basic instructions like that.
  
  Another new event is the Marked Man event, where you'll need to drive across the map without being 
 pummeled into a cube by the mysterious black cars that are following you. Other events are the 
 usual Race, Road Rage and Burning Routes (formerly known as Burning Laps) .
  
  But with all of these extras comes a price. The beloved Crash Mode is no more. Don't shed a tear 
 just yet, because in it's place is Showtime. Showtime is less of a puzzle, but more of mindless 
 crashing. And this is by no means a bad thing. At any time in the game, hit L1 and R1 to send your 
 vehicle flipping, scraping and bouncing down a traffic filled road, and try to hit as much vehicles 
 as you can, and this will refill your boost bar slightly. Once you run out of boost, Showtime ends 
 and your points are tallied.
  
  Burnout Paradise is just as good online as well. Just double-tap right on the D-pad, and you're 
 online! While online you can just drive around Paradise City, taking each other down, or the host 
 can start a Challenge. A Burnout Challenge could be anything from getting ten seconds boosting 
 time to have 7 players lay underneath a ramp, and have the eighth barrel roll over them.
  
  Unfortunately, the take down system in online is seriously floored. It doesn't matter whether you 
 rammed into them or if they rammed into you, if they have a car with a higher strength rating than 
 your car, then you're going down. Heck, I've even managed to take people down without even touching 
 them!
  
  Burnout's audiovisual quality is a love/hate relationship. The graphics aren't exactly mind blowing, 
 but they get the job done in a sleek fashion. The cars look great, the environment is crisp and 
 colourful and everything is generally very detailed. The engines rev, tires screech and crashes 
 thud just how they should. But the music is pretty bad. One notable mention is Avril Lavigne's 
 Girlfriend song. Not exactly what you'd listen to while relentlessly smashing cars into a wall.
 
  
  But for what it offers, Burnout Paradise delivers. A fully open world with zero loading times, 
 reckless driving and a host of things to do and find. Looking at your mini-map while speeding down 
 a traffic filled road at 200mph is a little tricky at first, once you've learned the map it all 
 comes natural. Even with a flawed take down system in the online portion, the game has one of the 
 best online modes for the system. The best racing game for the PS3, do not miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoyGar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  At the start Burnout paradise just feels right. A whole city to explore and a bunch of races to 
 go trough. Actually this game has very very many races and stuff. But when you upgrade to your 
 third license things are starting to get overhanded. The difficulty changes from being easy to 
 medium and to extremly hard. The game is just so annoying at the end. For example you take the 
 best car for the marked man event. And you end up dying before reaching half of the race. The computer 
 really cheat after the third license. And note the game starts to get unplayable when you have 
 just completed like 60 percent of the game. The game is just to fun before the third license. Races 
 and everything just starts to get impossible. Overall Burnout paradise is a let down. The opening 
 world is just to confusing. The ramps in the game is placed all over the city and it goes so fast 
 so you do not have anytime to note them before the you drive up in a ramp and your car end up crashing 
 like **** The map in the game is so bad and the opening world is so confusing so if you drive the 
 wrong way in a race it is almost impossible to win it. Almost every race will make you end up taking 
 the wrong way thanks to the worthless opening gameworld and the damn map. And plus you have to 
 come number 1 in this game to win a race. The game is just to pathetic. And if you lose a race 
 then there is no way you can restart it. You have to drive back to do it again, WHICH ****ING SUCKS. 
 Before you have upgraded your third license it mabye wont matter that much cuz you have races all 
 over the map. But after the third license there are very few races located on the map. And again 
 there is no way to restart it. Burnout do not feel the same. Burnout revenge is still best in the 
 series. If you are a wise gamer you should not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetattack15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the previous Burnout's, so this is a first for me with Burnout Paradise. I really 
 like the flashy graphics and sound. It's easy to just pick-up and play as well, although not if 
 you really want to accomplish goals. Open-world, lot's to do, however, where is the structure? 
 Where do I go from here? I find myself asking this question a lot.
  
  There's lots of different vehicles to choose from, with different styles. I find myself using mostly 
 aggressive however, or getting slaughtered by the AI. This game can be frustrating at times also, 
 as it is expansive, and easy to get lost. Worse yet, if you lose a race, there is no quick way 
 to just try again. Also, if you know your going to lose a race, you can't quit, you must finish. 
 This particularly sucks if you take a really wrong turn somewhere, and are miles behind.
  
  Overall, good game, lot's of hours to put into it, so worth a purchase in my opinion. Keep away 
 from playing it for too many hours at once though, or you will get Burned Out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  
  As a genre driving games are either exciting edge of your seat thrill rides, Motorstorm, or dull 
 as dish water snorathons, Full auto 2! Now there's no doubt that this is the best in the Burnout 
 series but its the 5th one i've played now across the platforms, Ps3, PsP, Ps2 etc and it just 
 doesn't offer anything new. It plays well, as it flipping should do, looks and plays great but 
 its basically the same old game with a few splashes of extra colour to make it feel different. 
 If you're new to the BO series then pick this one up for sure. The bloody annoying DJ Atomica or 
 whatever his name is just plan annoys the bejesus out of you! All the usual sweet spots are there 
 like take downs and smashing into things but they're also there in the last BO game I played. This 
 has to be the last in BO series as EA have nothing at all to offer in the BO franchise. Should 
 you want a decent racer just hold on to your money for teh GT game due out soon or pick up one 
 of the other BO games 2nd hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I bought for full price. I rather prefer taking from my friends or catching 
 sales. 
  But this purchase I am not even thinking about. When I launched the game, I saw that that trumendous 
 work of developers is completely worth it. Such realistic crashes and smashes I have NEVER seen 
 before. I enjoy just throtle the car to full and smash it against a barricade. And the SFX sound 
 is stunning. I have 7.1. home theatre, and the sound comes from different directions according 
 to game situation. Plus the quality is very good.
  I never got tired (so far) playing the game. I have trouble stop playing it.
  Online part is 
 fantastic. No more needed to be said.
  One thing I didn't like was "no driver concept". I think it would be more fun if the driver could 
 fly out from the windshield. And the music is horrible, too.
  But despite that Burnout Paradise is more than worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  One of the most spectacular sagas of the kingdom of the speed has finally a new delivery. Paradise 
 becomes by own merits in one of the best games of the Burnout series. Exciting like few, with a 
 deep gameplay and graphics that will leave you exhausted, Burnout Paradise is a safe bet. 
  
  Paradise, therefore, supposes a radical turn in the standards that until now had characterized 
 to the Burnout series when presenting/displaying to us a complete city, of a very reasonable size, 
 by which we be able to move to our free will being looked for races and challenges in an exposition 
 that, somehow, remembers to the one from for Need Speed Underground 2. 
  
  What is more evident when we pass some hours with Burnout Paradise it is the detail level that 
 from Criterion has been put in the city to fill it with details and to cause that the component 
 of the exploration is strongly compensated. In fact the first moments with the controls of Paradise 
 can be annoying, without doubt, to the amplitude of possibilities and the absence of concrete goals. 
 And indeed, the brilliant thing of the new Burnout is that a line or a succession of concrete races 
 absolutely does not require following to be enjoyed the 100%; the game works in equally shining 
 form in its facet of exploration as much as like in its more tangible slope of spectacular and 
 vertiginous races modes. 
  
  It's hard to find negative points to a game of the quality of Burnout Paradise, and is that this 
 title will like it or not, but its quality is unquestionable. 
  
  Special mention deserves the multiplayer mode, very care, very intuitive and readily accessible. 
 Also it changes remarkably with respect to the online mode of previous deliveries but the changes, 
 once again are better. The mode is divided in a series of challenges that will vary depending on 
 the number of players available, and the times of delay between game and game will allow us to 
 drive by the city to our will. 
  
  Burnout Paradise is an outstanding driving game and probably the best title in the last months. 
 The release counts with all the things that we can request to a good game of these characteristics: 
 a very fit control, challenging AI and vertiginous races. Spectacular and moving, Burnout Paradise 
 is an accumulation of emotions and all works like a gigantic adrenalin outbreak.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  As you can see from GameSpot video/review about the game it was all right but he didn't say that 
 you might get bored pretty fast cause the city isn't big enough, all you can do is joining a race 
 or doing some wicked movies but they are limited it's still great game but renting would be a batter 
 choice you can get it from gamefly. com or any other sites rent it for a week or 2 weeks if you 
 liked it... buy it then but I don't think so... you might get bored just like me cause I got bored 
 in 5 days of plays so... the people who like action/adventure this game isn't your style so try 
 of finding another cool game like for example Resident Evil or Devil May Cry or Silent Hill or 
 whatever but trust me this game isn't your style so be careful with choosing the right game for 
 you and for the people who likes cars, racing and stuff like that then this game would be perfect 
 for you so check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I got this with my PS3. I've not played previous Burnout games and didnt know what 
 to expect. What I can compare this to is otehr games like NFS (which vary a great deal) , GT2,3,4 
 etc.
  
  Tunes are great and nostalgic, so the mood is set and good. The EA Trax are the usual good mixture. 
 The car sounds are cool, realistic maybe, and nice; the 5.1 does help.
  
  Graphics are merely the better of old PS2 games and on par with recent NFS games on PS2 - oh dear. 
 However the crash scenes are immense and breath taking at first - very realistic. The backdrops 
 are merely what I would expect - very nice, but nothing more. The up-close graphics sometimes suffer 
 and look basic.
  
  The game engine; handling of the cars is unreal - its not a GT5 game. But NFS have ventured into 
 more realsim. Game reviewers need to make this clear.
  
  Continued; the cars unrealistically turn well on dirt and grass. They terribly understear in town, 
 on tarmac. The difference between the cars is too great; simply to demonstrate handling abilities; 
 thus unreal and making it less playable.
  
  The game is far too easy to get through. The races become much of a muchness. There are some retro 
 american cars, but nothing to appeal to European gamers.
  
  Luckily if you do crash, there is a catchup feel to it and soon you're back in the action. Nudging 
 and bumping people off road is fun and fairly accurate, or at least do-able. The crashes, as said, 
 are real. You can only total a car so many times, which is fair. There is no money involved, making 
 life simple. Unlocking cars is odd - you'll see.
  
  Gameplay is not far off the arcade game Motorstorm. But with reall cool cars instead.
  
  The 
 map is hard to see. So its best to learn the streets - but once you do; it becomes boring and predictable.
 
  
  Maybe this game is best played online. But I'd rent this one first before buying. Driving games 
 had better improve a lot over the next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  I saw really many games of racing, but this time its the most awesome thing i ever saw! The graphics 
 are unbelievable, the music rocks, because they put some new songs and even put the old songs from 
 the previous series of the game. The gameplay, the types of races, like for ex. Road rage, Marked 
 man and stunt run, these are very fun to play, i have this game, and i guarantee to buy this game, 
 who loves to race and smash, also to try the graphics of your HDTV its the best game to do it! 
 Dont worry the game is very long, the point of the game is to get the best license grade, but to 
 get that you have to win races, and man, there are a lot of races there to play=DDD so come on, 
 buy the game, and lets rock!!! Oh and if you have an internet connected to your ps3, then freeburn 
 all around paradise city with other players, it really fun, also if you have the ps eye you'll 
 have much more fun, talking to your friends and showing your emotions on the pic tht shows, when 
 they take you out=DDD see ya.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  "Ah sh**!" Thats what your gonna be saying when your flying down the streets of Paradise at lightning 
 speed!....... then you hit a pole.......
  
  Burnout Paradise is a game that absolutely amazed me, the gameplay is awesome.
  You start the 
 game at a junkyard were you are given your first car, that you need to fix up before taking it 
 to the races. The game gives you 250 miles of open road to explore, finding shortcuts, jumps, smashing 
 billboards, etc... and along with that 250 miles of open road, your also given 120 events to complete, 
 how sweet is that!?
  Its the perfect playground for a racer.
  
  The games online capabilities also amaze.
  You can access an online game at any time during gameplay 
 and when you enter the game you stay in the exact same position you were in before you entered. 
 Once online you can takedown other players (if you can catch them in Paradise city) , complete freeburn 
 challenges, try and beat other peoples records within the game (e. g: best drift, most air, longest 
 burnout chain, etc...) , or just take a cruise while your waiting for the host the begin the race.
 
  Once the race has started DJ. Atomika will give you information on each player, so that you know 
 which players to look out for and which to takedown. The race runs like a normal burnout race except 
 you need to find your own way to the finish, although th minimap will tell you were to turn (but 
 who says we need to follow the minimap!?) .
  
  I strongly reccommend this game to anyone who is a fan of racing games, or seeing a car being ripped 
 to shreds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realSHOTKILL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is an amazing game where you basically just drive around, do races, beat cars 
 down, do some amazing tricks, go off a lot of jumps, and have a blast doing it all.... plus the 
 amazing scenery to see. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Paradise has to be one of the best looking racing games ever. For me i believe Motorstorm 
 is amazing in the graphics area but Paradise comes amazingly close. The reflection on the cars 
 look amazing, the sky looks natural and realistic. Even the buildings make you feel like you are 
 in a huge city full of people. There are no pedestrians though.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The entire game is just driving around and unlocking cars. As you do this you continue 
 upgrading your license. After every race, road rage, stuntrun, marked man, etc. event that you 
 beat you get closer to an upgrade in your license class (C, B, A etc.) . There is so much to do 
 in this gigantic world and plus... there are never any noticeable load times. At the beginning there 
 is a load time of about 25 seconds, then you just race and have a blast.
  
  AUDIO: Sounds completely amazing. Soundtrack is great. The crashes sound TOO realistic.
  
  
 CONTROLLER: The controls are absolutely amazing also. EA really chose the controls to their best 
 advantage. Leaving the SIXAXIS crap out! I own the DualShock 3 and yes, Burnout: Paradise does 
 have stellar support for the DS3. The rumbles feel amazing. If someone knocks you on your right 
 side you truly feel it happen.
  
  PLAYSTATION EYE: If you own a Playstation Eye camera for the PS3 (successor to the EyeToy) It is 
 great because you can actually take photos for your license. So when your license shows up, ITS 
 YOU!
  It does get sort of annoying because after every race you beat, the game asks you to take a new 
 photo. This setting can be turned off though. 
  
  Burnout: Paradise is an amazing racing game that anybody with hands and a brain should buy. I bought 
 my copy for just 68 Canadian dollars and it is sooo worth the money. There are 75 cars to unlock 
 in total and to get each one you need to be a great driver and you need to know how to beat the 
 living crap out of your competitions.
  
  Burnout: Paradise is available for the Playstation 3 and the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like racing and destruction then Burnout Paradise is the game for you it's got a lot of 
 good things going for it and a few qirks that don't exactly break the game but could be improved 
 apon for the follow up.
  
  The Good:
  - Good graphics (cars look awesome even when beat to the point of being junkers)
  - Fun gameplay
 
  - enviornments look nice
  - sound effects are good
  - hardly any glitches
  
  The Bad:
  - horrible sound track!
  - car handeling is to the lose side
  - computer control 
 after a take down is clunky in transition
  - damage could be a little better (blow tires)
  - cars should fall apart a little more after massive collisions
  
  over all Burnout is a great 
 game that anyone can pick up and play if in the next burnout game some of the improvements I suggested 
 would make this great game an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraHACK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  It seems like yesterday when I recall looking at an article on the rumored "Burnout 5" in a magazine 
 and thinking "There's no way they can possibly top Burnout Revenge." Criterion, however, seems 
 to have this joyful pleasure of proving me wrong each and every time, which brings us to their 
 latest entry in the series: Burnout Paradise. A complete departure from the previous games, Burnout 
 is now set in an open city with events scattered across intersections seen in games such as Midnight 
 Club. You'd think this would end up being a recipe for disaster seeing as how Burnout moves so 
 fast, hitting a turn at 200mph just never seems like a good idea, but somehow Criterion managed 
 to completely reinvent the franchise without taking the core of what made previous games so much 
 fun.
  
  When you start, you're given a bottom-of-the-barrel car that will help you win the first few events 
 in the game's venue: 'Paradise City', but not much else from there. You're given a license at the 
 beginning of the game and each race won will lead you to upgrading your license, which in essence 
 does pretty much nothing. It's there for the purpose of resetting won events for you to try winning 
 them again. I guess it lengthens the game, but other than that, well, yeah. Driving around the 
 city, however, is what this game is all about. As expected from the series, the controls are tight 
 and responsive and the cars are now separated into 3 different classes making driving all of them 
 a very different experience for each. There will always be one car better for an event than another 
 one, so picking the right car is pretty important. 
  
  The city itself is pretty big in size, though it's original size early in development was quite 
 larger. There's plenty to see and most definitely plenty to do. Billboards, gates, shortcuts and 
 jumps are scattered throughout the city for you to smash through and the introduction of "Road 
 Rules" makes for a really lengthy experience. Every road has a time score and a crash score. Driving 
 from one end of the street to the other beats time scores and scoring a high score in Showtime 
 mode beats crash scores. Speaking of Showtime, this is easily the most jaw-dropping feature of 
 Burnout Paradise. Hitting R1 + L1 (RB + LB on 360) will trigger Showtime mode which causes your 
 car to spin 90, flip sideways and starting careening into oncoming/ongoing traffic. Each car you 
 hit causes an explosion, boosting lets you bounce off the ground to go further down the road and 
 you fill the boost bar by crashing into cars. Buses are multipliers and the rest goes from there. 
 You can have crashes go down 10 blocks down the road; it's easily the most satisfying thing I've 
 seen in a long time. 
  
  Then there's online play, which I sincerely hope Criterion makes this part of future RenderWare 
 platforms, because the online implementation in Paradise is pretty revolutionary. Want to join 
 an online race or host one? Hit Right on the D-Pad and you're online within 2 seconds. Want to 
 quit the game? Hit Right again and choose Leave Game and you're seamlessly brought back into your 
 single-player game. Once you're online, there are 350 challenges for you and 7 other players to 
 play around with. Some are a competition with others and some are a team-oriented effort. Either 
 way, you'll be having fun, as they require you to do some pretty insane stunts all over the city.
 
  
  On the technical side, Burnout Paradise is a next-gen staple. Always running at 60 frames per second, 
 it's a silky-smooth ride through racing and crashing heaven. The textures are gorgeous and the 
 way cars dismantle upon impact is jaw dropping. Crashing into a wall at high speeds causes the 
 car to completely squash itself into a chunk of metal and clipping another car at high speeds causes 
 your car to flip over on itself and barrel roll down the highway in a spectacle of flying metal 
 and glass. Of course, no crash is complete without a set of sounds for it and once more, Criterion 
 delivers a very ear-pleasing experience. The engine sounds are aggressive, the sounds of bending 
 metal and breaking glass is fierce and intense, the only real downside is the awful, awful soundtrack 
 EA has forced into the game 'thanks' to EATrax. Make sure to turn that off.
  
  All in all, Burnout Paradise is everything a Criterion sequel should be. They don't improve, they 
 reinvent and this game is proof of it. Taking what worked and adding in a whole flurry of ideas 
 made for a very satisfying game, one you should definitely check out if you're a fan of racing. 
 And crashes. And explosions.  Action, really. Just don't expect a GTA clone because it's open-world. 
 This game is Burnout to the core. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Hey. Wanna play online? Hit right twice on your digital pad. And poof! Lookit that. You're online, 
 now. That's it.
  
  The transfer from Single-player to online multi-player is so swift and smooth, I just sat in awe 
 the first time I found out how easy it was. Which is mostly due in part to the habits of some online 
 gamers to create games and end them just as soon. 
  
  If the room you were cruisin' and crashing about in suddenly drops... just tap twice and you're 
 in a new one. As close to instant action as you can get. No clumsy menus. No scrolling through 
 pages of server listings, looking for the best ping times. It's wonderful.
  
  On top of that, it's a beautiful and solid game. Well, aside from the soundtrack.
  
  I wish 
 Sony would take a hint from Microsoft and more fully integrate personalized soundtracks for games. 
 
  
  I work better just by making lists. So...
  
  Pros:
  `Great Graphics.
  `Great Sound effects. 
  `Responsive controls.
  `Totally open.
  `Integrates the Playstation 
 Eye in a fun and innovative way.
  `On-The-Fly Multiplayer 
  `A whole city to drive around in
  `Addictive multiplayer
  
  
  Cons:
  `Soundtrack.
  
 `Single Player is a bit dry and repetitive. (Basically, win a few races, shut down a car, and then 
 the car specific races to unlock an alternate version of the same car. Etc etc)
  `Not-so-addictive single-player. Mostly you're going to play single-player just to get the cars, 
 then you're heading right back into the online fray.
  `You can't decide to quit a race after you've begun one. Sometimes I just decide I don't want to 
 do it, anymore. But it won't let you quit until you get over the finish line. Why is this bad? 
 In a race, you don't get credit for any new billboards/gates smashed that you come across.
  `How come I don't get credit for billboards and other stuff in race events?
  
  Other things 
 I've noticed:
  The Ads in-game. This may be old-hat for some of you. But the Billboards with 'compusa' on them? 
 Bet those change later... And the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame... (any word on who the 'biggest band 
 in the US' is?) I think in the future we're going to see a new kind of advertising. It's going 
 to be in your game. Downloaded probably in a patch, or maybe even stealthier than that. Don't be 
 surprised.
  But even that is pretty innovative.
  Kinda.
  
  I give it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: only-in-dreams
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is set in the fabulous Paradise City, which has many districts/areas to explore. In each 
 area there are challenges like stunt runs, all you have to do is stop at a set of traffic lights 
 and press the L2 and R2 buttons to activate an event. There are ramps, billboards, gates and more 
 to discover all over Paradise City. The best way to find them all is to just drive around at you 
 own pace in free burn mode, this also lets you learn the roads. The games graphics are superb, 
 crashes are almost mesmerizing as the car crumples with glass shattering in slow motion. Learning 
 roads and shortcuts come in handy when online. Also there are fuel stations and auto repair shops 
 that are added to your map when you find a new one, so it's useful to know where the nearest one 
 is if you need a boost refill during a race. With this game online capabilities are easily accessible, 
 you can invite friends to join you in online challenges or join other players to take part in challenges. 
 You can unlock new cars by gaining license points and they begin to pop up around the city. Cars 
 can be given a speedy colour change by just driving through a paint shop which are also added to 
 your map as you find them. The cars can be controlled with the SIX AXIS option or the left analogue 
 stick. So it's personal choice just test it out and see which works best for you. 
  This game keeps you playing just because you want to find everything and complete challenges, and 
 the online mode offers more challenges and a chance to meet other players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadian97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Now some may gripe about about how they hate the free roaming and how it is so overplayed in some 
 games, but this is a first in a Burnout game. That may turn off long time fans of the series, as 
 they are always used to the closed circuits and the yellow barriers. But I find that the free-roaming 
 is a welcome change.
  
  In the latest installment of the series, there are several new gameplay features. One of which 
 includes the aforementioned free roaming, which has you placed in a fairly large Paradise City 
 and the surrounding area. This allows you to explore the city. You find races in this manner. Also 
 new is the implementation of drive-thrus, some repair your car, others randomly recoler your vehicle. 
 Among the new race types is the "Marked Man", where you try to escape to the finish from heavy 
 cars trying to smash you apart. Another is the "Stunt Run", where you try to rack up as much points 
 doing stunts in a set amount of time. Of course there are still the normal races and the familiar 
 road rage events. There is a new crash mode called "Showtime", when you press R1 and L1, it hurls 
 your car in a roll, you can steer it into the traffic to build up points. One oversite is that 
 when you are not doing especially well in a race, there is no option to restart the race. This 
 may annoy some players, as they have to drive back to the start. But you could always do the races 
 in the area you are in.
  
  Graphics-wise the game is a masterpiece, the lighting effects is phenomenal and the car models 
 and crash effects are top notch. The sound effects are also well done, never has the crunch of 
 metal been more satisfying. The online is fantastic, there is always the competitive community 
 ready to race or help complete online challenges. There is also an online leaderboard to track 
 your rankings between you, the world and your friends. All in all, this game is one the best racing 
 games you can get right now for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The very first thing that bothered me about this game was the music. Now, given that the name of 
 the city 'Paradise City' happens to be the name of a cliche'd, trite, and commercial song, I really 
 didn't expect them to actually use it. But, they did, which should have clued me in that the rest 
 of the musical choice would just be confusing. The rest of the soundtrack is probably the worst 
 part of the game. The retro songs from previous series installments are a welcome change from artists 
 such as Killswitch Engage and... Avril Lavigne? What?! So there, the soundtrack is by far the worst 
 part of the game.
  Getting online is flawless, and there's no lag in jumping into online matches which only adds to 
 the overall fluidity of the game open world gameplay.
  The world is massive, and may seem pretty daunting when first starting out. You tend to worry if 
 you'll ever get a hang of navigating this detailed world. Thankfully, that task seems to solve 
 itself by completing the plethora of challenges throughout the city. There are also plenty of gates 
 and billboards to smash through, leading to new areas and possibly super jumps. These all lead 
 to the eventual mastery of the city, which for the most part is completely accidental. There were 
 several times where i expected to meld into a wall, but it turns out it just leads to a shortcut.
 
  The manner in which you accept and complete challenges can be rather annoying. You drive up to 
 any stoplight in the city, and initiate one of 4 events that will take you to opposite ends of 
 the map, usually. But, if you fail these missions, you have to drive all the way back. This is 
 a huge pain in the ass. Not only do you make a complete ass out of yourself for doing something 
 out of a lapse of thought, but you have to drive back, and potentially lose again. Then again, 
 it does serve as a way to learn the roads, and plan a route to victory.
  The car models are top notch, all more beautiful than the last. The effects in the collisions are 
 insanely realistic, with the shards of glass bursting out of the frames, and the tires buckling 
 from the impact. It just makes me wish I had an HDTV to see it in all of its glory.
  The more challenges you complete, it's a mark on your license and when you earn so many you get 
 an upgraded license along with a new car. Yet, it seems that the difficulty in the races and road 
 rage events are ramped up with every new achievement. It can be quite frustrating. 
  There's another instance in the game where the AI in the races seems to complete crap out. You're 
 supposed to hunt out shortcuts along your route, yet in some cases the cars will just take out 
 each other, allowing you take the lead and win. Even though this seems to happen randomly, it's 
 not that big of a deal, but can prove to be a little too easy. The variety of ways to carry out 
 events is fun, and the replay value is ridiculously high. You can either beat your opponents with 
 speed, or by pulling off crazy aerial stunts for boost, or just plow them off the road with brute 
 force.
  Overall, the game-play is visceral and fast-paced. it's great to look at, but i recommend you mute 
 the music, and just play something over it, if you feel that deprived. The game will take quite 
 a bit of time to beat, and mastery of the world and all of its secrets will only make the game 
 easier. Which, can really help you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Burnout franchise started out as a racing game that didnt bring that much new to the table 
 apart from the idea of boost.
  Then, Burnout 2: Point of Impact came along and blew everyones socks off, reminding everyone of 
 Playstation 2's power. Bringing the completely new "Crash Mode" to the table has to be the 2nd 
 best move made in the franchises history. 
  But it was the 3rd game that brought us the best new move. Takedowns.
  This completely re-defined 
 the racing genre, creating this frenzy of action and a kill or be killed environment to be driving 
 around in. 
  The 4th game in the series, Burnout Revenge probably had the best graphics to grace PS2, alongside 
 God of War II. 
  Anyway, onto Burnout 5, or "Paradise" as EA call it. And what a Paradise it is. 
  With an awesome 
 variety of cars with a new 1-10 rating system that clearly tells you what they do and how they 
 do it, without hurling stat after stat at you. 
  The open-world style of driving has been done before, but never in such magnifisent, gloriously 
 rendered picture that BP gives you. 
  60 frames per second was realised in this game too, so in HD 720p resolution on my 42" plasma, 
 it looks good. Like, "Best car game graphics ever" good. (Until Gran Turismo 5) . 
  Not only are there well over 100 events, Races, Road Rage, Burning Route, and the two all new types, 
 Marked Man and Stunt Run. 
  The new event types create a wider variety in the game that are appreciated, with marked man having 
 you try to get to a certain point in the map before the "bad guys" wreck your ride. 
  Stunt run... is... kinda self explanitory. 
  During the afore-mentioned free burn, there are 
 120 Burnout Billboards for you to smash, 50 Super Jumps to jump, and 400 ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Way back in 2001 Burnout was launched. It was so innovative because it was one of the first games 
 in history to feature a crash/racing genre. The Burnout games have come a long way since then and 
 the latest game in the series is very very good. This is my first Burnout game and I have to admit 
 that they are extremely addictive and fun. The best thing about Burnout Paradise is that you get 
 to go anywhere you want and do whatever event you want. Its very easy to get online too. But the 
 most fun you get is from doing the ridiculous showtime mode. So far my record is 110 cars crashed. 
 The worst part of it is getting lost on races and losing before you can say I quit. There are 76 
 made up cars in Burnout Paradise and you unlock them by winning events and upgrading your license. 
 The best event in the game is Road rage because it is very easy and you just have to wreck all 
 the cars that are racing you. The hardest event is marked man when you being chased by about 7 
 armoured cars and you have to get to your destination without being wrecked. Overall all these 
 elements come together to create a crazy thrill ride that should not be missed by anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LickMyPorcupine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a truly awesome game! The single -player mode is very enjoyable and the different 
 classes of cars all feel unique and within those classes alll the cars are all different. There 
 are a total of 75 cars in the game which you unlock by taking them down when they are released 
 into the city after you win a certain number of events.
  
  Burnout Paradise uses an 'open world' style of gameplay meaning you have to drive to events you 
 want to participate in. This has its strengths and weaknesses in the game. It gives you a chance 
 to get used to the feel of any new car you are driving and you get a more intricate and detailed 
 knowledge of the routes and paths you can take throughout the city. On the other driving to a race 
 on the other sideof the map can be very frustrsting.
  Burnout Paradise has most of the old game modes from previous Burnout games except that they have 
 changed the crash mode and added two new modes called 'Marked Man' and 'Stunt mode' Both of these 
 modes are interseting and target two completely different types of gamer, this makes the game enjoyable 
 for more types of gamers. 
  
  The online mode in Burnout Paradise works really well, you can join online games seemlessly without 
 having to wait in a lobby. You can play with up to 8 players online.
  
  Overall Burnout Paradise is an exceptional game that manages to do nearly everything it does right. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larvaelord26
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise reinvents the series in the best way possible, adding in a fierce online multiplayer 
 and a competitive single player. Burnout Paradise delivers a change to the series, something so 
 big, it is this exact name that describes it. Paradise. The graphics are amazingly accurate, the 
 crashes are completely satisfying, and the computer players are competitive. The only letdown was 
 the drop of local multiplayer. Now our other controller gathers dust, as we are forced to share 
 one. Multiplayer would have been a perfect fit for this game, yet it was eluded.
  
  The lack of multi-player does not ruin the game though. it is still great, with a lot for you to 
 work for, and everything to do. One of the best parts of the game is going at just the right speed, 
 looking at the view, and slamming into a wall so hard the car looks like a wadded up piece of paper. 
 This game is a must buy for Ps3 users, and probably Xbox 360 too. It is an amazing game to say 
 the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Lets get it straight, this game takes some getting used to. it is very different from the other 
 burnout games, but it is all still there, maybe hidden slightly but there. The speed is intense, 
 the graphics are top notch, and the game play is fantastic. I started this game completely overwhelmed, 
 in previous burnouts you would just select a race and wreak havoc on the other racers. This game 
 takes time to grow on you. Yes you will start out losing some races, solely because you don't know 
 where to go thats different from what all the other racers are doing. Give it some time and you 
 can completely appreciate the open world mechanic. If you get sick of trying to race or whatnot, 
 you can take down some billboards or break through shortcuts, and go back to a road rage FLAWLESSLY.
 
  You have to get over this game not being like burnout 1-4, its not. If you want that go play them, 
 if you want a truly immersing game that takes full and correct advantage of the open world and 
 still keeps the ideas of the burnout series than this game is for you.
  
  I completely forgot to review the multiplayer, so i had to edit the review. I have NEVER experienced 
 a more seamless multiplayer, i works beautifully, all you do is tap right on the control pad, you 
 can go right in a freeburn with random people, which is actually really fun (make some new friends 
 mister stubborn) , and you can invite all your friends at once and join instantly. also it is so 
 easy to set up challenges, or just (the best thing in burnout if i may add) crash the living crap 
 out of each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is wow
  
  Gameplay-
  The single player is great fun as you drive along winning races and cars through a next gen world. 
 The crashes will make your jaw drop as you see your windows smash out and your car smash up in 
 slow motion.
  
  Cars-
  You start off with a fairly crappy car but what game dont you start off with crap. As you win more 
 you will unlock more faster cars.
  
  Graphics-
  Super realistic graphics as you burn around paradise. Watch out for the sun and its glare though 
 as you may wind up a new grill on a UPS truck.
  
  Multiplayer-
  The multiplayer is loads of fun as you can team up (8 player max) to complete challenges or race 
 for respect.
  
  Overall-
  The game is a real addictive game but multiplayer challenges can get boring as they are the same 
 but just with more people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke9113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Well, I Recently purchased burnout paradise after returning Turok, Don't ask why. Burnout paradise 
 is excellent, From the Sheer super smooth framerate, to the Seamless change between Online/offline 
 gameplay, Burnout paradise is perfect for meeting up with your friends on the streets of paradise 
 city anytime, anywhere. The wide range of custom made cars is fairly good, but don't expect to 
 keep your favourite Exotic sports car pristine for long as your likely to crash it straight away 
 for sher enjoyment. I Myself spend most of the time crashing my cars as is can be additcing after 
 a while. The graphics are also another amazing aspect of the game, they are so detailed you can 
 even see the reflections of the surroundings in your car.
  
  Overall i would reccomend this game to anybody, no matter how young or old you are, you will get 
 pure pleasure from this game, whether your a hard-core racer or just fancy a cruise around paradise 
 city this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  The answer to all them questions is yes!
  
  Burnout paradise is the first burnout game for next gen consoles. It goes in a different direction 
 to the series because unlike the other arcade racing burnouts this has gone for the free roaming 
 part. You are in paradise city which has tons to do in it, you start of as a rubbish driver which 
 a learners permit and must win events to get better driving liences. 
  
  Paradise city itself is huge with 250 miles of road to drive on (don't know why some people complain 
 about its size?!) and at each junction with traffic lights you can start an event by doing a burnout 
 in total there are 120 events to try and complete, event types include race. Now at first i found 
 the races REALLY hard to do compared to other burnout games coz there is only a brief street sign 
 flash when you must turn a corner and i always missed it but you do get used to it. There is the 
 return of road rage where you must takedown other drivers. burnout routes are where you go from 
 point a to b in a certain amount of time and win an upgrade for the car you do it in (ecah burning 
 route requires a different car) . Marked man which is where you must get from point a to b without 
 getting wrecked, and finally stunt run where you do awsome stunts to score points!.
  
  Dont think it stops at events though ooooo no no no they is a whole bunch of stuff to do in paradise 
 city. Every road in paradise city has to be 'ruled' which means betting its time and crashing on 
 it which is done by steering your wreck into cars to get more boost which allows you to carry on 
 rolling (this is an attempy to replace the much loved crash mode but ts still good) Then there 
 are 50 jumps to jump, 120 billbords to smash and 400 smashes to smash, each rewarding a car for 
 your hard efforts, they are drivethroughs to find, rewards to earn and more! you gotta work hard 
 to get 100%!
  
  Graphically the game is amazing and shows why we all love next gen consoles. You can see shadopws 
 of trees and mountains in the background and all the cars look and sound great which brings me 
 too...
  
  Sound! The games sound is amazing which each car making their engine roar! ..... right now we get 
 the vice acting, The DJ in the game is VERY GOOD! No one likes him (not even gamespot) but i do 
 his voice acting is great and he always talks to you giving you hints and tips or other ramdom 
 cool info. Now the music which EA has put in is again great (even though i seem to be the only 
 one who thinks so...) There are quality tracks from burnout 1,2 and 3 how cool is that (ahh burnout 
 1 memory lane) and other tracks which are great.
  
  Gamplay does kinda get boring sometimes when you are far into the game (same type of events to 
 do to get that elite licence) , but is still great,
  
  As getting confused at the beginning of the game, this is true... but you soon get the hang of 
 it.
  
  Online play... WOW. It is great no more lobbies just instanly freeburn with people and friends 
 with no load times!!! You can compete to try and get the best drifts, oncoming, near misses ect, 
 race and the best bit team up to complete 350 online challenges!
  
  This game is by far THE BEST RACING GAME EVER and is well worth racing fans money, heck even if 
 you dont like racing games you will like this one! 
  
  Only bad thing is it will get boring and hard when you have spent a LONG time on it. Dont let that 
 put you of though, EXCELLENT GAME!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Cannot speak for anything outside the PS3 but there's something to be said about a system that 
 can run "BURNOUT". This game is your typical intense "beat you to the finish line" racing game 
 with a Whole new feel. The Open Ended world is and will be the new RACING fad if we are lucky cause 
 this game leaves other Racers in the dirt...... You have a massive world in which you can virtually 
 do exactly whatever the hell you want, and tear whatever you want up. If you a Grand Turismo fan 
 who likes to run head first into gaurd rails and not even scrath the hood then this isn't for you. 
 Burnout will have you racing with cars that look like they crawled right outta the junkyard and 
 if you don't pay the machanic a visit your racing days are Numbered. 
  This Game Has too much to run on about, but to sum up my intro, this does the New Gen consoles 
 a favor cause as you race through this huge world at 150plus MPH your console doesn't miss a beat, 
 every little detail is on diplay as you fly by........ Every gamer needs DownTime and this is the 
 perfect way to spend it......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carloravelli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise: By carloravelli
  
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  First off, Burnout was getting old, you have to agree with that. So Criterion thought: "let's throw 
 the engine out and build a new one from scratch." And they did that, and man-o-man, what an experience. 
 Crashing actually enjoys you, it looks very detailed, and you can destroy every little thing of 
 your car. Speaking of cars, you can get a total of 75, and most of the time, you need to destroy 
 the type of car you want to unlock by smashing them against a wall. So there are crashes and cars, 
 but what about the racing?
  You can go online, and do all kinds of challenges, from power-parking to barrel rolls, from taking 
 the fastest route to meeting at the waterfront. Or you can go offline, and unlock all 75 cars by 
 doing the 120 challenges available from the start. And you can also obtain licenses by winning 
 the challenges offline, and you need those!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  This game is detailed all the way. I use a 1080i resolution, on a HD-Ready TV, and it looks splendid. 
 Glass clear, the crashes looks too detailed to fit in the game, and the damage your car takes, 
 looks very realistic. There are also very nice effects when using nitrous for example, the screen 
 blurs as you go faster, It's hard to describe. If you played the demo, you know what I'm talking 
 about. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is also very good, there are some nice songs, and landing jumps, slamming in opponents, 
 and the growl of your engine just sounds amazing. There is one little bad point: The DJ you hear 
 can sometimes be annoying, but that is rare. Most of the time, you don't listen to him.
  
  Fun: 10/10
  This game is fully loaded with all kinds of challenges, it has 75 cars, and addictive 
 gameplay, and you can spend hours playing online, and racing with friends. just press the right 
 button.
  
  Verdict:
  Burnout Paradise is the newest and one of the best games made by Criterion Games, and you will 
 get addicted by its gameplay, if not by its content. The graphics are amazing, and the music will 
 keep you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACIDUKILL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is with a doubt the king of the burnout series it has been a long time since I 
 enjoyed a game this much. The city you can drive in is huge with ramps short cuts and billboards 
 to smash every where. To start you off with you get a learner license and then it is up to you to 
 race where and who you want with different event to choose from my personnel favourite will have 
 to be road rage and marked man all you have to do in road rage is to destroy all the competition 
 on the road as many times as you can while before the time runs out or before your car is totalled 
 why this event is so much fun is because the crash scenes just look really amazing with out a doubt 
 the best out there at this moment. In marked man you are the one that is being chased and you have 
 to get from one point to the other with out your car being totalled with is fun because of the 
 competition being really aggressive. Burnout Paradise runs very smooth on the PS3 with excellent 
 graphics and no frame rate issues. If you have the slightest inter rest in any racing game you should 
 really give Burnout a try believe me you will not be disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  When you go out and look for a game to buy that is a continuation of other games you expect there 
 to be almost the same thing. Well I got news its like NFS, Grand Theft Auto, and every other racing 
 game put into this one. The open streets sucks, go back to the old way its so frustrating when 
 you start a game with a totally damaged car and you can't restart the race you where doing. They 
 need the old way back. What happened to the being able to rear end a car and that was a good thing. 
 Well not anymore. They have taken this totally out, when you are trained to do something then they 
 change it, it makes it hard to undo what you have already learned with the last 4 games. The graphics 
 are great, game control is great, game play sucks. Its so hard to find your way around a race and 
 not get lost when you don't have any indicators in which way to go. Thats my two cents, good thing 
 I rented it first and didn't waste my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankenLife
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that a lot has been said about the open world format for the game. I am in the camp of 
 people that are against it. I don't mind driving around looking for an event. That keeps you in 
 your car and moving all the time. What does bug me is that there are no race barriers. I pausing 
 the game to look at the map is not fun. Pausing stops the fun. You have to do this frequently. 
 One wrong turn and the race is wash. Nothing to do, but try it again or look for something else. 
 This is problem when playing online. You can't exactly just pause the race. The race will go on 
 without you. 
  
  The game does give you a mini map to follow, and a general direction arrow. When I play, I am flooring 
 it. My focus is on not hitting my surroundings, and taking down my opponents. Looking away from 
 the road to see the mini map usually causes me to crash. Even then the mini map is only good on 
 an HDTV. If you are running standard def, then you can't really use the mini map at all.
  
  I am a diehard Burnout completionist. I have 100% on every other burnout game, and I enjoyed doing 
 that thoroughly. I have Played this game most of the way through, but I don't feel compelled to 
 finish it. I have Call of Duty 4, and I would much rather play that. So I do. I haven't picked 
 this game up since I put it down for CoD4. I don't know when I'll finish it, but I don't quite 
 have the drive to. I keep going back and forth between selling this game back. I used to love burnout, 
 but this isn't as much fun as the others.
  
  There isn't even the wonderful and amazing crash mode. 
  
  I think I'll save myself the headache 
 and just sell the game back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Scepticism has scowled over the latest instalment after it was announced that the series was going 
 open world in its quest to bring non-stop destructive action. But I can safely say that it has 
 brought the same fantastic Burnout magic into a whole new experience.
  
  Paradise City is yours from the outset, from its commercial sky scrapers to its thunderously fast 
 mountains it will leave you awe-inspired with its beauty; no doubt you'll want to just cruise round 
 to begin and take it all in.
  
  Open from the start off will leave you a bit baffled to begin with and you'll need to get your 
 sense of direction if you want to start to do will in the events. Unlike Burnouts of old, you can 
 now, of course, take any route you want to get to the finish line. I wasn't a large fan of this 
 to begin with, mainly because the navigation is, well, crap. The arrow sends you in the general 
 direction but I still found myself struggling, and the side lights on the car and flashing street 
 signs did little to help as I was always going to fast to react. You will get used to this after 
 playing more and getting to know the streets, but it does come as a surprise to those Burnout fans 
 of old.
  
  The great thing, though, is that if you don't wanna race, then don't! Just driving round the city 
 is fun, trying to get all the jumps, smashes, bill boards and finding all the secret areas is a 
 lot of fun. The sense of freedom is great and you won't be disappointed with the size of the city.
 
  
  A minor drawback, for me, was the fact that there is no retry option for an event, nevertheless, 
 you will most likely end up at another event seeing as there are so many! However, this can become 
 frustrating later in the game when you have completed the majority of them.
  
  Completing events will gain you points on your license and, with enough points, get you knew licenses 
 which gains new events. Cars become available after a number of events where you must take down 
 the car while roaming the streets  a fun and original design.
  
  A new event is marked man and my favourite. You must survive a trip across Paradise while black, 
 ominous vehicles will try and take you down. This white knuckle ride is very typical of the game 
 as you must always be ready to make instant decisions and take the fastest routes.
  
  Another new event is stunt mode. And what a weird event. Your car, or more suitably your wreck, 
 will begin to tumble down the road where your goal is to pile into as many cars as possible. At 
 first I was very sceptical of the idea, but it did begin to grow on me and become another fun, 
 crazy event. In addition, stunt mode sees you travel through Paradise City looking for the most 
 extreme route, trying to do barrel roles, in-humane jumps and smashing bill boards to score as 
 many points as you can.
  
  Racing itself is as exciting as ever. The sense of speed is great and you'll be on the edge of 
 your seat as always. It has been slightly toned down from the two previous instalments, which is 
 a plus in my book, although you will still crash a lot if you're not careful enough!
  
  The online capabilities are a major new concept for the series and they don't disappoint. You can 
 jump in with seven of your friends, but the most impressive thing is how simple and seamless the 
 whole thing is; the only loading is when you connect for the first time and can all be done with 
 the D-pad.
  
  There are 350 challenges available, which vary from jumping over each other or attempting double 
 barrel rolls, to drifting insanely or crashing into one another. They offer quite a lot of variation; 
 however, they seem to be less appealing after you have done a large chunk of them.
  
  Another draw back from the online is that the races are the only event available; marked man on 
 multi-player would be too much fun. But, the races and challenges offer a lot of content for you 
 and your friends to sink your teeth into.
  
  Using the Playstation Eye, you can send pictures to each other after you or your friend gets taken 
 down. These are called mugshots and are stored within the game; another great and cynical feature.
 
  
  One feature you may not like  no, will not like, is DJ Atomica, the local radio star who talks 
 after events but, more annoyingly, just randomly. Sometimes he even pauses the game to point out 
 something you already knew and didn't care about and is not funny even in the slightest. On the 
 Playstation 3, he cannot be turned off, so you're stuck with this bad boy. Another thing is the 
 soundtrack, which has roughly 0 good songs on it. Avril Lavigne's Girlfriend features
  
  Burnout: Paradise City needs to be given a chance. If done so, you'll have hours of adrenaline 
 fuelled fun cruising, racing and wrecking the place. The gameplay has headed in a completely new 
 direction, but it is a change for the better, and offers a whole knew experience which you'll keep 
 coming back too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEPh1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Guns N Roses onece said..... Take me down to the paradise city were the grass is green and the girls 
 are pretty..... They forgot the part were a car smashes in semi while doing 100mph on the freeway. 
 Ive played the demo and if you dont pay attention some dude named GameLiFe345 (if thats anyones 
 name... i just guessed ok.) smashes into and makes you go..... Ahhhh and Ooooooo.... Grand Turismo 
 and Need for Speed made racing but people always said....."I want to wreck and destroy everything 
 i see in my 1965 Mustang, EA brings it all, free roam, customization on your ride. and smashing 
 into your friend makes Burnout Paradise the racing game of the year. The give it a 9.0, i what 
 the hell jimmy5shake give the game a perfect 10. And if you dont like that.... well to bad cause 
 it just that damn good. Peace
  
  dEPh: onE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawman86
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Aside from a few minor things that definitely dont stop me from getting so addicted to this game, 
 it is one of the most entertaining racing games I have ever played. Everything from the vast amount 
 of things to do in single player to the hilariously addicting online play of this game just plays 
 right to me. It could get repetitive to some, but to me the things that are repetitive are the 
 things that make the game fun anyways. 
  Like any game there is always something that you wish was different. The ability to go straight 
 to an event from the map as opposed to driving to it would be a welcomed feature as well as being 
 able to restart an event if you lose without having to drive back. This is the first of the Burnout 
 series I actually have sat down and played for more than 15 minutes, and I'm very happy I gave 
 it a shot. 
  I recommend this game to anyone and everyone thats ever played and enjoyed a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Features
  
  A development screenshot showcasing an intersection in Paradise CityAccording to Alex Ward from 
 developer Criterion Games, this game is a "complete reinvention" of the Burnout series. [4] He also 
 said "To create truly next-generation gameplay, we needed to create a truly next-generation game, 
 from the ground up." Despite being in an open world, the game still retains the high 60-frames-per-second 
 frame rate most Burnout games have used. [5] However, compromises such as the lack of day and night 
 cycles and weather conditions have been made. Records will now be kept on players' drivers licenses 
 and there will be statistics such as fastest time and biggest crash for every street in the game. 
 Crash mode has been renamed to Showtime mode. [6] Unlike previous Burnouts, the user now has full 
 control over where they initiate Showtime mode, there are no preset junctions or traffic patterns. 
 Showtime mode can also be activated during events such as Road Rage and Race, even when online. 
 Also, races are no longer specific lengths and types. Races are simply started by pulling up at 
 any of the 120 traffic lights around Paradise City and revving the engine. Multiple settings have 
 been confirmed to be fully customisable [7] [8] such as:
  
  "Boost Rules", where the player may choose cars that use the boost styles from previous Burnout 
 games. 
  Whether or not there is traffic in an online event. 
  Start and finish points for online events with up to 16 checkpoints. 
  
  Some of the 81 different 
 cars featured in the full version of the game. [9] The damage system has also being reworked. There 
 are now two different types of crash based on the condition of the car after the crash. [10] If 
 the player's car manages to retain all four wheels, the player may drive out of the crash and continue 
 playing. If a player's car loses any of its wheels or winds up outside of the game's map, the car 
 is in a "wrecked" state and the player will have to wait until their car is reset. Cars can also 
 be torn into several pieces, be compressed and deform around objects as you crash into them. However, 
 Alex Ward confirmed in the Official Crash FM podcast that cars may not be ripped in half as concept 
 pictures and early information stated. Also, there is a special edition of the game [citation needed] , 
 including a Steel Wheels version of the Carson GT concept car, which will feature the car with 
 armor plate and supercharger. There are also other cars which can be obtained by typing in a sponsor 
 code. These only work for certain regions. When starting the single player mode you are assigned 
 with a learner's permit and a single car. While playing you race and win events to earn points 
 towards a higher license, ranging from D to Criterion Elite, which is the equivalent of an S ranking. 
 After earning a new license every event that you complete is reset so you can replay the event 
 again to earn credit towards a new license.
  
  Cars now have manufacturer and model names, which are loosely based on real-world cars but are 
 mostly fictional (some of the cars are even based on those from a previous Burnout game, i. e. the 
 Hunter Manhattan is the Classic from Burnout 2) . Cars may not be "tuned up" [11] or customized apart 
 from color changes, which may be done in real-time by driving through the forecourt of a paint 
 shop, which will randomly assign a color to the car, or by selecting the color in the Junkyard 
 where you select your vehicle. Other real-time changes include driving through the forecourt of 
 a gas station to automatically refill your Burnout meter, and driving through the forecourt of 
 a repair shop to automatically repair your car, allowing you to extend a Road Rage event beyond 
 the car's damage limits. [12]
  
  The online lobby system used by most video games has been replaced by a streamlined system known 
 as "Easy Drive". While driving, players simply hit right on the D-Pad and the Easy Drive menu pops 
 up on the bottom left hand corner of their screen. From there, players are able to invite another 
 player from their friends list. Once friends have joined the game, the hosting player is then able 
 to pick from a variety of events to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  The first thing to notice about Burnout: Paradise is the open environment. Every stop light has 
 an event, whether it be a race, a speed run, or a challenge. It is comparable to a Gran Theft Auto 
 game, in the sense that you can go around and do any event at any time, or simply drive around 
 and explore the city, crashing into cars, exploring new paths, and finding the extras by smashing 
 certain fences and billboards, and doing certain jumps.
  
  Anybody can pick up the controller on Burnout Paradise and have fun by simply hitting the gas. 
 But the things to be earned on your way to 100% completion make the game a little deeper. By earning 
 liscences and unlocking cars, you get the sense of accomplishment that you want. The events get 
 harder to complete as you complete more events and gain more advanced liscenses. So there is reason 
 to keep playing, and completing all of the events.
  
  On-line in Burnout Paradise was implemented amazingly. It is as easy as pressing right on the D-Pad 
 to get online in Burnout. You can creat your own game or connect to another one, in which you can 
 compete against other players to do challenges and or races. The ease of the on-line definitely 
 gives Burnout extra added value.
  
  Burnout is a great game and if it even slightly has your interest, it will be very worth the purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychowithabow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  There are racers out there that adhere to a strict definition of "real". Forza, GT, games that 
 that. Don't get me wrong, those have their place. If you think that slowly edging up to an opponent 
 and out-driving him/her in order to score that perfect line on the final turn is fun, well, whatever.
 
  ... However, sometimes drifting around a hairpin at 200 mph then slamming an opponent into a pole 
 solely to see where his wheels will land can be called fun too. It can also be called "HOLY HELL 
 THAT WAS AWESOME LET'S SEE IF I CAN DO IT AGAIN WEEEE!". 
  
  For those following along at home, Burnout falls in the latter category.
  
  Never have I come 
 across a game that makes meandering around so much fun. The world in built so that there's always 
 something to look/reach for. And the meat of the game itself is also fun, actively encouraging 
 you to drive like a maniac and look for new ways to pummel your opposition. There are a few small 
 flaws, of course (Avril Lavine doesn't belong in a racing game, EA!) but the overall feeling of 
 the new Burnout is of reckless abandon. Screw physics, in Paradise City we don't bother with any 
 of that "laws of the universe" stuff.
  
  A racing game with no speedometer, no shifting, and a very loose definition of friction. Let's 
 go break some stuff. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shi7aa
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  this game really is a paradise. crashing is still awsome and there's a wired feeling of satisfaction 
 when you slam into other drivers. online is fantastic first experience for me for online racing. 
 although there's a delay in my connection but still it's real fun. visual are amazing. i think 
 this is one of the best racing games on the ps3. it is a must have game. don't hesitate to buy it, 
 belive me it will keep you busy for weeks. but the downside that it should've had restart events 
 because it was a bit frustrating after a long race and you crash and the end and have to drive 
 all the way back throug the same event. you can play another event at the location you crashed 
 and it's good to have this but includeing restart event would have beem nice. go move your butt 
 and buy the game and prepare for first class racing crashing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex13echo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how to describe this game so i'll make it short. Burnout Paradise is a beautiful game. 
 The map is absolutely huge, and you always find something new in the world of Burnout every time 
 you play. It's great just to freeburn around the city, goin off jumps, smashing billboards, and 
 finding shortcuts that might come in handy during a race. There are 75 cars in the game, which 
 is way more than enough to choose from. Races are a lot of fun, especially online. The only complaint 
 i have with races are that there are only 8 finish lines in the whole map. I believe that there 
 needs to be a little more variety. Also, I wish i could have put in my own soundtrack instead of 
 the tracks supplied in the game by EA. But, this is completely outweighed by the great things this 
 racer has to offer. Crashes are unbeliveably good looking. I also enjoy showtime mode, where you 
 just smash into as many cars as you can before you run out of boost, and cause the most damage 
 you possibly can. Some races are extremely difficult, but there are many more that you can do, 
 so don't concentrate on just one event. It's hard to get started, but once you get those really 
 fast cars, the game is amazing and fun to play online with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Everyones favorite racing series is back! With its fast paced gameplay and some of the most insane 
 crashes ever seen. As well as online play. The downloadable demo didn't show any of the good stuff!
 
  
  If your like me and loved the Burnout series from the first Burnout until now than you probably 
 own this game. All the racing is back! All the crashing is back! The annoying D. J is back! And 
 the PS3 provides some stunning in game visuals! You start off as a new driver to Paradise City 
 and are given a car at a local junkyard. Before you pick up your smashed up car, if you own an 
 Eye Toy or a USB camera, you can take pictures of yourself for your liscense! Once you are on the 
 road, you will see that Burnout has changed to a free roaming racing game, much similar to a NFS 
 Most Wanted. Some people may be turned off at the idea, but it provides alot of replayability and 
 more crashing to come. The main point of the story mode is to upgrade your liscense starting at 
 a Learners Permit, all the way up to a Burnout Liscense. The map for Paradise City is HUGE! Ranging 
 from a Stadium, to a Boatyard, to a beach, some massive mountains, and even a Country Club. As 
 well as the usual downtown area. The controls are fairly the same as far as accelerate with R2 
 and reverse with L2 and drifting options with square, and nitro with X. Burnout Paradise's controls 
 can be somewhat "jerky" with some people, but I haven't had any problems. Drifting is really fun 
 and poses quite a challenge to master. 
  
  The challenges in Burnout Paradise can be participated in my pulling up to a red light or other 
 intersection and holding down L2 and R2 buttons to start the challenge. The challenges include 
 a traditional race, Marked Man, Stunt Run, and Road Rage. Everyone already has experienced the 
 racing modes. Marked Man is a very unique and challenging event in which you are trying to get 
 from one destination to another without getting Taken Down by a few other enemy cars. Your has 
 a damge limit however, and usually gets worn down after about 4 Take Downs so theres a pretty good 
 chance you can win. Stunt Run is a game mode expected by many fans of Burnout, in which your trying 
 to get a certain amount of points from drifting, huge jumps, spins, speed, and crashes. Lastly, 
 Road Rage is the tradtional way of getting all your friends mad while playing split-screen in the 
 old Burnouts. It starts off with a bunch of other cars racing and ramming eachother around the 
 city and your trying to get a certain number of take downs before your car is totalled. After each 
 challenge you complete your liscence upgrades a win and lets you know how many more wins you need 
 to upgrade to a C or B (goes up to A and then Burnout) liscence. However if you fail an event you 
 have to drive all the way back to it just to play it again, but their are so many other challenges 
 you just move right on to the next! Another fun feature in Burnout is every few events you win 
 a new car will come into Paradise City and if you find it and wreck it, all you have to do is pick 
 it up at a local Junkyard and fix it up. As soon as the car sees you, it will usually nitro giving 
 you a heads up. You can also gain a new car each liscense you upgrade.
  
  Around Paradise city, there are a number of different shops and things your car may interact with. 
 All you have to do is drive thru each of these shops as well as the Junkyard to gain whatever the 
 business does. There is a mechanic to fix up your car, a paint shop to give your car some amazing 
 color, a gas station to refill your boost, and of course a Junkyard. Besides the challenges there 
 are also a number of gates and Burnout billboards you need to smash threw to completly beat the 
 game. I really enjoyed the music on this game even if the PS3 can't have custom soundtracks the 
 playlist is quite enjoyable. It features bands such as, Killswitch Engage, Seether, Twisted Sister, 
 Guns n' Roses, Alice n Chains, and alot more. Of course the theme music when you first start up 
 the game is Paradise City by Guns n Roses! 
  
  Get bored of single player? Well don't worry! EA is there for you! Online play on Burnout is somewhat 
 fun... with the tap of the right D-Pad you can access an online menu where its easy to see which 
 of your friends are online and to invite them to mess around. You can compete in ranked and non-ranked 
 races, but most of the time the people hosting the servers rarely start the race until they board 
 of crashing into other people that have joined the server... which is surprisingly boring! The 
 races are fun even if you suck! The person hosting can give you a list of cars to choose from or 
 just your list and a few extra cars that he/she has added. The cars range from classics, to sports 
 cars, trucks and vans, and even forumla 1 cars! If you get lucky and so happen to win a race... 
 you can take a victory pose with your Eye Toy or USB camera for everyone to see! 
  
  Well other than that Burnout Paradise doesn't have much else to offer! Its a great racing game 
 and probably the best i have ever played. The many features and styles of play in Burnout Paradise 
 proves to be sucessful and will keep all you inexperienced Burnout drivers either in the junkyard 
 or past the finish line!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  So burnout is here, with a facelift, it has now become a freeroam racing game. To be honest, it's 
 nothing extraordinary, the PC game test drive unlimited was freeroam too but the map itself was 
 way bigger. It's a very good try by criterion and EA, but i felt that more could have be put inside 
 to give more chaotic feel. But with the given improvements, i feel it's more and enough. And to 
 release it on a no-game month is wise, those with ps3 would feel the hungry to purchase this game.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  You roam around the streets, and hold L2+R2 to do missions. There's many liscense to achieve with 
 the last two being Burnout followed by elite liscense. I've tried playing this game with a logitech 
 G25, the forcefeed is really cool, but for a arcady game, it's best left ur wheel for something 
 more simulated.
  
  Graphics:
  A big WOW, It looks great and comparable to many AA titles on PS3, the car details are good, ur 
 allowed to customise ur car be it in style or color but it's very limited. There's a special crash 
 cam when u crash at cars to blocks, u can see ur glass being smashed and tiny bits coming out.
 
  
  Sound:
  Dolby True Surround , DTS, of course it's good, thats what i liked about EA, their audio formats 
 are always DTS and they sound a lot better than DD in terms of directional and bass. You'll hear 
 a radio broadcasting news, some hate it but i like it because it gives the game a fresh look. The 
 soundtracks are great but a miss that we can't put in Our own's.
  
  Well as a conclusion, i would say if ur looking for anything exciting, this is it! It's the most 
 exciting game i've played, the burning of nitrous simply is heartbreaking. When u smash, there's 
 this cool crashcam too. replay value wise, not a lot but when ur bored u can always free roam around. 
 One thing i wanted inside was some really crazy stun tracks, like 360degress tracks in some roads 
 but there wasn't any. Some of the jumps looks repeated and not too wild. But overall, the burnout 
 feel is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floor3013
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Best multiplatform racing game to date, but let down by flimsy soundtrack. Gameplay is brilliant, 
 Graphics are brilliant, and online is brilliant. In fact everything is brilliant, except for the 
 awful soundtrack, which is full of Indie-rock that you've never heard of. Another thing that's great 
 thing about this is game is the open world. Its huge, and filled with tons of shortcuts, billboards 
 and jumps to find, as well as a quarry, stock car racing circuit, airfield, and full motorway and 
 railroad system to go through. It lasts a long time, ive spent 30 hours on it and ive only completed 
 half of it! The online is great too, again it keeps you occupied for hours on end, completing fun 
 little tasks. Although something to mention is that every time a player leaves your clan, the challenge 
 is cancelled, regardless of how far you have completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malikj
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a gamer since almost 20 years. I gamed with almost every system, started with good old C64, 
 that is and was out there. Over the years, I played some of the best pieces in videogame history 
 and the very crappiest ever. I placed my eyes on games and how their successors rose to a real 
 main-event and I saw how a bunch of pretty unqualified people messed up a successor of a fairly 
 pleasing game. So did EA with their last bit of software sadly. 
  
  I really did like the prequels of Burnout. But in fact, the series were getting boring somehow. 
 After the second follower, Burnout 2 Point of Impact, EA unobvious decided to go the way of "ok 
 let's take a great game and make it even greater, bigger and louder". With Burnout Revenge I felt 
 like on a bad alcohol trip. The ones when you were twenty-something and you showed your swollen 
 face on every single house party. You're absolute aware of that you should keep your hands of the 
 bottle, because the very next sip of any drink will throw your mind in a horrible trip to hell 
 and back again.
  
  What I try to say is, Burnout Revenge was all too much but not really cracked up yet. 
  
  So 
 there we are, are new year, a new Burnout and the same idiotic philosophy. EA tried to push the 
 bottom even further and gave us an open-world based racer in return. But with in other reviews 
 described difficulties of the gameplay, you can't cancel races, you can't simply restart races, 
 roadway arrangement is disadvantageous for racing, etc and the fact, that this game bores your 
 intellect out of your brain, it's just no good. 
  
  Don't get my wrong, the graphics are mostly superb, some popups here and there are bearable. The 
 sound is generally good, except this DJ and his awkward gibberish. The crashing sounds are a bit 
 to thin in my opinion. But that's not the point anyway! 
  
  This game is just boring! It happens so much around you, bangs and whooshes everywhere, that you 
 know every aspect of the game after 15 minutes of playing. You have so much to do in this quite 
 beautiful open world, that you never really know what your actually are doing.
  
  After all, this game is boring and I don't believe that the next Burnout will get me in front of 
 my LCD again. Poorly another great series is trashed, another cool game killed by EA and their 
 phallic megalomania!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayandjo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  First of all this is a great game, brilliant graphics, fast and loads of things to do. I didn't 
 even mind the bad DJ everyone has been going on about but I have found myself putting the game 
 on ebay already.
  
  Despite its great looks and game play there are a few missing features from the original Burnout 
 series that I missed too much. Didn't like having to drive all the way back to a beginning of a 
 race to restart it you failed and a few times I ended up unwittingly redoing the same race and 
 then not being able to get out of it. Also didn't see the point of Marked Man feature. This was 
 just too easy.
  
  A lot of people I know who have played it has made the same comments. It takes time to get to know 
 the map and get use to working out where you have to turn next unlike the previous game where it 
 was pretty straight forward where you had to head off to and just let you concentrate on driving.
 
  
  But on the plus side this game looked absolutely brilliant on the PS3, I think if you have not 
 played the previous Burnout or really into driving games then this is the one for you however if 
 you are like me and you enjoy driving games but you prefer action then you may find yourself being 
 tempted away to other good looking games such as DMC4.
  
  Have to give this game an 8, if it had kept me entertained for longer then a 9 definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolGuy6654
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The Burnout series has pretty much been the same since the beginning with slight changes and graphical 
 updates. In my opinion i think Burnout Paradise is the best of the series. 
  
  Many games have tried the open world concept, and most of them have failed. Burnout successfully 
 tackles the open world concept. If you played other burnout games you will be familiar with this 
 one even though it can get confusing and annoying at times. You start out the game with a junker 
 and have to go to the repair shop to repair it and get racing. To start out events you must got 
 to any stop-light and preform a burnout by pressing L2+R2 and the events include all the Burnout 
 classics including the following: Race, Road Rage and others. In a review for a game with no story 
 i cant think of much to say. To play burnout online is a seamless experience by pressing LEFT on 
 the d-pad you get to choose from you friends and other things like freeburn. There are no menus 
 to go through to get to any of the game and there are no loading times to get to online or the 
 other side of the map. The bad thing about burnout is that when you finish or fail an event you 
 dont go to the start you end up where you end up. The navigation in burnout suck to say the least. 
 In the time I've played it it darn near impossible to get to your starting point if you want to 
 but its fun just to driving arround find events and doing them, but the bad thing is to get new 
 cars you need to go the the junkyard which is a pain in the ass to find while your driving arround. 
 Thats just me some of you might be good at that kind of thing. The online aspect of burnout is 
 cool. It's a seemless transfer form offline to online, it has online leader boards for every street 
 in the game and has 50 challenges for 2 players 50 for 3 and so on. In the multi-player portion 
 of the game there are 350 challenges to be completed and best completed with your personal friends 
 or mature clan-mates, beacuse it take concentration and cooperation to complete the challenges. 
 This is my first game purchase of 2008 and i could have thought of a better game to buy. If you 
 a fan of the burnout series and have 60$ to spend get this game.
  
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironoutlaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Drive anywhere and everywhere in Paradise City in a selection of 80+ cars. In this city you can 
 smash, crash, and race your way through any street you desire. Pull up at an intersection and challenge 
 yourself to a multitude of events including smash up derby style racing, burn out comps, stunt 
 driving and practically anything else you can do behind a wheel (although all the cars in "Burnout 
 Paradise" are driver-less, so it's kinda like living in a city full of K. I. T. T. s) . The Showtime 
 option is a great addition to the gaming experience. Roll your wreck through countless cars and 
 buses (you get more points for a bus) and along the way earn big dollar bonuses. Then there's the 
 massive jumps which when added to a billboard's destruction really gets the juices flowing. Get 
 on-line and experience the whole thing again but in a totally insane "Death Proof" kind of way. 
 The still shots, action replays, and slow-mo screens set this game apart from anything that has 
 come before. Add an amazing sound track, over the top graphics and a force-feeding controller to 
 the mix and you get the best racer money can buy. That's right this game is like a Tarantino movie 
 - a truly an open ended, highly addictive experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_moneyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Great game. Simple yet complex. The perfect sandbox game you can keep comming back to. Themini 
 map is alittle confusing though, when heading south, the map flips and a right turn would be a 
 left and viceversa, very confusing in a high speed chase let me tell you. Some streets are a little 
 repetitive but the challenges keep you comming back for more. My favorite part is the mountians, 
 great jumps, tricks, multipliers, combos. The thing about this game, it takes a little patients, 
 foot not so heavy on the gas, to explore, find those good jumps, gas stations and body shops. Flying 
 throught the map at 100 mile an hour will have you stopping at every corner everytime to see what 
 you MAY have missed. Another addition i would like to see on the full screen map would be way point 
 that the player could set. Sometimes trying to refind that perfect jump to either repeat it because 
 it was so narly or to show a friend, can be tidious and annoying. But all things considered this 
 is a refreshing break form FPS and hack and slash let me tell you. Good job EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Tom Atomicka is annoying.
  Game is fun but gets old, sound in the game is awesome, graphics could be better but its still 
 good.
  So many annoying issues in the game, such as teleporting cars in events like marked man and road 
 rage, but I could understand road rage.
  Race is annoying cause when you're far ahead, they dont crash at all.
  Game is repedative, You 
 have to keep repeating events and get new cars. 
  I hate people who write reviews on games for the first hour they played it. It's good but i dont 
 think its worthy of a 9. No MPH gauge to say how fast you're going. Crash scenes are cool but get 
 annoying after awhile. Wrecking into cars get annoying as well, and it just builds up til you throw 
 your controller at the wall, breaking it.
  And online, people tend to flash their private parts at you if they have a camera.. so watch out 
 who you take down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I have a strong connection with racing games. When I bought a PS2 back in 2001, I bought the Gran 
 Turismo 3 Bundle. When I bought an Xbox, it came with Sega GT 2002. My first PSP game was Wipeout 
 Pure. When I got my first 360 at launch I got Project Gotham Racing 3 and the 2nd one I bought 
 came with Forza2. Lastly, my first PS3 game was Motorstorm. Notice a trend? I love sports and racing 
 games and I try my best to try out as many games as I can. 
  
  Like most people, I am a fan of the Burnout series thanks in Part to Burnout 3: Takedown. That 
 game was incredible both in look and in challenge. It had plenty to offer. Burnout Revenge was 
 good but trying to copy the success of Takedown was always going to be difficult. The success of 
 Takedown is back with Paradise, a game that is filled top-to-bottom with plenty for everyone. 
 
  
  Unlike other Burnout games, this time you're given a city to do what you please. Every intersection 
 is can be one of six possible game option. 
  
  The Race option is simple: race against 7 other cars to the checkpoint. Since there are no tracks, 
 the route is up to you. You'll want to plan your course before you race. If you fail to win, then 
 you might look at the map and try to think of another route.
  
  Marked Man takes the race option but this time the opposition is trying to stop you. You need to 
 get to a checkpoint but you'll have a few strong aggressive cars that are only there to make your 
 race more difficult. Strategy is the name of the game in this mode.
  
  Road Rage is why so many people are Burnout fans. The mode is simple: take out your opposition 
 in any way you can. This is probably the mode you'll want to spend the most time with since it 
 can last anywhere from a few minutes to an hour if you're really, really good.
  
  Stunt Run gives you a score-goal and a time-limit. Now it's upto you to get that score by doing 
 as many stunts as you can. This mode is probably the most difficult since it requires you to know 
 the area well for ramps, billboards and anything else that will help you get the high score. But 
 when you accomplish a great score, you'll feel like you've actually done something.
  
  Burning Route is similar to race, but this time it's only you against the clock. Get to the checkpoint 
 under the time-limit and you're rewarded with a special prize. This mode usually has only one race 
 available per car so it rare that you'll be racing this unless you change your car often.
  
  Showtime is not a main mode, but along with Time Run (another sub-mode) you can attempt this 
 at any time. For Showtime, all you have to do is click the L1 and R1 together and you're car becomes 
 an explosive wreck. Now it's your turn to cause the worlds largest traffic accident. The more cars 
 you manage to take-out the longer you play and the higher your score. Nearly every road in the 
 came has a score goal, so if you're ever board of racing, you'll want to play this mode.
  
  As there are plenty of modes, there are also plenty of options in terms of cars. The cars fit into 
 three categories. Speed, Stunt or Aggression. Speed cars are great for racing. Stunt cars are great 
 for stunt runs while Aggressive cars are great for Road Rage and Marked Man events. As you progress 
 in the game and get better cars, the more versatile the cars become, so you won't have to change 
 often, but you'll not want to use cars that are strictly Aggression based for Stunt runs, and you 
 won't want to use Stunt cars for Marked Man routes.
  
  The difficulty in the events is on par with the type of car you use and your own strategy. In Road 
 Rage events you might want to race on busy streets to take advantage of car take-downs or you might 
 want to use the Interstate because you can use your speed to take cars out. The same goes for races, 
 as you'll want to take the route that will allow you to take full advantage of your speed. Take 
 an aggression car in a race and you're strategy might be to take out your oppositions so you can 
 have a better boost.
  
  If you fail to win an event there is no re-start option and this is where people have come to complain 
 about the game. If you know you're going to lose the race or event you can simply stop the car, 
 leave it to idle for a few moments and the race is stopped. If you end up finishing second, your 
 only options is to drive back to the marker and start again. While this may be a down-side for 
 some, the fact that there are so many available races, you can just jump onto something else and 
 chances are it might end up finishing near where you want to be. Or you can take this time to play 
 a sub-mode and go into Showtime mode or take your shot at Time trail. It's only when you near the 
 end of the game where there are only a few races left where you'll be forced to drive back to.
 
  
  The online options are great and can be turned on at just about anytime. Everything that you could 
 do in the off-line mode is available and you might not realize how much you've spend until you 
 notice that it's 2am and you have to wake up at 6 for work.
  
  The graphics and sound are top-notched. The car details both in your racing cars and the street 
 cars is a joy to look at. There are a few hitches here and there, but that can only be a problem 
 in show-time and road rage events when there is just so much going on. The collision detection 
 is spot on although sometimes to sensitive as you may think you're not going too fast, but the 
 crash proves otherwise. The Camera angles during these crashes do a great job in giving you a cinematic 
 experience to a destructive moment.
  The sound is good in terms of ambiance. The street noise and the sound of the various cars works 
 well and puts you in the environments. Most of the street cars don't make too much sound, but when 
 you're racing you can distinguish between the sounds of the other racers. The only downside to 
 the sound comes in the soundtrack which is not good by any stretch of the imagination. The soundtrack 
 is very rock heavy and unless you're a fan of the bands, chances are you won't become one. DJ Atomika 
 who sounds a lot like the other DJs of EA games (SSX and Burnout games in the past) is tolerable, 
 but you prey often or not that he doesn't repeat himself. Sometimes his comments work, but only 
 to give you a little bit of information (such as the Crash FM Podcast) . Custom soundtracks would 
 have been nice for the PS3 version of the game.
  
  There is so much to this game that any racing fan will be in heaven for a while. It will take you 
 at least 10 hours to complete most of the game and to get every nook and cranny should take you 
 twice as long (and I'm only talking about the offline mode) . The loading is a bit cumbersome at 
 the beginning as you'll spend almost five minutes from booting up the game until you're finally 
 on the road and this time can be extended if you need to watch the clips of the new cars in your 
 junkyard. But aside from that and the questionable soundtrack there isn't anything else that puts 
 this game down. 
  
  Chances are, if you're a racing fan, you've already picked this up. If you're not but need a game 
 to play, than you really can't go wrong here. I might recommend a rental first to those who are 
 not familiar with the series, but once you start, I doubt you'll want to put this down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blisterfingers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this is my first review so it'll probably be crap. But here goes. 
  
  Ill be honest in saying that i had never bought a burnout game before this, but having played the 
 demo this was a must have.
  
  Gameplay; gameplay is awesome, all the cars handly brilliantly, and in their own different way, 
 you cant beat flying down the wrong end of the highway dodging motorists in a car thats about to 
 fall apart. Although races can sometimes be repetitive, there is more than enough to keep you busy. 
 One of my favourites is road rage. Where the aim is to take the other racers out.
  
  Visuals; gorgeous, you will want to drive about the city for hours just to find every side street 
 and billboard. Then after that you'll want to drive straight into a wall just to see how detailed 
 the crashes are. Leave your car sitting too long and some classical music will start playing, and 
 you will be given a tour of city life. All in black and white goodness.
  
  Sound; this is one of the high points of the game for me, the soundtrack for this game is amazing, 
 if you like rock music that is. Bands like Guns n Roses, Jimmy Eat World, Brand New and Senses 
 Fail all have a song in the game. However, if rocks not your thang, mute it and put on your own 
 music, cause there isnt much else to listen for. Who really wants to listen to DJ Atomica? No thanks. 
 I jumped out my skin a few times with how loud the crashes are, specially when you've got your 
 volume all the way up to listen to the songs.
  
  Reply value; I can see myself playing this for a while yet, as i havent even touched on the online 
 features. If you start to get bored of single player, just hit the right button and select an online 
 game and BOOF. No loading times whatsoever, its totaly seemless. When i had the demo i ended up 
 playing that more than the games i actually owned, just because of the online mode. Theres nothing 
 like owning some fools with a takedown then seeing a snapshot of them crying cause of it. Top notch.
 
  
  All in all this is a must have game, its one of those games you can just pick up and play, no background 
 knowledge needed. Its just fun. I would say its one of, if not the, best game on the ps3. Buy it 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icey6ch9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are ok. There is aliasing all over. (Im using 1080i hdmi) When 
 you buy a racing game u normally expect really nice graphics, but not with this one. There is also 
 pop up with some cars which can get annoying. They really put no effort into camera angles for 
 driving. You can have 3rd person or really crappy first person. You can see your hood or nething. 
 The slow motion crashes are cool at first but get annoying after a while. You will have alot of 
 fun just going extremely fast then t-boning someone into oblivion. But its gonna get old.
  
  Gameplay: No real story at all, not even like what is seen in need for speed. There are a couple 
 types of races which are all pretty fun. However you will do these same 4 or so types of races 
 over and over and over til the game is done. The racing in this game is horrible. There are shortcuts 
 that will make you completely loose the race, yet they often encourage you to use them. I was in 
 first place and a mile away from the end and i took a shortcut that brought me to a completely 
 wrong street and i lost. The free roam in this game can ruin races. The only way you are told to 
 turn by a flashing signal at the top of your screen which may come in too late in several occasions. 
 Also you may look at it and crash into another car because you lost focus. The other game type 
 are very fun and i liked most of them with the exception of racing and stunt. 
  The worst part of this game is the sheer repetitiveness of it. There are like 100 races which are 
 all the same 4 or 5 games types on the same 10 or 15 tracks. At a point i just wanted to beat races 
 so i could finish the game, loosing all joy that i had when i first started.
  
  Lasting appeal: I beat the game in about a week of non consistent play. Although by the time i 
 was finished i didn't want to play multi player even though it is an option. I would suggest renting 
 this one unless your a hardcore racing fan. For gamers like me who play a bunch of types i would 
 only rent it. even though i bought it  : (
  
  Sound: Cars sounded cool and realistic. The soundtrack to this was very nice and went along with 
 the races fairly well.
  
  Controls: Easy standard issue controls except i dont believe you can drive manually which kinda 
 bugs me. Also they really explain some things like how to drift or how to stop a race until after 
 you have figured it out on you own.
  
  Other: I felt a little mislead by some reviews about this game. I believe a 7.5 is about where 
 it stands because it is a fun game to rent for a weekend but when you try to play it all day, like 
 you could with bio shock or devil may cry, it becomes more of a head ache throw your controller 
 at the wall type of game. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Glad I rented this title, worth playing through and enjoying, but 60 bucks is 60 bucks and I'd 
 rather save my fortune for those epic titles. The Burnout series offers fast paced racing, with 
 awesome crashes. The two collide though and create a very annoying aspect. Especially with the 
 newest feature to the game.
  
  Burnout is now in an open city, Paradise City! Which coincides with a Guns and Roses song. The 
 city scape is gorgeous with a wide variety of urban, rural and full sky scraper sections, each 
 with stunning visuals. The cars look fantastic with superb reflection and lighting effects.
  
  The sound is wonderful, excellent crash sounds and engine purs, but the sound track itself 
 leaves you wondering who? Most of the time. I knew Guns and Roses, Twisted Sister and Avril Lavine 
 (odd choice, her Girlfriend song annoys me) but she is Canadian so rock on. But the rest of the 
 bands I had no clue who they were, nor did I like their tunes. Turned off the sound anyways to 
 hear mics and listen to some Zeppelin.
  
  Controls feel tight and responsive, totaling a very high production value to this game. At least 
 with the aspects that are included. Driving around the city is fun for half an hour, you stop at 
 crossings to rev your engine and start a race, road rage, marked man, stunt run or a specific mission 
 for a certain car. The map is confusing, and for some reason I always wound up west in the rural 
 part. Opening up the map is necessary, but theres a load time which causes a stall. 
  
  Races take you all over the city, so opening the map is required. Which detracts from the experience. 
 Road Rage is the most fun, just driving into cars to make them crash. Problem is, the open world 
 has little interaction. Driving into a junk yard to change a car, paint shop, gas station and repair 
 station which are all drive throughs and simple boxes, railings, lamp posts for knocking over. 
 You reach speeds that are so fast you inevitably lose control and crash. Crashes are spectacular! 
 Which is bad, because then you get a slow motion camera angle and the game all of the sudden focuses 
 on just you crashing. During a Race this combined with constantly bringing up the map is VERY annoying. 
 Highly unprofessional to capitalize those letters like that, but the emphasis is important. The 
 game becomes annoying. Taking any re playability away.
  
  That being said, it offers a neat online mode. You simply connect right to a server wherever you 
 are in the city and bam! Your online with up to 7 other players. You can now complete online missions 
 with them, and race. I raced with this one guy for like an hour chatting about Uncharted and Call 
 of Duty 4. Which I found myself wishing I was playing Call of Duty 4 instead. The online without 
 a mic, would become the same as single player.
  
  Finally, for me at least I think racing games need a certain aspect to be truly enjoyable. If you 
 like racing games, then no doubt you like cars. We all like cars whether were enthusiasts or not, 
 we all like those Ferrari's and Porches. The cars in this game, are not real. The developers seemed 
 to have preferred buying the rights to no name bands then real brand cars. They're like duplicates, 
 but I can't say which was my favorite since they're quite forgettable. Real cars would be neat 
 so we can act our fantasies of tearing up the streets in high class sports cars.
  
  The combined aspects of what I'm picking at really detracted from the whole experience which is 
 sad. The core concept and engine of the game is wonderful. Play it. In my own opinion I wouldn't 
 buy it because I'm picky, but it truly is a magnificent game that can't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koochx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is, hands down, the best game i have had the pleasure of playing on the PS3. The 
 graphics are excellent. Every single crash looks unique and just amazingly real. The cars are well 
 designed. The sound accompanying these crashes are just, well music compared to the actual tracks 
 that are not quite good. This is one of the bummers of the game, especially for PS3 owners. 
  
  The game play is also great. Takedowns have never been so much fun. Nor has the game itself 
 been so much fun. I would spend hours just looking for those yellow gates, or super jumps and all 
 those burnout billboards. Gone is the Crash Mode and has been replaced with Showtime. This can 
 be activated at any time of the game and can last four 20 or even 30 minutes and its just so much 
 fun. I never realized that a thing this simple could be so much fun. Oh and did i mention its FREE 
 ROAM. Online mode is also great and it's actually very easy to get online. There is PS Eye integration 
 which I guess is fine. I mean i really don't want to see the guy i just took down showing me the 
 finger. Its fun but people tend to get really really stupid, like taking off their pants, and thats 
 just not cool.
  
  There are other, very few, negative things. As i mentioned before the music is not that good. Also 
 what i missed during the time i was playing the game was a retry option. You don't have the ability 
 to go to the map and just choose game to play. There is an event at every traffic light and after 
 every license upgrade all those events do get reset so you can do them again but still a retry 
 option would have been helpful. I would say that if you have an Xbox 360 and the PS3 then get it 
 on the Xbox 360. You can listen to your on music.
  
  Other then that if you have loved Burnout games before you should definitely get this and even 
 if you don't like the Burnout series you might want to change your mind. It's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond2d
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  A new year a new Burnout. This time taking the series in a new direction with the added free-roam. 
 It sounded like a good idea at first but fails in a Burnout game. Criterion should have not fixed 
 something that was not broken. Burnout 3: Takedown to me was one of the best in the series due 
 to the fact of variation. I think the races really lack in variation. The only variation added 
 in the races are that of the different routes you may take, some good some bad. 
  
  The sounds all sound terriffic, sounds that you would expect from a Burnout game. Criterion really 
 nailed those smashing windows and crunching metal effect but some have been ripped straight from 
 previous Burnout games.
  
  The online play is were the game really shines. With a press of a couple of button you'll will 
 be placed in Paradise with a max of 8 players going head to head or c. o. o. p. I really found the 
 online part of Paradise utterly amazing. The only bad part was others getting better cars than 
 you and the only way to do the same is to play single player zzzzZZZzzzz.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickael
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I can't get over how annoying and frustrating this game is.
  Just what these reviews are telling you. No restarts, can't find specific races easy, having to 
 purposely stay behind cars in races not to get lost. ... and having to pause the game and look at 
 the map gets really annoying for a game like burnout. and the map that you get, doesn't rotate 
 with the car. so a left turn is really a right turn depending on if you're going north or south 
 It's horrible. If it is possible to fix any of these problems... even just a restart option through 
 online patches, at least it'd be playable... but honestly, I'm done. Just rent this before you buy. 
 That's all you have to do. This is a rental. ... if you like it after 3 hours... then buy my used 
 copy cause selling it.
  
  And no multiplayer?? I have to tell my friends to stay home if I want to play them. Course, most 
 of them have 360's so... that's not gonna work. No fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Burnout focuses more on the online aspect which is a pain for people who dont have PS3 online. 
 Crashing your car is what its all about. Strong multiplayer online but not 2 player. This game 
 has lots of unlockables and cool cars to change colour and styles. Its better has a better gameplay 
 value than need for speed and midnight club.
  
  THE GOOD:-
  - Strong Graphics
  - Excellent Animation on Car crashes
  - Lots of variety of vehicles
  - Great Soundtrack
  
 - Large City to cruise about
  - Great online mutiplayer
  - Lots of awards and unlockables
  
  THE BAD:-
  - Not enough event types
  - The radio DJ 
 is VERY annoying
  - Some glitches
  
  OVERALL:-
  Graphics -- 9
  Sound -- 9
  Gameplay -- 8
  Value -- 8
  Legend Status -- 8
  
  This game is worth getting its the best 
 racing game out on PS3 and XBOX 360 so far! It delivers a fun driving experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I am unable to give this game a good rev iew, not for the reasons most people talk about, the lack 
 of restarts and the difficulty of finding one's way back to the beginning of a race. I take do 
 not bother even trying. What bothers me about this game is the difficulty in finding the route 
 of a race and the need to follow the pack for most of the race and win by breaking away in the 
 last half mile. If other people can get into first position early and find their way around the 
 course, I wish they would explain how they did it.
  Finally, the graphics I find grossly over-rated. The graphics are not bad, but hardly the best 
 I have seen. Of course, the game has great things going for it, such as the sense of speed and 
 the ability to zoom around tracks and knock out other cars. I did find the take-outs too easy and 
 lacking in any real challenge. So, all in all, not a bad game, but a game that might have been 
 great, and is not, despite the ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Intro: I saw this in the shops on release day and thought hmmm, lets give this a try. I was very 
 pleasantly surprised. The first 3 hours i spent just driving around and ignoring the missions, 
 enjoying the sights and sounds :)
  
  The Good:
  
  A very good mix of music.
  Great controls, very easy to use and learn.
  Loads of missions
  More cars you can shake a stick 
 out
  Graphics and sounds look and sound great.
  Free roaming the city is very cool, lots of freedom and secrets to find
  
  The Bad:
  
  
 Can become repetative after awhile
  No custom sound track option.
  No offline multiplayer option.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Apart from the few minor bad points, I 
 really really like this game. If you like fixed tracks with little variation then dont go for this. 
 If you like abit more freedom and are happy to sometimes take a wrong turn in a race. Then you 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Ok ..... How to start the review... ok lets start it this way perfect but not yet .. Burnout Paradise 
 is a perfect racing game for all age of people.. It fill with all its predacessor good thing such 
 as the burn and crash .. it also fill with slow motion crash where u can look at how ur car got 
 wreck like Matrix Reloaded wher the 2 car hit each other.. It is a nice view how criterion hav 
 done with the game .. MARVELOUS... it also added a new feature where call Showtime .. This mode allow 
 u to crash what ever car u see on the road and destroy as many car as u can untill the damage price 
 is super high juz like Burnout 3 have done....
  
  The online version is not much u can do ... Its juz the same as Single player but onli u can race 
 among ur fren ..... Do stunt and beat their record.. but honestly there arent much ppl online... 
 
  
  The bad thing of this game is the most important thing .. WHERE THE HELL IS THE 2 PLAYER MODE ???????????? 
 Some people cant afford to buy PS3 or Xbox 360 .. so mostly people will invite fren to thier house 
 and experience it but lack of mutiplayer cost us look like cheapskate ( for those who know wat 
 it mean) i was shock and angry when i cant play Burnout With my fren ...
  
  For the good side there is good and bad for each game but if u love lonely racing game and beautiful 
 crash and burn go get this game now .. BURN !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Reviw summary 
  + Fun for first few hours 
  + Marked man & road rage are brilliant 
  + The thrill of racing is still there, but very well hidden. 
  + Absolutely tonnes to do 
  
 
  - Infuriating 
  - Grey 
  - Dull, tedious & repetative 
  - More a memory test than of skill or reactions 
  - Lonely races 
  - No offline multiplayer 
 
  
  Sorry for the long review (hence the summary) but I feel its necasary to get my dissapointment 
 & frustration out. 
  
  You all should know the deal about Burnout by now & you should know that its been changed dramaticaly 
 from the previous, structured Burnouts into a open world game. 
  
  At first its brilliant, it really is. For my first couple of hours I was driving around really 
 enjoying myself, jumping around smashing through gates & billboards, driving fast & doing some 
 great crashes. 
  
  Then it all goes downhill very quickly. Through the beginning licences, races are practicaly impossible 
 to lose. You can (& will) spend a huge amount of time going in the wrong direction & still actualy 
 win a race. Wheres the sense of achievement or satisfaction from winning in that? There is none. 
 
  
  Then you reach the Burnout Licence. Suddenly the difficulty is ramped right up & all the problems 
 start showing themselves. The biggest problem is that you cant instant restart races. You have 
 to drive all the way back to the start line. Not a problem some say as another race is only around 
 a corner but this is only true early on & the mountain area to the west is short on race loactions 
 & is the furthest distance to the event filled city area. You begin dredding the races that lead 
 you into the mountains which is a shame because at first it was my favourite area. Now I hate it. 
 ts just a poor design choice no matter how you look at it. Especialy seeing as though every car 
 has a burning route which have to be restarted if you loose to win the improved version of the 
 car your driving. Also as you progress you run out of races so you must do this eventualy & when 
 you keep almost winning a race to get robbed at the last second, having to drive all the way back 
 is extremely annoying. Especialy as the traffic gets increased when cruising so youll spend a lot 
 of time driving back & crashing. Each crash increasing your anger as you just try to get to the 
 start line as quick as possible. 
  
  It also doesnt help that unless you know the city inside & out - no easy feat when its this packed 
 with off roads & hundreds of side streets. None of which are blocked off so you dont accidentaly 
 go down the wrong ones - its basicaly luck if you win or not. The game has a compass that tells 
 you which direction to head in & your indicators & signs at the top of the screen flash when A 
 turn comes up that you need to take. The problem is these normaly come on too late & you past the 
 turn before it even starts. But even if it does come on early enough with this being a city rather 
 than a race track, its full of 90 degree turns that are impossible to see past the scenery until 
 its too late or are actualy nigh on impossible too take without slowing down a great deal. 
  
  The next in incredibly annoying feature is the 'shortcuts'. Again unless you memorise the city 
 its highly recommended you stay on the road & never take a shortcut. The reason being that 90% 
 of these so called shortcuts trap you & send you completely in the wrong direction. So you end 
 up loosing the race through no fauilt of your own. The whole game feels more like a test of memory 
 than skill or reactions. Not once did I feel great satisfaction from winning a race as it just 
 seems so random if you win or not. Sometimes its incredibly easy & the next time its incredibly 
 hard. I also never enjoyed a race. 
  
  The city itself, although brilliant at first, also gets very dull & repetative. You'll grow very 
 tired of the greyness of it all after a while. All teh races finish at one of 8 locations so eventualy 
 it feels like your just redoing the same races over & over again. Theres no more exotic locations 
 to unlock, no more 'that track was great, I want to do it again' its all just one great big grey 
 city. Very depressing. 
  
  With the open city you also end up getting seperated from the pack & spend most the race by yourself. 
 A farcry from the brilliant, tight races of old where every second is a edge of you seat battle 
 with the other cars. If it wasnt for your position number youd have no idea other cars were involved 
 at all. 
  
  Then theres the new tacked on stunt races. These are such an afterthought its insulting. You get 
 points for jumps, billbourd smashes & barrel rolls off ramps. The later licences require you to 
 spend the whole run boosting, never crashing & memorising (again) all the jump & billboard locations 
 to get stupidly high scores. It just feels tedious & is incredibly dull & frustrating. 
  
  Another loss is the Crash events. Fanastic puzzle style score attack levels have now been replaced 
 by 'showtime' which can send your car into a crash & you bounce along the road using your boost. 
 Its fun but is nowhere near as brilliant as crash mode. Also the cars disappear when wrecked so 
 you cant sit back & admire a great site of broken cars. 
  
  The crashes themselves are also toned down. They are more realistic but have lost some of their 
 flare & madness. Id prefer the massive spark & air focused crashes of old to these new roll along 
 the ground with black bits flying off crashes anyday. 
  
  
  My last complaint is also one of the biggest. The multiplayer aspect is dropped altogether for 
 online only. Want to race a mate or challenge the to crash scores after youve been to pub? You 
 better send them home to get online them as you cant race someone in the same room anymore due 
 to it being too difficult to do in the open city environment. I find it ridiculous that its easier 
 to play mutliplayer against people 5 hour plane rides away then it is to play someone sat next 
 to you in the same room. Its laughable. 
  
  After all that negativity I guess I should point out its plus points. 
  
  The new 'marked man' 
 event is great fun. You have up to 4 black cars chasing you to the finish line trying to take you 
 down. Its fantastic adrenaline fueled rush. 
  
  Also the Road Rage races fit brilliantly with the new open world aspect. No finish line to worry 
 about just drive & takedown the other cars. Fantastic, pure fun. 
  
  If the whole new dircetion sits well with you & you can forget all the infuriating points mentioned 
 above then the city is a fantastic place & the game could last you almost forever its just chocked 
 full of things to do such as ruling roads (each road has a time trial & showtime score) & the huge 
 amount of unlockables & smashables. Its a mammoth task to hundred percent it. After 25+ hours & 
 the elite licence I only had it 80% complete. 
  
  Lastly whe it does all come together, your in a race & all the cars are surrounding you & you know 
 where your going, fixated on the vanishing point, boosting along at 200+ MPH, dodging traffic then 
 its a thrill thats unmatched by any other racing game. 
  
  Which makes it all the more depressing knowing that it could have all been this brilliant if they 
 just sticked to the structured race courses of old. If you want a new Burnout get the 360 version 
 of Revenge. Or if youve already got it, wipe your save & start again. You'll have a lot more fun 
 than you will with this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeshan810
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok first have you played burnout revenge?! you should ..
  ok now this game has it all! Fast cars real fast!
  1) Graphics are top notch phisics are very 
 real
  
  2) the town ( Paradise wathever) 
  where you can freely roam is just insanely huge just goes on and on 
  with everything you expect 
 in a town exept for people? ya come to think about it there are no people.. that would have been 
 cruel and fun at those speeds Crushing the little people:)
  
  3) lot to do in single player mode .. tons of missions, paint jobs , new cars
  just goign around 
 is heaven ! jumping all over Crazy
  
  4) the other players (Bots) are reacting very well there smart fast and insane
  
  5) the online 
 Play is nothing short of perfection! And o like almost no loading time! at soooo addictive
  forget the girfriend thats over with! meet your new concubine !! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Considering the fact that I'm not 1 to download demos of any game, previews & video on game sites 
 are what I have to go on. With this game, reputation played a huge part. Based on previous games 
 of this franchise (my favorite driving series, hands down) , checkin' for the next-gen debut was 
 a no-brainer. To say that this game is a wide open city is an under statement. The size of GTA 
 San Andreas has nothing on this! This city is huge!!! However, the map is very small; which makes 
 it problematic for racing events such as burning laps, marked man, & actual races. The environment 
 changes so fast that, during a heated battle, there's no time to squint at the radar. Your "track 
 cues come from turn signal sounds to alert you of your next programmed turn. It's kinda hard to 
 make, when you're moving at an undetermined rate of speed (no speedometer either) . The soundtrack 
 to this game is extremely weak. What's worse, is with the balls that the PS3 has, you can NOT change 
 the music out for anything that you may have on your hard drive. That luxury is afforded to 360 
 owners. Otherwise, this is a fantastic game (minus the repeat event styles) , 
::::::

::::::
UserName: email31165655
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  . . . this is the first Burnout game I've bought. Truth be told I've never really gotten into Burnout 
 games before because I didn't like their structure and style of play.
  Basically I was waiting for them to make an open world game like this one.
  This definitely is 
 a next-gen title, considering graphics, gameplay, online and more!
  It all fits seamlessly together and delivers a gaming experience that is super fun, challenging 
 and very accessible to new comers like me.
  The game's easy-going and relaxed way of play might turn off those who prefer a more linear structured 
 way of "level" advancement.
  Expect a lot of fun exploring the large map and vast variety of cars and modes available.
  Showtime 
 has got to be the funniest thing I've seen in a while, its awesome!
  In the beginning I'd recommend to play only modes you like or find easy (road rage, race) in order 
 to advance and when You get better cars and improve your knowledge of the city then You can go 
 ahead and get into harder modes like "stunt run" and "marked man". 
  From somebody who's used to playing highly technical games like Gran Turismo, I'd say this is high 
 praise indeed. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Frist off i am not in to Race Games most are boring in my view. So i took a chance with Paradise 
 and i am very happy with the Game, The Graphics are Great the Best i seen in a longtime. Music 
 is good. Controll is Great in the Game Great cars that you can win and Handle very well, Lot of 
 Car Races to pick from and the Best thing in a open city not on some Race Track, The Open feel 
 is Great. Only bad thing i seen in the Game is that the Car you drive has no driver in it so it 
 makes it look like Dumb. I wish they would of put Characters in the Game to choose from and had 
 a story with them, But i can over look that and still have a blast , Also the Game dont have a 
 two player Mode for Home use like with your friends at the house i miss that. But its worth 59.99 
 so go buy it and enjoy. My views Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Its hard to get something as simple as Burnout wrong, even attempting to do away with menu's hasn't 
 damaged it THAT much.
  
  It would be nice if you could restart a race with a couple of button presses rather than have to 
 drive all the way back to the start point, it would be nice if when you crashed you could actually 
 feel the controller vibrate in your hands but we're still stuck with the dreadful sixaxis pad and 
 as we have been told "Rumble is so last gen"... maybe this will play a bit better when Sony introduce 
 the Dualshock 3... which won't be so last gen anymore eh Phil.
  
  They had made a total mess of the Crash mode though, whilst in previous versions the crash junctions 
 required planning and timing to gain maximum damage from your explosion this just ignores all known 
 laws of physics and allows you to bounce like a rubber ball along the road from merely touching 
 another car.
  
  Close but no cigar, I'll stick to Burnout 3 thanks very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomy180
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This burnout is not quite the same from the precedent one. No split screens! I was at least expecting 
 to have some fun with my friends at my place. Instead, I play with people I don't know a thing 
 about. I really like that they dropped the check traffic. That was boring and really strange to 
 see (normally, no car survive a check at 300) . The graphics are really amazing. Almost struck by 
 the lightning. I can see clearly where I am going (even on a small screen or on a CRT, best on 
 30 inch HDTV and more) I have to say it, I loved the game for the first 15 hours, then it became 
 boring. There is certainly a lot of car, like usual with the burnout series. It is certainly a 
 next gen game, but I am not sure again that they used the full potential of the ps3. I got some 
 lags which shouldn't happen. Yes, the game in general is good to play, but I was really expecting 
 something closer to the precedent burnout, which I could enjoy still with some friends. Making 
 the biggest crash was kind of something that I would have like to see again. Something very cool 
 though on Paradise is the road rage. It is not new, but having the possibility to go all around 
 the city, boost your time by taking out competitors, having the chance to repair the car at a garage, 
 I mean, you can go on almost forever, which is awesome to make so many computer crash on ramps, 
 building, or even making them fly like a bird. 
  
  Seriously, this game have a lot of potential, if they keep it up to date with user reviews. With 
 the power of the ps3 and xbox360, they can surely enhance the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyBoyVai
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I was wary of Burnout Paradise, it could have been a major letdown if the new freeburn city idea 
 didn't work. Good news is it does, very well too. After a couple of hours wondering what you're 
 supposed to be doing (not to mention getting used to having R2 be the accelerator, something I 
 wasn't expect as jumped to Next gen racing) it really does start to gel together. Pulling up at 
 traffic lights for an event and finding your way through the city becomes second nature alot quicker 
 than you might expect. The cars looks fantastic and handle superbly by enlarge, with a couple of 
 quirky exceptions. The crashes were never my favourite part of the Burnout series (I know... im 
 weird) and as such the exclusion of the Crash Junctions and the like has done little to deter my 
 enthusiasm. You can still crash alot, in slo-mo and the like. So fear not crash-fans. The city 
 isn't as huge as I expected and is in some regards a little dissapointing. But it is bright and 
 enjoyable to roam around in "off-piste" as it were.
  
  The bad news for Burnout Paradise is limited in my opinion. Left to little things like how the 
 city feels oddly dead with no people walking the pavements/sidewalks, but fully understandable 
 is their omission from the game. Other things like the mini map, large map (viewed via the select 
 button with a pause in the action... best left to be done at the start of a race I find) and compass 
 of sorts... are good and certainly very helpful, but somehow still not quite enough. Trying to 
 navigate any one of those things while travelling at 200mph into oncoming traffic is not an easy 
 feat. Your best bet if you want to progress in the single player campaign is to drive "off-piste" 
 for hours, finding shortcuts, learning the roads and generally having fun before you get down to 
 serious business. In conclusion the single player game side here is tremendous fun and should keep 
 you occupied for a good 20+ hours of game time should you have the immagination to think of things 
 to amuse yourself inbetween races, road rages, marked man events (pretty much get the feck away 
 from some dudes in black cars trying to wreck your a$$ off the road, on your way to the finish 
 point) .
  
  The multiplayer section of the game... well... in short... I cannot comment on it. I expect it 
 is great fun doing all the things you do in single player with your mates online. But I am not 
 online yet, as such felt giving an honest assessment of the single player portion of the game a 
 review would possibly be of more help to some than mindless hordes claiming how great (or not) 
 it is online.
  
  In short, give it your time, learn the roads. And soon enough the majesty of Burnout Paradise becomes 
 apparent. It isn't perfect, but it is a bold and brave move into an exciting new direction. You 
 choose what race you drive and what road you take. Responsibility may come hand in hand with such 
 freedom, but it's a responsibility worth having. Did I mention that it's a gorgeous looking game 
 on both systems ?... oh... well it is. :)
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I love the idea of the open world game play in this game. I can just drive around the whole map 
 and do all sort of stunts. There are no more arrows that point you in the right direction, but 
 this makes sense since it's an open world after all. It makes things more realistic. You can finish 
 the race in any way you want. The plus: Like I said, is the open world game play. The graphics 
 are as great as ever. You can stop the race any time you want by stopping your car. There are a 
 lot of stunts locations. The negative: I wish there is a way to skip the slow motion crashes/jumps 
 whenever you want. There is no way to restart a race over or replay the previous race that you've 
 just lost. -- You have to drive all the way back to the start location. Nevertheless, this game has 
 a lot in it. I'm looking forward to future installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armeda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  I cannot really be bothered to write a real review, so I will rate it than spam something random 
 later
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Gameplay 9/10
  Value 10/10
  Multiplayer 9/10
  Music 3/10
  Sound 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Support 10/10
  
  
  
  
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  
 Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
 
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey
  Hey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  The single player mode has suffered in order to make this great online multiplayer racer / crasher. 
 The new menu-less free-roaming city feels too vague and unstructured for racing. There's aren't 
 any tracks so to speak as races have turned into point A to point B style races letting you find 
 the best route, but it's a nightmare trying to keep your eye on the compass, the map and the road. 
 If you screw up a race there isn't a restart option, this becomes really annoying when you are 
 in the hills and it takes ages to drive back to the city. This could have been fixed with a restart 
 option or even an option to teleport to any event or area of the map, a loading screen would have 
 been forgiven for the convenience.
  
  The new style of races should have only been included as an extra mode rather than replace the 
 traditional circuits. Even more has gone missing from the old titles, controlling your crashes 
 with 'aftertouch' has gone so you can't take out the AI cars when you plough into an oncoming bus 
 at top speed. Crash Mode has been replaced with Showtime, where you bounce your car along in any 
 direction you want hunting down traffic to boost your score and keep the carnage going for as long 
 as possible.
  You can no longer hit traffic going in the same direction, you can get away with the odd clip sometimes 
 but it's inconsistent so it's best avoiding it altogether when driving.
  
  Marked Man is a new mode where you have to race to the end and survive a pack of cars trying to 
 take you out. Very, very hard.
  
  A strange addition to the series is a handbrake button, this is for all the 90 degree turns you'll 
 be doing and countless 180s for going back for that turn you missed. You can't help feel the drifting 
 has been toned down too much to make this seem like a worthy addition.
  
  Try to stick with it because you need to progress through single players events to unlock extra 
 vehicles to give you an edge online, whether you want speed, strength or handling. Some of the 
 later cars are face-meltingly fast while others are more lethal than a train hurtling towards a 
 car stranded on the tracks.
  
  For all you road fiends out there without broadband yet (seriously why?) , you'll be disappointed 
 to learn that there is no offline multiplayer whatsoever. Bad EA! Bad Criterion!
  
  This is all forgiven because of the excellent online mode where clearly most of the development 
 time has been spent. Up to eight players can meet up to complete up to 350 challenges as simple 
 as everyone perform a drift or something requiring more team-work like having seven people park 
 between two jump ramps and the eighth player barrel-rolling over them all! There are a set number 
 of challengers for groups of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 players all requiring everyone to take part. 
 If you want to get them done you better start forming a large varied group of online burners that 
 are like-minded because there's nothing more annoying than doing a challenge where you all have 
 to meet on the dam waterworks roof and one player is ignoring you all at the other end of the city. 
 Kick em' out and start again when someone else joins in! As the Host you will be able to boot out 
 any uncooperative players and set up challenges and races.
  
  You can race, but it suffers from the same problems mentioned earlier but at least your human opponents 
 are vulnerable to the same mistakes. Or you can all just mess around crashing into each other or 
 compete for the longest drift or see who dares dodging oncoming traffic for the longest distance.
 
  
  Another great new feature is the way you can compete with your friends for the best time down a 
 street or the most damage caused in Showtime. If you top both, the sign on the map will turn gold 
 and you will 'own the road'. 
  
  It goes without saying that it all looks incredible too with no lag or pop-up issues at all. The 
 crashes will make you wince and cringe as you car is crushed in half when you barely see the brick 
 wall you've just disintegrated into. Though some of the slow motion crashes can really begin to 
 grate as they take forever and the aforementioned aftertouch has been removed.
  
  But hey, PS3 car nuts finally have decent game, so if they can fix the dodgy single player elements 
 and the soundtrack for next year's game it'll be perfect. Get playing with a good gang and you'll 
 enjoy possibly the best online experience yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Lets just say that I was very scepitcal about this game. I was very disappointed in the idea of 
 an open world format of the game and the fact that the crash junctions were missing I almost passed 
 up this gem of a game. It was not until I read a few reviews that I decided to give burnout paradise 
 a second look and I am happy that I did. The visuals are very beautiful probably the most beutiful 
 that I have seen to date on a driving game. They rival those of Forza Motorsport 2. The most important 
 part is the game play each type of car handles differently from the stunt cars to the speed cars 
 to the aggression cars. They each have a different feel. Personally I prefer the aggression cars 
 over all because they seem to have the best blend of speed and resiliency. Showtime mode turned 
 out to be very cool it gives you the opportunity to crash and to crash your way plus the six axis 
 control for this is pretty good. I still miss crash parties because that gave you a benchmark to 
 how well you are doing. My biggest gripe seems to be the same as all reviewers and that you can't 
 restart a race without driving back to the start that does get a little old after a while but it 
 is not a deal breaker.
  
  All in all I think Burnout Paradise is a step in the right direction and it really gives them something 
 to build off of for future versions of the game. For the first time in a long time I can say good 
 job to Electronic Arts. I was beginning to think they had forgotten what it was like to make a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  WOW, this is good. A Burnout game that takes advantage of next-gen abilities is good. I knew it 
 was a freeplay open world before I got it but after I got it what surprised me was how big it was. 
 The large open world enviroment kept me hooked for a long time but what really caught my eye was 
 the crashes, they are so descriptive and realistic you will just want to crash all the time.
  Beautiful graphics on the PS3 are amazing, there is so much detail on the road, the buildings, 
 and the cars even under the cars.
  The sound is pretty good but the Dj host guy whatever does get anoying and sounds funny. the music 
 and sound effects are ok, could have been better though.
  The gameplay is excellent, great racing experience with good AI, and great controls easy to use 
 controls.
  The only thing this game lacks is splitscreen, I cant race any friends in the house. There is online 
 multiplayer and its seamless and fun, it makes up for no splitscreen.
  Overall Burnout Paradise is a fun game with lots things to do in it, great variety of crash and 
 burn races and stunts. I give it a 9.5 superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The Burnout games have a knack for satisfying anyone's cathartic desire to take their frustrations 
 out on rush hour traffic. Paradise is no exception, and yet, just a few minutes behind the wheel 
 of the game makes clear that this is a Burnout unlike any other.
  
  Everything in Paradise City is fair game as soon as players begin; only the cars themselves remain 
 locked until further progress. No walled-off courses to be found, just miles upon miles of busy 
 intersections and open mountain roads, and a lot of conveniently placed broken bridges.
  The game truly encourages exploration in the most dangerous ways possible. 
  
  Obsessive completionists 
 stand to have the most fun with Paradise; the city contains a plethora of specially marked fences 
 and billboards just waiting to be crushed. Eventually, players will recognize these breakable objects 
 as beacons of opportunity for taking shortcuts and getting big air.
  
  The "make your own carnage" mantra translates into the series' new crash mode: Showtime. Hit the 
 two front shoulder buttons anywhere at anytime to begin a wreck. Causing more pileups allows the 
 car to keep rolling longer. Watching a vehicle bounce uphill and change direction may look ridiculous, 
 but the resulting destruction feels oh-so right.
  
  For all its fresh ideas with open-world gameplay, however, the most fun parts of the new Burnout 
 are still the Race and Road Rage events. Too often does the quest for smashing more gates and billboards 
 detract from the simple allure of barreling down a road against other racers.
  
  Stunt Run demands a lot of fancy tricks (drifting, catching air, barrel rolling, etc.) in order 
 to hit a target score, while Marked Man tasks players to reach an end point before three aggressive 
 black SUVs cause your vehicle too much damage. These new modes sound great on paper, but reaching 
 the target scores in Stunt Runs can be intensely frustrating if players aren't acute about the 
 ramps and shortcuts in the surrounding area. And Marked Man is just frustrating - period.
  
  Initiating an event requires a more hands-on approach than going through boring menus. Every 
 intersection/stop light in Paradise City is a unique event; stopping at one, braking, then accelerating 
 begins the festivities. Every event cleared contributes to the player's license upgrade, and once 
 the license hits a new level, the game re-sets every event in the city. Thus, players need not 
 worry about driving all the way back to starting points to retry events, because plenty of other 
 events are always closer by.
  
  Different events cater to different classes of vehicles. Road Rage and Marked Man are designed 
 for the slower and more durable Aggression-class cars, Speed-class cars excel at Races, and the 
 air-happy Stunt-class vehicles are prime candidates for Stunt Runs. Each class also earns and uses 
 the all-important boost power in different ways, so completing a Road Rage event with a Speed car 
 or a Race with an Aggression car are both entirely in the realm of possibility as long as players 
 play their cards right.
  
  The method of unlocking new rides entails the classic scenario of "win more events, and the game 
 will magically add a new car to your collection." The more interesting and fun way of adding new 
 vehicles to a player's arsenal is finding the vehicle itself driving around town and taking it 
 down. Coming across these cars and chasing after them is always a thrill, though the arbitrary 
 nature of these vehicles' locations can make finding them in the first place pretty frustrating.
 
  
  Taking down other competitors is as intuitive as ever, and even more satisfying thanks to some 
 truly stunning car deformation graphics. It's hard to be mad at crashing when you get to see your 
 vehicle crumple up into a heap of metal every time it happens. Just the right amounts of motion 
 blur, shaky camera, and loud sound effects makes every crash satisfying, and regardless of who 
 is on the receiving end.
  
  The online multiplayer experience also takes full advantage of the game's open-city structure. 
 Up to eight players can populate a single Paradise City, and what happens in that city is left 
 entirely up to their imagination. The host can create races from any start and end point in the 
 city, as well as co-operative non-racing events like "have one driver jump over the other seven" 
 or "accumulate 16,000 yards of air distance."
  
  The big problem with the non-racing events in online play is that it only takes a single player 
 to disconnect from the host in order to completely cancel an event. Some events can take several 
 minutes, and every player in the city must contribute, so finding a host willing to start events 
 on top of a group of players unwilling to disconnect can make completing these events a chore.
 
  
  The technical achievement of the online mode itself, however, cannot be understated. Criterion 
 must be some sort of group of net-code wizards, because just a few taps of the d-pad seamlessly 
 transitions players from solo mode to online  no lobbies required.
  
  Criterion has also taken advantage of the consoles' USB camera functionality in unique ways. The 
 premise: have a camera pointing at your face all the time so that once someone else takes you down, 
 the camera will take a snapshot of your disappointed face for that player to cherish. The reality: 
 most players don't use cameras, and those that do would rather display middle fingers and bare 
 asses than their faces.
  
  In a sense, Burnout Paradise isn't so much of a video game as just a big toy. The game offers little 
 rewards for simply creating massive carnage on the streets, but the act of doing so is inherently 
 satisfying. Whether the series' open world experiment was successful or not is debatable, but ultimately 
 irrelevant regardless. Losing has never been this much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp1985ss
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  ive had every burnout game apart frm the last one on the ps2, forgot what it was called but looked 
 pants, i got the ps3 version of this and its mint, graphics gameplay the crashes!! it takes abit 
 of getting used to though, the open world and the freedom is a pain at 1st but when youve been at 
 it after time you get used to it, feels lyk being in a gta game and not knowing where your going 
 but you get used to it and at 1st the fact u have to use L2 and R2 to brake/accel (i prefer the 
 x and square way of things but u carnt change the button settings) is a pain in my book but even 
 the controls are growing on me, this is as good as ever and the graphics are immense but it does 
 have them black borders on if u dont have a wide screen tv! the music is top notch and has older 
 songs from previous burnouts in it aswell, it wont be to all tastes the music but there good never 
 the less and this shud be in anybodys collection in my book 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise has everything, from awesome racing with great effects, to the beautifull destroying 
 of the cars, and a new open world to crash, race and do whatever you want in Paradise City.
  The game is awesome in every aspect, combine gorgeous visuals and great sound effects, and i have 
 to say, this visualy stunning game has one of the greatest graphics when speaking about multiplatforms 
 games.
  The game has a beautifful presentation from beginning to end.
  Gampelay is awesome and fun, and control scheme is easy to learn and enjoyable.
  This game has 
 everything, lots of cars to unlock, and like 3 miles of open road for you to make disasters in 
 Paradise City!
  You will notice that its sometimes annying to pause the game while racing to look at the map, cause 
 they tell you where your destination is, but you have to figure out how to get there, some people 
 will find this awesome or annoying.
  Performing takedowns in Burnout Paradise is fun and watching the destroying of the cars, and i 
 say it again is beautifull and you can see it in a variety of cameras.
  .Burnout Paradise is a solid racer that offers whatever you expect from a next gen game, plus fun, 
 beauty and gorgeous presentation. A MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_fogh
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  To get one thing straight I've always loved the Burnout series, but the latest addition has really 
 let me down. As all the other user reviews are only positive I thought I would give my opinion.
 
  The best feature of the Burnout series was to race one of your friends and see his face when he 
 was taken down for the fifth time. Priceless! (Yes, we're still some that have real life friends.) 
 Unfortunately this is replaced by racing a stranger online. Where's the fun in that??? Fair enough 
 if some people like this, but why not have both?
  Another nice feature was to start up the game and you would be racing in seconds. This has been 
 replaced by an open world. Why not at least have the option to select a race from the menu, or 
 the very least to restart a race without having to drive back to the beginning??
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leige_a
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I still say Burnout Revenge was the perfect version of the series. From the ferocity of crashes 
 modes to the sheer joy of traffic-checking. Paradase tries to bring it back but I think the biggest 
 thing weighing it down is the open-ended environment.
  
  I spent too much time looking for the right event type I was in the mood for only to find out I 
 had the wrong car, then racing back to the yard to change! They key to liking this 'interface' 
 is if you can memorize every road of Paradise City; ramps, gaps and short cuts too!
  
  Now take this confusion online with a few other people dotted around the city. Good luck finding 
 each other and setting up a random session of chicken. Kudos if you manage to group up with everyone 
 but stray too far and even the goals set by the host make you feel like your better off alone.
 
  
  The final thought is that its got all the core trademarks that make this a Burnout game, but instead 
 of taking it to the next level, they just let it spread out and lay it flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal1212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is a new game that just came out for the PS3 & the 360. Let me be the millionth 
 person to tell you that if you own a PS3, BUY THIS GAME! It's not like other burnout games where 
 you just jump in and play. You need to know the city and by knowing it, you will do good in this 
 game. How do you learn it? Just explore! It's a free- rome game. You WILL need time to get to know 
 Paridise city. It would be dumb if you jump in a race and know NOTHING about the city. PERIOD. 
 Not telling you anymore on how to do good in this game. THE END.
  
  PROS: -some people say don't listen to the hype. DON'T LISTEN TO THEM! -racing and crashing is 
 awsome - showtime is awsome - everything is awsome - what else can I say???????????
  
  CONS: - is you like arcade style games ( i. e. Burnout 3) then you will be dissopointed - it will 
 take time to know the city - showtime seems like it has no purpose
  
  overall, Burnout Paradise turned out to be a great game for Burnout fans and people who like street 
 racing games. Just be careful because if you like burnout because if you like burnout for the arcade 
 fun, you will not find it here. Almost forgot, NO SPLITSCREEN. There is of corse online but this 
 is the offline verzion review. If you are a newcomer on the PS3, buy this game. NOW. RIGHT NOW. 
 GO. NOW!
  
  A 9.5........................ out of ten........
  
  This review is an honor to Alex Navarro *cries*
  
  ___________________
 Cagney" Review.
 
  
  
  
  
  "Cagney" is an update to Burnout Paradise, in which a lot good new features to the game have been 
 added.
  
  
  
  
  One thing that you will notice when you pop in the disk is the change in menus. The main color 
 in Burnout is Orange- and it's eaiser to navagate thru menus- all in a cool looking way. Also, 
 the game is more online based now, and it brings you news on whos the top of the Burnout world 
 and also you can compare your scores in Burnout with your firends.
  
  
  
  
  This leads to new yet fun online modes including Road Rage, Marked Man, and Stunt Run. All of these 
 events are slightly different then the ones in single-player, but still a lot of fun. With that 
 being said, These events are ment to be played with more than 2 people since some of them include 
 teaming up. But once you get the game going, it could but a lot of fun. The new game modes aren't 
 the only things new to online. There are also new (hard) time challanges to do with our friend 
 and could be a hell of a fun time. These include- jumping off of buildings, jumping over each other, 
 crashing each other, meeting in a certen area in the city, and much, much more.
  
  There is also custom soundtracts where you can easily activate in the free drive section. Enough 
 said.
  
  There is also (yep there's more ) new cars (no motorcycles yet) which you can unlock by doing timed 
 challenges (?) . You could unlock hippie vans!!
  
  All in all the "Cagney" updates is another reason you should start picking up Burnout Paradise 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelercub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  After trying practically every racing game currently available for the PS3, I've concluded that 
 Burnout Paradise is one of the best games I've played not only on the PS3, but one of the best 
 ones I've played in years. With unlimited replay value, it has quickly become one of a handful 
 of favorite games and will undoubtedly remain on my regular play list for months, if not years, 
 to come. Especially in a gaming market thats flooded with beautifully designed adventure games 
 that have absolutely no replay value after you beat them. 
  
  Anyone familiar with SSX series should remember the free flowing, open, and expansive mountain 
 in SSX3 where players could ski down from the top of the mountain to the bottom performing tricks 
 for cash without actually participating in any races or other events. Burnout Paradise builds off 
 the same concept by giving you an entire free-flowing city to play around with complete with hidden 
 areas, secrets goals, and events galore.
  
  Right off the bat you'll notice that the city looks very familiar without being very specific. 
 In fact, after riding around Paradise City a few times, it appears to be built from a variety of 
 famous cityscapes including Miami, Los Angeles, Chicago, and New York. While the game doesn't focus 
 too much on any one city, it should feel very familiar to anyone who has driven in any of them.
 
  
  What's great about Burnout Paradise is that it never ends. You can just joyride down the streets 
 and explore for hours on end. You can experiment doing tricks and spinning into parking spots. 
 Smashing through streets and construction areas with yellow signs usually reveal shortcuts to take 
 advantage of later. And if you see yellow blinking warning lights, by all means hit the gas and 
 turbo boost into them because they markers for a big jump!
  
  As you play around and win a few races and other challenges, you will unlock new cars with different 
 body types and different statistics. You can normally pick these up at the Junk Yard, but after 
 the first two or three cars are unlocked, you'll have to catch some of the others. You'll be notified 
 that the new car is available and that you have to catch up to it speeding through the streets 
 of Paradise City and smash it into a wall in order to unlock it ~ it's very exciting and a super 
 cool way of rewarding your efforts!
  
  While you can ignore them completely, throughout the city there are map markers that point to different 
 challenges such as Road Rages (smash X number of cars in a certain amount of time) , normal Races 
 (which are considerably long and exciting) , as well as many others such as one where you have to 
 reach a certain part of the city without being taken out by the other cars. You can start a challenge 
 at any point by simply pulling up to a stop light and hitting L2 and R2 at the same time and every 
 single road in the city has multiple challenges and high scores to beat. And if that's not enough 
 it has online multiplay where you can show off you stunt and driving skills to your buddies or 
 strangers from all over the world. 
  
  But where the game excels is in a room full of your friends. Because of the way its built, anyone 
 can pick it up and immediately get into the action. The game lets you travel so incredibly fast 
 and the crashes are so stunning and cool, that everyone in the room will be cheering with every 
 jump, spin, and crash you do. Even though it's build for one player at home, all my friends found 
 it thoroughly entertaining and equally fun to watch.
  
  If you're tired of the same old racing games that lack personality and creativity because you're 
 forced to drive around pre-determined tracks, your cars never gets damaged, or you can fall off 
 the main track, Burnout Paradise is a great change and absolutely worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endo101
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the burnout series for quite some time now, and I must say that this one is 
 great, and has a lot of potential for the next series, but as far as this one goes, it could have 
 been way better.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound FX are on par, realistic, grinding, crashing, exploding, and cars sound real. As far 
 as the music goes, lets just get it out there, the music in the game sucks, I heard maybe 1-2 songs 
 that I liked and was absolutely horrified when I heard avril lavigne start playing. Just another 
 reason why PS3 needs in game XMB. I would have to say the only good thing about the music is the 
 fact that I can turn it off.
  
  Graphics
  
  I don't have an HD TV, but I must say that I don't think its fair that the mini map is only useful 
 for people with HD, as without one the mini map is much harder to see an use.
  
  Fun Factor
  
  Well, as I said its a great game, but has quite a few flaws. So lets get to those. 
 I would say the biggest blow to the game is there being no crash mode. Instead it has been replaced 
 by something similar called crash time, which can be done anywhere, and actually has to be done 
 on every street to gain an award. You hit L1+R1 to start flipping your car into a roll using boost 
 as a way to keep flipping it and trying to hit other cars and using buses as a way to to multiply 
 your score. Its fun, but its definitely not as fun as crash mode.
  
  Okay, So I understand why it would have been hard to implement crash mode into the game, but why 
 did they have to take out the crash breaker, you know, when you crash or get taken out, hit a button 
 to make your car explode , taking out anyone near you, then being able to steer yourself towards 
 other players. 
  
  Anyways, with that rant out of the way, let me get to the cars. You have 3 types. Speed, Stunt, 
 and Aggression. They all have different boosts to them. Basically what they tried to do is match 
 cars with game types. Speed cars for races, stunt cars for stunt runs, and aggression cars for 
 road rage and marked man. I find my self in situations where I find a type of race, and I the car 
 I am in is useless for it. I also find it hard to get in a race that makes me travel all across 
 paradise only to lose and have to travel all the way back to the start of it. Would it have really 
 been that hard to implement a system where I can restart a race from the beginning.
  
  What can I say, other then what I mentioned, its all gravy. The racing is fast and furious, the 
 crashing is over the top great, stunt mode is a great new addition to the series that allows you 
 to flip fly and crash into high scores. Also, even though I didn't like showtime much, I do like 
 the fact that I can set a record that people can see online. The online experience is also great 
 racing with other people, scoring take downs, gaining rivals and what not. Trying to gain awards 
 by co-oping. Although, getting taken out by someone and then seeing a picture of the persons genitals 
 isnt all that great. I would say to anyone asking about the game to wait until it goes down in 
 price, because its not worth 64.93. 
  
  
  Pros
  Stunt runs
  Online experience
  Faster than ever
  Seamless game play
  Getting online is very easy
  
  Cons
  Lots of useless 
 traveling just to do certain thing
  NO CRASH MODE
  NO CRASH BREAKER
  Car specific runs
  Mini map useless (without HD)
  Music is horrible
  Getting taken out online only to see a picture 
 of someones naughty zone.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugattiveyron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I have played this game only to the Burnout License, but I think I'm ready to write a review.
 
  The cars are - wisely - divided into three boost types: Aggression, Stunt and Speed.
  Aggression cars build up boost by taking down other drivers. They are pretty much as fast as the 
 other cars, but they corner rather badly and accelerate slowly. The biggest cars in the game are 
 the Inferno Van, Takedown 4x4 and Pioneer.
  Stunt cars build up boost by ( guess what ) doing stunts. These cars are the easiest and also the 
 most fun to drive. Getting boost in races becomes a problem, because doing stunts takes time, if 
 you're doing something more than just driving up ramps.
  Speed cars can chain Burnouts together. These cars aren't very strong, with a few exceptions like 
 the Krieger 616 Sport. They corner better than Aggression cars. And they are - of course - the 
 fastest.
  Also the liked Crash-mode has been replaced with something called Showtime. Don't panic, because 
 I think that Showtime might be even funnier than the Crash mode. Crash wouldn't have fitted in 
 a free-roaming world anyway.
  "What about the races with no set paths" I hear you asking. Well, they're good and bad. They do 
 give you a sense of freedom, but checking the map every now and then makes some people nervous. 
 My tip: The less you have to turn, the faster you go !
  Stunt run is one of the new game modes and it fits the game well. This far I have only used one 
 good stunt location: Big Surf Beach and that one place between Angus Wharf and the sea. ( With 
 two billboards ) . You get multipliers for breaking billboards, doing flatspins and barrel rolls 
 and long air times. Once I got something like x20 multiplier. Sweet.
  Marked Man doesn't fit Burnout very well, because you have to drive slow. I strongly suggest you 
 to pick one of your HUGE cars.
  This game divides players into two groups: haters and lovers. ( I'm in the second group ) . But 
 definately, TRY IT FIRST BEFORE CALLING IT BAD.
  
  
  P. S. There's a cool race track west from Lone Stallion Ranch.
  There's also a cool quarry south 
 from the Silver Lake Junkyard.
  And a cool airfield. I can't list everyhting that's cool. There are too many cool things in Burnout 
 Paradise !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stabob101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is the best Burnout to date. It is very addictive. Many reviewers complain that you can't 
 start over on an event. I think that is one of the best parts of the game. Used to be frustrating 
 to go to an event and try it over and over again. Eventually you will get back to the event at 
 some point in the game. Also, not every event is needed to upgrade your license so it isn't really 
 necessary to beat an event. There have been a lot of complaints about the lack of crash mode. This 
 is really my only disappointment with the game, Showdown is just not as fun and calculating as 
 the crash mode was. However, there are so many good things in the game, that lack of crash mode 
 is just a small complaint. Overall this is a very fun game, and isn't that what gaming is all about. 
 It should be a must buy for your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pumph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  I was amazed to find that I only had 50% of the game completed as the credits roll. Better still 
 I was highly motivated to keep playing. I had 50 of 80 cars unlocked and hadn't played online much.
 
  
  Overall this by far the best racing game I've ever played. I don't care for games like Forza, Project 
 Gotham Racing, etc. None of them. Even the last few Burnout games were too linear to me. Non linear 
 progression is an amazing concept I hope other racing game developers will learn from.
  
  I chose a very specific way of getting my Burnout License and had a blast doing so. I tended to 
 race, revenge and mark man my way to cars opening. Then I'd use those new cars to win Burnout races 
 so I'd have each car upgraded when I got to the end. I found it easier to dot this.
  
  If I have a gripe or two they'd be the following:
  
  First it would be "Stunt" challenges and 
 the reason I find them hard is the 2nd gripe. As for Stunt, I've yet to complete a run for 100,000. 
 It seems impossible with the time constraints. Furthermore, driving around to figure out a good 
 stunt route is also too painful.
  
  Enter gripe number 2. The map. This is what is at the center to most of my frustration in the game. 
 I didn't mind having to drive back to a start point after losing a race. I saw that as part of 
 the motivation to win. My problem is that you can't set "way points". Way points should be an unlockable 
 bonus after a certain pont in the game. In fact, puzzling, in Paradise online can't one set checkpoints 
 for a race? Maybe Criterion will give us a true "GPS" as DLC. I hear "reload" will be in DLC but 
 that's not that big a deal. As I said, driving back to start point was motivation to me. Plus I 
 would "race my way back" to a previous lost start point.
  
  Again, a great game. The best! Never was I more sucked into a game than Burnout Paradise. A game 
 has to be great to pull me away from COD4, Mass Effect, Bioshock or Halo 3.
  
  I am also playing this game on a PS3. It looks great on the PS3. I can see little difference other 
 than the lack of anit-aliasing on poly edges with the PS3. The load times on the PS3 seem to be 
 a wee bit slower too. Going from the 360 controller to the PS3 also takes some getting used to. 
 I'm about 33 races from the burnout license on the PS3 and will definitely play through to the 
 end.
  
  9.7 (both versions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise (PS3) is without a doubt the best Burnout game I've played since Burnout 3 Takedown. 
 The graphics are sharp with the city that seems alive with motoring activity. The soundtrack has 
 a couple of good songs but, some should not be on the list (songs like Girlfriend *yuck*) I really 
 enjoyed the freedom of achieving your goals instead of the rigid, must-do first structure of games 
 past. The minute you enter Paradise you get short and simple tutorial on what to do and the you 
 just go out and do it! there is something at every intersection, plenty of secret paths and tricks 
 to discover as well as billboards to smash. Its nice that you can repair you car at an auto repair 
 shop just by driving through, obtain a paint job in the paint spray shop, or fill up your boost 
 at a nearby gas station. The wrecks are cool to watch (especially when you hit things head on to 
 see the front of the car totally push inward/compact) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Burnout 3: Takedown is one of my favourite games of all time, it breathed new life into a terrific 
 series which to be honest needed a bit of umph, and thats what Takedown did and then repeated in 
 Revenge, which was simply a faster, more polished and aggresive Takedown, and as much as Paradise 
 rocks, Takedown is still the Burnout champion - by miles.
  
  Paradise may look classier and be one hell of a show off compared to Takedown, but it doesn't do 
 what the third game did for the series, rejuvenate it, it opens it up certainly, but as a consequence 
 Paradise feels unstructured and uncomfortable to Burnout vetrans.
  
  Paradise City - and open world environment in which you can freely drive wherever you want. From 
 its crystal peaks to its golden shores, it is beautiful, no denying that. You feel like the city 
 is alive and sprawling, and the variety of roads available is incredible, and a definite plus for 
 the series.
  
  The openworld environment does make it feel like the highly inferior NFS: Underground, however 
 Burnout's free-roaming city is unlike any you've driven around previously, there is a race at every 
 turn, or a crash junction, everything is intact but just presented a little differently. You are 
 never short on something to find and do, as there are hundreds of events to win.
  
  Suddenly Burnout has become more tactical than ever, you see, scattered all over Paradise are jumps 
 and shorts cuts for you to take advantage of during races, uncover them before hand and remember 
 wher they are, and you can trim your race time to a bare minimum and get ahead of the crowd. 
 
  
  The navigation bar is awful, I hate it, it doesn't give you clear enough indications and you do 
 end up getting lost if you don't know you're way around, good job you can freely drive around the 
 entire city at anytime.
  
  Online is simple excellent. Simple and easy and almost seamless. No lobbies or menus or anything, 
 one buttons press and you're literally away with you're mates, bombing around Paradise. You can 
 chose to do stunts together, race, drift or just roam, and most importantly it's fun and easy to 
 accomplish.
  
  The amount of options available are fantastic also, inclusing the newly added Stunt Run and revamped 
 Crash Junctions - now Showtime. Personally preferring Crash Junctions but Showtime is undoubtedly 
 cool and hilarious to watch.
  
  I can not express how insanely beautiful the cars are. Crashing them is even more gorgeous, crumpling 
 your shiny new ride into a cube of crunched car. Traffic Checking is also toned down so you can't 
 just plough threw cars, which I suppose is better but when you do hit a car in a race and lose 
 because of that, you do kind of wish to have it back.
  
  DJ Automica, I despise him more than Shadow the Hedgehog, Curtis from Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness, 
 the New Goblin chap from Spider-Man 3 and Vexx mushed together in some loud, annoying blender. 
 He is the singlesy cheesy American DJ ever. And I hate him. 
  
  Overall Paradise is excellent but fails to deliver that something special or revolutionary that 
 Takedown did, Takedown will always be better than this, but for the ourstanding visuals and the 
 extreme amount of content packed onto one disc, you just can't say no.
  
  
  [UPDATE] I'm now a week and a half into this game, and those of you whose are attentive enough 
 may have realised I have boosted the score from 8.5 to 9. Howcome? Well, online, though i said 
 was great, is to be experienced to belive how much utter fun it is and its superbly streamlined 
 also. I said the navigation bar was awful. I take it back, once you get the hang of it, it doesn't 
 stun the game in any form, it just takes getting used to and finding those shortcuts. Foolishly 
 I also said the openworld was an inferior NFS, how wrong was I? it's a superior to NFS by far, 
 paradise City is beautifully pieced together with every imaginable location, apart from a lava 
 level (dang!) I still stand by the fact it doesn't refresh the series as much as Takedown did, 
 but it isd still a highly worthy addiction to your PS3 collection.
  
  [UPDATE] Thursday 18th September saw the addition of Motorbikes to Burnout Paradise, this addition 
 alone makes for a worthwhile addition to the series allowing players to experience a sense of speed 
 only available with the higher class Burnout rides. The day and night cycle and the ever changing 
 weather cycle give the game a new dynamic that was never there before and make for some interesting 
 races, especially in the rain and at midnight. Day break views are staggeringly awe inspiring and 
 as a result Burnout Paradise goes up a score notch to 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CnC_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  If you've heard of it, the Burnout Franchise needs no introduction whatsoever. It's an extremely 
 fast paced series that is culminated of perhaps the best Arcade racing you can find anywhere. The 
 Original Burnout in 2002 brought the high octane racing and boosting with insane looking crashes. 
 Burnout 2 brought along the same classic formula and added trademark burnout chaining. Burnout 
 3 Takedown brought us crash junctions, takedowns and a slicker more immersive experience.
  
  From this point the Burnout series took a little bit of a nosedive. Revenge was more of the 
 same formula, but racing was somewhat forgettable and so were the race locations. Dominator went 
 back to its roots and brought back burnout chaining, it also killed off the crash junctions in 
 favour of just pure hardcore racing and reckless driving.
  
  So now it's another year and we're in 2008. Burnout has now gone next Gen. The demo released on 
 both the Live Marketplace and PSN, made this game look rather bland, dull and unexciting with almost 
 everything sucked out.... So why have I chosen to spend my time writing this??? Well demos never 
 represent the full game, so I took the risk of buying what seemed the worst Burnout so far of the 
 series. It was an impulse buy, I've played all the others and got decreasingly less convinced that 
 Criterion Games could pull this off. But anyway here we go.
  
  Upon starting up the game and waiting a few seconds to go through that obsessively annoyingly long 
 winded EA logo that you can never skip. The music kicked in. The music that happens to play is 
 (as the title suggests) the classic Guns N' Roses track, Paradise City. So after rocking on to 
 that for a bit, I decided to press the start button and get down and dirty.
  
  Upon pressing the start button I was taken immediately into the game... No menu rubbish here, the 
 game had started. After a quick introduction, you get to start up your car. But as you've done 
 that and accelerated out of a junkyard, you can't help but stop and look at how beautiful this 
 game is. Criterion have gone to great lengths to nailing the true to life atmosphere of the game. 
 Paradise city lives and breathes just like it does in any Grand Theft Auto game, but this has 2 
 differences. Firstly you're not going to get out of your car and start gunning down pedestrians 
 (because there are none) . But secondly the whole 250 miles of city is open to you from the start, 
 and you can go anywhere you choose to.
  
  Most open world racers with the "go anywhere, do anything" motto are usually as false as grannies 
 teeth. These past games such as the Midnight club games or even Need For Speed: Most Wanted have 
 kept you to a pre-defined racing route, but then let you wander where you want to again once the 
 race is over. This is all very well, but the game soon becomes a boring race hunt.
  
  Well Criterion has done away with that. When you come up to a junction, you stop check the race 
 type that's displayed in your HUD, and if you wanna take it you spin your wheels. You are then 
 given an overview of the city, and told where you are, and where you've got to get to. How you 
 get there however is up to you. There are no checkpoints to pass or invisible walls to slam into, 
 it's just you, the start line, and the open roads of the city as you approach the finishing line 
 from any angle you choose. Once it's over, you win, and another race gets added towards going to 
 your next license.
  
  When you start the game, you will start off with a provisional beginners license. As the game goes 
 on and you rack up wins, you'll get more and more powerful licenses. But sticking to the same car 
 will not do here. The bigger the license, the bigger the amount of wins you have to get, and the 
 more powerful cars you have to find. Unlike in the past, there are no medals to be won here. You 
 either win or lose, and the latter is not an option to advancing in this game. So in order to win, 
 you don't just race, there are other modes too.
  
  Other racing modes (other than racing) include the now classic Road Rage where you get to take 
 down as many opponents as possible. Marked Man, which has you in a cop and robbers style car chase, 
 and you're being hunted down. You win when you get to a pre-determined point without being totalled. 
 Stunt Run is similar to Burnout Dominator's Maniac mode. The difference here is that the city is 
 littered with ramps, and it's up to you to fly across the air, ramping off doing barrel rolls, 
 and generally acting like a Maniac to get to the target score. And lastly Burning route, which 
 are events tailored to specific cars, and require you to time attack from point to point to earn 
 new rides. There is one more event, but I'll come to that in just a bit.
  
  Remember earlier, that I mentioned how Criterion Games have nailed the true to life atmosphere 
 of Paradise City? Well it doesn't stop there, as well as a gorgeous next gen game engine and graphics 
 are the ultimately cool trademark crashes. The first time you crash your car into something at 
 high speed your jaw will just drop in amazement and more than likely to make you shout "Holy ****!!" 
 as the car crumples, glass smashes, hundreds of pieces fly off, and the car quickly deteriorates 
 into an unrecognisable wreck.
  
  Such destructive nature is mirrored by the many destructively powerful comments you will shout 
 as your car keeps crashing in many joyfully random ways. Even several hours in, you will not get 
 tired of the many variations of crash there are. Even if you just clip a small portion of your 
 car, the rest will remain intact as the part you've hit just crumbles in extremely life like fashion. 
 And while there are no aftertouch takedowns or explosive paybacks this time, it doesn't matter.
 
  
  If you're a driver in the real world and you like to go a bit fast, then Burnout Paradise will 
 certainly deter you with its hugely sobering crash accuracy. For example... Even at high speed, 
 a full frontal crash straight into a thick, solid wall is enough to see the whole front half of 
 the car disintegrate. My only reaction to it as a driver myself, was "What the hell would I look 
 like if I was really driving that car!"... Yep, so if there's ever an anti speeding message to 
 inform drivers of the dangers, this game is probably it!
  
  And the extra event? After the Burnout internet community demanding the dropping of crash junctions 
 in Dominator, they suddenly wanted them back. Criteron responded by making them less boring, linear 
 and methodical. Why not just blow your car up when you want to, and start causing mayhem. From 
 here you just roll your car crashing into everything you land on, bouncing it further while steering 
 the car onwards in a path full of destruction for as long as you can. The point of this may seem 
 redundant to start with, but once you rack up major money, and major crashes, it just becomes so 
 enjoyably fun that by the end of it, all you're steering around is a flat sheet of metal, because 
 there is nothing left to the car. It's great to play, great to watch and so long as you keep the 
 boost meter full, you can have your own flat chunk of metal too.
  
  Music is one of the things that lets this game down. I have the PSP version of Burnout Dominator, 
 and apart from a few extra tracks, the soundtrack to Paradise is identical. While it isn't particularly 
 annoying to have these tracks again, it's somewhat of a disappointment. X-Box 360 users though 
 will be lucky enough to put their own tracks in, which is somewhat better than the PS3 version 
 I'm reviewing here, as we don't have that luxury. But, for the most part, it's a decent range of 
 the usual rock/punk music etc, that we've seen in past burnout games. It's just a shame it doesn't 
 work so well with the rest of the new improved Burnout.
  
  Multiplayer is more of the same experience as Single-player, busting cars with up to 7 other players. 
 The difference here is that the open world still exists. You can just ride around smashing into 
 each other and causing more insane crashes. Or you can race, one of the many different modes, or 
 go on challenges trying to do all sorts of crazy things. While at first you may seem rather lost 
 in all the action going on, it soon becomes clear that this portion of the game is just as hugely 
 enjoyable as the single player portion. The best thing about it is that you only have to press 
 "Right" on the D-Pad, select a couple of options from a small menu, and you're in. That's all there 
 is to it.
  
  Conclusion
  
  The open world nature of Burnout Paradise is truly the best seen in any racing game ever created. 
 The seemless nature of starting a race, getting through it (whether you win or lose) , then moving 
 onto the next one without hardly any pauses makes this game a non-stop adrenaline rush from the 
 moment you pick it up to the moment you put it back down. The details, the atmosphere, and the 
 crash physics, the greater sense of speed, along with a very solid gameplay experience both offline 
 and online makes Burnout Paradise the best Arcade Racer you can get on your X-Box 360 or Playstation 
 3. While some Burnout purists may be turned off by the format of the game, this is still Burnout 
 from Beginning to End. Quite Simply, you owe yourself to go and pick up a copy of this awesome 
 game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wplantz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  As I said it's the best Burnout of the series in my opinion. It will keep you busy for hours upon 
 hours as the city is absolutely huge and filled with races/events. My only wish is that the map 
 was slightly bigger... hard to look at the map and keep your eyes on the road during a race... but 
 you get used to it after a few races and if you get lost just pause and go to the big map to plan 
 a route. It adds some strategy to the mix. 
  
  Oh, and the online is integrated beautifully. All you have to do is press right on the directional 
 pad and then find your friends or join another user's group to play online with. Then just take 
 'em down or they'll challenge you to events. Lots of great stats that are fun to see also.
  
  All in all it is just amazing and lives up to my high expectations and anticipation. I recommend 
 this to lovers of video games... must have for PS3/360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehSpecialOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this is, by far the best racing game I have ever played. Even if that is based purely 
 on my style of play.
  
  It's got stuff for everyone. Whether you love cruising around, exploring. Or whether you love chasing, 
 racing, destroying other drivers, there is a huge amount of stuff to do.
  
  It's unlike any other Burnout so far, and the fact that you can go anywhere in the city during 
 an event steps the difficulty up a level. Although, there is the obvious downside of it being very 
 easy to end up on the wrong road, going to the wrong place.
  
  You can choose any event you want to be able to advance with the game, meaning if you're stuck, 
 you can do something else, and still advance in te game.
  
  Overall, a definite buy, endless fun, and that's before even trying the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukimurasanada3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is such an amazing game. As you start out, you are overwhelmed by the amount of detail in 
 the game and all of the possibilities. As you race, you will see shortcuts every 2 seconds and 
 say, "oops, missed that one, and that one, and that one, andthatoneandthatone wait, there's a billboard. 
 I'll get it later, along with that one."
  
  The "DJ" guy is really annoying, but you can just turn him off by turning of the hints in the start 
 menu page. there is so much to do, and i can tell that once i beat the game, ill have a lot to 
 do. As a suggestion, when you get this, first get some good cars, then start getting the shortcuts 
 and such. READ THROUGH THE MANUAL THOROUGHLY!
  There is a lot to do in this game, and the manual explains it all.
  
  The only thing that i 
 don't like, that the 360 people seem to get is that you can import you own tracks into the game. 
 the tracks in this game really SUCK. that's my only qualm.
  
  play this. this has got to be one of the greatest games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Paradise City is your playground in this, the latest edition of the Burnout franchise.
  
  The game features over 70 cars, each with 3 different styles of paintwork which you can further 
 customise with either Gloss, Metallic or Pearlescent coatings in a variety of colours.
  
  Cars come in 3 classes; Stunt, Speed and Aggression. Stunt cars are more suited to flips, barrel 
 rolls and the like. Speed cars are the all out adrenaline pumping roadsters, perfect for the races. 
 Aggression cars are the tanks, the heavy hitters, great for takedowns.
  
  Paradise City itself is huge, there is a huge array of jumps, ramps, shortcuts amongst all the 
 scenery to look at whilst cruising around. As it is a sand-box style game, you are free to go about 
 all the races, stunt runs and other side challenges at your leisure.
  
  Once you feel confident enough, why not take your skills and your newly acquired cars online against 
 other players?
  
  Getting online could not be any easier; simply press Right on the d-pad, go to Freeburn Online, 
 join or setup your own game, and within a couple of seconds your in! Also, Paradise has an in-game 
 Friends list, hopefully we'll be seeing alot more of this in the future!
  
  Technically the game is very impressive. Graphics look fantastic and the crashes are the best you 
 will see in any game out there right now, simply stunning. You really getting a great sense of 
 speed when boosting through the city streets. Every street in Paradise has their own name, which 
 adds to the realism of the city.
  
  Burnout Paradise is a fantastic game filled to the brim with things to do and to unlock that'll 
 keep you coming back again and again. Even when you've got everything, online will certainly keep 
 you entertained. 
  
  The game is so much fun to play, offline and online. If you're a fan of the series, then I don't 
 need to tell you to get it, as you probably have already! For those new to Burnout, I highly recommend 
 the game.
  
  Happy crashing!
  --Dave --
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is the best in the series definatly. The graphices are mind blowing , and put 
 you deeper into the game, but the sound track is not so good , and that Dj is still really anoying 
 and uneeded. Hes just to anoying man!!! But thats just about all the bad. The best thing about the 
 game is that when you wrech a car its sensational, you never get tired of it. And thats what makes 
 it Burnout in the first place! There is also some kind of thing where you are wreching your car 
 over and over and it just wont stop, and thats ausome!!! There are also huge jumps that you can 
 either land staight, or wrech your car!!! So with all this summed up, Burnout Paradise is a really 
 good racing game, so it gets a 9. So stay tuned for my next reveiw, and remember whos the best gamer 
 in the world, yeah thats right me, Cures Mark Chris, the great !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-ace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game, it may be a huge change from the previous titles, but the new feel gives 
 the series, shall we say, a boost?
  In Paradise city you'll usually find yourself doing 1 of 4 things:
  1. Competing in events to 
 unlock cars and upgrade you license
  2. Trying to break road rules
  3. Generally driving around looking for shortcuts, billboards and jumps
  4. Going online and 
 competing against people, or helping each other do burnout challenges.
  The events you have to choose from include race, which is just what youd expect from burnout, except 
 you can now take any route you want across Paradise city to get to the finish first. Theres also 
 a revamped Road rage where you can also go anywhere taking down the rivals that chase you around 
 and fight with each other. There's also the burning route, where you annoyingly have to be in a 
 certain car to begin the event, and then get from point A to point B as fast as you can.
  New events in Paradise are the stunt run, where you have drive as insanely as possible doing barrel 
 rolls, flat spins and gaining multipliers by smashing billboards and taking super jumps. Also new 
 is marked man, a kind of twist on road rage where you are the only target, you have to drive from 
 where the event begins to a set location without being wrecked by the opponents.
  The road rules in Burnout: Paradise are simple, each road has a time to beat (you have to get from 
 one end to the other before it runs out) and the mode replacing crash: showtime. The utterly ridiculous 
 new mode has you bouncing around causing as much havoc as possible, smashing into cars and signs 
 gives you money, and smashing into buses gives you multipliers. When you run out of boost (which 
 makes you bounce) you will see the overall score, your distance travelled is times'd by 100 and 
 added to your cash earned, then the total is multiplied, the target is usually around the million.
 
  Another thing you will do in paradise is drive around looking for smashes, which are basically 
 shortcuts, they stand out being flashing and yellow so are hard to miss, but it will take you a 
 long time to find those pesky last 20 or so out of the 400 there are. You will also go looking 
 for burnout billboards, which you simply have to drive (or usually fly) through. It helps that 
 most billboards are easy to see, and mainly located atop ramps or off the edge of cliffs, where 
 the entrance to is also flashing and yellow with the sign smashes you need. The last thing is super 
 jumps, you'll probably know what these are by the name and if you have played any game involving 
 free roam and cars.
  Online is an enjoyable experience, there are 350 co-op challenges to do with different amounts 
 of players which range from ridiculously easy to down right almost impossilbe. As you would expect 
 you can race with people and just generally drive around taking each other down.
  There are a large variety of cars in burnout, as always, but now they fall into 3 classes:
  Speed 
 cars are light, manouverable but not very strong, a small clip of the curb is enough to send these 
 into a wild spin resulting in a wreck and about 5 seconds lost. They also follow the first 2 games 
 boost bar rules, where you need it to be full to start, and if you use it all in one go you get 
 a "burnout", these can be linked together to form burnout chains. The target of getting a 20x chain 
 is extremely annoying as if your finger slips causing you to crash once, you will have to start 
 over.
  Agression cars are big, heavy and sturdy cars, perfect for destroying the competition, but no good 
 at catching them up if you fall behind. Their boost bar is like that in burnout 3, where a takedown 
 will increase it, and being taken down will lose decrease it.
  Stunt cars are the ones you will probably use the most, average for everything, so can keep up 
 with the speed class and then knock them out of the way. Their boost bar is simple, a set size 
 where you get boost from getting big air and stunts in general.
  Gameplay is a strong point of paradise, the controls are simple and you'll be comfortable after 
 a few minutes of driving. Some people will miss the lack of being able to use the X and [] for 
 accelerating and braking, but I'm confident this will included in some DLC. Event objectives are 
 simple, they either ask you to get to one of the 8 finish points, perform insane stunts or take 
 down drivers. The main let down is the absense of crash which as said earlier has been replaced 
 with not quite so good showtime, but you'll still have plenty of fun with this.
  Another new edition is shutting down cars, paradise will occasionally add a new car driving around 
 the city, take it down to get it sent to the junkyard (the games version of a garage) .
  In short this is a brilliant game that mixes old and new elements very well, the visuals are excellent 
 and the physics are as insane as usual. Burnout Paradise is a must have for fans and newcomers 
 alike, but most burners will agree the lack of a restart option is a great let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise truley is paradise. This game is stocked full of everything from stunts, cars, 
 events, challenges and much more. This time around there are no menus in Burnout which makes for 
 an amazing seamless experience. The cars are all different also. Each vehicle has its advantages 
 and disadvantages. For example, you could choose a truck (with aggression type boost) to dominate 
 a Road Rage event, you could choose an agile Roadster (with stunt type boost) to dominate a Stunt 
 event, ot you could choose a vehicle with speed type boost to dominate the Race events. The possibilities 
 branch out even more this time around while the whole world is open for racing. Theres a point 
 you race to and how you get thetre is up to you. All you have to do is get first. Aren't real into 
 racing or stuns? Then just do Road Rage events and take down every car in your sight! The vehicles 
 in this game are amazing too. There are over 50 different color combinantions for each vehicle 
 which makes for interesting online. When you want to go online in Paradise just press the right 
 button and select Online Freeburn or Friends if you want to play with a friend. The game will automatilcally 
 bring other players into your paradise world and you'll be online just like that. No menus, no 
 loading screens, nothing! This game is amazing, and definantly deserves higher than a 9.0. I give 
 it a 10 and reccomend you go pick it up right now for the ultimate Burnout experience with over 
 70 EA Tracks (Songs) . You'll never get bored in Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  This is pretty much the first racing game I have got in 2008, Burnout Paradise. I have been waiting 
 for ages with this game, ever since it was announced in early 2007. All of these features made 
 me so excited to get this game. Once I downloaded the demo, I was really glued to it. Then just 
 today, The full game comes out. And here is my review of it.
  
  This is nearly the perfect game for me. ALOT of cars to unlock, (I mean alot: 75 cars!!) insane 
 racing speeds and car crashing madness! It is really is a superb game. Cars feel so fun to drive, 
 and crash. They are just so agile and nimble. Boost your way though the city is just sheer awesomeness.
 
  
  Oh yeah, the city. Paradise they call it, and it is. They have places for all kind of drivers. 
 From the city lights and crowed streets of downtown to the twisty and sloping streets of white 
 mountain. It really is the ultimate driving zone. There are just so many positives about the game, 
 I struggled to find drawbacks for it.
  
  Well, I did. The soundtrack is a major downfall from the Predecessors. It doesn't seem to be a 
 soundtrack that you'll remember. Atomica is decent to say the least. other probs: the handbrake 
 is a bit too sensitive. a tap on the button and you'll find yourself in a 180 spin. 
  
  But the thing is, those negatives don't even matter when you are having alot of fun playing the 
 game. There are tons of events to complete and showtime events, which is like crash, but a whole 
 lot more fun. Got a spare 40, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ger14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ive ever played. Lets start with the sound, everything is so detailed, 
 from the sound of the starter on the cars when you start them (they are unique to every car) and 
 the sound of the motor of every car, to the leaves on the trees blowing to the tires burning out. 
 The graphics are incredible, the cars look great, the street "pedestrian cars" smash great also. 
 The damage physics are unbelievable, i cant believe how real it look when you plow a car head on 
 in to a pillar at +200km/h, it goes in slow mo and you see all the glass shattering and the metal 
 bending (you hear it also XD ) The map of this game is gigantic!!!! massive!!!! you actually need 
 to use the map to go places, id say its pretty close to the gta san andreas map in size. Multiplayer 
 is great and it rarely skips or jumps. 
  
  Theres only a few things i would change if i could, take down mode in multiplayer doesnt exist, 
 and it would have been cool if they keep the crash mode on top of the show time mode so you have 
 both, showtime is cool but all your really doing is beating scores, kinda aimless, but still fun. 
 other then that, wow!!!!! i highly recommend to buy this game!!! hands down!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This was a great follow up to the previous Burnouts and it felt like they really went all out to 
 expand the Burnout world. My only gripe about the other Burnouts was that you spent most of your 
 time scrolling through the world map to find races that you didn't complete. And restarting the 
 same race over and over again and "hopping" from one point of the map to the other took you out 
 of the fluid gameplay, breaking up the momentum. The sandbox type design of this game makes it 
 fun to just drive around and find races, smash other cars to earn them, or just go into random 
 Showtimes to start a chain of destruction. It gives you almost a Grand Theft Auto feel to racing. 
 And now to the nitty gritty. They've up the ante in terms of graphics and every detail has been 
 polished from the dings and dents of the cars to the buildings, backdrop, and crash angled sequences. 
 The sound effects and voice acting are great. DJ Atomika fits right in at giving you pointers when 
 you need to and doesnt feel like an annoying backseat driver. The online mode is seamless, using 
 the Easy Drive navigation on the D-pad. You're able to enter freeburn and pop right into a game 
 or create your own in a matter of seconds, never leaving your spot on the map. They've also done 
 a nice job incorporating the PS EYE for fun mugshots and license photos. All in all, this is a 
 great addition to the ever growing PS3 collection and is definitely a must own for any racing fan 
 or anyone who just likes to cruise around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozberlin76
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  There's that old saying where you compare something to an auto-wreck and then it's followed up 
 by mentioning "and yett, you couldn't look away." Probably a perfect synopsis of Burnout: Paradise. 
 With fenders, wheels and transaxles being mutilated on a freeway curb with only the Almighty-himself 
 to sort them outm you won't want to blink and miss this 60-fps ravishing speed-demon. Gell, you 
 blink and you may miss your turn.
  
  Bear in mind that I am brand new to the Burnout series with this title, so i won't go on about 
 what was missing from prior releases. I will say the online play and the "campaign" mode, if you 
 will, blend near-seamlessly. Iy doesn't have the car-geek depth of a Gran Turismo title, but the 
 nitro-adrenaline BOP offers will have you wanting to shop for gaudy fuzzy dice to hang on your 
 console as Guns N' Roses aptly licensed song blares out of your screen. Comparitevely to other 
 like-minded titles, Burnout Paradise doesn't have the vehicle customization that Need 4 Speed has, 
 but the multiplayer and deliciously gruesome collisions make up for it. I can remember whenever 
 a new racing game would come out, gamers would politely say, "Car damage woulda been nice." And 
 remembering that Burnout specifically is pandering to that sick mechanical carnage of yours should 
 stymie any customization gripes.
  
  Controls are spot on and allow cool stunts like spinning into a parking space and more aerial minded 
 mayhem. And the ability to put you mug on you license is a nice touch, maybe not to the rest of 
 the viewing public, but hey, it's not like you're Joe Dirt or anything. Something that maybe overlooked 
 by reviewers is the sounds of this game. When your Hunter Cavalry's turbocharged 361 V8 engine 
 rumbles like an ogre on gasoline, you wanna grind your teeth with a street racer's delight.
  
  Plenty of cars, beautiful landscapes, aggressive as well as smooth co-op multiplayer, crisp 
 sounds of twisted steel and sex appeal make this title one to play just for demolition's sake. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Finally the first Burnout game on the PS3 and the first real next gen burnout on next gen consoles 
 are finally here. Even thou Revenge was an amazing game. This one just got better with one big 
 huge city for you to play in. 
  
  First you start off at a junk yard they give you a nice trashed muscle car to start with and you 
 have about 200+ events that you can start off at any traffic light within the city by pressing 
 R2+L2. You have about 5 different types of events to choose from in the game. The 5 different types 
 are races, road rage, marked man, stunt run, and burning route. 
  
  Races are basically racing with other AIs and whoever gets to the finish line first wins. There's 
 no arrows to help you like in the previous burnout so you'll have to figure out which is your best 
 path to get to the finish line before the AI. I wouldn't suggest following to AI either if you 
 planning to win the race. Road rage is basically takedown if you're a fan of the series you'll 
 know what you'll have to do if you're new than what I mean by takedown is you'll have a time limited 
 to takedown as many cars off the road as you can between the time frame that you're given. Marked 
 man is getting from point A from point B without getting your car totaled in the process. Stunt 
 Run is driving around the city doing U turns, jumps, taking down signs and boosting within the 
 time frame for points. Last but not least is burning route which is an event that you'll need a 
 specific car to do this route within it's time frame to win.
  
  Another Mode that's in this game that made the previous Burnout games so great is crash mode which 
 has now between changed to Showtime. You can start this mode of any time within the game once you 
 crash with another car. You simply just have to press L1+R1 to start it and as long as you keep 
 hitting cars you'll get boost and you can continue getting points until you run out of boost. This 
 is one of my favorite modes in the game right after takedown. 
  
  There are 3 different types of cars they are broken down by Speed, Stunt, and Aggression. Out of 
 all my favorite of all 3 types of cars are Aggression because you get the best of all 3 speed and 
 strong car to takedown other cars. You also have the easy jump in online multiplayer by simply 
 press the right d-pad on the dualshock3 oh and yes it does support rumble. So the online mode is 
 seamless with the single player campaign mode.
  
  The graphics in this game look just jaw dropping beautiful. Paradise City has some really nice 
 settings and if you've played the previous Burnout you'll notice some similarities in some parts 
 of the city with other burnout cities. It's like one big World of the previous burnout cities. 
 The sound in the game is just as amazing as the graphics. 
  
  This has to be the best Burnout I've play so far. I've been a fan of the burnout series for a while 
 the only complain I have with this game is the races not having those helpful arrows but the more 
 you drive around the city the better you get at driving in those races.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff_guro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I recommend it to any one of the series or even people who are new to racing. 
 if you don't have a internet connection get one online is crazy. with challenges, intense racing 
 and crazy jumps you will never stop playing this game. it is highly addictive. The menu screen 
 is also very good and the ability to hop right into online mode by clicking the right directional 
 button makes this game so much more accessible. the menu allows you to find your friends and jump 
 into there game or go into a lobby to find some games. you can unlock 75 cars in offline and online 
 mode along with new places to explore and the controls are easy to learn. There is also records 
 you can set in each track or try to beat the current holder of the title. the physics are also 
 great and the feel of the game is very realistic. so if you don't have it already go out and buy 
 it you will not regret it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I think that you will find a lot to do in this game. There is so much that it will blow ur mind. 
 Great Job on this road racing game. U got it right! This time now u just need to make it right 
 in Madden 09! Let's hope. And we need it in 1080p and 1080i! Good job Ea!!! Happy Buyer For anyone 
 who is willing to take a chance on this game I say do so honestly. The game will not disappoint 
 you I can guarantee you that much! This is a game that u do not have to rent to see if you will 
 like it. Because you WILL! So go and buy it and write you review as well like I am doing! God bless 
 all Ps3 owners we know what system is the best! I love all the new features that this game has 
 to offer. Not only are there just missions to do, but the game has takedown missions that are not 
 included in the game such as taking down cars in random to unlcok them! How cool is that? 75 cars 
 to unlock=a lot of game playing time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWPro77
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game brings back most of the things that make this franchise great like "Road Rage" and adds 
 new races like "Marked Man" to keep things interesting. The only small gripes I have are there 
 are no markers to let you know when you have gone off of the path of a race and it is also difficult 
 to navigate during a race with those blinking signs that the game uses towards the top of the screen. 
 Otherwise this is a worthwhile purchase that will have you playing for a long time. The replay 
 value is very high. The variety of vehicles is also nice in spite of them not being actual real 
 world vehicles. They are somewhat based on real world vehicles. The controls are classic Burnout 
 fair and work intuitively. They are similar to other driving games so they are easy to become acustomed 
 to. The graphics are amazing and anyone with a High Definition Television will not be disappointed. 
 There's more and more I find I like that this game offers everytime I play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok first have you played burnout revenge?! you should ..
  ok now this game has it all! Fast cars real fast!
  1) Graphics are top notch phisics are very 
 real
  
  2) the town ( Paradise wathever) 
  where you can freely roam is just insanely huge just goes on and on 
  with everything you expect 
 in a town exept for people? ya come to think about it there are no people.. that would have been 
 cruel and fun at those speeds Crushing the little people:)
  
  3) lot to do in single player mode .. tons of missions, paint jobs , new cars
  just goign around 
 is heaven ! jumping all over Crazy
  
  4) the other players (Bots) are reacting very well there smart fast and insane
  
  5) the online 
 Play is nothing short of perfection! And o like almost no loading time! at soooo addictive
  forget the girfriend thats over with! meet your new concubine !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Paradise is probably the best racing game out on any console right now. But many who have 
 palyed the previous installments may wonder if it's the same thing they've played before. Well 
 I'm glad to report that the game retains many old fetures but brings new ideas to the party. For 
 instance this is the First Burnout game to include a free-roam world for the players to explore 
 and of course wreak havoc in. Als onew to the game is the showtime feature which is a great way 
 to replace the crash mode which seems to be rather absent, but instead of going for medals you 
 try to "own that road". The game also comes with leaderboards and a new interface to acess online 
 play which makes your friendlist and other online features accessable from anywhere in the game 
 with the push of a button. All in all its a great game that offers many new features that will 
 keep people playing for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r-azar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Admittedly I'm a fan of the series so there should be no surprise I like the game. There are a 
 few key things that other fans of the series will notice. Open ended play is THE biggest change 
 IMHO. Burnout paradise is burnout meets midtown madness. Good thing? Bad thing? You'll have to 
 decide the answer to that question on your own. That being said it does have it's quirks which 
 you'll be hearing about from way more sources than just me.
  
  My 2 peeves about this game are.....
  "no quick way to restart/retry a race"
  Yup, if you fail 
 to take first place (theres no points for second) then you have to drive all the way back to the 
 intersection the race starts from. Annoying
  
  "Crash mode is now Showtime and not really an event per se". You get to roll around blowing up 
 other cars but it's less of an "event" than it used to be in past burnout iterations. Some will 
 like it, others will go "heyyyy, wha happen?" o. O So if your not doing so hot and are feeling a 
 little frustrated during a race just look for a decent amount of oncoming traffic and L2+R2 will 
 send you off on a rampage that would make any insurance agent crap their pants.
  
  There are a couple "newish" events that are really a lot of fun IMHO.
  "Marked Man", Everyone 
 is out to take you down, survive to the finish of this race without being totaled and you win.
 
  
  "Stunt Run", Create long combo's of stunts and land big moves which add multipliers to your score.
 
  
  "Burning Route", Complete this car-specific race under the time alloted and win a new car.
  
 
  The controls are spot on, the visuals in this game are excellent, the feeling of speed is perfect. 
 The best way to describe it at times is controlled chaos. In my opinion this is the first great 
 next gen racer for the PS3. The damage effects and wrecks are stupendous. Theres only one visual 
 gripe I have so far, actually, it's my wifes complaint lol, and thats the burnouts. I did a burnout 
 away from an intersection because I (she) was hoping to see some billowing smoke. There was some 
 smoke but not billowing, this could have been done better but hey, it would just end up being a 
 novelty that would be cool to watch once in a while anyway so who cares. Most of the game is played 
 at 200mph anyway :)
  
  BUY . . THIS . . GAME!!!
  
  There is so much more I could go into with the features and gameplay but I must simply get back 
 to it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Finally the first Burnout game on the PS3 and the first real next gen burnout on next gen consoles 
 are finally here. Even thou Revenge was an amazing game. This one just got better with one big 
 huge city for you to play in. 
  
  First you start off at a junk yard they give you a nice trashed muscle car to start with and you 
 have about 200+ events that you can start off at any traffic light within the city by pressing 
 R2+L2. You have about 5 different types of events to choose from in the game. The 5 different types 
 are races, road rage, marked man, stunt run, and burning route. 
  
  Races are basically racing with other AIs and whoever gets to the finish line first wins. There's 
 no arrows to help you like in the previous burnout so you'll have to figure out which is your best 
 path to get to the finish line before the AI. I wouldn't suggest following to AI either if you 
 planning to win the race. Road rage is basically takedown if you're a fan of the series you'll 
 know what you'll have to do if you're new than what I mean by takedown is you'll have a time limited 
 to takedown as many cars off the road as you can between the time frame that you're given. Marked 
 man is getting from point A from point B without getting your car totaled in the process. Stunt 
 Run is driving around the city doing U turns, jumps, taking down signs and boosting within the 
 time frame for points. Last but not least is burning route which is an event that you'll need a 
 specific car to do this route within it's time frame to win.
  
  Another Mode that's in this game that made the previous Burnout games so great is crash mode which 
 has now between changed to Showtime. You can start this mode of any time within the game once you 
 crash with another car. You simply just have to press L1+R1 to start it and as long as you keep 
 hitting cars you'll get boost and you can continue getting points until you run out of boost. This 
 is one of my favorite modes in the game right after takedown. 
  
  There are 3 different types of cars they are broken down by Speed, Stunt, and Aggression. Out of 
 all my favorite of all 3 types of cars are Aggression because you get the best of all 3 speed and 
 strong car to takedown other cars. You also have the easy jump in online multiplayer by simply 
 press the right d-pad on the dualshock3 oh and yes it does support rumble. So the online mode is 
 seamless with the single player campaign mode.
  
  The graphics in this game look just jaw dropping beautiful. Paradise City has some really nice 
 settings and if you've played the previous Burnout you'll notice some similarities in some parts 
 of the city with other burnout cities. It's like one big World of the previous burnout cities. 
 The sound in the game is just as amazing as the graphics. 
  
  This has to be the best Burnout I've play so far. I've been a fan of the burnout series for a while 
 the only complain I have with this game is the races not having those helpful arrows but the more 
 you drive around the city the better you get at driving in those races.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
