-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: BUZZ! Quiz TV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/buzzquiztv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 User-generated MyBuzz questions are a great addition.
 New PS3/PS2-compatible wireless buzzers.
 Game supports existing PS2 buzzers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online play supports only one player per PS3.
 MyBuzz limited to eight questions per quiz.
 Authors can rate their own quizzes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Relentless
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although Buzz on the PS3 is more of the same, the addition of user-generated questions, downloadable 
 question packs, and new wireless buzzers makes it a worthwhile upgrade for fans. 

  UK REVIEW -- The Buzz series has been a steady fixture in Europe for many years, with seven different 
 editions of the main game and four versions of the Junior spin-off. Like many other Sony Europe 
 games, the series took its time getting across the Atlantic, but Buzz! The Mega Quiz finally hit 
 North American PlayStation 2s last year. Now, the inevitable PlayStation 3 version has arrived 
 in Europe, and Buzz! Quiz TV uses the console's increased functionality to offer custom question 
 sets, online play, and wireless buzzers for the first time.  

  The basic formula for Quiz TV is exactly the same as previous Buzz games. The show is hosted by 
 a character named Buzz (with Australian soap star Jason Donovan reprising the voice) , and it still 
 includes around 5,000 questions. The buzzers have received an upgrade and the game comes bundled 
 with four of the new wireless controllers. They work incredibly well, and you'll probably wonder 
 how you put up with those tangle-prone tethered remotes in the past. The only downside is that 
 the wireless remotes require two AA batteries each, but you can use the original PlayStation 2 
 buzzers with the new game if you prefer. As a bonus, the new wireless buzzers also work with all 
 of the old games.  

           Quiz TV lets you create your own quizzes and play ones created by others with MyBuzz. 

  Quiz TV has three main modes: a solo mode that pits you against the clock, a local multiplayer 
 mode you can play with up to seven friends, and an online mode that pits you against players from 
 around the world. Sadly, though, only one person per console can play the game online at any given 
 time. Single-player mode is a rather dull experience, a bit like playing a board game by yourself. 
 You can't play against AI opponents, so instead you compete against yourself and the clock to get 
 the highest score possible within a limited time. Buzz is designed to be a party game, and it's 
 a lot more fun when you have a few companions to play with you.  

  The questions are divided into five channels: The Music Channel, The Movies and TV Channel, The 
 Knowledge Channel, The Sports Channel, and The Lifestyle Channel. You can choose a particular category, 
 or choose Channel Hopper to get an assortment of questions from all of the channels. Quiz TV also 
 includes MyBuzz, a channel based on user-generated questions.  

  The preset questions in Quiz TV aren't generally difficult, but there are certain questions that 
 will stump all but the most ardent trivia buffs. Unlike previous titles, Quiz TV doesn't allow 
 you to choose between easy and hard questions before a game, with only one difficulty setting on 
 offer. Games typically start out easy at the beginning and get slightly more difficult as you progress. 
 Given that the person with the lowest score at the end of each round chooses the topic for the 
 following round, there's a bit of a rubber-band effect that lets people catch up, assuming that 
 they know their chosen subject. Quiz TV also keeps tab of answered questions to ensure that frequent 
 players don't have an unfair advantage through the memorisation of repeated questions. To date, 
 we don't recall seeing any single question asked more than once.  

  You can head over to mybuzzquiz. com and create quizzes using your PlayStation Network ID. You're 
 able to set the privacy options on your quizzes so that everyone may play them, or limit them so 
 that only you or your PS3 friends are able to see them. Quizzes can be tagged as mature, and sorted 
 into one of the predefined question categories such as lifestyle, as well as subcategories such 
 as video games. Each set requires eight questions, and once entered, they're scanned for offensive 
 language and submitted to the system. It takes only a matter of minutes for them to be available 
 to play in the game. Popular topics include movies and TV, sports, general knowledge, and even 
 Chuck Norris. Once you've played a set, you can then rate it and report offensive quizzes if any 
 questionable material makes it through. MyBuzz is one of the most compelling parts of the package, 
 and there's already a burgeoning community around the game.  

  Although you can tailor questions to a specific subject, there's no option to play only the types 
 of rounds that you want (for example, Fastest Finger, Pie Fight, Point Builder, or Pass the Bomb) 
 or to set the total amount of questions or rounds in MyBuzz, or in regular single or multiplayer 
 games -- it's all up to the game. All of this results in the experience becoming a bit repetitive 
 after playing through a few times.  

           Quiz TV includes a wide range of interesting questions and characters.      

  Quiz 
 TV supports downloadable content, and a number of question packs are already available on the PlayStation 
 Network. For 3.49, you can buy 500-question packs on themes such as science fiction, rock 
 legends, UK culture, and Australian culture.  

  Buzz is bright, clean, and fun, and looks just like a gameshow should. While they won't win any 
 awards, the visuals are pleasing and developer Relentless Software has stepped up the overall quality 
 of the game since the PlayStation 2 versions. Technically, Quiz TV holds a steady frame rate even 
 with eight contestants on the screen at a time, and despite a few jaggies in some of the background 
 objects, is generally drawn without any visual deformities.  

  The contestants themselves are particularly well drawn and incorporate some of the same stereotypes 
 from previous Buzz games. Some of the choices in Quiz TV include a cheerleader, a mime, a rocker, 
 an Elvis impersonator, a superhero, a Darth Vader-esque villain, and even a Japanese schoolgirl 
 who bears a close resemblance to Chun-Li, complete with giggling, celebratory jumps. Quiz TV's 
 sound effects, background music, and dialogue are all spot-on, despite being corny, cheesy, and 
 repetitive at times, and Buzz himself still has a certain cringe-worthy charm. The lines delivered 
 by the illustrious host are more polished this time around, and he comes across almost as smooth, 
 smarmy, and schmaltzy as any real-life daytime TV host.  

  Trivia gurus may still find Buzz! Quiz TV a walk in the park, but it nevertheless serves up an 
 interesting array of questions for the party crowd. At its core it's just more of the same, but 
 the series' PS3 debut offers a few unique, new peripheral features that make it worth the upgrade. 
 If you didn't like previous iterations, it's unlikely that you'll enjoy Quiz TV, but if you've 
 yet to pick up a copy of Buzz, this version is the best yet.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RFmyrddin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  As I bought my new ps3 in november, I've seen that game, Buzz quiz tv, laying on the shelf, at 
 high price. Interesting buzzer, which, bring us closer from a game show. Online mode, up to 8 players. 
 Very interesting. Over 5000 questions convince me this could be a champ to feed my need of knowledge. 
 We can play others trivia, very nice. Couldn't resist, I've take the box.
  
  The game is a real trivia show, with the host and the player on a tv studio. The camera move like 
 a show on tv, the crowd is loud. You go through various questions set always with multi-answers 
 choice. 
  
  As a french guy, even if I speak not so bad and doesn't loose too much of my skills in english 
 trivia, I was wondering if this could be multilanguage. As it appear as I install, my version doesn't 
 support french. Was a bit sad, as I've seen french screenshots of european version.
  
  You can choose from over 10 different style for your player, and choose between many buzzer sound, 
 which is really nice. The game looks great and the sound is well balance. Each character got their 
 own mimics, which is fun at the beginning, but become painful over time. 
  
  Most of the time, the question are easy, rarely hard. Becoming a question of speed more than knowledge. 
 Good addition of photo and song in the questions set, which give a new perspective to the game, 
 but there's simply not enough of those kind. 
  
  you can play up to 8 player, and you can compete against each other not online. Very sadly, they 
 haven't include the option to go 2 player simultaneously online... Why? If you often play at the 
 same number of player, you can expect playing the same game over and over, tired of throwing a 
 cream pie to your opponent on a 1 on 1 game again and again each game. Why?? At least trophies 
 give you a certain motivation, the trophies worth their prize. At least...
  
  There's a ranked leaderboard, but it lack a lot of stats. You would like to see more info about 
 your player. 
  
  The interaction is weird. There's the host which is really annoying. He's telling you're dumb, 
 stupid, he's insulting you. And he's not stopping, really bad. And too much, cause, after all, 
 there's nothing happening after you win, only have you name on the podium, but always the same 
 finish, different for each character. 
  
  Really good graphic, annoying host, questions too easy, as a real tv show, cool buzzer system, 
 doesn't support 2 players online, repetive mimics and game style, good trophie system. A game you 
 play once in a while, with 4 players or more, other than that 
  the game should stays on the shelf.
  
  Let's wait for trivial pursuit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan50265
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Just the quick and easy review here. 
  
  Game play is easy to get used to. Its fun to play in your living room with friends, but even more 
 fun online. Buzz also allows you to to go onlibe and create your own quizzes for others to try 
 their hand at which was suprisingly addictive as well both playing and creating. 
  
  The only downside to this game is in the multiplayer. It would have been nice to see some of the 
 more gimmicky and humorous segments brought to online like pie fight, and point stealer rather 
 than the same segements in the same order every time. It would also be nice if they'd lower the 
 price on the dowloadable content $5.99 a pop seems a little steep for questions. 
  
  
  Still I say this is a must buy for anyone who entertains a lot in the home, or for someone trying 
 to get your significant other to play games with you. Costomizable multiplayer could always be 
 patched in ya never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  BUZZ! Quiz TV is really a multiplayer quiz game but can be played single player, it hosts a range 
 of 5000 questions and has the ability to download user made questions, make your own questions 
 and download quiz packs from the PSN store as well as play people online in sofa vs sofa, you do 
 all this with the new wireless buzzers that come in packs of 4 which are needed to play the game.
 
  
  The first thing to say about this game is that it does not work single player, it is obviouse a 
 quiz game should be played with friends or accross the internet but I was left disappointed with 
 how little effort they put into the single player mode. The multiplayer has some exciting rounds 
 like pass the bomb and throw the pie, but single player only has stop the clock and seeing as one 
 of the trophies for this game is play 50 single player games, can leave you feeling very bored.
 
  
  The multiplayer isn't too bad but again after a certain amount of time, it gets very boring and 
 repetative very fast. The rounds are alittle different which is okay but the fact that Buzz says 
 the same comments and the rounds are in the same order. It needs mixing up alot more.
  
  Sofa vs Sofa online play is really the best mode to play in. Its competative and the rounds are 
 alittle different, its a nice addition.
  
  Other good additions to the game is the fact you can login in with your PSN ID to the MyBuzz website 
 and create your own quiz which will go straight online for other users to play if you so choose, 
 this mode also supports a nice trophie of making 20 of them, which is a nice way to bring trophies 
 outside the box of just gaming. Other than this, the game is deffinatly a party game and not for 
 single player, the fact the game requires the buzzers to play is also a let down, how hard can 
 it be to make it playable just using the ps3 controller anyway? It seems like they are out for 
 your money there.
  
  In all the game is nice, graphics are good, but unless you're playing online or with user made 
 quizes, it gets very boring, very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwarster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  The best about the game is that it's being updated with trophies so you realy want to play more 
 to get them all. And that is nice with all trophy supported games.
  And back to the updates they have given out some cool extra packs with more questions and some 
 funny new modes from jungle party and all of these packs are on PSN (playstation network) . The 
 game is just plain fun, set up a party with friends play 4 against each other and play online or 
 make your own quizzes and lay them out. I give this game 8.5 couse it is funny many modes and got 
 much of fun online with friends and the great mode mybuzz where you can create your own questions 
 and share with other and get ratings from others. And the online mode is called sofa vs. sofa mode. So 
 everybody get your hands on this game and see if you got the knowldge that it takes to answer this 
 quizzes from Buzz: TV QUIZ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap-
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  i was really disappointed with the new buzz quiz tv. it was extremely short, the quiz in total 
 only lasted 20/25 mins. the questions were similar to other buzz games. the layout was no different 
 and also there were only 1/2 different characters. i would`nt recommend it as it was a lot of money 
 for a very short quiz. i would have liked it to last longer and have better contestants to choose 
 from. the host was abit boring in, the jokes were the same. infact there was nothing different 
 about it at all. really not worth the money .bought it straight away when it came out, a week later 
 i took it back.
  needs alot of work to make it better. it was unespiring. got abit boring after 5 mins. tried to 
 get into it but did`nt catch my attention. very disappointing, quite liked the first buzz quiz, 
 but this one seems no different. it was just to short. did`nt like the end of the quiz ,when apponents 
 steal your points. such a shame as i was looking forward to it when it came out.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  this review was brought to you by cap- (psn id) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Buzz series on the PlayStation 2. Sports Quiz, Music Quiz, Hollywood 
 Quiz, you name it, I've played it. And when I bought a PS3 I completely didn't realise that a Buzz 
 game was released for it. So I bought it on Monday and it came with four cool wireless buzzers 
 and a nice red bag to keep them in. Also the wired buzzers I had for the PS2 versions work here 
 too! But enough about the buzzers, it's the game I need to tell about. It's titled Quiz TV, which 
 I was kinda liking the sound of because I was thinking that all of the PS2 separate games were 
 brought together in some way and now with the power of the PS3 who knows how good it could be. 
 I was wrong. All it has is 5 channels based on stuff like Movies/TV, Sports, Lifestyles etc. This 
 was still ok for me, so I played it with my Mum and Dad. And it was your typical Buzz fun. Which 
 is what I mainly wanted. Some mini-games (whatever you'd call the separate games for each subject 
 aka Point Builder) have gone from original PS2 versions and I don't believe any new ones were added. 
 There is no Rose (the female assistant from the previous games) and there is no prizes to be won 
 at the end. No high scores even.
  
  This game is fun. But not exactly taking advantage of the PS3. This game feels like one step forward 
 and two steps back. It is still gonna be worth the money but it lacks what you've seen in the PS2 
 versions. And how are you gonna move forward with a franchise if you don't keep in whats good from 
 the previous games! Get this if you're a die hard fan, but if I were you, save your 300+ and stick 
 with the PS2 versions. I hope they improve the series with the PSP version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy08
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  buzz is a great game for children of all ages from 1 to 100 and everyone who plays the games have 
 a big smile on there face so it was about time the money making franchise came to ps3 and fans 
 and newcomers will not be disappointed.
  buzz, if you not heard is a game show where you are the contestants and you take part in a range 
 of different rounds answering general knowledge questions.
  the transition from ps2 and ps3 is good as you can see a high improvement but it hasn't lost it 
 original charm and slapstick humor and the graphics are top notch saying for a game donsn't relay 
 on visual effects.
  the huge new improvment is the user generated material to let players create and share there own 
 quizzes this is a nice touch.
  there a few problems with the game thought, as for there are a lack of new rounds or categories 
 and you can't pick what rounds you want to do as I don't like pass the bomb round and the host 
 annoyance was not left in the past games.
  I lastly would like to mention the wireless controllers as you do not have to untangle all the 
 wires but if you still want to use them then you can buy the game without the controllers and use 
 the old ones instead but I recommend spending that bit more to make you're life easier.
  
  this is a solid 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Buzz TV Quiz is the debut of the Buzz brand on the Playstation 3. It keeps the same traditional 
 gameplay, adds a few new perks that take advantage of the system, but lacks some options that seemed 
 like obvious additions . For anyone not aware, the Buzz games are trivia games that can only be 
 used with the Buzzers peripherals. Given this is the first Buzz game for the Playstation 3, we 
 have new Buzzers to play with. 4 wireless buzzers (which require batteries) and a USB hub come 
 with the bundle, though the game can be bought separately and used with wired PS2 buzzers if you 
 happen to have them. Each buzzer has a large red button on the top, and 4 different coloured rectangular 
 on the front. These are all the buttons you need to play Buzz, and the controllers are responsive 
 (a must for the gameplay) and comfortable to hold for extended durations. The buzzers are used 
 to navigate all menus, and it is a breeze to do so.
  
  First, let's get to the basics of the gameplay and presentation before covering the different modes. 
 The game is presented just like a trivia studio set that you would see on TV, though with highly 
 exaggerated, comical and typically stereotyped characters for you to choose as your avatar. Once 
 you've chosen your avatar, you can choose a costume, your preferred buzzer noise, and in local 
 matches, your name (your PSN name is used in online matches) . Front and centre is Buzz himself, 
 voiced by Jason Donavan, as has been the case in all previous Buzz titles. While not technical 
 standouts, all the character models look great. Buzz remains the star of the show, letting out 
 quips with regularity that are genuinely funny, and the writers have done a good job in making 
 sure he has something varied to say depending on the outcome of each question and how people are 
 performing throughout the game. Overall the presentation feels polished, with some graphical effects 
 and attention to detail over its predecessors that while cosmetic, are still welcomed.
  
  The majority of the gameplay consists of being asked a question, which is spoken by Buzz and printed 
 on the screen. Four potential answers appear, of which only one is correct. As you would suspect, 
 you press the corresponding rectangular button to enter your answer. On the odd occasion you will 
 use the round button instead, such as when the correct answer appears on screen in a certain round. 
 With over 5000 questions and the game tracking which questions you have already been asked, you 
 won't be running into repetition for a while. The questions cover five major categories, and each 
 is broken down into subcategories.
  
  There are three modes in Buzz; single player, with friends, or online. Single player is a test 
 of your knowledge and reaction times. Every round consists of answering the question as quickly 
 as possible, and correct answers are rewarded by how fast you answer. If you simply want to test 
 your knowledge without being heckled by anyone else for your potential ignorance when you get a 
 question wrong, this mode is for you. Since I enjoy learning I found this mode enjoyable, though 
 the game is far more enjoyable with other people in the room.
  
  Having your friends around so you can rub your gleaming intellect in their face is where this game 
 shines. Up to 8 players can play locally by connecting a second set of buzzers. In most rounds, 
 being the fastest to get the answer right will reap you the highest points or benefits. At times 
 this can be quite hilarious, as sometimes players who have no idea about the question or subject 
 will randomly guess the right answer, or you will answer the question as quickly as possible, then 
 realise that you knew the answer. Generally though, those who know the subject at hand will come 
 out in front. To balance this to some degree, after each round four random topics are displayed, 
 and the losing player gets to select one for the next round, potentially giving them a way to catch 
 up if they know their stuff.
  
  Playing with random people online is easy. Select join a game, where you will automatically enter 
 a lobby, and once the timer counts down, a game will begin. Games are a little shorter than offline, 
 offering 4 rounds. The game plays out almost identically to the offline multiplayer, aside from 
 the different types of rounds.
  
  A new feature to the game is creating your own quizzes. These are created by going to the MyBuzz 
 website, where you can name your quiz and create 8 questions for it. These can be marked for use 
 by only you and your friends, or for the general public. You can use the website to create a playlist 
 from any number of player-created quizzes, which can then be played alone. After each quiz is played, 
 it is mandatory for all players to give it a rank, which are then uploaded to the website, so players 
 can see which quizzes were most enjoyed by others. While the MyBuzz feature works as it was designed 
 to, it feels limited in some respects, particularly that each quiz will feature the same 8 questions, 
 in order, each time it is played. While I have no answer to it myself, I can't help but feel this 
 feature could have been implemented better.
  
  After playing the three modes, I'm somewhat puzzled by the lack of some options. While the game 
 offers lots of buzzer sounds, a nice variety of question categories, an abundance of those questions, 
 and a few different modes, it lacks customisation options for how you want to play, and only has 
 a few question types. While you can play a game that focuses on only one major category of questions, 
 each time you play any of the modes in Buzz, the structure of rounds is always the same; gone is 
 the option of playing short or long games found in some of the past games. The rounds are always 
 in the same order every time you play the game. While there is nothing wrong with that order, and 
 certain rounds would not make sense in certain places (Final Countdown for example only makes sense 
 as a final round) , it would have been nice to choose your own order and save it as custom game 
 type. For example, a game consisting only of Points Builder (players score the same for correct 
 answers regardless of time) would reward knowledge over reaction times, and a game consisting of 
 only High Stakes (a round where you gamble your points to earn more) would make for some interesting 
 choice making. The online version of the game is called 'Sofa vs. Sofa', which had me dreaming 
 about me and my friends testing our group knowledge against those on another couch elsewhere, alas, 
 no team modes are present. This would have made for a nice addition and I can't understand why 
 this opportunity would have been missed.
  
  Furthermore, there is a lack of question types (note : not question categories, which are nicely 
 varied) . Regardless of how different rounds have differing score methods, the majority of questions 
 are of the 'Here is a question, here are 4 answers, choose the right one'. There appear to be only 
 two question types that deviate from this formula; one asks you a question and presents a slideshow 
 where you have to buzz in when the correct answer appears. All That Applies is the only type that 
 has multiple correct answers; given that this is one of the more fun modes, it is oddly and criminally 
 only available online. I can't fathom why this is not in the longer offline version of the game. 
 Previous PS2 versions of the game had other question types as well, so it is puzzling they are 
 not here in any form.
  
  While these are things that feel like obvious ways to improve the game, they aren't necessary. 
 The game is still great to play, and feels like it should; like you are playing out a TV quiz show 
 in your living room. If you like to learn or test your own knowledge, then playing alone can be 
 a rewarding experience. The real fun comes from testing yourself against your friends, calling 
 them out when they choose a stupid answer, defending your ignorance when you are wrong, feeling 
 smug when you win, and claiming luck when someone else does. Hopefully some of the letdowns will 
 be addressed in patches or with downloadable content (there are already additional quiz packs available 
 in the PSN store) , but out of the box, it will still entertain you and your friends over a long 
 period of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Having heard a lot of praise for the PS2 versions of Buzz I decided that I would enter into this 
 world of casual gaming with the series' next-gen debut and was an instant fan. The game is a lot 
 of fun to play with friends and family and it is great to beat peopel from around the world using 
 the Playstation Network (where extra quiz packs are also available - another bonus of being connected 
 to the internet) .
  Buzz turns the PS3 from a hardcore gaming machine into a light-hearted quiz show and it is incredibly 
 addictive. I was hooked on online play from the moment I began playing and am slowly creeping up 
 the leaderboard (which is realiable and hasn't yet lost any stats etc.) The only problem with online 
 play is that some of the promised features such as the use of the PS Eye and more than one player 
 online have not come to fruition. I was looking forward to using these and am dissapointed they 
 are not included - however there is talk of a patch to include them. Trophy support is also not 
 included, but will almost certainly come in a patch during the summer.
  Single player and playing the friends is also a lot of fun, although I would have liked a Quiz 
 host mode where one person takes control of Buzz (as I think was included with the PS2) but again, 
 this may be included in a future patch.
  Overall a quality game which has a very long lifespan thanks to the 5000 questions avilable on 
 the disc and many more question packs in the PSN for download. The controllers are now wireless 
 (using a USB receiver) and although they feel very strange at first, you easily get used to them. 
 Great to play on your own, online or with friends / family. A good game at the moment, but could 
 be made even better with a good patch or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oO-TrueQ-Oo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  Honest review. I have every single buzz game to date and was really looking forward to this one 
 for so long. Rushed out to buy it and boy was i shocked. Not only have they removed all the best 
 Game types but they left the worst ones in, including pass the bomb which is mainly luck if it 
 goes off on you, and pie fight which they have also watrered down. It makes for such a short gaming 
 experience and thats it. 
  
  There is now only 4 games to play thourgh no options menu to pick and choose its totally been ruined. 
 The actual game is the shortest of all and over very quickly due to the limited game types and 
 has no options to pick and choose short, medium or long games, Gone are all the good stuff that 
 made this game gr8. Simply put all of the people i had round who have been playing this series 
 with me all 8 of us were totally gutted about how they have stripped down this one and ruined it. 
 
  
  I am going to sell it straight away and play the previous ones as this is just not fun at all in 
 relation to the previous titles total letdown....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  2005 saw the launch of what is now a staple title for the Playstation brand, and along with Eyetoy 
 and Singstar, demonstrated that last generation, the Playstation2 was the king of casual gaming. 
 Fast forward to 2008, and we have entered a time dominated by the genre and the ever popular Wii, 
 but the question is can Buzz! Quiz TV withstand the barrage of deluge within the casual market? 
 The answer is yes. Definately.
  
  Unlike the Wii, features a lot of party games that are always strong, and never a let down. Singstar 
 proved this at Christmas, so did GH3, and now Buzz is here to reinforce the fact PS3 can appeal 
 to everyone, as Buzz is the most wide reaching audience grabber I have ever encountered.
  
  Basically the game is split into 5 main channels, TV & Movies, Music, Lifestyle, Knowledge and 
 Sport, which basically covers all the stops if you ask me. On top of the 5,000 you are offered 
 there, you can download a further 500 more over the Playstation Store in individual themed packs 
 - thats 500 questions per pack. Currently there are only 5 packs available ranging in intrest, 
 but its a good indication of the quality of packs to come.
  
  Finally, there is the options of creating your own quiz, and uploading for you and others to play 
 or alternatively you can download other people's. Which provides an almost endless stream of user 
 generated content constantly. There is no need to ever buy another Buzz! game, and if you grow 
 tired of what's on the disc, there are a multitude of different options in which you can replenish 
 and keep the experience fresh. This is indeed fantastic.
  
  The heart of this game is in it's multiplayer, which introduces you to the ingenious High Stakes 
 round and old favourites like Pie Fight, and makes for some truly high tension games, especially 
 in Pass the Bomb. The single player, though a bit pointless, is fun online as you can face up to 
 3 other people over the net if you are a Larry loner, you get a similar experience as multiplayer 
 but you lack the frantic atmosphere you may gain from your living room if you play multiplayer 
 with up to 8 people.
  
  Questions do begin to repeat, after a very long while, so if you're a constant player, you are 
 going to perhaps have a slight advantage over newbies to the title. But, trust me, it'll be a while 
 before you start to notice any repetition of content.
  
  One thing I criticised in previous Buzz! games was the presentation. It was very simplistic and 
 graphically was simply average. The question boxes and score boxes all do look the same, but they 
 have neat little animations, as compared to appearing or sliding away. You now get jumping and 
 even spinning boxes, which isn't really a deciding point on whether you buy the game or not, it 
 just shows how much more effort has been spent on presenting a tried and tested area, and keeping 
 it fun and exciting.
  
  The character and player models are simply brilliant and look pretty good. The animations are terriffic 
 with each player having their own set of moves and it adds a sense of reality to the game which 
 has never been there before, it is also very funny. Surprsingly there are only something like 10 
 characters, but no doubt more will be made available through PSN for a small fee or in my perfect 
 world for nowt.
  
  The entire atmosphere of the quiz show is 100% more realistic than before. The music varies to 
 build up tension, the auidence clap at the appropriate moments and are even varied enough with 
 individual animations, it's fairly impressive. It's all in the small details which escalates this 
 game above mediocrity, so much so, it needs binoculars to look down on it.
  
  The new buzzers are brilliant, a little heavier but you don't have to go through the pain of untangling 
 the wires before every play. However, initially they are annoying to set up as the instructions 
 left me totally clueless of how to get them to actually work properly, which wastes around half 
 an hour before you start the game, but after they are synced properly, they never really have to 
 be again. Shame you have to plug a dongle in though for them to work, how come they can't work 
 like the normal controllers??
  
  Overall Buzz! is brilliant, it's a fine example of what Sony plans to do with user genrated content 
 that accessible to everyone, Singstar launched it, Buzz has refined it and make it alot easier 
 to do. I'm excited to see how Little Big Planet will continue this rise of accessibility. It's 
 a game aimed at everyone and I'm afraid to say, I'm yet to have this much fun on Nintendo's "casual 
 console" behemoth. Party game of the year? It may very well be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Got this as a late birthday present, was hoping for it in April go it early July..
  
  First thing that you'll notice is the wireless controllers, these are similar to the original wired 
 versions. Come with regular AA batteries and work very well. nice touch that the game also comes 
 with a little red bag for storing the controllers in when not been used. Don't forget to switch 
 the controllers to "locked" so they don't discharge.
  
  Game itself is very similar to previous versions, although i was surprised that the game is still 
 quite crude in terms of remembering user information. So it gets quite old inputing your username 
 every-time you play the game. This is a only a gripe but it should have been addressed. Nor are 
 their that many characters in the game but I suspect we'll see them appearing as "add-ons' on the 
 PSN soon for a small fee .
  
  Other then that.. amazing selection of questions.. I downloaded UK culture and Sci-FI a couple 
 of hours and i have to admit that I'm impressed. Just wish they would take a few of the rough edges 
 out.
  
  Online elements are quite fun.. I was hoping to play multiple players in sofa vs sofa mode but 
 I love it all the same.
  
  Great party/family game to enjoy for all ages. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
