-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty: World at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/callofduty5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gritty, exciting story.
 Same excellent multiplayer system.
 Four-player cooperative campaign.
 Bayonets and flamethrowers.
 Nazi Zombies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Familiar setting.
 Familiar game mechanics.
 Familiar guns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,914 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 10, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World at War brings proven Call of Duty mechanics back to WWII with great success. 

  Call of Duty: World at War is a lot like its predecessor, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. In most 
 respects, this is a good thing. The guns are tightly tuned, the tone is gritty and mature, and 
 the action is exciting and fast-paced. It boasts the same addictive multiplayer system as Modern 
 Warfare, and even expands the multiplayer possibilities by allowing four players to play through 
 the campaign cooperatively. Like every game in the series before Modern Warfare, this Call of Duty 
 takes place during World War II. World at War does an admirable job of spicing things up, but between 
 the well-worn source material and dj vu game mechanics, there is a pervasive familiarity to the 
 game. Still, though World at War lacks the freshness that made Modern Warfare such a hit, it nevertheless 
 provides a hearty, filling meal -- one that shooter fans are sure to savor.  

           Bayonets are a brutal new addition to your arsenal.      

  The most salient difference 
 between World at War and Modern Warfare is the WWII setting. In the campaign, you split time between 
 two soldiers in two offensive theaters: the Russian push out of their homeland and into the heart 
 of Germany, and the American struggle to wrest Pacific islands from the Japanese. Though you'll 
 alternate between them every few levels, the campaign feels like one solid progression, thanks 
 to the adept pacing.  

  Each soldier's journey begins at a low point. Weaponless and surrounded by the enemy, you get a 
 taste of the despair many soldiers are never rescued from. Though the emotional tone eventually 
 rises toward triumph, you never quite forget the fate you nearly met. The first few levels are 
 a hard scrabble as you and your fellow soldiers try to gain a foothold for your country, while 
 later levels are suffused with a sense of hard-won momentum as you fight bigger battles and push 
 closer to your enemies' capitals. Throughout each level you are accompanied by a superior officer 
 who sets the emotional tone through well-acted dialogue. The vengeful, spitfire Russian pumps up 
 your adrenaline to intoxicating levels, while the grim, determined American provides a sobering 
 influence. This grim sobriety is further enforced by the actual WWII videos, photos, and statistics 
 presented in stylish interchapter cutscenes. The message is, by nature, a conflicted one: Though 
 you may feel like an action hero, you are actually participating in the most horrid of human endeavors. 
 How you ultimately feel about this message will depend on your personal disposition, but suffice 
 to say that the elevated emotional timbre makes for an exciting campaign.  

  Also exciting? Bayonets and flamethrowers, the two standout new weapons in World at War. You wield 
 both in the American campaign, using them to enthusiastically dispatch enemies in trenches and 
 fend off the aggressive banzai raiders. These raiders snipe from the treetops, or pop out of holes 
 and charge you with merciless determination; this aggression makes the American campaign feel uniquely 
 tense. The Russian campaign is slightly more predictable, but it remains vigorous throughout and 
 ends in a spectacularly satisfying way. Explosions and gunfire will cause enemies to lose limbs 
 and copious amounts of blood, making World at War a sight more violent than Modern Warfare. Still, 
 in between the burning, stabbing, and gibbing, there is a lot of crouching behind cover and picking 
 off enemies with your trusty rifle. This kind of action, and most of the other weapons, will feel 
 familiar to anyone who has played a World War II shooter before. It's a well-tuned and exciting 
 familiarity, but it doesn't make any notable leaps.  

  World at War does make a leap for the Call of Duty series by offering two-player split-screen and 
 four-player online cooperative campaign play. It's the same campaign as the single-player experience, 
 though the number of enemies increases for every player that joins you. You can turn competitive 
 scoring on and see who can earn the most points by killing enemies or reviving teammates, and this 
 adds a bit of fun to the campaign and lightens to mood (it's hard to feel grim when there are point 
 values popping up all the time) . There are also special items called death cards in each level, 
 and collecting these will allow you to enable a cheat for cooperative play (for instance, enemies 
 die by headshots only or headshots cause enemies to explode) . These add a little more spice to 
 the pot, but the only tangible incentives are challenges. Completing these tasks (such as kill 
 100 enemies with pistols or take first 20 times in competitive co-op) will earn you experience 
 points that go toward your multiplayer rank (co-op is not similarly ranked) . Cooperative play is 
 fun in its own right, but linking it to the addictive multiplayer ranking system makes it relevant 
 in a whole different way.  

           Multiplayer battles are as fast and deadly as ever.      

  In case you missed it last 
 year, the multiplayer system introduced in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is fantastic, and World 
 at War has updated it to fit its WWII setting. The hook is experience points, which you gain by 
 winning matches or completing one of the aforementioned challenges. As you earn these points, you'll 
 rank up and earn access to new weapons, new accessories (like sights and suppressors) , and new 
 perks. Perks are special abilities that grant you a wide variety of bonuses, but you can only choose 
 four (one of which is vehicle-specific) . This introduces an engaging element of customization: 
 Will you choose to toughen up by increasing your health and bullet damage, or will you go the stealth 
 route and increase your sprint speed while becoming invisible to enemy recon planes? Perks are 
 well balanced, and you have multiple save slots, which enable you to easily switch between your 
 various pretweaked loadouts. This allows you to take full advantage of this deep, engaging system 
 that is just as great this year as it was last year, albeit slightly less novel.  

  There are, of course, new maps, and the bonuses you earn for kill streaks have been updated (notably, 
 the attack helicopter you earned after seven kills in Modern Warfare is now a pack of nasty attack 
 dogs) . There are also a few maps that support tanks, powerful additions that mix things up without 
 being too dominant. Most of the modes remain the same, though some have received slight tweaks 
 and Capture the Flag has returned after a hiatus from Modern Warfare. The most striking new mode 
 is actually a cooperative game called Nazi Zombies, playable when you beat the campaign (or play 
 with someone who has) . This absurd game puts up to four players in a house that is being assaulted 
 by the undead. Killing the fiends and repairing the barricades earns you points that you then spend 
 to replenish ammunition, buy new guns, and unlock new areas of the house. Each subsequent wave 
 brings tougher, faster, more numerous enemies, and the game inevitably ends in grisly death. Though 
 the random weapon box, assorted power-ups, and skills of your teammates add some variation, each 
 play-through is similar to the last. Still, it makes for some intense, frantic fun and provides 
 a welcome, if slightly bizarre, change of pace.  

  By staying largely true to the formula that made Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare so successful, 
 Call of Duty: World at War has ensured a proven level of technical quality, particularly in the 
 multiplayer arena. On the other hand, one of Modern Warfare's strengths was its fresh approach, 
 and by embracing a familiar setting and familiar mechanics, World at War achieves greatness but 
 falls short of excellence. This is only a bad thing if you are expecting this game to top its benchmark 
 predecessor. If, however, you are hoping for an exciting campaign, fun cooperative play, and engaging 
 multiplayer action, then you'll find a lot to be happy about in World at War.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (213 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Troqe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I always try and play through the campaign before I start on the multiplayer even with series I've 
 played the hell out of like cod and when I finished the singleplayer I felt this couldn't be compared 
 to cod 4 in any way. The missions were really repetitive and frustrating with all the damn grenades 
 being chucked. The levels also made it really frustrating, something about their design just really 
 pissed me off. The sniper level was quite good though and the flamethrower is fun for a while.
 
  
  So I began with the multiplayer, it is basically cod 4 but with a new mode called war which is 
 probably the second best mode after hq (tip for infinity ward: steal war for cod 6 you have every 
 right after treyach basically stole the multiplayer) I would say the multiplayer is a little bit 
 better than cod 4 which isn't saying much because they had a whole game too improve it, right? 
 The maps vary I love dome, asylum, station and basically the smaller, closed in levels but that 
 is just because I hate snipers and tanks so it probably depends on how you play.
  
  Coop, ok I'm not big on coop unless I'm playing with a mate in rl so I didn't bother that much 
 with missions on coop. Nazi zombies is a new mode with was fun for a while... but it is really 
 slow and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sockrman10
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Does not even touch Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. The makers of this game pretty much completely 
 copied COD4. The mimicked COD4 gun attachments by simply making them old, and the one thing they 
 didn't copy was the camo for your guns. The makers could have tried to come up with some new features. 
 As of now I am just waiting on the next Modern COD. The only new feature that everyone liked about 
 this game was the Nazi zombies, but unfortunately there was only one level. Also there are certain 
 guns that are untouchable, like the mp40, it cannot be beaten in close to mid range. There could 
 have been more thought put into the the rewards for streaks, they are strikingly similar to Cod4s', 
 3 kill streak is air recon (UAV) , then 5 kill streak is artillery (air strike) , and then the weakest 
 the dogs (helicopter) . Nothing can replace the feeling of doing work with the CHOPSHOP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacj53647
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  I liked this game because it was really bloody and it had a really good gameplay. All the levels 
 are different and there are a wide variety of weapons. The graphic is b-e-a-u-t-i-f-u-l. The cutscenes 
 in this game is also interesting. This game is fun to play with friends online or offline. co-operative 
 is fun but, it is weird how they had didn't maximize the split screen. Ideas in this game is good 
 and player will not get bored. There are so many moments that will surprise the gamer. Competitive 
 offline is also fun. It is just like Call of Duty 4 where players could choose their classes. But, 
 Call of Duty: World at War has a much better selections of weapons than the previous sequel. Gameplay 
 is not that long, not that short, just satisfying. It is worth playing the game. It took 8 hours 
 for me to finish the game. Players could also start playing the same levels with different difficulties. 
 This game is worth buying. I thought it was a better sequel than Call of Duty 4. The graphic is 
 slightly better and the gameplay itself too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glokwerk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I never thought a WW2 FPS would be any good, there really has not been a great one since the PS1, 
 but Treyarch studios revived the WW2 shooter. The campaign is awesome and not too easy which is 
 a great plus. But where this game shines is in its Online Multiplayer. Up to 18 people on a map 
 makes for some great chaos, throw in some tanks and you have a war . Possibly the best feature 
 of the Online Multiplayer is that there is no one that just dominates everyone, don't get me wrong 
 you can rack up 20 to 30 kills but you will die at least 10 times while doing so. It is fairly 
 balanced between newbies and veteran players but experience (particularly with level layout) can 
 help out a lot. The biggest extra you get with this game in the Zombie mode (two if you buy Map 
 Pack 1) , you and up to 3 others locked in a building being swarmed with zombies, not just plain 
 old zombies but Nazi Zombies. Who could ask for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777jon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is one of the best games I have ever played. It is so addictive that 
 I play it everyday. Once you start playing you can't stop. I play so much that I am giving it up 
 (Lent) . The best part of cod5 is when you beat the game - Nazi Zombies. It is so fun!!! Playing 
 it online is great. And buy the new Map Pack because it is totally worth it! It is really really 
 pleasurable! The new map for zombies: Verrukt. It is so much better than the older one. You get 
 split up if you play 4 player and you have to use teamwork. The zombies go so much faster and it 
 is a lot crazier. There is more guns including the ppsh. And if you don't have this and love Left 
 4 Dead and the older Call of Duty Games you should definitely get this now! 
  
  This is definitely the game you would want if you like shooting zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithster118
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is supposedly the fifth major installment in the Call of Duty franchise. 
 It has gone back to it's roots in WW2 and away from the success of Modern Warfare. It was met with 
 a unhappy reception but did it prove its critics wrong?
  
  Yes, yes it did. WaW is a fantastic addition to the franchise and a solid sequal to the amazing 
 CoD4. Here's why.
  
  The single player campaign is maybe 1 hour longer than the CoD4 story. The story has interesting 
 takes on the American and Russian sides and tries to give us a mind-blowing experience. As good 
 as it is, it just didn't have any of those moments where as CoD4 had many. 
  
  Treyarch got pretty much all their ideas off Infinity Ward, so the multiplayer couldn't have failed. 
 The multiplayer is fantastic and with a wide range of perks and weapons, it's definitely worth 
 a look. Unfortunately I don't feel that it is addictive as CoD4 and CoD4 has a slightly more cutting 
 edge to it.
  
  Nazi Zombies are brilliant. Not original but incredibly fun. The only thing annoying is that it 
 doesn't have 4 player split screen.
  
  CoD: WaW is excellent. Solid single player, excellent multiplayer, incredibly challenging on Veteran 
 and Nazi Zombies.
  
  But it's no Call of Duty 4 though is it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  WaW is a great game that deals with its setting really well with some great set pieces although 
 on the lower difficulties it shows that this game has been designed mostly for the multiplayer 
 experience, for the most part.
  
  Clocking in at maybe 6 to 8 hours on normal difficulty which as many people will know settles on 
 the shorter side, although that being said the game never becomes boring or bloated so the short 
 story mode is easily accepted. The veteran mode offers a very high challenge but it starts to feel 
 like it is bordering on cheap, rather than just being more difficult, and at times I even found 
 it easier to sit back and let your team mates cop the flack, rather than charge in and use your 
 skill.
  
  The two main characters are serviceable although having two main characters intertwined makes them 
 and the story more detached. It may have been better to split it into a Russian and a US campaign 
 to keep consistency.
  
  The voice acting is good and the sound effects are great, they really capture the frantic nature 
 of war and nothing beats the sound of the cartridge being ejected for a Garland rifle. Music is 
 a little understated but does a good job without over-powering the scenes.
  
  Environments are nothing overly spectacular from anyone who has played any WWII games, the stock 
 standards are there, beach landings, storming trenches, bombed out European Villages, green field 
 battlegrounds. They look decent enough but at times it is hard to get over how clichd they are, 
 but given the amount of times WWII has been done you can give it some leeway. Weaponry is likewise, 
 but being authentic is most important in historical games and they damn fun to use in any case.
 
  
  Characters you are shooting repeat a bit too often, this is not so bad in the Russian campaign 
 where you do not get so close to the enemies, but in the Japanese with all those close quarters 
 combats it does start to become painfully obvious.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game comes into its own and while comparisons to Modern Warfare are inevitable, 
 it does a serviceable job. Some of the maps feel slightly imbalanced and give some plays no incentive 
 not to 'camp' its reward system and almost RPG style of levelling and perks are enough to keep 
 you coming back.
  
  While it is by no means a perfect game and has the clichs of WWII games spread thickly on top 
 (aside from the D-Day landing) , it does a good job of telling a story with a few memorable moments. 
 If you have never played a WWII game, this would be a great first one, for everyone else rent it 
 and buy something a bit more original and memorable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InN3rChi011
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Cod waw is a pretty decent game with a lot to give. It gives you the same cod4 gameplay but with 
 WW2 aspects. The graphics by the way is terrible compared to its release date. It was made after 
 Cod4 and in my opinion it has better graphics. It has co-op campaign for u and your friends to 
 play. But has a flaw U CANT SAVE on coop campaign. In your mind you would be saying why, right? 
 I know i dont know why too so ill just skip this part and move on. 
  
  There are many types of modes to play the classic 4 players offline to play with friends and the 
 online mode of course. If you dont have online you should rent this first to decide if you would 
 buy this or not. Now the online is where the action is this is the same modes like search and destroy 
 tdm, free for all, ect. Some of the levels in this game has TANKS and is way overpowered because 
 it takes forever to kill it. The rocket takes like 4-5 hits for it to blow up and bullets is like 
 nails getting thrown at it but in teams its pretty easy if your team is smart and team on it. There 
 are plenty of guns but the guns aren't balanced like a gun where you get pretty early online when 
 u rank is like the best gun in the game its strong has, has a lot of bullets, could shoot pretty 
 far with little recoil ect. Which is one of the main reasons i gave it a 8.0. 
  
  The co-op campaign online is fun and is up to 4 players and you could decide what difficulty you 
 want. Now on to Nazi zombie mode ( unlocked when beat single campaign) is pretty fun, but is only 
 up to 2 players offline and 4 players online. Nazi zombie mode where you fight hordes of zombies 
 in a house and get points when u kill them. You repair barricades on the windows and when u get 
 enough points, you can use the points to open certain parts of the house. Overall its fun offline 
 and online but only has one map and needs more maps to have fun.
  
  Overall its a decent game but a rent first instead of wasting 40-50 bucks for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerAlan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  I was never a fan of war games until i played Metal Gear Solid 4. One day I borrowed this from a 
 friend and i loved it! Soon I gave it back, but a few weeks later i bought it. I was so happy to 
 have it!! I love nazi zombies. I also love the weapons, ranking, graphics, and the blood and guts. Whoever 
 hates this game has no balls at all. This is probably my favorite game ever!!! Some times I stay 
 up til' 3:00-8:30AM playing this game!! That's how much I love this game. This is the only Call 
 of Duty game in the series that iv'e played. Soon i'm gunna play all of them. I love the game modes 
 too. I really like team deathmatch, capture the flag, search and destroy, war, and the co-op is pretty 
 good too! I WILL BUY ALL OF THE CALL OF DUTY WORLD AT WAR MAPS!!!! I love meeting people on Nazi 
 Zombies. I like getting all the weopons and special abilities. This game is so tight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The game it self is ok... wasnt as much of a blast as cod 4 which makes no sence why they went 
 from modern back to vietnam and ww2 its dumb. But i like how they made coop for most of stuff. 
 And zombie mode is pritty fun but after a while it just looses it. Online is fun just like cod4 
 style so thats a + over all its an 8.0 could of been work on a little more on the datails and other 
 stuff. They add more maps to it but most of them are not as fun playing they are more like a circle 
 map and every one fights at middle and runs around to flank but there are few good maps. 8.0 8.0 
 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 
 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 
 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is my 1st FPS to own, but it will definitely be the one to compare with 
 when talking about a really good First-Person shooter.
  
  The campaign itself is absolutely amazing. To make it interesting it is split between 2 stories. 
 One as playing a protagonist in the Soviet Union, and the other as playing a US Marine. The missions 
 never get boring, but sometimes repetitive. They are actually quite fun, challenging, and addicting 
 at the same time. It's something you want to really keep playing. The mood of the story is one 
 of tragedy and victorious triumph. The historical footage shown throughout the campaign really 
 adds to the chaotic feel of World War 2.
  
  The difficulty of the game isn't too bad from what I expected (being new to the FPS genre) However 
 it's really easy to die on like veteran, and it will happen a lot. Enemy AI isn't too bad, but 
 they are easy to figure out, and it's easy to get a clear shot on them even if they are trying 
 to take cover. But it is not like all of the enemies are specializing on you, they are also trying 
 to kill your fellow army pals who are somewhat of a help, even if you have to practically guide 
 them to move on. They sometimes get in your way though, and this can happen with objects too. What's 
 more annoying in the campaign however, are grenades. The enemy seems to have an unlimited supply 
 of grenades, so dodging them gets kind of annoying, and at some points about 90% of my deaths were 
 because of frag grenades. But nonetheless it's not too hard to figure out the enemy.
  
  So even though the story is somewhat short, about 6-10 hours approximately, it's worth playing 
 through. From driving tanks, doing various task on foot, sniping, taking action in a bomber plane, 
 using a flamethrower, the story never gets dull. It's dramatic throughout and the ending wraps 
 up nicely (no spoilers)
  
  The graphics look decent. They look bloody good actually (and literally) The violence can look 
 quite brutal. Large amounts of blood, as well as some gore, really make it look more realistic. 
 From explosions, the weapons, and to environmental details, nothing looks bad. Bullet marks also 
 appear on objects that are shot. The characters look great too.
  
  Controls for this game are PERFECT. No ands, ifs, or buts. Nothing can be better about them really. 
 As a begginer it did not take long to get use to the controls, and any FPS should have controls 
 like this, or very similar. They respond well, it's easy to switch between weapons, and so on.
 
  
  World at War also sounds well. Gunfire, explosions, and so on. The voice acting is "out-f*******-standing!", 
 even if it does get repetitive, especially when playing online. So there are no dull sounds or 
 voices at all. The warfare sounds so authentic, it's almost scary. Background music is also a very 
 nice touch, and can set a really odd mood, like something is wrong, especially in the campaign.
 
  
  Playing alone obviously isn't the only fun thing to do. There's co-op, and of course Call of Duty's 
 well-known online multiplayer.
  Co-op campaign is a neat feature, but the splitscreen is kind of bad because it takes away a lot 
 of room, but it's still fun.
  There's also Nazi zombies to play with someone after the campaign. Havn't played it much but killing 
 endless waves of Nazi zombies sounds pretty darn fun.
  
  The online multiplayer is where most of the time will be spent for most people. There are several 
 modes to pick from such as Free-for-All, Team Deathmatch, Headquarters, Search & Destroy... just 
 to name a few. It's easy for anyone to jump into an online match whether it be a newbie or a veteran, 
 everyone has the opportunity to do and accomplish something.
  
  The weapons vary and are unique, but they are not quite balanced so well. There are overpowered 
 ones like the MP40, but each class of weapon should be used in different ways. Yet it can be very 
 frustrating getting beat by a weapon you don't want to use just to even things out. But so many 
 things affect how you can play. The perks work great and can be hard to pick from, yet there's 
 usually an obvious choice. Creating a class is easy and keeps things well organized too.
  
  The leveling system and stat-tracking features also work out very well. The levels go up to level 
 65, but repeating that 10 times via prestige makes the online gameplay almost endless, yet repetitive. 
 A lot of good time is to be spent online.
  
  Online isn't flawless though. Disconnects from matches aren't uncommon, and maybe the servers are 
 just bad, I don't know. It can be difficult to participate in a full match, and it takes a while 
 to start up another one sometimes. Inviting a friend to join your party is an easy way to play 
 with a friend online, but for some reason errors are very common when trying to do this. The online 
 just doesn't seem to run that smoothly.
  
  But despite all that it is usually addicting and can be very exciting. Matches can be intense, 
 or really slow, depending on the game being played and how it's being played. But all in all it 
 should be enough to satisfy anyone for a good amount of time.
  
  Overall Call of Duty: World at War seems somewhat underrated due to it being compared with the 
 previous title, Modern Warfare. Even though there are a ton of WWII games out there, I doubt that 
 anyone of them can top World at War. This game will definitely hold you over until Modern Warfare 
 2, but hopefully the community for W@W will remain for sometime. Hours of fun and frustration are 
 to be expected from World at War. You get a lot more than what you pay for.
  
  Summary:
  
  Graphics- 9.2
  Controls- 10
  Gameplay- 9.6
  Value- 9.9
  Sound- 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cod4dude101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is AMAZING!!!!!!!! This is my favorite Call of Duty yet. The campaign 
 is longer then COD4's, which i enjoyed very much, and it is also exciting. The multiplayer is also 
 great. It has great new guns and awesome new maps. Although it may be very similar to COD4's online, 
 it has many differences. Instead of only leveling up to 55, and then going prestige, you have to 
 go to 65, and then prestige. The game also features a new game mode called Nazi Zombies. To unlock 
 it, you have to beat the game. In this mode, you face endless waves of zombies from the dead. My 
 favorite part of Nazi Zombies is the new gun called the Ray Run. This gun shoots out green Lazar's, 
 which are very affective against the zombies. Buy This Game, IT IS CRAZY GOOD!!!!!!!!! TRUST ME 
 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ten_Out_Of_Ten
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  "Call of Duty: World at War"
  ::::::::::Quick 
  
  Note {Just because my 
 name is Ten_Out_Of_Ten, does not mean that every game I review will get that score.}
  
  The Good
  ************
  - Controls work great
  - Guns are balanced
  - Single player is 
 intense
  - Multilayer is addicting
  - Zombie mode is interesting
  - Improved from COD4
  - Overall great presentation
  
  The Bad
  **********
  - World War II again?!?!?!?!?
  - 
 No 4-player split-screen zombie mode
  - Will be very familiar to people who played COD4
  - May be too gory and disturbing for the kids
  - Expensive ($70!!! What's that all about?)
 
  
  10/10
  ::::::::: If you played COD4 for not, this game is a great pick-up for anyone. In my opinion, this 
 is better than COD4. One of the best shooters I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd_brisson
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  Overall: 9.2/10
  
  Graphics: 9.9/10
  
  Sound/Music: 9.8/10
  
  Story: 8.7/10
  
  Controls: 8.5/10
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is a pretty great game. If you enjoy the COD 
 series, this is the best one. If you like WW II games, this is also one of the best. It's likewise 
 one of the better FPS's on the PS3. The story mode is pretty short, and you CANNOT SAVE your progress 
 on the two player coop mode. So, if you're buying it because of its advertised coop mode (which 
 I did) , this can be pretty frustrating. Despite these downfalls, World of War is definitely an 
 enjoyable game that is worth playing. Oh yeah, NAZI ZOMBIES is a great side game that makes up 
 for the short campaign mode. NAZI ZOMBIES also makes up for the inability to save your progress 
 on coop mode, because it is an amazing side game to play with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hugh_Hef
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  COD World at War, what can I say about the best WW II first person shooter series of all time (some 
 may beg to differ) ? It was good to see a different theater of the war (finally) . I know that was 
 a big leap for the COD series and it definitely set this particular game apart from the rest in 
 the series. The banzai attacks are crazy, and I love the counter attack on those, and who can't 
 love the flame thrower, running up to the bunkers, blasting away with the fire, (hells yeah) . I 
 noticed two key features that World at War, carried over form Modern Warfare, which are the shooting 
 through walls, creates, and other substrates, that in real life you could shoot through, which 
 makes the game more realistic, and the push to make the gamer more aggressive in battle, by bum 
 rushing the enemies locations instead of hunkering down and picking them off one by one, these 
 are two key features, and I have really liked them in both games. On annoying thing is the darn 
 grenades, I don't know if it just me, but it seemed that the enemies grenades were more accurate 
 than mine and my allies, mainly just wanted to point that out. Overall I have been very satisfied 
 by this game, I believe it tops modern warfare, mainly because COD belongs in the WW II theaters 
 of war its just more fun. Don't get me wrong I enjoyed Modern Warfare, but it just didn't seem 
 right though. If we could do a Modern Warfare with true historic data (such as operation desert 
 storm, etc.) instead of the so called future or fictional wars, I believe then the modern Warfare 
 would be a more enjoyable game (in the Historical sense) . I was definitely surprise by how graphic 
 this game turned out, I just didn't expect it, really added a more realistic aspect to it though. 
 Thanks Activision 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the best at first person shooter games. I rarely have played that many, but this game is 
 pretty fun.
  
  In story mode: I love the interactions with your squad. It's very gorey. There are a lot of surprises 
 too. It makes you appreciate what our forefathers did. This game keeps you on your toes.
  
  My own opinion - If I got this game and played it before Metal Gear Solid 4 I probably would of 
 given this a higher rating, however, I didn't. Metal Gear Solid 4 is still taking my time away 
 from this game. I know they are 2 different styles in warfare but I can only give this an 8.0 at 
 highest.
  
  I will say that it's very difficult to spot enemies at times. 
  
  The best part of this game is multiplayer mode. There is split screen and online play. When you 
 play split screen and you are wounded bad and can't move, the person you are playing with can revive 
 you like a medic would. Pretty good concept. 
  
  If you've played other World at War titles I'm sure you'll love this one. It may be the best one 
 so far, however if you haven't then I think you would find this an above average war game that 
 is quite difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto-19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World At War delivers many different kinds of gameplay. For the FPS experts, there's 
 veteran for you; good luck. For the other people there are easier game modes. The online play for 
 this game is highly addictive, extremely fun, and you will never get bored. The multiplayer is 
 amazing as well, and the perks you can use are endlessly fun, the dogs you can send, the radar, 
 the dogs, the bouncing bettis... never-ending possibilities. Nazi Zombies... where to begin? This 
 is probably the funnest shooting game I've ever played. It never ends, it's never repetitive, it's 
 amazing. The guns you can use are awesome, they're unique, they're fun. To sum all of this up, 
 get this game, because it's one of those games that you should, without a doubt, have on your shelf 
 ready to play with you're buddies.
  
  -Crypto-19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:22 am PT
Review:  1. Glitches - Sure, it's still new to market, but come on! Aside from every single game ending 
 with it saying that the server timed out or whatever, I got a real bad glitch last night. Let me 
 just say first off that I'm not a great player, but I have my moments of greatness when I get a 
 bunch of kills and maybe just a 2 or 3 deaths (maybe once a night) . Anyway, I'm having one of my 
 great games, sending out dogs, killing lots of people with a tank and finishing up the behemoth 
 challenge, the game is ticking down about to end and I'm the top player on the winning team... 
 and then everything goes black, and then I get a message saying I need to be logged into the playstation 
 network!!!! Sure enough, I get back in and it's as if that game never happened. Behmoth challenge 
 not finished, no added experience, etc. So, that's a huge glitch that got me at the worst time. 
 I went from being really happy in doing well, to really pissed off. Next...
  
  2. Refined - I don't agree with those who say this game is the same as CoD4. There's tanks, better 
 differentiation between regular and hardcore games (HC rules) , beautifully intricate maps, etc. 
 But, not everything works, like the post-game stats looks like it's supposed to update you on your 
 total kills, deaths etc. but it has yet to register anything. So, it's more like this game is still 
 in beta than a final game, sorta like how Microsoft does things.
  
  3. People - You can get kicked from a game. I was shooting at the enemy when a teammate walked 
 in front of me, I think I might have shot another teammate earlier too, anyway a minute or two 
 later I find myself kicked from that game. I think it's good, hardcore needs that to keep out the 
 people who intentionally do that stuff.
  
  So, I like this game a lot even though it's really still in beta form. I'm sure there will be some 
 updates in the near future and it'll be worth 5 stars then. As far as "Wow factor" goes, I'm not 
 big into them. I did get wowed at CoD4's nuke explosion, but that was just a scene and if the game 
 had sucked, I wouldn't have given it a good rating for having a really cool scene during solo play. 
 So, wows are nice, but not a factor in the real game. But... it does raise your expectations, and 
 CoD4 delivered, that's for sure.
  
  CoD5 is really good too though. I haven't finished the solo yet, I'm trying to do it on "Veteran" 
 mode... a mistake for me probably, but I'm getting through it slowly but surely. I did CoD4's on 
 recruit because that was my first PS or any other console game that I had played in a decade. Anyway, 
 from what I can gather, they look equally good and challenging. Some people complain about solo 
 being too short... not me, the real fun is mulitplayer. I like the coop idea too, but not yet sure 
 if that can be done with players over the internet.
  
  Bottom line - you'll get your money's worth of entertainment value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWhite07
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty returns with a flashback to WW-II with Call of Duty: World at War.
  
  Story: Like other CoD games, the campaign consists of two campaign (lol) , the Soviet Union and 
 The Americans. In the American campaign, you play as Private Miller and you are captured and (in 
 one of the best video game opening scenes ever) are rescued. The in the Soviet Union campaign, 
 you portray a Dimitri Petrenko, who, in the opening mission, wake up to dead bodies laying all 
 around you. The game takes you on a highway of action and intense scenes as you fight the new enemy, 
 the Japanese and the Nazi Germans. (rawr)
  Now i give the story a 5 out of 5.
  
  Gameplay: The game brings many friends back (such as the M1 Garand, Springfield sniper rifle, and 
 the Thompson.) as well as introducing new friends (flamethrower etc.) The game kind of takes from 
 CoD 4 as far as controls.
  Gameplay score: 4 out of 5.
  
  Multiplayer: The game enhances the multiplayer experience with new game modes, maps, and a new 
 mini-game called Nazi Zombies, where you and a friend offline can defend against wave after wave 
 of zombies, or you can take it online with 4 players and defend as long as you can.
  Multiplayer: 5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War feels like a huge DLC. It's much the same with perks, graphics, and the 
 feel, although several minor things have changed like weapons and people which are to suit the 
 WWII setting. Tanks are kid of fun on the bigger levels but seem over powered. The campaign mode 
 is great with some of the most interesting characters i've seen in a FPS. One of the biggest new 
 things are the Flamethrowers, which will either impress you or not once you reach the level cap 
 of 65. The campaign is short and only takes up 10-15 hours or so, but the multiplayer is excellent 
 just like is predecessor and could keep anyone occupied for months. Honestly I wouldn't pay the 
 sixtey dollar price tag on it if I could go back in time, but it is a nice game to have in your 
 collection. It's so similar to CoD4 you might as well get that because its a much more fun game. 
 If your a WWII buff, or enjoy FPS or just want to give your library something new, Call of Duty 
 World at War will not disappoint in my opinion, unless your standards are exceptionally high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a very good game despite little new to the series. It keeps the same 
 old Call of Duty gameplay, but if you like this series, you will like the latest entry to the series.
 
  
  The graphics are very good, not revolutionary, but can be compared to Modern Warfare.
  
  I liked everything in this game, didnt come over any bugs.
  
  You will play the US campaign 
 in the pacific, and lead the the Russians from Stalingrad to the Reichtag.
  
  It it Treyarch who developed this game, but it is much better than Call of Duty 3.
  
  I never 
 get tired of this series, it doesnt need any updates to the formula or gameplay. If it aint broke, 
 dont fix it.
  
  Im looking forward to the next entry, wetter it is modern or old warfare.
  
  Buy this game, 
 recommended for old time Call of Duty players or newcommers. Still one of the best war games out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkboy_4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT SAY COD 4 IS BETTER THAN WAW (WORLD AT WAR) I SAY NO!!!!!!.
  
  THIS GAME MAY SEEM TO HAVE OLDER WEAPONS AND DIFFERENT ONES TO THE LAST GAME BUT FOR THE SCENES 
 AND THE BATTLE CONDITIONS ITS JUST RIGHT BTW THE BEST GUN IS THE M-100.
  EVEN THOUGH THE CAMPIAN MAY SEEM SHORT TO SOME OF YOU. BUT ITS NOT AND IT MAKES UP FOR THAT WITH 
 ONLINE. INCLUDING A NEW FEAT CALLED NAZI ZOMBIES (THATS HOW EVERYONE GETS XP EASY) . THE THIRTEEN 
 MAPS VARY IN SIZE AND STYLE, EXPLOITIONG THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN JUNGLE AND URBAN LOCATIONS, BUT 
 ALL OF THE SCENES HAVE FLIUD, BALANCED AND GRITTY HD DETAIL (THIS GAME LOOKS SO AMAZING ON HDMI) . 
 THIS GAME IS BOTH FUN AND ADDICTIVE (BY THE TIME I ANDED UP FINISHEING 1 MISSION IT TOOK 30 MINUTES 
 OF THE CLOCK. AND ITS FUN LISTENING TO THE ENEMY SCREAM OUT BONZI AS HE RUNS FOR YOU. BUT ITS EVEN 
 BETTER WHEN U SHOOT HIM OR STAB HIM WHILE HE RUNS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I want to start by saying, my PS3 has not been able to connect to my wireless reliably enough for 
 me to play online. So I'm probably missing out on whaat really makes this game fun.
  
  However, I have tried playing the single-player campaign, and aside from some flashy, artsy mission 
 briefings, this game has been nothing but a headache for me. Quite frankly, its just too hard. 
 Now, I'm not gonna claim to be the best FPS player in the world. But I can usually hold my own 
 on the standard difficulty level on most shooters. But not this one.
  
  First of all, the controls just don't work for me. They are counter-intuitive. I keep trying to 
 ue L3 to duck, but end up sprinting into an enemy bayonette. I keep pressing triangle to jump, 
 but instead pull out a different weapon. And when I do try to sprint, it just doesn't work, and 
 my character just stands still and usually gets blown up by a grenade.
  
  Secondly, the guns seem horribly innaccurate. I can't seem to hit anything in this game, and I 
 am constantly running out of ammo. I have better luck hitting Raiders a hundred yards away in Fallout 
 3 with a small guns skill of 25 than I do at hitting a Japanese soldier who's body fills the entire 
 circular sight of my M1 Garand.
  
  But this is war, and I've got fellow soldiers to help make up for my own ineptitude. . . . er, 
 wrong. Was Activision trying to make the U. S. armed forces look completely inept? It seems that 
 all my AI buddies just run right into Japanes ambushes and get themselves mowed down. And the few 
 survivors (usually the one or two main characters who have to stay alive for "story" purposes) , 
 just take cover in a corner and shoot blindly at enemies. Maybe twice in a whole mission, they 
 will actually hit something. This, of course, leaves me to do EVERYTHING myself. Everything. And 
 we've already clearly established that I'm not very good at shooters. And apparently, especially 
 not at this one. Well, at least the Russian squadmates are actual able to kill Germans every once 
 in a while...
  
  But not only do my squadmates usually cower in fear, but the few who actually stay with me at the 
 frontlines usually just get in my way. If I have to retreat (usually from a grenade) , I end up 
 backing right into a fellow G. I. only to get blown up or shot. I often get stuck on environmental 
 obstacles (usually while crouching or prone) and then can hardly move or stand up and get shot 
 at or blown up with more grenades. 
  
  And then the Japanese have this irritating strategy of Banzai rushing me at the same time somebody 
 throws a grenade, so I press R3 to counter the Japanese bayonette, only to have a grenade explode 
 under my feet as soon as the animation ends. This happens every time I get Banzai rushed. Every 
 time. I am not joking.
  
  Situational awareness is just non-existent in this game. I get shot at, and can never find the 
 guy who's shooting me. The grenade indicator usually doesn't show up until I can't do anything 
 about it. And the radar is useless. It does not have a map of the area, and it is zoomed out so 
 far, that everything is just a green and red blur with huge gold objective stars covering up half 
 of it. Maybe if you have a huge TV and very nice surround sound, you'll be able to see and hear 
 where stuff is happening. But my 42'' HD screen and stereo speakers just aren't quite enough I 
 guess.
  
  And what is with all the grenades? Every corner I turn there are three grenades waiting to blow 
 me up. I think Activision just wanted to showcase their fancy "pick up and throw grenades back 
 at the enemy" feature. But it just ends up making an already frustratingly hard game even worse.
 
  
  On the up-side, the one Soviet mission I played seemed fairly balanced and was enjoyable. But the 
 American missions against the Japanese are just monotonous exercises in trial and error. The above 
 estimate of 10 to 20 hours is an accurate estimation of the time I've invested in this game (closer 
 to 20) , and I am only on the third mission.
  
  Maybe if you are an awesome, expert shooter, you might find this game enjoyable and challenging. 
 Or if you have a $20,000 home theater set up that will allow you to actually keep yourself aware 
 of what's going on around you, you might have a good time. But if you don't meet either of those 
 conditions, you might want to stick with a less intense, more user-friendly, game. You should not 
 have to set a game to the lowest difficulty just so that you can get through a mission and only 
 die about a dozen times.
  
  I will give this game one more chance. And if it turns itself around, I might come back and change 
 this review. But I am very close to giving up on Call of Duty once and for all. Maybe its best 
 that I don't play online. I'd get creamed.
  
  Addendum ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I 
 have spent a little more time with the game (set on the easiest difficulty now) , and am managing 
 to muddle my way through with only a feew deaths. I've gotten a little more used to the controls, 
 so am better able to keep up with the game's fast pace. But there are still way too many grenades 
 flying around, and it is very irritating. At least it is to me. I can't help but wonder if there 
 were as many grenades used in the entirety of the real WWII as there are in just the first half 
 of World at War.
  
  Its not a horrible game. But its also not a particularly good game in my opinion. But I will admit, 
 that now that I'm actually making progress in the game, I do want to continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  So far... this is the best World War II-based shooter for me! I like fighting with the Japanese 
 Imperial Army, especially their ambush tactics while shouting banzaaaaaaaaiiiiiii!!! i admire their 
 courage (but not what they did during those days...) . there's something about WWII that people 
 love... in movies, television, and games... maybe because of the sacrifices of our old folks and 
 their eventual triumph over the enemy. its a sure hit formila, though some say that its the same 
 old war, but its still very fun to play with so much action! same old guns, but very effective 
 (like the M! Garand) ... i think many people enjoyed torching the enemy with flame-throwers and 
 sticking them with bayonets! Graphics and gameplay were awesome! same engine as Mosern Warfare... 
 there re a lot of WWII-based games/shooters, this is one of the best, in my opinion. Absolutely, 
 Call of Duty: World at War is an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  i would have to say that call of duty 5 (world at war) is pretty fun. but it seems WAY too short. 
 multyplayer was really the best. NO KIDDING. But World at War brings Call of Duty mechanics back 
 to WWII with great success. that is very true. The graphices are good too. then multiplayer rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 me and my friends were playing. 2 on 2 or 1 on 3 or everyman for themselves. everyman for themselves 
 was the best. who ever won the there was 1 on 3 and the winner was on their team alone facing other 
 3. then afrter that 2 on 2. there are also better guns in call of duty world at war than call of 
 duty four. so if i was you i would so get this game. it may seem like alot of money but really 
 it isnt alot. so if you get this game you will be happy until call of duty 6 comes out. SO BUY 
 THIS GAME TODAY THIS WEEK TOMROWW OR NEXT WEEK! Get it! im not lying you really need to get call 
 of duty world at war! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRey69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  COD: WW i would say is the best game in the serie so far just the best game of the whole serie 
 because is combine the best of all the previous series plus the ps3 grafic taking you to the battlefield 
 in diferent parts of the world, the definition of the weapons and the enviroment couldnt be better 
 and also the history of the game makes it even better, the AI of the enemy will make u fall from 
 ur seat since is not like the regular AI we are used to see, they will move and actually make a 
 plan to kick u where it hurts, u have all kind of weapons and vehicle to use a thing that was limited 
 in the earlier versions of the COD serie. I would say that this is the best first person shooter 
 ever created since all injuried and bloodspilling looks way to real but this is something u wont 
 buy for a 10 yr old unless he/she is goin to sleep nearby u lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 was one of the most succesful games ever launched in terms
  of sales. Call of duty 4 brough back Modern war from WWII. Now Treyarch
  come and make the next 
 one in the series, Call of duty World at war. Now
  this is a great game, dont get me wrong. But in my opinion, it has'nt lived
  up to Call of duty 
 4 moderm warfare. Infinty Ward are working on the next
  installment in the franchise, Call of duty Modern Warfare 2 which is due for
  release on Hogmany 
 this year (2009) . (Play it all through the night on Hogmany
  to New Years day and you can say to all your friend that you've played it for
  a year, LOL, na 
 dont do that, they'll just say your a saddo. Anyway, COD5 
  has some cool features, such as Nazi zombies and some DLC hitting this
  Saturday for new Nazi 
 zombie maps and online normal maps. Plus, you can
  play Nazi zombie and story mode on co-op with a friend online! COD5 gives
  you a bloody brutal 
 emotional story mode that will have you wanting to kill the
  enemy more than ever. Though I'll point out one thing, a 15? This is worse than
  COD4 for swearing, 
 blood and violance terms. Though BBFC rated this game
  and their crap, (no offence BBFC) . PEGI are much better. Anyway, online is
  cool, with skywalking 
 glitches, boosting, cool guns, perks, maps and co-op.
  Its packed with stuff to do. Though strangely you wont find yourself playing on
  it all the time (unless 
 your a saddo) . If you like brutal violance in WWII with a
  mix of swearing and gore, then go for it, cause its a good game. Though not
  the best game ever 
 but pretty decent. I give it 8/10.= Fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDEATHCALIBUR
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people thought that WWII games were played out. COD World at War proves them wrong. Bringing 
 new innovations, and ideas. Treyarch made COD's return to WWII a slap in the face to all WWII games 
 before it.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Single Player: Personaly this is the best COD campaign in the series. From close up trench warfare 
 to long distance sniping. Everchanging battle conditions will keep you on your toes throughout 
 the campaign. One mission you are in a US Tank fighting your way to destroy essential enemy communication 
 towers and AA guns protected by enemy tanks and infantry. And another mission your a gunner in 
 a US bomber that must help save it's naval fleet of ships. Some very accurate historic battles 
 as well as some what could be unknown battles. Intense battles with both German and Japanese forces 
 provide many heart pounding moments. From Japanese bonzai attacks to German attack dogs you will 
 be left astonished at the brutal truth of this game. No mercy, no retreat. It's kill or be killed 
 and your right in the middle of it.
  
  Online Multi-player: Nothing like the sound of a headshot in the middle of a all out war. And the 
 odd joy of hearing it. As usual COD provides fast action combat with a plethora of weapons. It's 
 all up to you when your online. You can run and gun and all out assult the enemy or use stealth 
 statagies as a sniper and strike the enemy from a distance. Impressive level desing and the addition 
 of tanks to the online multi-player will keep you on your toes, as you never know what may lie 
 just around the corner. It's just good fun gaming, as a team or lonewolf. Multiple game types will 
 keep you busy in everchanging combat. Search and destroy, Capture the flag, and of course good 
 ol' Deathmatch, just to list a few. It personally is one of the best online shooters out there.
 
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Single Player: One thing that has always bugged me is infinite enemies. And theres plenty of moments 
 in the game where, well... they just never stop coming. I can understand that they are making it 
 to where you feel like your fighting and entire army. But even and army has numbers. At some point 
 in time the enemy should stop coming. After killing hundreds of enemies that are coming from one 
 building, that building has to be getting empty sooner or later. It just takes a little bit of 
 realism out of the game. And on veteran difficulty it just gets more implausable. Endless amounts 
 of grenedes will be thrown at you. I once had 4 enemies throw over 30 grenedes at me in about 45 
 seconds. And thats just not right. Nobody carried that many grenedes.
  
  Online Multi-player: I've found that most of my problems with the online multi-player are more 
 or less problems with players who have a bad connection speeds. Theres nothing worse than a lagging 
 fool. jumping 5 feet at a time making a unhitable target. It's like trying to shoot The Flash. 
 And when I take a shot, get killed, and watch the replay just to find that, No, I really didn't 
 shoot even though I pulled the trigger and saw the shot fired. I might as well not pull the trigger 
 if nothing is going to happen. And all of this I belive is related to bad connection speeds. With 
 the same problems on COD4 I am suprised they have done nothing about it. As it is a major problem. 
 Major glitches in every level also destroy the gameplay. At no point in any game should you be 
 standing 100ft in the air. Or under the level somehow still able to interact with the interior 
 of the level. Once again it as also a major problem in COD4 that has not been fixed. And players 
 who choose to use these glithces to there advantage will aways be there. Cowards who have to use 
 a glitch to win a match. My message to you is come out and fight like a man or get out of here. 
 Lots of little problems that get my blood boiling plague the online multiplayer. So I guess as 
 the game notice saysgame experience may chang during online play" should say "game experiance 
 does and will change during online play" But enought of the bad. I'm getting red in the face just 
 talking about it. 
  
  THE UGLY:
  
  The ugly side of this game is how much time it consumes in some peoples lives. I feel bad with 
 3 days playing time. But theres people out there with over 30 days a play time. Now thats just 
 sick. People with nothing better to do with there lives that play COD all day long. It's a fun 
 game and I enjoy playing but it's a game. It has no real importance. Play it, Have a good time, 
 But don't let it take over you life.
  
  All in all, it's a good game that I would recomend to anyone who likes FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, we all know that WWII has been done to death. over and over. same story, same out come. There 
 are so many other battles and wars out there why do they keep coming back to this one? Because 
 it kicks butt! Call of Duty World of War a sequal to 2007 best seller, comes back with a new story, 
 some new improvments and ready to kick butt. 
  You will find out that the story is played from 2 different side. the American forces and the Russians. 
 You will get to totally experience the difference and the combat uniqueness of each. Form the momenet 
 you start this game it is non stop action and is very addictive. You find out that the action is 
 very detailed and exciting. You will play thru the entire game in a day, ( yeh its a little short) 
 but you will not want to put down the controller. After you beat the game you will receive a bonus 
 game known as Nazi zombies. which OMG is very addicitve. You will put as much time or probably 
 a lot more into playing this level. 
  You will get lots of trophies with this game. None of them are that difficult to get. You will 
 enjoy the replay of the game as much as you did playing it the first time.
  BUT, one of the biggest reason that people buy this game is for the online play. Because of COD4 
 being so big online then they had to up the anties on this one. Which you will find that the online 
 hasnt changed that much. But, it still is very addictive and fun. One of my favorite things about 
 the game is the controls, you can actually just pick it up and play it, no wasted time learning 
 controls. What I like most about it is the feel and the graphics, its very realistic. 
  Bad things: If you get a bad copy of this game you will find that your data will be erased some 
 how. over and over. The game does have some major glitches and I have to say the most I have ever 
 seen in one game. That can take the fun out of online, how can you play against a "glitch master" 
 when he's under the map shooting up at you. But they have went back and fixed some of the glitches, 
 still many more.
  The co-op could have been done a lot better, kind of dissapointing.
  Overall: its a great sequal, it improves in places, (minus the glitches) . I would recommend this 
 game to everyone. Even my mom liked it and beat it 3 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  I hate how the game relies on re-spawning enemies until you move forward past some invisible check-point, 
 or that your guys will hang back until you do the same. Once you realize this is how the game works, 
 I found myself rushing forward suicidally to set off all the triggers, and then trying to rush 
 back before getting killed. After a few times of that it got kind of boring. I replayed COD4 recently 
 and realized it works on the same mechanic, but it is better hidden in that older game.
  
  The gameplay itself too feels so rushed to me. It's like you are constantly rushing forward, there 
 is no real strategy or contemplation involved in your actions - just go-go-go.
  
  I did like how you were being shuffled back and forth between 2 different story lines, on the other 
 hand that made it hard to get attached to your characters.
  
  In Summary: It was a good enough time playing thru this different look at WW2. The arcady flying/shooting 
 sequences and playing with the flamethrower were fun, but the rest was just too generic for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt57france
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Very good game : graphics are amazing, controls are very good and multiplayer mode is just unbelievable! 
 But, I don't know... Something sucks. I don't really know what but when I started playing this 
 game, I thought that it could go over that. I mean, I had the feeling that it wasn't finished.
 
  
  It's a good game, but I was expected more than that. And the fact that we go again to this second 
 war is not a good thing. Too many games are about this part of the History. COD 4 was better on 
 this point...
  
  Anyway, it's still fun and, as I said, the multiplayer mode is amazing! I'm on it everytime I can! 
 Of course, it's another Call of Duty (and every Call of Duty's multiplayer are good) but this one 
 is, for me, better than the others. Maybe because of the graphics (which are wonderful) and the 
 gameplay. It's very nice to shoot our friends on this type of landscape!
  
  PS : Sorry for my english... I'm french :S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War takes you back to WWII, across German and Pacific lines. Story mode 
 is harder and more satisfying than Modern Warfare, especially with a split screen partner, and 
 online battles are as great as ever, but this game lacks originality. Overall, there is nothing 
 new about World at War, you're simply killing Nazis and Japanese, the same as the first three Call 
 of Duty's. Story mode forces you to really fear for your life. If all you do is charge oncoming 
 soldiers and try to blast them apart however, then the first few levels you will like. Later levels, 
 though, force you to jump from hiding place to hiding place and steadily creep up on your enemies. 
 This is much more satisfying and realistic than going berzerk and chargin every enemy you see. 
 Early on, your sergeant dies extremely cheaply, leaving you saying to yourself, "What the heck 
 was that!?" Graphics are slightly better, with lots of blood and missing limbs. 
  
  Simply put, if you have Modern Warfare, then you're not missing anything. By far, Modern Warfare's 
 online battles are much more satisfying and original than World at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostfaceL94
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  COD: World at War.
  
  Pros:
  - same intensity as COD 4
  - competitive
  - co op
  - great graphics
  - ranking system
  - perks
  - Nazi Zombies
  
  Cons:
  - almost similar 
 to COD 4
  - all familiar
  - multiplayer lag
  - loooong online matches set-up
  - annoying players who shouts in the headsets
  
  My Summary:
  I like the game personally, 
 even though its the same as COD 4, it has the same outstanding multiplayer just like COD 4, which 
 is good, and oh so addicting ranking system. I've played the game for 40 hours now and so far I'm 
 loving every minute of it (except where you have to wait for matches) . Of course NAZI ZOMBIES! 
 What a wonderful idea and I cannot wait for another new map. Overall this game is a must-have for 
 any Call Of Duty fans. 
  
  Facts:
  People who hates Call of Duty 5 are the people who are not so good at multiplayer. This is how 
 it works, if your a beast in Cod: 4 then your more than a beast in Cod: 5. And if your terrible 
 in Cod: 4 your gonna be horrible in Cod: 5 because veterans or newbies move on to Cod: 5 so all 
 you'll face in Cod: 5 are noobs and mostly Call of Duty veterans.
  .
  PS: If you guys think your better than me, add my PSN ( GhostfaceL94 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamewarrior44
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:20 am PT
Review:  call of duty: world at war is the next installment in the call of duty series going back to the 
 battlefields of world war 2 where it left off in call of duty 3.
  
  The singleplayer in call of duty : world at war is fun for first person shooter fans and challenging 
 with a range of difficulty levels. Most of the campaign takes part in the pacific islands and Eastern 
 Europe Also this game features all new co-op mode with up to 4 players splitscreen or online.
 
  
  The best part of the game is the online multiplayer which became famous in call of duty 4. The 
 multiplayer is addicting to many people around the world because of the excellent gameplay.
  The online features a large variety of game modes and weapons from team games to free for alls 
 and machine guns to sniper rifles.
  
  The online multiplayer has a enormous ranking system with up to 65 ranks to reach 10 times in different 
 prestige modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, i basically played this game at my friend's house on co-op and we beat in like 5 or 6 hours. 
 It was kind of too short and it didn't persuade the gamer into liking the game. You can't experience 
 a lot in just 6 hours. I don't know about other gamers but that's how fast i went through the game. 
 Maybe the solo campaign is a little different and maybe it's even longer, but i haven't played 
 it. So, the length of the game should have been improved. Just like its' predeccesor Call of Duty 
 4, the length of the game is still short. Call of Duty 4 was actually longer than people said it 
 is. Anyways, the graphics are pretty good and it has a lot of graphic stuff in the game. It's really 
 gory and bloody and not appropriate for little kids. There's also a brutal torture scene at the 
 very beginning which is very disturbing. So yes, the game is still pretty violent and filled with 
 F-bombs and S-bombs and still intense like the 4th, but there is still some things that should 
 have just been improved. Sometimes, the game gives you no hints at what you have to do and you're 
 just thinking for half a freakin' hour! I mean c'mon. This isn't a frikkin' stupid puzzle game. 
 It's technically a shooter! It's not supposed to have moments where you have to THINK. The story 
 is not as good as the 4th one's. We're still killing freaking nazis and just going through Germany 
 like the other COD's before the 4th one. So, Activision didn't change a lot. Finally, we could 
 play as Russians though. We get to play as Americans and Russians and they both get kind of repetitive 
 at times though. The ending is kind of odd and not as good of an ending as Call of Duty 4 and the 
 last level isn't as engaging as Call of Duty 4's. So, i just advise you to rent the game and see 
 if it's worth all the hype and then buy it if it really is which it's not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war is an excellent game no doubt. But the reason it failed for me in not 
 being better than call of duty 4 modern warfare, is because they went back to the old boring historical 
 timeline of world war 2, again, for the fourth time. I am not bashing this game, just saying that 
 with the call of duty series, you should be able to experience diffirent timelines. Such as, perhaps 
 in the next call of duty, they could make it in a future timeline?
  
  Anyway, a little off the topic, but a conversation nonetheless... Anywho, call of duty world at 
 wars gameplay is pretty impressive, using the call of duty 4 engine, Treyarch has managed to make 
 a successful addition to the cod series.
  
  The graphics are impressive, in fact, that is the factor that call of duty 5 has beaten 4 in. The 
 graphics in this game are very impressive and realistic looking besides they still use the 2-d 
 imgae trick persay on barbed wire or trees, but still very impressive for a call of duty game.
 
  
  The online multiplayer gameplay is a lesser compared to that of call of duty 4's, but it still 
 uses the whole level up get guns and upgrades for it, but they took out the whole headshots for 
 camouflage finishes. Instead, they only give you a cheap XP reward.
  
  The campaign for call of duty world at war is far greater than the one of call of duty 4, it isnt 
 longer i think, but it still has a better war-like feel to it. And you go through diffirent things, 
 and also as two diffirent teams, in call of duty 4 you only get around 10 missions as america, 
 in call of duty world at war you get to have around 15 as the russians, i dont know my claims may 
 be inaccurate in this state, but my point is that the call of duty world at war campaign gives 
 a much more militant feel.
  
  Call of duty world at war has all its ups and downs, but it still manages to make itself a great 
 shooter and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  I am reviewing the campaign mode only but I don't think I can be any clearer than to say, "YOU 
 ARE MISSING OUT IF YOU HAVE NOT PLAYED THIS COD INSTALLMENT YET!!" It may be because I waited until 
 I waited until COD Modern Warfare was out of my system, but Activision did an exceptional job in 
 creating a completely different experience, and in my opinion did it with near perfection! Right 
 from the start I was sucked into the story which for once isn't watered down with lack of cursing 
 and brutalities. The graphics are near perfection with unbelievable lighting and level design that 
 left me breathless and amazed! No matter how much is going on on the screen, the FPS stay steady 
 and glitch free (besides the occasional hang up on your own men) . The fact that it supports 1080P 
 makes a huge difference alone and you can tell with the lighting, colors and detail. The AI can 
 be tricky as well. I mean, which FPS fan wouldn't love to be ambushed by the Japanese army in a 
 moonlit jungle! The only problem I had was the intensity (though historically accurate) never slows 
 down and forces you to not blink and become a war machine killing what feels like hundreds per 
 checkpoint.. It's still great, but I like the quite and erie jungle scenes and suspense build up 
 that the game established in the beginning.. Still, you can't get a better taste of WWII than this 
 classic FPS. Pick your favorite gun and be ready for a vivid and exciting experience that gives 
 you the closest feeling thus far of being a courageous war hero.. Quick tip: Be grenade friendly 
 and learn to throw with accuracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game was better than I expected. Cause it is one of the best WWII game out there. May be the 
 best. The gameplay is great, shooting is realistic. Graphics are good. The campaign is good enough. 
 They actually put some good effort to this game. After cod4 success they kept continuing the success. 
 The veteran mode is very challenging. If you think you are an experience shooter play the veteran 
 mode. The story i must say was good too actually considering the other wwII games. The multiplayer 
 is good but not as good as cod4. It is not as fun as cod4. But still very good. So i think cod 
 franchise will be alive for along time. If you love WWII games you must get this game. Even if 
 you havent played and WWII games before you gotta give this game a try. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt: 7.5
  
  Multiplayer: 
 8.5
  
  OVERALL: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty much identical to themuch loved Call of Duty 4 with one major exception, the weapons 
 all shoot slowly and all pretty much suck.
  
  Positives: A good challenge for trophy hunters like myself. I got quite close to the platinum. 
 Stuck on the 2nd last level in Expert.
  
  Negatives: The guns are extremely annoying. When you put the game on Expert you will want to snap 
 your controller. The enemies have endless grenades to throw at you and your team mates are pretty 
 much sitting ducks waiting to die.
  
  Final Thoughts: I did spend an obsessive amount of time playing this and when playing it back to 
 back with Resistance 2 I thought this game was better but everything gets old and now Ive had enough 
 of this game on expert and dont have any fond memories left.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  Enough in the single player campaign to hold you over until the next installment. Go Buy It 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toma91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  If your looking for another good WWII first person shooter then look no further. But if your looking 
 for something that is completely original from COD 4, don't buy.
  
  The game focuses mainly on the Russian armies taking back of, I think Stalingrad, from the Nazis, 
 and the American operation in the Pacific against the Japanese. It is far more mature than COD 
 4 and has a far more emotional impact on the player due to the games contents. As people will probably 
 tell you, the war in the Pacific was one of the more brutal parts of WWII, and is captured very 
 well here. From the first scene in the campaign, it is obvious they took a different approach to 
 the game, making feel less like a heroic character and more like a victim of war. 
  
  The game play is very much like COD 4. What I did notice though is how much more smoother the movements 
 that you take in this are. It's so smooth that it feels like you are floating at some points. The 
 controls are identical to COD 4, which are perfect and easy to get used to. The weapons in this, 
 obviously due to the time period, are realistically inaccurate at times, and all feel different, 
 whereas COD 4's weapons would eventually start to feel the same after a while. The AI, from what 
 I have heard and seen were pretty dumb, but when I was playing it, I found they were actually quite 
 intelligent. They also very aggressive, since I got stabbed with a bayonet tones of times. Ohh, 
 and they are as accurate as before when it comes to throwing a grenade right in your pocket.
  
  The graphics are what you expect from a game such as this. Some really nice textures and shadows 
 are really well done. The weapons look admirably realistic. Again though I felt as if it was a 
 little too black and dark at times, making bright colours very welcoming, not that there are many 
 though.
  
  The multi-player is also very good, with a noticeable, faster pace to the gameplay. Everything 
 from the last one is here, such as the ranks and prestiges, which unlock weapons and other nice 
 little extras. Air strikes have been replaced by artillery strikes, but pretty much do the same 
 thing and the helicopter has been taken over by an annoying pack of dogs which you would be EXTREMELY 
 lucky to survive. 
  
  All in all, this is a welcome addition to the Call of Duty franchise, though it does seem a bit 
 rushed, and doesn't seem as polished as COD 4 or have as much substance as it either. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperkass
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 3:05 am PT
Review:  When i first picked up Call of Duty 4, and played it online i was truely blow away. Well, you truely 
 only get blown away once as Call of Duty World At War exactly dttos it. The online seems just a 
 Map Pack for CoD 4 (minus the delightful new addition of Nazi Zombies) . Though, dont get me wrong, 
 Call of Duty World at War has its qualities.
  
  The plot is impressive as far as Call of Duties go. The in between cutscenes are interesting and 
 feel like a short, entertaining blast into history. There are two premises, those being the Americans 
 attack on the Japanese fronts and the Soviets attack on the Nazi German fronts. The entertaining 
 of the two plots is the Soviets, as you start to pick up what each character is like but nonetheless 
 the American Plot is great with the Japanese surprise attacks and the "Bonzai" suicide attacks 
 which tend to get a bit annoying. The over use of the Flame thrower is a great addition to, even 
 though you use it alot you never get sick of the powerful weapon.
  
  Online play is by far the biggest thing for the latest few Call of Duties. This Call of Duty, though 
 completely based off the previous one is still enjoyable. The vast array of Guns, Perks and Side 
 Arms makes each game new and unique. Prestige has been moved up to level 65, making game play longer 
 to achieve the highest rank in online play and team death match remains at 6 on 6. A wireless headset 
 a great addition to playing online as you chat to your team mates, and your enemies. Nazi Zombies 
 is a new addition to the game which marveouslly addictive, previously only being able to this was 
 by completing the game but now due to a update free to play as soon as you load up the game. You, 
 with friends just shoot off herds, and herds of Nazi Zombies til you eventually surrounded to your 
 death. I cant say much of a improvement from the fourth online but if you want something abit different, 
 but still in your comfort zone this is the online game for you.
  
  Theres not much more to Call of Duty if you think about it, its soley made for people to play against 
 each other online, and damnit does it do it good.
  
  Spectacular, but the differences between the games can be seen, but need to be greater. Hope Modern 
 Warfare 2 brings the change we need! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2007, Activision released one of the best shooters ever made. COD 4 had it all: white-knuckle 
 action, mind-blowing graphics and sound, and near perfect multiplayer. It was also developed by 
 Infinity Ward. COD 5 really has all of this as well, but it unfortunately had two major obstacles 
 ahead of it. One, it was developed by Activision's other go-to studio for FPS games, Treyarch, 
 which was responsible for 2006's solid, if a bit dissappointing, Call of Duty 3. Second, it was 
 set in WW2, which would mean loosing many of the great gadgets that made Modern Warfare fun, and 
 it would make it the umpteenth game about the conflict. As such, many were inclined to write this 
 game off as boring and unoriginal without even playing it. While the second comment may be true, 
 COD 5 is by no means boring. In fact, dependent on your feelings towards WW2 shooters, you may 
 enjoy it more than Call of Duty 4.
  
  To begin, this game is made with the COD 4 engine. While this does not quite guarantee a stellar 
 looking game (I'm looking at you, Quantum of Solace) , World at War comes off having some of the 
 best graphics of 2008, or any other year for that matter, and the lighting is probably the best 
 ever seen in a game. The game also sports world-class sound effects, with every bullet fired and 
 grenade blown hitting hard in the audio department. If you are playing with surround sound, your 
 ears will be ringing before you beat the first level.
  
  The gameplay is entirely COD. In other words, it is intense, fast, fun, and most importantly, addictingly 
 smooth. The button layout is identical to COD 4, so if you want to hear about it, read my review 
 on COD 4. The idea of the game is to duck behing cover, pick off some enemies, and then advance 
 before more of them spawn. You can wait for them to stop coming, but this takes forever, so you 
 will probably want to advance as soon as you get the chance. Be warned though, while enemies are 
 not that smart, they are numerous, and they will concentrate on you if you try and close in too 
 quick. They also throw like major league quarterbacks, so you would do well to keep an eye on that 
 grenade danger indicator.
  
  The story is very good and and a bit brutal in World at War. The game opens with an execution, 
 and the realism is occasionally a bit stomach churning, though not so bad that you will want to 
 stop playing. As in tarditional COD fashion, you play the game from two perspectives. This time 
 around, one is a U. S. soldier fighting in the middle of the war in the Pacific. The other is a 
 Russian soldier who is right at the front of the push to Berlin. While the game still feels familiar 
 due to its unoriginal setting, the campaign is made a bit more interesting by the fact that most 
 games don't take place during this later part of WW2.
  
  The campaign is slightly longer than COD 4, and while it is highly satisfying and story driven, 
 you probably were expecting some top notch multiplayer from the COD franchise's fifth, major installment. 
 Rest assured, World at War has multiplayer that eventually becomes as addictive as COD 4's. There 
 are some slight issues, though. For one thing, you only really start to have useful weaponry once 
 you unlock the MP40 around level 10. This was not a problem in COD 4, but the early, WW2 weapons 
 you recieve when you first start multiplayer aren't all that effective against level 50+ guys armed 
 with powerful PPsh submachine guns. Unless you are an all out COD 4 demi-god, or simply played 
 out some of the earlier COD games to the fullest, your kill-death ratio will take a hit when you 
 first start playing against higher level opponents. Then again, who really obsesses over kill-death 
 ratio.
  
  My other problem is tanks, or more specifically, the tank maps. While most maps, like Makin, are 
 expertly designed, the maps that include tanks are a bit flawed. While the tanks control well and 
 are fun to mess around in, the levels that they are included in are MASSIVE. If you don't manage 
 to snag a tank before someone else does, you are going to be running on foot towards the action 
 for a very long time. The tanks do allow for two people at once, one man on the cannon driving 
 the tank with the other popping out of the top exposed to gunfire with a 50 caliber machine gun, 
 but it is still very easy to be left walking on foot. The tank dynamic works better in games like 
 Unreal Tournament 3 because when all the vehicles are gone, you still get a decent hoverboard to 
 ride on. Unfortunately, nothing like that is or even can be included in the COD 5 multiplayer suite.
 
  
  But who cares?! Any issues to be found in COD 5 are really just the result of nit-picking. Bottom 
 line, COD 5 is a triple A WW2 first person shooter with a great campaign, excellent on- and offline 
 multiplayer, and gorgeous graphics. If you have a PS3, 360, or well-equipped PC, and you love shooters, 
 this is one game you shouldn't miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justcool007b
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  I did not play the previous games in the series so i come from unbiased point of view. The solo 
 campaign is fun and can be very difficult at times. The game has tight controls and great graphics 
 and sound. The game play is what i had trouble with. Multilayer especially seemed very inconsistent. 
 Even with the certain perks on you can shoot through some things and not others. Like you can shoot 
 through one wall that is 3 foot thick but not one that is 3 inches. I found many inconsistencies 
 in the game like this. Also the seemingly random spawn points will have you cussing up a storm 
 as well. Multilayer online is fun sometimes. A lot of people do glitches and are somehow superhuman 
 it seems. There is also no balance in the matches normally. You are put in with people after level 
 8 with level 60 people. About 1/2 the online games i played was very one sided and many people 
 just sit around and wait for people to come by instead of trying to complete the objectives. It 
 sounds like i have a lot of problems with the game but i am sure if you liked the 4th one then 
 this will be fun too. I suggest though if you like fair and balanced games that you pass this game 
 by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_adict
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  COD: WAW is a game that had great potential but just blew it. The gameplay itself is good, but the 
 rest, not so much.
  
  first of all, the grenades. God, are they annoying. While playing the campaign, you'll probably 
 throw your remote at the TV about twice per minute. Enemies have to many freaking nades.
  
  Then, the respawn. They are almost non-existent and are horribly placed.
  
  this game has plenty 
 of glitches
  
  now, for the good and bad resume of this game
  
  THE GOOD
  -solid gameplay
  -bayonets
  -your dogs
  -ZOMBIES!
  
  THE BAD
  -respawn
  -grenades
 
  -pretty much the whole campaign
  -enemy dogs
  -friendly AI ( they shoot you, and only you )
  -MAJOR glitches and multiplayer hacks like flying 
 and going into walls
  -frame rate drops in veteran because of the amount of grenades
  -online matchmaking is horrid
  
  
  -rating criteria
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10: a step down from 
 COD4, plus the colors are bland
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7/10: good when not frustrating
  
  BUGS AND GLITCHES: 4/10: to many glitches in campaign and hacks in multyplayer
  
  OVERALL: 
 7.3: good, but too much is wrong about this game and the whole experience is rather dull and repetitive. 
 I'd suggest resistance 2 or Killzone.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantmikerox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  Cod world at war has an excellent storyline of america vs japanese and russian vs german.
  it had excellent graphics it had improved since cod 4 from what i saw on my m8s game when i played 
 it on his xbox 360.
  it has extensive multiplayer fuctions like playing the campaign co-op but it was annoying that 
 it was two small boxes next to each other. you could play a fight between you and your friends 
 on the console or online if only one is playing on each console.
  i like the idea that the higher your level the better your weapons but it was quite difficult to 
 get higher levels when you first started because everyone had better guns but nevertheless it was 
 good online multiplayer
  overall i give this game a 9.5 since two people on the same console couldn't play online at the 
 same time.
  i have one last thing to say........ it was freaking sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimtri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is the Fifth game of the series and this time it is in WW2. This game 
 takes the engine from cod 4 which is good but also bad (but i will explain more in the review) 
 
  In the game you have two sides: The Americans who fight the Japanese all the way to Okinawa and 
 the Russians who push back the Germans back to Berlin. The story is very well put together. The 
 problem with cod 4 was that the story mode was too short but in cod 5 the story mode is a lot more 
 longer with more levels. The cool thing about the story mode is that it has a tank and airplane 
 mission. The graphics are really amazing in this game with nice environments, nice facial expressions 
 etc. The music is great, it really fits in with all the levels. 
  The weapons. Well the weapons are pretty much familiar if you have played medal of honor or past 
 call of duty games. For example the garand or the thompson. But the cool thing about the game that 
 it also has flamethrowers. But besides weapons you also have gernades (smoke, regular and molotovs) 
 and of course melee attacks. 
  The multiplayer: Exactly like cod 4 except this time you can go up to lvl 65 instead of 55.
  
 The bad thing with cod 5 is that it is too similar to cod 4. what i mean by this is that all the 
 controls are the same i mean they are identical. If you have mastered cod 4 then you have mastered 
 cod 5 even before playing it. Another thing that is similar is that the multiplayer modes are the 
 same. Oh i forgot that you can play the story mode cooperatively offline or on.
  Another bad thing is that the AI is pathetic. When i was playing veteran my teamates were doing 
 nothing and it was super hard. 
  In cod 4 there was intel, in cod 5 there are death cards which are just cards (13 cards in whole 
 game)
  Plus this game has trophy support.
  So if you're looking for a good fps you should check out cod 5 but you might be dissapointed about 
 the fact that cod 5 is too similar to cod 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is a bit of a ripp-off, because it steals a lot of the things that made 
 Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare great, it's not such a bad thing because this is world war 2 again, 
 so of course it's very different, but still same engine, and similar graphics and in World at War, 
 you actually feel that you are in a real war, and again (just like Modern Warfare) you play as 
 two different people which are: the Russians and the U. S. 
  
  
  The story is a bit short, but it's reinforced with solid multiplayer almost as good as Modern Warfare, 
 which it almost perfected the multiplayer and is played massively around the world.
  
  
  Some people say it sucks because it returns to world war 2 and some people say it's better, but 
 this game isn't better but it's certainly worth all your money, that you're paying for it.
  
  Oh, yeah, and the Nazi zombie mini game is awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty was one of the greatest first person shooters in that genre's history 
 with every incremental sequel adding new nuances and gimmics to modify the original formula. Call 
 of Duty 4 essentially broke that mold by ripping a stagnating series out of its World War II roots 
 and thrusting it into a modern stage, so when Treyarch announced that not only would they be developing 
 the next incarnation of this series, but that they were reseting the clock back to the 1939-1945 
 period, many people, myself included collectively bit their lips hard. Call of Duty: World at War 
 may tread well-worn territory, but it also adds a plethora of fresh material to this ground and 
 carves out a niche for itself as quite possibly the best World War II shooter yet produced. 
  
  THE HIT AND MISS OF SINGLE PLAYER:
  
  The single player portion of Call of Duty: World 
 at War is a dual experience. On the one hand, the Eastern Theater adds many gameplay elements that 
 have never before been touched on in any World War II-era shooter, therefore virtually every mission 
 where the player assumes the role of a Marine battling Japanese forces for every inch of ground 
 on a series of Pacific islands is an eye-opening and visceral experience. Treyarch really captured 
 a generalized essence of the combat ground forces participated in throughout the Pacific. Japanese 
 forces will hide in the grass, prop themselves in trees to snipe at enemies, charge in kamikaze 
 waves with bayonets fixed, pop in and out of spider holes in the ground to take potshots, and widely 
 prove to be a stubborn and fierce force of defenders.
  
  The European Theater, however, feels as though it were simply tacked onto the title during the 
 last phase of the development cycle. German forces use no tactics at all, essentially running out 
 of cover and standing still while shooting at Russian forces. German enemy types are also very 
 limited, almost every enemy either carries a Kar98k or MP-40 and that weapon does not dictate the 
 way they behave in combat in any way (a submachinegun should entail closing and finishing an enemy 
 rather than simply standing at a distance and firing until killed) . German forces battling at Seelow 
 wear the exact same field gray as the forces besieging Stalingrad (in real life you would have 
 seen a hodge-podge of German units and uniforms in the latter phase of the war, more often than 
 not they would have been wearing camouflage and employing a variety of firearms as well) . Furthermore, 
 the German enemies lack the variation the Japanese forces were given. Some Japanese forces wear 
 glasses, have facial hair, wear a variety of headwear, etc. whereas the Germans you will encounter 
 are either wearing a field hat or a steel helmet and they all have the same wrinkled face, this 
 lack of attention to detail is something that is unacceptable in a next-gen title. This also would 
 not have been much of an issue had the game not blatantly made an issue of it prior to the Battle 
 of Berlin where it is stated that the German defenders at this point consisted of the old, weak, 
 and the young (and then you go on to kill the exact same two people you have been killing for hours, 
 en masse) . The missions in the European theater, aside from the intial Enemy at the Gates-style 
 reenactment of the Battle of Stalingrad, are all uninspired and lack any of the substance one who 
 has studied any degree of World War II history might become excited about. The European theater 
 plays out exactly like a movie, rather than a glimpse into the past; the brutality of this conflict 
 is completely glossed over in a frustrating manner, the epic nature of these conflicts is almost 
 non-existant. Yes, you kill German prisoners who have surrendered, but why are you doing it in 
 a commonplace manner? The game does not show objectivity in this and many other ways. The battles 
 of the Eastern Front took place over an unfathomably large area of land with millions of forces 
 being committed to them; the replications of them offer absolutely no sense of that scale. The 
 entire single player game largely plays out as an incredibly historically inaccurate Hollywood 
 movie devoid of any real sense of how this war actually occurred. 
  
  Also to be mentioned, the graphic design that brings together the single player storyline is absolutely 
 outstanding, I have no idea who Treyarch got to head up this aspect of the game but they did incredible 
 work, it would have been prudent of the developers to have used those designs for the menus that 
 compose this game. The soundtrack is also incredible, the pieces that make use of grinding guitar 
 power chords with a backdrop of a choir and orchestra that pop up throughout the Soviet campaign 
 are simply incredible and have to be experienced. Sound effects are also dead-on, the voice acting 
 done by Gary Oldman is outstanding; Kiefer Sutherland however, needs to learn a voice tone in between 
 screaming and talking angrily (this is no fault of Treyarch's) . The German voice used in this game, 
 particularly the multiplayer announcer, is absolutely comedic and completely goes against the feel 
 this type of game is attempting to generate. 
  
  Moreover, enemy intelligence is almost non-existant across the board of these games; enemies will 
 continue to spawn and man the same machinegun while you continue to snipe each one in the head 
 in succession. Enemies will also continue to keep rushing straight to the same areas of conflict 
 after you have just killed five or six of them in that exact area, often spawning in waves off-screen 
 to do this. Adding to this frustration is the enemy aiming ability on the harder game modes; like 
 all Call of Duty games proceeding this one, World at War's hard-level enemies can pick you off 
 from anywhere in their line of sight, literally ignoring any of your allies running around right 
 in front of them. This makes playing World at War on a high level of difficulty a frustrating game 
 of trial and error where you memorize where enemies spawn, shoot them until they stop spawning, 
 and move on only to encounter the same situation elsewhere. As a rule of thumb, Call of Duty's 
 single player experience is almost like playing an on-rails Duck Hunt style game; enemies pop up 
 in windows, behind cars, etc. and you gun them down with the AI throwing grenades occasionally 
 but never attempting to use tactics, suppress, flank and finish you. 
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER IS STILL THIS SERIES' BREAD AND BUTTER:
  
  Multiplayer is cut from the exact same 
 cloth as Call of Duty 4. The perks are exactly the same, the gametypes, challenges and ranks, similar, 
 and the weapons behave much differently. The maps in World at War multiplayer are extraordinarily 
 well-done, all of them have a good feel and allow for a variety of tactics and weapon types to 
 work successfully. This may lead to certain weapon types being overused, but due to well-handled 
 weapon balancing, most weapons are viable options even in maps they aren't ideal to be used on. 
 I have to say, initially I was incredibly displeased with the though of a Japanese infantryman 
 using a silenced MP-40, or a Soviet soldier plowing through enemies with an M1 Garand equipped 
 with a telescopic sight, but having put hours and hours of time into the multiplayer component 
 of this game, I must say the weapon add-ons are all sensible and well thought out (with exception 
 going to the Trench Gun and its bayonet attachment) . Also new to Call of Duty multiplayer is the 
 addition of tanks, which basically serve as slow-moving death dealers. Tanks only serve as game-breakers 
 when a team spawns directly in front of one or one team comes ill-equipped to deal with them, as 
 a few well placed sticky grenades or bazooka shots can take them out. 
  
  Also new to multiplayer are destructable character models. Grenades and heavy machinegun or sniper 
 fire will not blow arms, legs, and torsos apart or off, it is a bizarre visceral thrill to see 
 happen and definitely adds to the realism a next-gen shooter should possess. Prestige mode also 
 has seen an upgrade, as it now unlocks additional custom class slots. Disappointing is the lack 
 of any benefits to achieving headshots (weapon camo is gone) , as well as mastering all the weapons 
 of one specific class (the golden guns are also out) . Further adding to this game's lasting impact 
 is the inclusion of online cooperative campaign play, which allows up to four players to take on 
 the single player in either a competitive (scores increase for kills and multiply for successive 
 kills in a short timespan) or a non-competitive mode. Any experience points gained from co-op play 
 also adds to your overall multiplayer experience points, furthermore there are a fair amount of 
 online co-op challenges to be completed. The multiplayer will no doubt keep players coming back 
 to more for quite some time in the foreseeable future, as World War II-themed multiplayer shooter 
 action has literally never been as well executed. 
  
  
  CONCLUSIONS:
  
  Make no mistake about it, this is an excellent game, and while not as well-polished and executed 
 as Call of Duty 4, it is most definitely worth playing. Those who are not fans of the series or 
 fans of the time period should definitely stay away, as this game will do absolutely nothing to 
 change a person's mind (the title with that distinction further going to Call of Duty 4) . Those 
 who are either shooter fans or are on the fence about this game will likely be won over by the 
 multiplayer component, which keeps players coming back for more after the single player campaign 
 has been completed, and in that respect this game is well worth the purchase. 
  
  Overall, my frustrations with minute details like the aforementioned ones can likely be explained 
 by a generalized frustration with the same 'Call of Duty Single Player' formula that has been in 
 use since the original game. The map loads, the player moves from enemy strongpoint to enemy strongpoint, 
 doing everything by himself as random allies run around dying or shooting ineffectively everywhere. 
 Enemy planes? Quick, player, go man a Flak 88 and shoot them down! Enemy machinegun entrenchments? 
 Quick, player, go pick up a flamethrower and burn them out! Enemy tank? Quick, player, go pick 
 up a Panzerschreck that happens to be lying in the middle of the battlefield and finish it off! 
 A game where the player literally does everything destroys immersion, because at some point the 
 player will wonder why the fifty or so allied soldiers surrounding him are doing absolutely nothing 
 of consequence. 
  
  It must be stated that in any future Call of Duty iterations, the developers of this franchise 
 must take the single player experience in a new direction and avoid this ridiculous wave-spawning 
 on-rails Duck Hunt style experience littered with inconsequential allies or nausea will result. 
 In Call of Duty World at War's case, just as in the case of Call of Duty 4, this backward campaign 
 experience is massively overshadowed by a solid, spectacular, and addictive multiplayer component. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  War. War never changes. World War 2 never changes. World War 2 games never change, well. that's 
 until Call of Duty: World at War arrived on the scene. Call of Duty: World at War revolves around 
 the infamous events of World War 2, nuff said, I think you can figure the rest out. I mean. this 
 is like whatthe 200th World War 2 game you've played. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is a 1st person shooter. What do you do in the game? You shoot stuff 
 duh! There are a variety of weapons at your disposal from the vibrating prowess of the Thompson, 
 to the musical abilities of the M1 Grand. The fun doesn't stop there. You also have the option 
 to use your knife, a bayonet, and the smokin' flamethrower. Now that's hot. 
  
  If you've played Call of Duty: Modern Warfare you should know what to expect from the online components 
 of World at War. There are a variety of modes to choose from: death match, team death match, practically 
 every game mode that was offered in Modern Warfare is present here. You also have your share of 
 perks and the level up system is also availabe. The most noteworthy multiplayer options are the 
 co-op campaign, and the Nazi zombies. You and three friends can join forces and shoot your way 
 through the campaign, there's power in numbers after all. 
  
  So you thought that all the Germans were dead huh. well guess what. you're DEAD wrong! Hahahaha! 
 *Bad Pun* The Nazi Zombie mode is almost as fun as a barrel full of drunk monkeys, now that's a 
 lot of fun. It's just you, your friends, a house loaded with weapons, and endless waves of zombies 
 that want to consume your intestines. Earning points is the only way you can survive this zombie 
 apocalypse. You can earn points by shooting/killing zombies, baracading windows, and picking up 
 fallen powerups from the enemies you've killed. With those points you can open up new areas, and 
 expand your already deadly arsenal. Nazi Zombies is a BLOODY good time. Yum! The only problem is 
 that there's no other levels to choose from, so if you're looking for variety you won't find it 
 here. 
  
  World at War is unlike any other World War 2 game you've played. The set pieces are absolutely 
 spectacular. One moment you're fending off wave after wave of foot soldiers in a tank, and next 
 your in the air 50.000 ft above the ocean trying to push back the enemy planes while attempting 
 to hold down what you ate for breakfast. World at War is also suprisingly gruesome and bloody. 
 If you've played Modern Warfare and felt that it lacked the satisfaction of blood (you sick freak) 
 WaW won't disspoint. You've got guys getting there's heads blown off, arms flying around the level, 
 legs falling over, it's a complete splatter fest! 
  
  Overall: Call of Duty: World at War is simply amazing, might not be as good as Modern Warfare, 
 but it's still amazing. Engrossing campaign, addictive gameplay, nice set pieces, and most importantly.. this 
 game has ZOMBIES! WOOOT! It's time to dust off your M1 Grand, and get ready to embark on another 
 adventure through World War 2!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Each year there is a new Call of Duty. This one did not disappoint. After Call of Duty 4 I wondered, 
 why would they go back to world war 2 if we liked the modern warfare. I'll be honest. I thought 
 this game would suck. I was wrong. It is actually one of the best world war 2 fps that I have played. 
 There isn't too much to be said about the single player. The campaign is about as long as the other 
 Call of Duty games. You play as the U. S. Marines and the Red Army. The missions range from destroying 
 a bunker to airplane dog fights. It plays like any other Call of Duty. The graphics are good. The 
 environments are detailed, the guns and characters are well done. You usually duck behind cover 
 and shoot. The campaign is fun but, everything in it has been done before. The Russian side of 
 it is better than the American side I think. The main attraction is the multiplayer. It is basically 
 an improved version of modern warfare set in world war 2. The custom class system with customizable 
 weapons and perks has returned with different weapons and new perks. There is a new selection of 
 great maps and game modes. There is the usual death match, team death match, search and destroy, 
 and headquarters. It has the same modes as modern warfare with the addition of war and capture 
 the flag. Cage match is gone, but who cares about that. Also tanks are back and you have a vehicle 
 perk to go with them. They arn't that big of a part of the game which I think is good so the action 
 stays mostly man vs man. The game play is similar to Modern Warfare which is good, but can also 
 work against World at War. It didn't quite feel as good as it did in the fourth. The new set of 
 weapons is also good. Though most have been seen before in Call of Duty, they are in a large variety 
 and are fun to use. There are now flame throwers and bayonets which is new. The new set of maps 
 is just as good, if not better, than in Modern Warfare. They are also in a good variety and make 
 you use your weapons according to the environment. There now is a cooperative mode where you can 
 play with up to four people, onl ine or off line, through the campaign. If you buy World at War 
 only for the multiplayer you should still finish the campaign because you unlock the awesome, Nazi 
 zombies mode. In the Nazi zombies mode you fight back hoards of Nazi zombies in a ruined building. 
 You can play with four players. Kill zombies, buy guns, board windows. It's lots of fun. If you 
 enjoyed Modern Warfare or just like first person shooters, than you should for sure pick this game 
 up. It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando2209
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I have been playing alot of call of duty world at war for along period of time now, and I've 
 really come to love the multiplayer side of the game. I completed the Singleplayer portion of the 
 game, in no time at all, (on recruit) all so I could unlock the mode "Nazi Zombies" which I wanted 
 to play on, with my little brother and my father. 
  
  Now then, I think I will start with the Multiplayer. The Multiplayer is similar to that in Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. You level up with XP you gain from online matches, which is then used 
 to gain you some perks, (perks are little twiches to your character to make him stronger, faster, 
 silent, whatever) .
  
  I have found myself sometimes getting seriously hooked in multiplayer and will play for hours on 
 end. Also I like the addition of Tanks in some maps as it makes for a more interesting game and 
 add's new strategy to the gameplay.
  
  Now then, as you would expect from singleplayer, its about 6 hours, a relatively short game. So 
 i'm guessinf that is why the developers included, split-screen co-operative play, and online play. 
 Also the game has headset support for those of you who loe to shout commands at other players. 
 
  
  My favourite mode to play at this point in time, has to be, Nazi Zombies. My reasons for this are 
 simple; it's just so fun, being locked in a bombed out house with 3 other players shooting the 
 heads of the undead! Simple.
  
  Overall Call of Duty World at War is an all-round good game and a good follow up to call of duty 
 4: Modern Warfare. Go Check It Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a really good game. albeit its probably recommended for Online Gameplay.
  
  well.
  
  it begins. bad. it ends good. at least the Red Army's advance into berlin is really 
 commendable. if the developer isn't bombarded by time and budget limits. it would have been better 
 if its 2 separate conflicts on 2 separate campaign mode. it'll be far better for the game. the 
 Pacific theater isn't really good. its more or less all the time just Trenches, Swamps and japanese 
 people going BANZAI! lucky they didn't go YATTA!. but the Russian side of the Campaign.. totally 
 mind-blowing. at least thru the European theatre its more extreme and that you get the feeling 
 that you're almost surrounded. and PVT Petrenko and Sergeant Reznov is defintely really cool. "as 
 long as you live. the heart of this army can never be broken"
  
  to be expected of Call of Duty. audios are Amazing but there are times in the game when the Audio 
 do not fit with the moments.
  
  yet the Online play is just about the same as Modern Warfare but slightly better.
  
  now. final 
 words. Its a good game. but it can be More interesting.
  finally! REMEMBER! DO NOT USE GAMES AS AN EXCUSE TO KILL PEOPLE. thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Good game on single player , great weapons especially flame thrower.......
  however if you prefer online play then this is a must buy, very similar to cod4 but if you loved 
 cod4.... then you'll really enjoy this with the setting being in world war 2 with new features 
 such as dogs, flame throwers, more special abilties in perks and excellent games in multiplayer 
 i. e capture the flag is back, and the usual headquarters, search and destroy, war, domination the 
 whole package is superb.
  
  Go on add it to your collection and ENJOY! 
  
  I gave it a review of 9/10 because i always feel that anything man made is never perfect, only 
 god creates perfection, but if god did create a game it probably would be a little more perfect 
 than this hence the 9/10.
  
  + I must emphasise that all my reviews of games that i choose to give 9 or 9.5 i always mention 
 the fact that human makers of games haven't reached the perfection levels YET???
  
  Question to all of you and games designers    will there ever be a perfect game made??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adziboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This is an almost "Been there, done that" situation, what with Call of Duty: World at War using 
 the same engine as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (GoTY and an excellent FPS) and the obvious similarities 
 between the two games. There is no doubt about it that COD: WAW (what I will refer to as from now 
 on) would of been as hyped and been as much enjoyment as COD4 if COD4 hadn't of existed - missions, 
 guns, tactics, maps... all have a feel about them as if you've been playing it before. This isn't 
 just a bad thing, as COD4 certainly deserved its GoTY and people still playing it today can tell 
 you how the online community is still thriving and the single player is still an absolute blast 
 to play through. You'll feel the same way about COD: WAW when you first push the disc in and load 
 up the first mission which is a well done beginning but, like I said before, its just a par below 
 COD4 in every way.
  
  
  
  [First level is described lightly in this but will give away what happens so if you do not want 
 to know, please, please save reading this review for after as it is worth seeing the first level 
 for yourself.]
  
  
  
  So you've just gone through the "Before the game" cutscene and finished loading where you are thrown 
 straight into the fray as you lay, injured with no weapon in hand being interrogated in a hut, 
 in Makin. A short cut scene moment before you are (gratefully) rescued from your grim death by 
 Seargent Roebuck (voiced by Kiefer Sutherland) and his mates. You're given a rifle (M1 Garand) 
 with a Type 100 nearby, but there are plenty of weapons at offer throughout the levels. Pistols 
 and rifles (both semi-automatic and bolt action) can be found throughout the campain as well as 
 guns specifically for that mission.
  
  Now you're running through Makin and first see what COD: WAW brings different to the popular COD 
 series; Japanese tactics. Ranging from sniping from tree's, hiding in the ground and growth or 
 just full blown charging on at you, not caring whether they live or die but with one purpose - 
 to slaughter you and your squad. It does indeed sound exciting, but when you are actually playing 
 you'll soon find knifing and shooting these suicide japanese soldiers a chore as they are extremely 
 easy to kill and always come at expected moments. Throughtout the level you'll find objectives, 
 death cards (collectible; like intel) and work your way through witnessing more tactics like ambushing 
 and just good ol' battles from trench to trench.
  
  [Spoilers over]
  
  The overall experience of the single player campaign is definitely worth playing, if your either 
 a fan of the series, a FPS player or just interested in WWII. Theres plenty of moments where you 
 will be staggering at the scale of the battles and you'll also recognise mimicks of COD4, specifically 
 the "All Ghillied Up" mission, but this time (without giving too much away) your an injured soldier, 
 playing dead with a comrade as Nazi's shoot survivors and you have to escape the town, meanwhile 
 meeting up with a squad of soldiers and heading towards a General who you must assassinate. All 
 in all, they are all fun missions with there share of a few bugs (I've seen 1 or 2 drops in fps 
 and Nazi's acting strangely) . You'll want to play through on normal difficulty first, or hardened, 
 before you try the ultimately difficult experience of playing through the Veteran Campaign. The 
 levels are layout are exactly the same, even the same amount of enemies but the difficulty change 
 from hardened to veteran is riduclous. You'll find yourself playing dodgeball with grenades every 
 time you take cover and as soon as you leave it you'll be instantly aimed at as every enemy in 
 range of firing fires at your head and chest, not missing. Its an annoying experience but does 
 have achievements and trophies so if your a fan of them, you'll want to play through. It can be 
 fun if your patient, though.
  
  
  The online is what will tempt most people. It uses the same engine as COD, as well as game modes, 
 exp... everything. You'll get certain exp from different objectives through playing online; capturing 
 the HQ or killing enemies and the enemies dogs to name a couple. You can also lose exp in the same 
 ways as COD4, like suicide and killing teammates. The same variation of modes are around, as well 
 as 2 new Hardcore entries (Deathmatch and War; War being the unique mode) . Headquarters, TDM, DM, 
 Search and Destroy, Sabotage are all still there with War being new. War is different from the 
 rest as killing and capturing are both big parts; its like a different version of Headquarters. 
 You'll find that it gives low exp though and the % playing it of the overall population of players 
 online at the time will be low, probably 1-2% but this doesn't stop you getting a game.
  
  You still have to use the "Find Game" option, where it will automatically search for games in the 
 game mode of your choice which worked well, and still does. You'll find that some nights where 
 many people paly it will actually be slower because of the server lag.
  
  Guns are also all changed, split into 5 categories: Bolt Action Rifles, Rifles, Machine Guns, Sub 
 Machine Guns, Shotgun as well as Pistols and grenades. Most guns are equal but you'll find lots 
 of people complaining about the MP40 and Rifles as they are very high damage, being 1 or 2 shot 
 on Hardcore.
  
  The maps in COD: WAW are similiar to COD4; plenty of long range, close quarters and everything between. 
 You'll find some maps are too big though and often find yourself running round looking for enemies 
 or sometimes seeing too much enemies as COD: WAW has one of the worst respawning systems I've ever 
 seen. Apart from the glitches, respawning issues and the so-called overpowered guns, the online 
 really gives you that feeling of WWII and is a nice change (I think personally) from the modern 
 setting of COD4 which seems to be "The Big Thing" at the moment.
  
  
  
  If your looking for an FPS and haven't yet got COD: WAW, it's worth getting. Online and Campaign 
 are thoroughly enjoyable and similar experiences are hard to come by in a FPS. Its a game that 
 again gives COD the same name, but it is a step down from the ever so popular COD4. Fans will love 
 it, everyone else will have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  I'll admit that COD4 was the more revolutionary game. For all intents and purposes, World At War 
 is COD4 in a WWII setting, with similar gameplay and graphics. The visuals are nice, and the water 
 is even improved over that in COD4. The Pacific campaign looks slightly muddy because a great deal 
 of it takes place in dense jungle, but the European half of the campaign, in which you play as 
 the Russians pushing from Stalingrad to Berlin, is incredible. There are some incredible set pieces 
 here, particularly with the first level and the final two. Also, the music is a huge improvement 
 over any other Call of Duty game. I've played a lot of WWII games, but World At War does the best 
 job of developing suspense and excitement in the heat of battle.
  
  The story is nothing special, but like I said, the Russian half of the single player is much better 
 than the American half. It's interesting enough, and there are several "wow" moments that really 
 keep you in the game. The multiplayer is just as spectacular as it was in Modern Warfare, but I 
 ultimately prefer WAW simply because I enjoy playing with the early 20th century weapons, and I 
 feel like the maps are more varied. Plus, they finally brought back Capture the Flag!
  
  All in all, this is a fantastic game, and you'll love it if you're a WWII history buff or a fan 
 of the genre. It's got plenty of challenge (I found it to be slightly more difficult than COD4) , 
 and it's a blast to play online or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  COD WAW returns to WWII and this time the game is set in the Pacific Theater as well as the Eastern 
 Front. Most people would think it would be just another WWII shooter but I think it is very well 
 made but again it has that feeling a been there, done that.
  
  Story: 6.5/10
  
  We have heard the same story over and over again. While it isn't boring at all it still ends the 
 same way as any WWII shooter. The Allies win and Germany loses. I am sick of it. Nonetheless it 
 still is a fun story mode and it is very interesting in the Russian levels.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Treyarch has improved on COD4's amazing gameplay but they really didn't add 
 anything new. If you enjoyed COD4's gameplay then you will love it here. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  While it looks great it just doesn't wow us like COD4 did. Amazing visuals 
 and characters models looks alright but COD4 again did a much better job.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Very good and just as good as COD4. With good speakers you will enjoy the 
 game much more. Voice acting is great and Gary Oldman and Kiefer Sutherland do a great job. Overall 
 sound is great.
  
  Lasting Value: 9.5/10
  
  This is where I think COD WAW actually really beats out COD 4 is lasting value. The game has an 
 6-7 hour campaign mode which includes 4 different difficulty settings, as well as the option to 
 play the campaign with 2 people locally or 4 others online. Their is a very fun mini game include 
 known as Nazi Zombie mode which is very fun and I think the best new feature in COD WAW. Their 
 is also the huge online multiplayer portion which is largely like COD4. You level up to 65 now 
 and then you have the option to Prestige. Value in this game is almost unlimited.
  
  True Score: 8.3/10
  
  The game is very good but with COD4 sitting next to this game at store 
 shelves, players who don't own any should pick COD4. The game is overall better than WAW because 
 COD4 brought the amazing multiplayer and graphics. Not WAW which improved it a bit but didn't create 
 it. Overall pick it up if you already own COD4 but believe me you will be going to back to COD4 
 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DethSkematik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest: playing another World War II shooter nowdays is equivalent to watching 80's 
 sitcoms late at night. You enjoy the nostalgia while it lasts, right until you see a re-run. That's 
 exactly what World At War does: it will, at times, make you gape in awe at the beauty of war in 
 the Pacific side, then throw you back into Nazi territory the next. The problem is, we've been 
 fighting Nazis in videogames longer than WWII lasted in reality.
  
  In a way, it's as if the game itself has a purpose to mock the gamer as he progresses. While you're 
 fighting intense battles against the Japanese, both the visuals and gameplay are on a tremendous 
 scale: they hide in bushes, snipe from trees, pop out of bunkers, and blend well in the jungles. 
 Most importantly, as historically accurate as possible, these soldiers are not afraid to die. In 
 fact, these are the most entertaining bits of the game, mostly due to the fact that it's the only 
 time you experience something new from a WWII game for a change.
  
  On the Pacific side, you're constantly kept on your toes, be it frequent ambushes, a sniper that 
 has perfectly blended into a tree, or the ground next to you opens up and throws a grenade at you. 
 More importantly, it's the only time in World At War that you'll ever experience variety in the 
 gameplay. You'll fend off Kamikaze fighters, shoot blindly at every bush you see, thanks to banzai 
 attacks, and burn snipers out of trees. In other words, the brutality of war is clearly felt during 
 these moments. When you see a soldier die, you feel the loss, because there is always something 
 you could've done to save him, at times. It carries a more emotional tone. 
  
  However, when you're teleported back into Germany, that's when the excitement wears off. Once again, 
 you assume the role of the Russian soldier fighting Nazis in war-torn cities. Although each chapter 
 on the German side usually ends with a cinematic climax, the long trudge there doesn't quite feel 
 that much different from playing Call of Duty 2. 
  
  Although the game gives a few nods to films like Enemy at the Gates where you snipe soldiers with 
 precise timing of planes roaring in the skies, and later having an intense duel with a sniper on 
 the next building which keeps you on your toes because you'll have to kill him before you see him 
 (because if you do, you're already dead ) kind of gameplay offers breathtaking moments, but these 
 are rare occasions on this half of the game. 
  
  Most of the game on the German front are the same "Kill everyone and advance" gameplay as with 
 every installment. In fact, the only reason I even endured the same "blow up the tank" or "storm 
 the building" scenario was to play another chapter in the Pacific side. It just offered so much 
 variety, that as such, as I reached the ending of figthing the Japanese, I bemoaned at the thought 
 that I'm once again having to slog through another hour or two in this tired formula. 
  
  But like every Call of Duty game before it, by the time you finish the campaign, it does a great 
 job of making you feel like a patriot. World At War is no exception: you feel the emotional impact 
 of both victory and loss, both from the dramatic conclusion of both fronts, and from the outstanding 
 performance on the cutscenes on the loading screens that you just can't help but watch, because 
 the voices do a great job in describing the trouble, or on the Russian side, the power you feel 
 as you're contributing to the Nazi's desperation towards their downfall. 
  
  As epic as the game can be, I can't help but feel curious as to how long Activision can keep drawing 
 out of an empty well. While Call of Duty 4 will stand as a monumental masterpiece, due to the fact 
 that the entire COD formula was re-written and executed so flawlessly, another WWII game just feels 
 like a shameless cash-in, another yearly franchise that slowly starts to rival week old bread. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is the latest in the Call of Duty franchise, why it chooses to stay 
 in WWII, I don't know. To be honest though, its not really a problem and helps set the tone for 
 the grim narrative.
  
  You start the game tied up and at the mercy of some Japanese soldiers, after witnessing the execution 
 of one of your comrades, you are saved and thrust into the action. While the story is a bit hard 
 to follow (mostly due to the years long gaps in between battles) , it fits the game alright, and 
 can be quite interesting if you can manage to pay attention.
  
  The campaign is about as long as any Call of Duty game, and is quite inventive. The new Japanese 
 enemies are much more vicious than their Nazi counterparts, and can make for some of the most frantic 
 firefights. The Nazi enemies also seem to have had a bit of a role reversal when you play as Russian 
 Private Dimitri Petrenko, alongside the deadly and vengeful Russian army.
  
  Weapons are what you would normally expect (other than the ray gun) , but online you can modify 
 and upgrade your weapons to really make them look different than any WWII weapon you've seen. The 
 flamethrower definitely stands out here as one of the best new weapons introduced, which makes 
 it even sadder that the fire effects are sub-par, and that molotov cocktails are practically useless 
 and take forever to light.
  
  Physics and graphics are definitely improved, you can really see the grime and blood effects put 
 to good use, foliage and textures are a bit dull though and it looks just slightly upgraded from 
 last year's Call of Duty 4. Physics have been the best in any Call of Duty game, with the right 
 amount of stiff and loose mixed in with gore and gib effects plus cinematic set deaths that make 
 killing the most fun in a Call of Duty game so far and makes you wonder how they made it so damn 
 good (you can almost feel the bullets hitting your opponent now- almost) .
  
  Online gameplay is basically the same as last year, with some perk modifications, new modes, and 
 the WWII coat of paint splashed on, which makes you wonder why they couldn't have done more. In 
 place of helicopter your 7th kill will instead earn you an army of crazy killer attack dogs, which 
 is a nice change and its definitely much harder to take them down then you would think. It seems 
 they were really trying to play it safe, which makes it feel like a rehashed experience. New online 
 modes do help to liven up the games (especially co-op and "Nazi Zombies" which is unlocked upon 
 game completion, and is good for some crazy times with buddies) . 
  
  In the end, the game is fine and one of Treyarch's best efforts for the series, but it falls just 
 short of greatness.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philsyn5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  the good: guns very real. cool flamethrowers and bayonets. fight for russia and america. realistic 
 enemies put up a fight. gibby explosions. lots of gore. your squad likes you for a change. pretty 
 good graphics and gameplay
  
  the bad: tinny guns. based in ww2. yet another short cod game. online mode not much different from 
 cod4. levels get a bit boring after a while. cutscenes really do make you feel like action man. 
 graphics good but not much better than cod4. 
  
  well if your into realism for guns than your in for a treat. however they are ww2 guns so dont 
 expect to be feeling the full force of a barret.50cal. this year they have made some new weapons 
 for your arsenal. you can now burn people with a flamethrower or stab with a bayonet. this is a cool 
 new feature. you can also fight with americans against japs in the pacific or fight against krauts 
 with russians. there are 8 russian levels and 9 american levels. plus nazi zombies mini game at 
 the end. your enemies are very dangerous and you can easily be killed if not careful. there is also 
 lots of gorey explosions. loss of limb etc. your squad likes you aswell. hoorah you wont be pushed 
 out. the graphics gameplay are good to. so overall it is a great game and i reccomend it thanks 
 for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boredkid95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  alot of people cryed and moaned when activision said call of duty was going back to world war 2 
 and I'm not saying thier not aloud to, ww2 is losing steam and cod4 was amazing but im a ww2 buff 
 and this was exciting for me and im glad because it is pure fun in every way.
  both stories start you off pretty much helpless both times you'll see your friends be either killed 
 or tortured or both. this is great set up because the scond you get a gun youll go crazy.
  the story feels alot like cod4 and thats not bad thing but its more than that you get a better 
 fell for your characters, say for instance dimitri petrenko the private you play in the russian 
 story always seems to wake up surrounded by germans then saved at the last minute its actually 
 pretty funny how unlucky he is.
  but to finish an already great game they added in multi which is quite addictive and the've put 
 coop and system like the halo skulls called death cards and a zombie mode this game is a must buy 
 eaisily worth $110 im just lucky i got it for $60 anyways this game is excellent but im so F***ing 
 sick of all those stupid 8 year old on the multiplayer.
  
  Bobthebulider15 you suck you stupid little mommas boy if you dont know what a headshot is then 
 somebody better come over to your house and do a real one to you right between your eyes you stupid 
 little girl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragnos43
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  cod5 is great but is just to similar to cod4. if you've never played cod4 then no problem but if 
 you have like myself then it lessens the enjoyment. one of the things that made cod4 great was 
 the fact that it was in modern day for the first time in the series. in cod5 it takes you back 
 to Ww2 only this time in japan and russia. clearly trearch had to work harder to make it good because 
 its back to Ww2 and we were all just getting used to modern. the game is built on the cod4 engine 
 wich makes it to similar. considering how great cod4 was thats not really a bad thing. if you've 
 played any cod game before then you know what to expect. its lineiar but not to a fault and theres 
 barriers that you should be able to jump over but can't. content wise cod5 beats cod4. this time 
 you can play campagin with 3 other people in co-op mode either online or splitscreen. the multiplayer 
 is basically the same as cod4. the create a class returns along with some new perks. you can also 
 pilot tanks this time. sounds good on paper but tanks are kinda frustrating to drive and are too 
 hard to take down. even if you have the bazooka perk you can't take it down wich kinda defeats 
 the purpose of having that perk in the first place. also after beating the game you unlock nazi 
 zombies. you and a couple of buddys are stuck in a bombed out bunker and are under attack from 
 the walking dead. you can play alone (don't) or with three people splitscreen or online. the game 
 is still great because of the intensity of it all. a lot of people complained about cod4's M rating 
 and trearch has NOT responed "your right". the game is even more bloody and violent then cod4. 
 if you can look past that the game is great. the single player is intense the co-op is a blast 
 and the nazi zombies is strange yet engaging. but the online multiplayer is subdued because its 
 in Ww2. if you've had fun using everything the modern day has to offer you'll have a hard time 
 going back to the era of Ww2. even so there are few shooters up to its level of quality so suit 
 up soldier. ESRB be damned.
  note: be sure to read othe people's reviews to learn more about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotavi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  This was my first game running on 1080p on a 22 inch Benq e2200hd lcd + PS3 and glad that this 
 was the one i chose to start off with. 
  
  Stunning graphics, amazing game play and well some really smart AI. The enemy foot soldiers are 
 good at taking cover ( unlike the resistance 2 dummy aliens ) . 
  
  Weapons:
  You have a good array of choices in weapons , which includes a flame thrower ( my favorite , liked 
 roasting those Nazi and Japanese **ses :D ) , sniper , bolt rifles , Tommy gun and a lot more . 
 You are also given a tank to ride on and fight the German tanks in a level. Almost each level introduces 
 you a new weapon that you can use to your advantage.
  
  Graphics:
  The best part is the graphics , sometimes it was so good that I would move around and enjoy the 
 scenic beauty rather than fight ;) . I would suddenly hear someone charging at me and he would 
 get killed for disturbance :p . The attention to detail in the world creation is superb. You can 
 see amazing artifacts in certain parts of the building in game. You actually feel that you are 
 fighting a real world war and all your emotions are carried nicely at each level with real war 
 movie clips.
  
  Innovative moves: Like
  -Throwing back a grenade thrown at you, like a bollywood movie style :) . 
  - Killing a bayonet 
 rifle foot soldier with a special move when attacked.
  are fun !
  
  Some rants ( formality sake ;) )
  Background score - sometimes i could hear some kinda rock music 
 , not sure though ) . This get you away from the mood of the battle. The trophy collection does 
 not make me happy ( some really odd and silly one's , like snake in the grass, enemy killed when 
 lights off ?!! )
  
  All in all a very good game and worth every penny/cent/paisa spent !
  
  p. s: I have not played cod4 prior to this game, so cod4 fans forgive me as i cant compare them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustMe64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  I first rented this game thinking it would be like the old Cal of Duty's before Call of Duty 4. 
 I was wrong it is better. The storyline isn't as good as Call of Duty 4, but it is really fun to 
 play co-op on. Usually, I do not really care for co-op on games, but this is one exception. Anyway, 
 I the singleplayer mode is what I spent about 6-8 hours on. Unlike in Call of Duty 4 that I spent 
 4 hours on. What really grabbed me was the amazing multiplayer. Before I started playing multiplayer 
 I thought here we go let's get sniped 50 times, but that didn't happen. I started playing on boot 
 camp, and I was doing awesome coming in 1st or 2nd place every time. I even got a 14 kill streak. 
 Most of the maps are designed, so campers have a hard time sniping. I'm not a camper so that's 
 good news for me, but bad news for my sniper friend. There are new vehicle perks, and when you 
 get a seven kill streak you unleash the dogs. Which gets you at least 10 kills every time. The 
 last thing I'm going to talk about is Nazi zombies. It's an O. K. mini-game. You'll play a 3 or 
 4 times then get a little bored. Once you get to round 8 you are usually in a corner with zombies 
 coming from 2 places. Oh yeah, you can't find anyone to play with! I had to go onto yahoo answers 
 to find someone who was asking the question "Will someone play Nazi Zombies on the PS3 with me. 
 Anyway, It's an awesome game with a lot of replay value.
  
  I'm Tom5464 on PSN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  I have never liked the gameplay of Call Of Duty but since the release of Call Of Duty 4 I have 
 changed my mind. Now that this game is released, it will give you even better hard action as never 
 before! Although it is using Call Of Duty 4's engine it still doesn't flaw when it comes to the 
 graphics! A must-buy for any shooter fan who would like a decent FPS with a little bit of special 
 bonus modes and features. Here is an overall rating of the games aspects:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10- What I expected but it is still a little slow paced.
  Graphics: 9/10- As great 
 as Call Of Duty 4!
  Audio/Sound: 8/10- Great soundtrack and music.
  Replay Value: 8/10- Besides for the online and LAN play its not
  worth it playing the campaign 
 again.
  
  Closing Comment: Call Of Duty World At War Needed More Improvements but its still a great game 
 and I recommend any FPS fan should buy it. 
  
  Thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a surprising improvement over Modern Warfare which is a great game itself. When I first 
 heard that World at War was set in World War 2 I thought to myself "not again". However Treyarch 
 did a very good job. The multiplayer is pretty much the same as Modern Warfare with the setting 
 and weapons types being the only major difference. The story again takes place from the point of 
 two diiferent characters. Private Miller who is a U. S. Marine fighting in the pacific theater against 
 Japan. The other is Private Petrenko who is a Russian fighting on the eastern front as the Soviet 
 Union pushes into the heart of Germany. The game also includes trophies. One of the newer features 
 that adds a bit fun is the new Nazi Zombies mode which pits you in house full of unrelenting undead 
 Nazis.
  
  Overall I think the story was an improvment over Modern Warfare which is why I give Call of Duty: 
 World at War a score of 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunzyMan
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Cod: world at war.
  
  Well I dont know how to start really, there is alot of problems with this game.
  
  1. Endless 
 amounts of enemy's, seems they have a spawn point in the game as they just keep coming.
  You can be on a hill and have killed 30 of them but still more and more come.
  
  2. Many of 
 the textures in the game look really low res, some of the wood textures seems as if its been stretched 
 so much and it makes it look blurry.
  Looks unrealistic and dosen't look up to standard of game graphics of today.
  
  3. Multiplayer 
 maps, OMFG so many maps which have bugs and glitches and this totally ruined the game for me.
 
  I didn't buy it for the single player, only for the multiplayer.
  Players are able to get under the maps and kill you from underneath without you having the slightest 
 chance of killing them.
  I played the other night for about 10 minutes switching from server to server trying hard not to 
 find one where people are using the glitches, but out of the 5 servers I went too ALL had noobs 
 using glitches..
  I was so annoyed about it I haven't been back since, I hope for some sort of update to fix such 
 bugs..
  But its not ok to realese a game with so many bugs in the first place.
  
  The maps themselves don't seem as well designed as the cod4 MW maps, these ones are pretty much 
 all round where as the previous maps have some nice dead ends which you could set up a sniper spot 
 or defend your location.
  This is a problem because you get enemy's comming from all directions and you cannot really defend 
 anywhere.
  
  This game is set in WW2 so the weapons on offer I think are great, on cod4 MW I really loved the 
 H&K G3, semi automatic rifle with a big 7.62 round, there are alot of semi automatic rifles and 
 bolt action rifles on offer but the maps you play really don't support to these guns very well.
 
  The maps seem to favour the sub machine guns and the light machine guns, one map called seelow 
 and I think thats really the only one where a rifle can be really useful.
  
  
  The game is good fun but the bugs and the maps really pi** me Haven't really added anything new.
 
  
  
  Let hope there is a fix soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The 'ayyyyy!'
  - Great graphics, even one year on. 
  - Solid Multiplayer
  - Longer Campaign mode
  
  The 'neyyyy!'
  - Storyline not as gripping
  - Online connection 
 issues still prominent 
  
  World at War is based in World War 2. Instead of the generic Western Europe storyline, the game 
 takes a much needed fresh face. You play as Pvt. Miller for the Americans, as they invade Japan, 
 and Dimitri Petrenko, a Russian soldier bent on revenge with Sgt. Resnov as they re-take Eastern 
 Europe. . 
  
  In terms of story, the Russian campaign is far more gripping. You start off in the ruins of Stalingrad, 
 broken and battered, and find Sgt. Resnov, who aids you in repelling the Germans. The game skips 
 forward 3 years, and you're with Resnov, taking back Eastern Europe and putting the Germans on 
 the run. This is something that leaves you in a sort of a high, and will be amazed at how well 
 it has sucked you in. 
  
  The main bulk of gameplay is shooting. Moving from the ruins of Stalingrad, to the jungles of Okinawa, 
 the game plays great. Because you'll die after a few rounds to the gut, you have to take cover. 
 The game doesn't have a cover system, which is a shame considering most of you're time is sent 
 under cover, and popping out to hit a few enemies, and advancing. 
  
  The game is crammed with World War 2 era weapons. Guns such as the familiar Tommy gun, Mp40 and 
 M1 Garand are all here, and lesser known guns such as the SVT-40 and Type 100, are also present, 
 giving a wider choice. All guns feel different, making the game very strategic. 
  
  There is also a lone tank level thrown in for good measure, and whilst it's not particularly special, 
 it is primarily to prepare you for the online modes. When playing online, you can jump in a tank 
 on 4 of the maps. You'll battle with other tanks, run over foot soldiers, and generally wreak havoc, 
 but there is no destructible buildings, so it is limited. 
  
  If you're not into the tanks, or liked the COD4 online, you'll be pleasantly surprised. The game 
 features more modes than last time, with modes such as War, 4 player co-op and Nazi zombies added. 
 They are all fun to play, and the Progression system ,where you unlock better weapons as you level 
 up, guarantees you'll be coming back for more. 
  
  However, there are still online connectivity issues. I found it hard to add a friend to my party, 
 and the game splits co-op and competitive modes, so you have to add your friend to your party again 
 if you want to play Nazi zombies instead of Team death match.
  
  Overall, it's a good game, that I would recommend any one who is interested in shooters to pick 
 up. 8.2/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iHak
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game, has been underrated. In my opinion i think that this game should have at least got, 
 a 9/10 rating on this site because, its online is great (COD 4, better graphics and WW2 mode) , 
 single player is hard!! If you wanted to do it on Veteran then you would have some problems, major 
 problems... As some of the dudes wont die! And people would just keep on flocking in! : (
  The mulitplayer, is the best ive played, COD 4 online is awsome, but COD WAW beats it by a point. 
 As it is more fun, with better perks and new attachments for guns.
  The rank system is just the same, get points, rank up, go prestige, blah blah. The lvls now go 
 to 65, so its even more longer for you... Unless your online 24/7. New mode, Nazi Zombies, you have 
 to have other people (3 more with mics) other wise you would die easily by yourself.
  
  The good:
  
  - Graphics are awsome (On 1080p amazing)
  - Online, awsome
  - Single player, 
 will make you play for ages, (to get loads of trophies)
  - Nazi Zombie Mode
  
  The bad:
  
  - Veteran mode, just too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUIJBR3GT5_LPL
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome. The graphics are amazing, there's a lot of weapons and the single player levels 
 are very challenging once you start playing them on hardened or especially veteran. You really 
 need your fellow soldiers in this game and they function great.
  
  Multi-player mode is very cool. It's got a lot of challenges and different rewards and you can 
 earn bonuses and upgrades and compile your own soldiers with different perks weapons grenades and 
 other cool things.
  
  I'm currently addicted to this game. It's amazing BUY IT ! You will not be dissappointed you're 
 gonna love this game if you are into shooters.
  
  Activision has made a masterpiece and I hope there's even more to come in the future.
  
  Now 
 I have to type ninety-one more characters so that I am able to submit my review in order for you 
 to have a look at it and I hope that this sentence has that amount of letters GAME ON DUDE (TTE) S. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonAkey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Besides the surprisingly fun online multiplayer, the computers in the single player are extreamly 
 cheap, especially on harder difificulty. They have unlimited spawns if you dont move to the next 
 'trigger'. making the concept of clearing an area then moving in impossable. Some enimies are actually 
 bullet proof! If there standing in a certain window or in the distance say, Your actually unable 
 to kill them untill you, again, move to the next 'trigger' or they feel that they've had enough 
 shooting for now and they just dissapear.
  Also, all of your say 'allies' do NOTHING, they fire constantily it seems for no reason. If i were 
 to stay in one spot and not fire a single bullet in a small room with the enemies on one side and 
 allies on the other. nothing would happen.. there would be the sound of a huge battle with bullets 
 whizzing everywhere but thats about the extent of it. YOUR the one that has to do the cleaning 
 up.
  
  So if your hoping for a decent single player missions, or atleast half as good as COD 4, your looking 
 in the wrong place. but if you want a good Online, thats about all this game has to offer.
  
  I'm very dissapointed in this 'Treyarch' company, It seems they just took all the programming 
 from Infinity Ward and 'attempted' to make a game of their own.
  
  I cant wait for Modern Warfare 2, by Infinity Ward!!
  
  Cheers,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondasM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  Although this game is a very good game I felt like it's just a mod of CoD4.
  
  The graphics are amazing thanks to IW's graphics engine but it somehow lacks the oomph of CoD4. 
 I mean it is really a good game if you haven't played CoD4 before but if you have, and in my case 
 I played it a lot on line after finishing the game, it loses it's attraction quite easily.
  
  The on line experience I've had is unfortunately not nearly as crisp as the previous version 
 as well. Bunch of problems keep you from enjoying the game to its full extent and did I mention 
 it's just the same game as the last year's with only a different packaging.
  
  Another thing that you notice is the lack of sandbox game play the new generation games are providing 
 to the gamers. If you've played Battlefield Bad Company, you've already got used to the destructible 
 environments along with the ability to do whatever you like, but CoD 5: World at War is sooo linear 
 that you end up wondering why they haven't improved it.
  
  On top of everything you have to pay a full game price where this would only had to be an add-on 
 pack for CoD4.
  
  Don't get me wrong it is a very good game but only if you haven't played CoD4 and haven't been 
 spoiled with freedom in either Battlefield Bad Company or Farcry 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  Story: Average
  Multiplayer: Brilliant
  Uniquiness: Nazi zombies, last stand, Tanks, Flamethrower
  
  In short: This game is brilliant. 
 If you have COD4 and are thinking "been there, done that" you are wrong. It may have similar features 
 and similar online gameplay, but the shear size of the expansion is huge.
  
  The good: Addictive and easy online play, Longer story than last time, Nazi zombies.
  
  The 
 gameplay itself is simular to that of 4's, but it exceeds itself on itrs online size. It is loved 
 online and extremely popular with a brand new game mode. Online co-op. It also has far less lag 
 than 4 and servers hardly ever freeze.
  
  The Bad: Unfortunately the main flaws are: Graphics are not advancing from 4, Same old system, 
 tanks are extremely annoying online.
  
  Another problem is this. It could be seen as a very expensive update. The only real thing that 
 it adds is the new set of landscape and co-op nazi zombies.
  
  Apart from this, and if there hadn't been a COD4, this game would definately be a ten out of ten 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War (hereby known ad CoD5 in this review) is one of, if not the best online 
 FPS out there on PS3.
  With improved graphics to Call of Duty 4, Treyarch used the CoD4 engine to really bring WW2 alive. 
 Sometimes the killing can be to forgetable, and you forget that this was a real war, where real 
 people - and relatives of most people - died. 
  Starting properly now for the rvies, lets begin with the single player campaign.
  The Campaign 
 in CoD5 is fought on 2 different fronts, both the Eastern European front where you play as Dimitri, 
 a Russian soldier caught up in a bloody war, where your Sergeant, Resnov, takes a near instant 
 liking to you. There is also the rarely seen Pacific front. In this campaing you play as an American 
 Private, and your Sergeant - who's name I forget - is voiced by Kiefer Sutherland from the hit 
 Sky One show, 24. 
  Both of the campaigns are solid, and the same can be said of the - mostly - brilliant guns. The 
 sniper rifles are the jewel in the crown of the weapons, with the online mode's PTRS-41 truly is 
 the Barrett M82A1 of CoD5. It was initially designed - like the Barrett - as an anti-armour gun, 
 and can also be used against infantry targets. I like!
  The graphics, as I mentioned before, are excellent and are a step forwards from Call of Duty 4, 
 and certainly a mile ahead of CoD3. Textures are very good, and lighting is well organized, with 
 nice realisitc muzzle flash.
  Talking of muzzle flash, the sound is good. Gun sounds are good, especially when you listen to 
 the whole sub-machine gun class firing one after the other, having played it for a while, I could 
 differentiate between them blindfolded. However, and this is a big however, the voice acting, although 
 good, is backed by awful scripts. It makes you feel like you should be really, deeply enjoyed murdering 
 every single one of both the Japenese and the Nazi's, and you forget that those character models 
 were only told what to do in real life, they were not the really evil ones. Things like, "Make 
 them wish they were dead!" and other bad quotes are poor, not just because of what I said, but 
 also because the quotes always seem so out of place.
  The gameplay is also excellent, and anyone who knows what CoD4 is like will instantly know what 
 this is like because they are almost exactly the same. If you havn't, however, the game is slick, 
 fast, easy to pick up and presented in a variety of difficulties suiting everone. 
  The game is about 10 hours long if you take your time, and its a brilliant 10 hours at that. CoD5 
 is well worth the buy, and seeing as its now about 30 no one has the excuse not to get absolutely 
 killed by me online anymore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandruff461
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games that i would decide are very addicting. It has to have good game play, 
 adequate graphics, good environment and spacials, and must give you a feeling that you really are 
 in the game. Call of Duty: World at war has all that.
  If you have played a WW2 game before, you know the basics; storm Normandy and kill a many Germans 
 as possible. but after playing many different games, it all becomes routine and loses it's lust. 
 Not COD5. Sure all the story lines are the same (you can't change history) but it's how the game 
 developer attacks these situations that can really make or break a game. i like many other gamers 
 ( otherwise referred to as nerd's) found that COD5 defiantly set the bar again for WW2 games. 
 
  One example, is that they never put the Americans in Europe. As we all know, usually you play 
 as two or maybe three characters thought the game ( American, British and Russian) . And like always, 
 the main character is a American guy in Europe. In COD5 you only play as two characters; an American 
 in Japan, and an Russian in Europe. This made a lot of sense to me because before going into WW2 
 America was just sorta hangin' out and giving supplies and stuff to the allies. but when the Japanese 
 bombed Pearl Harbor almost all of America had a sick feeling (Exactly like after the 9/11 attacks) 
 after that there was a lot of Fascism, or a lot of national pride and America Joined the War. So 
 our big enemy was Japan. And Russia's big enemy was Germany. (Germany broke the treaty agreement 
 between Germany and Russia when they invaded Russia on June 22 1941) So it would only make sense 
 to play as an American only in Japan and an Russian in Europe.
  They added in a few new tactics as well, such as banzai attackers, ( Japanese that run strait at 
 you and try to stab you with the bayonet) and spider holes, ( they are kinda like trap doors with 
 grass over them so you can't see it. then Japanese jump out of them and shot you ( Those were pretty 
 scary for our troops back then) ) Some new weapons have been added too. one very noticeable one, 
 is the flamethrower. this is pretty effective because the Japanese wore a lot of grass and fire 
 + grass = great day for America. game play is pretty simple though, duck, aim, shoot, and advance. 
 Nothing really too fancy about that. 
  The only bad thing about call of duty is the veteran level. I think it is too unrealistic. I know 
 you're the main character in the game so you get most of the attention on the battle field but 
 a lot of stuff is totally not cool. For instance, you're behind a rock. It's a nice rock because 
 you can crouch behind it and stand up to shoot without much of your head shown. but for some strange 
 reason the enemy's decide to throw 2-3 grenades at you at a time (constantly and highly accurate) 
 and most of the time the grenades are too far away to throw back, so you have 2 options; 1. stay 
 behind rock and blow up, or 2. run away from grenade and get shot ( it's veteran level so it's 
 like instant death if you're out in the open) good luck choosing the right one. But seriously, 
 it gets so old when you have to die 170 times just to get through a level. Another example is that 
 the enemy could be firing at another person ( way far away from where you are) but then they'll 
 instantly turn to you and start firing with surgical precision ( they have no idea that you are 
 there) . The even stupider thing is an enemy could be standing right next to an ally, and yet he 
 will still fire at you ( like 50 feet away!) but other than that it's a great game.
  Bottom line: Addicting game play, great online mode, pretty good graphics, and awesome use of weapons. 
 Don't rent it, buy the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atreyu13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is the best WWII shooter out. It does a masterful job at creating a 
 tense atmosphere delivering rich visuals and a great script. The levels are well thought out, with 
 some standouts (like Vendetta) . However, the biggest pitfall with the game is that while playing 
 it, you feel like you've played it before. Obviously, the WWII setting is very played out -- and 
 even the Japanese island hopping portions of the story don't help to make it stand out from other 
 WWII shooters. And since it uses Infinity Ward's brilliant engine, the game feels like CoD 4-- with 
 WWII setting and weapons/soldiers. This is more a less a minor complaint, because as stated before, 
 the engine is terrific for delivering an engaging, atmospheric experience. Even some of the levels 
 seem derived from CoD 4-- such as Vendetta. Guilles in the Mist was the best single player level 
 in CoD 4, and Vendetta mirrors that almost exactly. Other similarities present themselves here 
 and there.
  
  Then there is the multiplayer, which is basically new levels and weapons for CoD 4 multiplayer. 
 Nothing new is added, with the exception of vehicles. Things are only changed around to fit the 
 setting. Overall, its disappointing. The same shortcomings in CoD 4's multiplayer still exist -- like 
 the rotating spawn points near your teammates -- it still makes for some instant deaths if you're 
 unlucky enough to spawn next to some dogs or an opponent. 
  
  This game is more for the single player if you want to be engrossed (again) in a superb WWII story/experience. 
 All the complaints about the game don't stand up to what it has to offer, because it's still a 
 great game -- even if you have already played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jfisch93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT LISTEN TO THE COD4 FAN BOYS!!! This is a great game. It has a compelling story mode, that 
 takes you through the islands of Japan and the dark Nazi Germany. This game should simply not be 
 missed. With the campaign, co-op, online, and Nazi zombies, you won't get tired of this game for 
 awhile. The campaign alone will keep you glued to your television for hours. With co-op you can 
 work together with your teammates or compete with them. Nazi Zombies will challenge your skills. 
 There is so much fun to be had.
  
  This game has more content than COD4. If you like the Call of Duty series you should definitely 
 check this game out. Treyarch definitely hit the nail on the head with this one. The only thing 
 wrong with this game is the fact it will be eerily similar to COD4.
  
  Campaign-9/10
  Graphics-8/10
  Sounds- 9/10
  Online- 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabocalde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Campaign 9.5/10
  In this campaign there are 2 stories. U. S. A. fighting against the Japanese Army in the Pacific 
 and the Russians fighting against the Germans. Cod: WaW did a great job to capture the real thing 
 about WW2. Violence, dead and full of action. Thats how WW2 was. In my opinion better than COD4's 
 campaign. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Simply amazing. How each map looks and all the enviorment simply is stunning. People also got great 
 design and the light effects are amazing.
  
  Sounds 9.5/10 
  Very Good. The sound of the explotions are great. Terrific voice acting, Gary Oldman did a great 
 job.
  
  Multiplayer 9.5/10 
  Amazing. The online of this game is fantastic. With alot of options to choose from, weapons, perks, 
 greneades, maps and from lots of modes like TDM and Capture the Flag and some other new ones. The 
 only thing I would like to be improved in Modern Warfare 2 its he number of player to 16 or maby 
 more, I know that in some mode i think War ( not sure in this time) you can play with 18.
  
  Nazi Zombie 20/10 
  I never had so much fun with a minigame. Playing solo or with 3 other 
 friends or random people is amazing. With endless rounds and packed with Nazi Zombies and alot 
 of blood ( yes alot LOL) it makes it my favourite part of the game. Great adition. Maybe in Modern 
 Warfare 2 we will se Terrorist Zombies? LOL I Don't Know.
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  This is an excellent first person shooter. Best WW2 game out to date. Just buy it if you are a 
 fan of the series or just like shooters. And don't beleive people saying this game sucks cause 
 they are just COD4 fanboys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World at War is a game which you can not put down when you start especiallly when 
 you start playing online. The game truly is a awesome game with a stronger Campaign than before 
 and a good multiplayer.
  
  Graphics 10/10-
  The Graphic on this game is very good and in my opinion can not be any better, your teamates, enviroments, the 
 guns and foes have got very good visuals and are really stunning, i do not think anything lacks 
 in the graphics.
  
  Gameplay 9/10-
  The Gameplay is like the whole part of this game if the gameplay is not right then it will go horribly 
 wrong, but this game has got the it factor about it. The way you move is light the A1 is good and 
 not dumb, the levels are good and not repetitive. The Campaign is very good i think it is better 
 than Call Of Duty: Morden Warfare campaign, the missions are in much more detail and longer in this 
 one, you play as an Ammerican and Russian the health is good the screen goes red and it is just 
 fabulous in my words. The online is the best out of the whole game like it was in COD4. The Multiplayer 
 with friends is good i have only played it once so dont know that much about that bit.
  
  Sound 9/10-
  The Sound is exelent the bombs, grenades, Air  
 you are playing this game it is like you are actually there with all of these weopons and everything. I 
 love how the sniper sounds pow with one hit and the guy is dead COOL. The voice acting is good how 
 they change the Ammerican and Russians voice.
  
  Online 10/10-
  I love online on COD games they are always good, so i was expecting this online system to be good 
 and it did not disappoint. I love playing search and Destroy and Team Deathmatch, i dont really like 
 playing Sabotage. All of the games modes are good exept for 1 or 2 but otherwise i love online on 
 this game. The Maps are more bigger than in COD4, my favourite map is Castle and my worst is Makin.
 
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  A great COD game as it should be, Online and the campaign is not a let down and i am very proud 
 it isnt. The graphics are sick on this game and probably can not get any better or maybe it can. An 
 AMAZING GAME!
  
  i know this game has not got the reputation it should have got and its praises but try out the 
 game it wont let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  Gamers aren't a very open minded bunch it seems. From the moment Activision announced that Treyarch, 
 the development studio behind Call of Duty 3, was working on Call of Duty: World at War the game 
 couldn't get a break. Whatever the press saw and reported on in a positive light was spun so much 
 it seemed as though the game was going to fail no matter what. Gamers had spoken (at least those 
 that post on internet forums) and they wanted Infinity Ward or nothing. Thankfully Treyarch clearly 
 felt it had something to prove, with CoD: World at War managing to escape from CoD4's shadow and 
 dazzle us with the most action packed and intense WWII shooter to date.
  
  The move back to WWII after the stunning CoD4: Modern Combat disappointed a lot of fans. Many thought 
 the series was taking a step backwards, and you might think you've had enough of the World War 
 II genre, but give it a chance to show you what it's got and World at War will convince you otherwise. 
 With two concurrent campaigns (one with you fighting for the Russians against the Nazis and another 
 with you as a US soldier fighting against the Japanese) as action packed as this you'll barely 
 have time to blink, let alone breathe. Over the course of a non-stop six-hour game (longer if you 
 play on one of the harder difficulty settings) you'll trawl through swamps, struggle to stay alive 
 during a night-time beach-side attack, burn the enemy in huge open fields, gun down attack boats 
 while high above the ocean in the gunner seat of a plane, crawl through a burning building, and 
 pick off enemies one by one in a dimly lit railway station.
  
  AdvertisementEarly critics of World at War labelled it CoD4 with a WWII skin, and in truth that's 
 not far wrong, but it shouldn't be seen as a negative. If you've played CoD4, or any CoD made for 
 current platforms for that matter, you'll know what to expect. In the console games you've got 
 a handy auto-aim when looking down your sight, grenades are mapped to the shoulder buttons, you 
 can pick up and return grenades thrown at you, your health returns over time, enemies frequently 
 re-spawn until you reach a certain point in a level (yes, this still happens) , there are the token 
 vehicle levels and there's a seemingly endless number of amazing set pieces. People, understandably, 
 have different opinions on Call of Duty's incredibly linear, heavily scripted gameplay, but when 
 it's in a package this slick it's hard not to enjoy the ride.
  
  Although similar to other WWII games you'll have played, World at War includes a number of ideas 
 that make this a different experience. The first is the Japanese soldiers and their unique fighting 
 style. When playing as the US you'll come across Japanese soldiers hiding in trees and in long 
 grass, camouflaged or in small hiding holes, or charging straight at you with a bayonet aimed right 
 at your gut. To counter this you get to use the game's second great new feature: the flame thrower. 
 This has to rank as one of the best weapons we've used in an FPS and is easily the most satisfying 
 to use in World at War. The way it flows out of the gun and spreads across grass and through bunkers 
 is a real sight to behold, and almost worth the asking price alone.
  
  It would be easy to give CoD4 creator Infinity Ward all the credit, seeing as it made the engine, 
 perfected the gameplay and essentially made the template for Treyarch to follow, but Treyarch still 
 had to build a fun and exciting game that had some ideas of its own - the fact that Activision 
 could have slapped Infinity Ward on the opening splash screen and no one would have battered an 
 eyelid speaks volumes for the work that's been done here. Yes, it's more of the same, but it's 
 still one of the most thrilling first-person shooters ever released and would have been worthy 
 of the name Call of Duty 5, had it been called that.
  
  Having not played CoD4's single-player campaign since we were done with it towards the end of last 
 year, it's easy to forget just how great it looked, and still looks - even compared to this year's 
 top titles. The fact that Treyarch has managed to create a game that easily looks on par with CoD4 
 and on occasion exceeds it is a brilliant achievement. The amount of effects in each scene (this 
 engine still produces some of the best smoke effects around) and the sheer number of things going 
 on really needs to be seen to be believed at times. The aforementioned flame thrower looks incredible, 
 and the ignited buildings and grass look pretty great too. Like with recent Xbox 360 exclusive 
 Gears of War 2, we found ourselves looking around at the hugely detailed environments instead of 
 moving through the game - something that's pretty dangerous considering how nifty enemies are with 
 rifles.
  
  Treyarch's audio department deserves some credit too, for what is at times a rousing musical score 
 that fits the relentless action to a tee. A lot has been made about the A-list Hollywood voice 
 acting, in the shape of Kiefer Sutherland and Gary Oldman, and they perform exceedingly well. We're 
 not entirely sure Oldman was needed to voice a Russian (if you didn't know you'd have no idea it 
 was him) , but it's nice to have him in all the same.
  
  For the first time in the Call of Duty series you're able to play cooperatively with up to three 
 other players, either online or via system link - or with just a single friend via split-screen. 
 Rather than up the difficulty through rather cheap means (improved enemy accuracy or less health 
 for your character) you'll face more enemies as the players in your group increases. This makes 
 for some of the most spectacular and thrilling fire-fights we've seen, and yet somehow manages 
 to make a few of the more frustrating parts easier. With four players you can manage battles, with 
 someone focussing on the enemies manning the more devastating weapons, while the rest mop up the 
 enemies causing trouble in the foreground. Add in a scoring system that introduces a competitive 
 element to co-op play (and goes towards your overall multiplayer XP) and you've got a game that 
 is easily on par with the best co-op games on the market - the unlockable death cards that modify 
 the experience and the secret Nazi Zombies mode are the icing on the cake.
  
  Co-op is just one aspect to World at War's multiplayer offering, with a full competitive mode hoping 
 to pick up where CoD4 left off. To say multiplayer in World at War feels similar to CoD4 is perhaps 
 the understatement of the year. We reckon it's a tad slower paced and of course the weapons are 
 different, but you've got what is essentially the same system as in Infinity Ward's game, perks 
 and challenges included. The one big difference is the inclusion of vehicles in multiplayer matches. 
 We're not sold on this, with the core CoD gameplay in our opinion not really suiting the mega power 
 that a tank brings to the table. Still, it's there if you want it. Whether or not you'll enjoy 
 World at War's multiplayer isn't something we can say for sure. If you've grown accustomed to CoD4's 
 modern arsenal World at War may come as a culture shock, but if you've been waiting for the next 
 great online WWII shooter, this is it.
  
  The weight of expectation on Treyarch's shoulders must have been immense. Having seen CoD4 release 
 to near unanimous praise and incredible sales, there must have been a few worried people inside 
 the studio. The WWII shooter suddenly became incredibly dated, yet Treyarch was a year into development. 
 Whether the sheer number of doubters spurred the team on or the extra development time just allowed 
 them to make the game they were truly capable of doesn't matter. What matters is that Call of Duty 
 World at War is a stunning game that doesn't miss a beat from start to finish and includes one 
 of the most feature packed multiplayer components of any game released this year.
  
  Overall, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachumpire
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is a surprisingly good game with fun and realistic campaigns and great 
 online play! Very similar to COD4 Modern Warfare (same online engine and button controls,) except 
 with new maps, historical weapons and of course... a WWII storyline. I expected this game to be 
 more like COD3 (boring with terrible online play.) So, this was a pleasant surprise. With actual 
 WWII footage and great maps full of incredible detail, the campaigns can be very addictive. On 
 the harder difficulty settings you will have your hands full for sure! Checkpoints are'nt far away 
 usually, but expect to play certain areas over and over if you expect to complete the objectives. 
 To keep the story from becoming too bland perhaps, you switch between two separate campaigns. One 
 as the American, Private Miller fighting against the Japanese. The other as the Russian, Private 
 Petrenko fighting against the Germans. One other thing of interest, is that the narrator during 
 cut-scenes sounds exactly like Jack Bower of the hit show "24." Call of Duty World at War is a 
 great holdover until COD5 comes out. Considering I had already worn myself out on the maps of the 
 greatest online shooter of all-time... COD4 Modern Warfare. Overall though, a big thumbs up!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewolfpacisbac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks really good online it's like a real war with guns and gernades. The weapons are 
 really cool there is a lot of weapons to choose from. This is not better then the modern warfare 
 but it's its pretty damn close. Online is really fun you fighy other people if your alone or not 
 the leveling system is really good you kill people earn points and level up you can make your own 
 custom classes too, there is also unlockable weapons difficulties and perks. The perks you earn online 
 are really good here are some of the best perks Martyrbom, Juggernaut, and Camouflage. The Gernades 
 are really good they are funner to use online then split screen because there is more people there 
 are anti- tanks smoke gernades, regular gernades, and tabun gas gernades. Call of Duty World At 
 War is a really fun game to play online when your alone and bored or when you feel like shooting 
 and wars. Thank You.
  
  
  PSN : thewolfpacisback
  
  Add me so we can play Call of Duty World At War together online. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty World at War is an excellent game, but like all games its not perfect. (sorry metal 
 gear but its true) Your character is a marine named Miller (who apperantly has no first name) who 
 is MIA (missing in action) but that is all ill say i wouldnt want to spoil anything. Your other 
 character is Damitri Patrenko and is on the Russian side to stop the nazis. This is cool and all, 
 but why dont you try somthing different, like what if the nazis defeated the Russians, and America 
 lost to Japan? Itd be somthing new and cool and hell id buy it just to see what happens. Now lets 
 get into the game. It has 4 dificulty levels going from your new to Call of Duty to Youve played 
 every single one (veteran) . The game kind of is dissapointing in gameplay, it seems that its way 
 too easy when it should be hard and is way too hard when it should be easy. It also seems that 
 your grenades take forever to explode, and the terrorist grenades explode way too fast to give 
 you a chance to do anything. The A. I. is retarded (or maybe its just on easy and normal mode) and 
 never seem to react to anything, they take cover in places where they are fully exsposed, they 
 never know your behind them even though they saw you running right at them, *spoiler spoiler spoiler 
 spoiler!!!! youve been warned* on the first level on the part where they ambush you (the part where 
 they act dead to lure you into a trap) even if you shoot them BEFORE they start attacking you, 
 they just get up no matter if you knife them, headshot them, grenade them, they wont die until 
 you have waited for the ambush, thats all i have to say for the campaign (spelled wrong i think) 
 mode. The online is superb. The only thing bad about it is that a few matches lag really bad, but 
 90% of the time, its because the host has a bad connection. So yeah if you havent bought it you 
 really should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volsung555
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:34 am PT
Review:  if i had a couple of words to describe cod waw they would be "a retarded version of cod4". and 
 i do mean retarded.
  
  single player- Not that anyone really cares about the single player in this game, it sux. you cant 
 see anything, whos your enemy? whos not? just no...
  
  nazi zombie- ya ok way to make a realistic fps become an unrealistic fps, whoever invented that 
 nonsense should be thrown into a pit of nazi zombies.
  
  online multiplayer- ok, wat is the deal? why are people even playing this... retarded guns, maybe 
 3 good maps, and an EERY feeling of deja vu. not only have i done this game in cod4 (which i played 
 a lot) i have done more. cod4 even has better graphics than this game. Just no on the online as 
 well. no great cod4 system can save such a terrible set of guns and maps. and i am so tired of 
 playing 6 on 6. add some more variety for gods sake. some other things about online include tanks. 
 ya tanks are pretty damn annoying but ill let you figure that out for yourself. also for the love 
 of god all anyone duz is camp. its like they made these maps with spots saying "hey camp here and 
 be a nub".
  
  overally cod waw is not a terrible game, i guess due to the nature of the series. but it is garbage. 
 do not buy this game. i almost never tell someone not to buy a game that i personally own. but 
 do not waste your money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYEboi50
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Your firing your m1 grand and all of a sudden you have a huge smile on your face. W@W brings you 
 back to the good old days of WW2 after the ppl from history channel found new footage of WW2.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same as CoD4 all around. The depth of the gameplay a lacking a little, as in 
 the bouncing betty's and knifing. The knifing this time around is a little more inaccurate. I also 
 miss the gun butting. No other feeling in the world made you feel better than just running up to 
 some random person and just bashing their face in with the butt of your gun.
  
  The graphics are good not jaw-dropping. Most of the graphics are focused on the current characters 
 insight rather than on every aspect on the game like scenery. Fire and water looks good all around.
 
  
  Story mode is short and not too epic on the Marines side of the story. The Russian rebels story 
 made my day when i finished the game. The overall story is been there heard that. WW2... we all 
 know from the previous CoDs.
  
  Music and sound effects work great with this game. From beginning to end.
  
  The multiplayer 
 is pretty good. Not all that great though. Like I said before, the knifing is especially inaccurate 
 in multiplayer. A couple of the maps aren't all the good. Some like Countdown from CoD4. And some 
 like Overgrown just great. The big difference between this game and CoD4 is the time period. In 
 WW2 most of the guns were ment to kill in 1-3 shots. Well thats how it works in multiplayer. If 
 you get in a gunfight, the winner is basically the person who got off the first shot. Not much 
 of a chance of survival. The good sides to the multiplayer are the many different guns and new 
 perks. That was a big + to the game.
  
  Overall, I was pleased to be brought back to the good old days of WW2. Although the story was short 
 and to the point. It felt epic on one side and made me think to myself to play the story over & 
 over. The multiplayer was good. The only thing im very disappointed about are the melee attacks 
 in this game. It became very frustrating in the story and multiplayer. The rest of the little quirks 
 are minor and should be tolerable. I give it a solid 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Short and sweet...
  
  The Cons... it's a bit too rail-shooter-esque for me... although Far Cry 2 blows, I prefer it's "from 
 any angle" style... granted warfare, in reality, is very close to COD... so it's not hard to critique 
 a WWII shooter for being too much like actual WWII
  
  It's also hard, given you keep taking on a new identity, to immerse yourself in the character... I 
 really like Mass Effect way... give your character a face/gender/first name... then everyone calls 
 you by your last name...
  
  However...
  
  Few games get my bloodlust up like COD... I mean, there is nothing quite like this series for edge 
 of your seat, mow down some Nazi's kind'o fun...
  
  It's also nice to play a game with no real glitches... occasionally I've found the game won't let 
 me kill a guy (the Japanese snipers in a tree) until he gets "activated" by our closing in... but 
 other than that, no problems with it.
  
  Best shooter I've played on the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin18180
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch has exceeded my expectations. The controls are exactly the same as last year's Modern 
 Warfare, and the campaign also shares similarities. However, with WaW's single player, there's 
 a sense of epicness- you can tell it's an all-out war, whereas in MW you only saw tidbits of a 
 larger conflict. It doesn't take too long to finish, but the newly created awards, which include 
 awards for playing a mission with only flamethrower, for example, means that there's some replay 
 value.
  
  Multiplayer is exactly the same as MW's. The only addition are tanks. WaW does see an improvement 
 in terms of weaponry, compared to other genre shooters. As fun and addicting as it is, the graphics 
 are lacking. The physics and lighting is ok, but there's some terrain issues, such as walls looking 
 the same as the ground. It's not much, but in some levels it hampers your performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a great game, and has a much better story mode than Call of Duty 
 4 all though COD: WAW has a shorter story mode than COD 4. COD: WAW has a few new features that 
 I like a lot about it. One of them is that you can play through the story online with 4 other people 
 either for fun or competitively. COD: WAW also has a new fun game mode called Nazi Zombies, which 
 is really fun and I enjoy doing that. The graphics and sound in the game are off the charts, better 
 than COD 4. The controls are exactly the same as COD 4 but there's nothing wrong with that. The 
 Online Multiplayer is just as fun as COD 4 however it does take a while to get use to playing it 
 because most people are switching from modern warfare weapons to WWII weapons. Another small problem 
 for people who like Hardcore Team Death Match is that it is 95% of the time so slow pase epically 
 for people who enjoy Hardcore Team Death Match. Now I know in the Hardcore Team Death Match (HTDM) 
 mode is that when you die, you have to wait like around 10 seconds to respond back into the game. 
 It is like that even in COD 4. However in COD: WAW is that they put you farther away from the action 
 so you are forced to run more to the action AND plus you have to wait 10 seconds to respond back 
 into the game. In COD 4, you also have to wait like 10 seconds in HTDM when you die to respond 
 back HOWEVER, they put you closer to the action so it's not so slow paced. Also for the Online 
 play, they have more game modes you can play online in Hardcore Mode and also just new game modes 
 in general which is a nice feature to this game. Another good thing about COD: WAW is that it is 
 much more bloody and gory than past Call of Duty games which is nice because it's more realistic. 
 As well as that feature, there is this other one where you get trophies for doing certain things, 
 and if you like getting trophies like me, you will like this feature. Also the Platinum Trophy 
 for this game is a lot easier getting than most other games. Overall if your a Call of Duty fan, 
 or a fan of WWII games, don't waste your time and get it, it's totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  this game rocks! i loved it when i played it! online is great, zombie mode is great! and the story 
 mode is great! lol definetely a must own! its a great game for those who loved the series! its 
 got good weapons, especially the flamethrower! when you have it, you just can stop burning everyone! 
 online is great, but cod4 is a bit better only weaponwise, but other than that, i loved the game! 
 you may not like the idea of it going back to WWII, but you have to play it to understand its greatness, cause 
 this is what happened to me! if you want to add me ON YOUR PS3 my psn is nickprs, i have great games 
 and the leader of the clan known as the OFS (organization of freelance soldiers) and this is a 
 permanent clan!!! so decide if you want to join! we qualify for all games that me and most of my 
 players have such as resistance 2, call of duty world at war, cod4, far cry 2 and more! if you feel 
 that you are able to qualify! let me know! please keep in mind that THIS IS ONLY FOR PS3!! NOT 
 360!
  so again, my psn is nickprs and let me know when or if you want to join! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that the amazing Call of Duty series was returning to a World War II setting, 
 I was both sceptical and excited. I was sceptical as, after playing Treyarch's COD3, I did not 
 think they would make as good a game as Infinity Ward have made in COD4. I was also excited, however, 
 as it brought back memories of the excellent COD and COD2. 
  Upon launching the game, however, my sceptisism was gone. The campaign begins on a small Japanese 
 island at night, and this really shows off the superb lighting and textures. It is also a new direction 
 for the series, as the pacific theatre has never been a part of the COD series until now. You play 
 as an American soldier in the pacific theatre (except for one surprising plane mission - obviously 
 influenced by COD4) and then take the role of a Russian soldier when the game returns to Europe. 
 This was also good news for me as, after studying the German occupation of Europe and Russia's 
 uprising against it for my degree, I prefer to experience this side of the war. The final mission 
 takes place at the German parliament Reichstag building and is a killer ending (excuse the pun) .
 
  Online is also just as good as the COD4 experience, and possibly better due to the variation with 
 new weapons and perks (e. g. Attack Dogs) . Also, upon completion of the campaign, a surprising mode 
 is unlocked which sees you and a team of three other players defending a bunker against Nazi Soldiers 
 you thought you had already killed...
  Overall, COD: WAW fully deserves is 8/10 I have awarded. It is not given full marks as all games 
 can improve and I have a few niggles. Mainly, the checkpoints, although useful, are certainly used 
 sparingly. This means certain sections where you die will involve replaying a whole section of 
 a level again in order to reach the next checkpoint. This is particularly frustrating on Veteran 
 difficulty, where you are bound to de a number of times in one mission. Speaking of dying a lot, 
 the enemy is also far too accurate with their weapons on Veteran, sometimes killing you whilst 
 looking the other way. They are also very "grenade happy", often throwing a barrage of 4 or more 
 grenades which is impossible to escape from. Finally, textures in certain missions do go wrong, 
 but I have heard a patch is being released to correct this soon.
  To end, I will say that I definately recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of first-person 
 shooters. DO NOT LET THE WWII SETTING OR THE USE OF TREYARCH AS DEVELOPER PUT YOU OFF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Heyz, Call of Duty: World at War's single player is different from most World War 2 games setting 
 wise but it mostly the same as most World War 2 games. You play a American marine called Miller 
 and a Russian called Dimitri. Like most Call of Duty games, you'll swap between these characters 
 as the game progress's. One thing that must be said that World of War did amazingly well is the 
 way the game captures the pure horror and destruction of world war 2. You'll see people burnt alive, 
 have limbs blown off and walk into slaughters brought by bullets.
  
  The A. I in this game sucks. Its probably the worst A. I in any game. Traditional CoD A. I run in 
 and get massacared but get a pain the backside at the same time.
  
  The guns in World At War are standard World War 2 guns. Alot of single shot, rifle and machine 
 guns well done and spread out so which ever one you prefer and you can easily get without having 
 to put up with a gun you hate.
  
  The mulitplayer is addictive as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The maps are extremely small which 
 has its good and its bad points. The good things about the maps being small is that your team usally 
 ends up close by and helping each other. The bad thing is that you will sometimes spawn in the 
 middle of a fire fight and be laying face down in the mud before you know it. A tanks in mulitplayer 
 are good and strong, and can easily change the tide of a battle although people may find it annoying 
 on how much damage they take but they are only included in the a couple of maps. Even though this 
 all good and well the problem with the online is the fact it dosnt fix the issues that 4 had. For 
 example you still cant mute players in the lobby and that annoying perk called Martydom is still 
 there.
  
  There is a mode called Nazi Zombies which is where you and a group of 4 player online maximum have 
 to hold off in a house while the undead try to get in and kill you. Its extremely fun with friends 
 but sometimes the sudden jump in the number of zombies makes sure you get your flesh ripped to 
 shreads pretty early on.
  
  Even though World War 2 has had everything squeezed out of it World At War manages to give it a 
 new fun feel but sadly didnt fix the problems 4 had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Well it's that time of year again: Call of Duty time. It seems like just yesterday activision released 
 COD4 and with great success too. This year, Treyarch returns to WW2 and again, with great success. 
 This may come to a surprise to most but the single player campaign is defenitly a lot better than 
 COD4. Anyways, get ready for an immersive and strong journey through COD: Waw.
  
  Storyline:
  
  Stunning campaign. Simply stunning. The ending few missions especially will give 
 it that extra "epic" feel that really blows it over the edge. The storyline is a bit to the short 
 side, I got this game for Christmas and here I am reviewing it 2 days later... I'd say it's a good 
 7 hours or so, or at least that's what it felt like. The characters aren't developed as much as 
 maybe you'd like them to be but it does the best with what it's given and with the added real-time 
 footage, it real begins to feel like world war 2 all over again.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  COD4 graphics with slight texture and colour improvements. What else can I say?, it's a great looking 
 game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Plays exactly like COD4 which i think why i'm not giving this game a 9.5 or 10. I mean it's not 
 like it's just similar, it uses the exact same engine. The guns are fantastic and it's so good 
 to finally have Call of Duty with rumble again. Every gun has it's own specific feel and the whole 
 thing just fits together real nicely giving it a very dark a engaging atmosphere. Like I said the 
 weapons are great and the new ones just begin to take away from that "been there, done that" feeling 
 that we had when this first came out. Just to say, this is the bloodiest and goriest game I have 
 ever played. I don't think i've seen to many heads pop off of so many legs and arms fly off with 
 blood and guts in my life. I'm saying this in a good way too, it really adds to the realism of 
 this game. I'll admit it plays almost identical to COD4 but something about it just feels right 
 and I don't think it takes away from anything this game has to offer.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  COD4 on crack. Every gun is great, except for the snipers.... but who gives a crap about snipers 
 :P. Everything is the same except there are drivable tanks this time around which is a huge improvement 
 and bigger and better maps for the amazing, fast paced action that every Call of Duty game is so 
 widely known for.
  
  Overall: "Epic" storyline and amazing multiplayer makes this a similar, but still engaging first 
 person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachmagik
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Yeah cod4 was game of the year, etc, etc... But after playing codwaw a few days, it is more fun 
 than cod4. Placing tanks in multi-player balances the battles perfectly so you wont get tired of 
 shooting infantry day in, day out. The tanks are powerful, but certainly not unstoppable. The weapons 
 have a nice, gritty feel to them and seem characterized nicely. Grenades are pretty sh! tty as they 
 dont explode quite like id like them to, as martyrdom is basically worthless as a perk. The maps 
 are probably the best in the series, apart from asylum and courtyard (ugh) , but the remaining are 
 large and contain plenty of places to gas, knife and snipe your way to victory. Graphics are top-notch 
 and the sound is superior. Theres nothing like looking at a body that has just been hit with a 
 bouncing betty... ribs opened up, arms and legs ripped off. Codwaw really captures the brutality 
 of war. I only played single player a bit with my girlfriend, but it seems challenging and engaging... but 
 multiplayer is where its at, as cod fans know:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I tried playing the came on veteran, and it's not even funny how hard it is. Even if you think 
 your hidden, your not. There's a lot of levels, and all are challanging. The story of the game 
 is bringing down Nazi germany. The game offers trophy's which is always a plus. Gives goals to 
 look for instead of just beating the game. As far as online play it's it's fun an all, but you 
 play at a disadvantage until you get to the higher levels. There are rankings but when you play 
 a match you dont only play with people ranked near your level, but you also play with people ranked 
 20,30,40 or even 50 levels ahead of you. Which wouldn't really be a problem, but you unlock different 
 things the higher you. Things like weapons and perks. It's not hard as it sounds, learn the levels 
 and ho to use the weapns you got and you'll be fine. But overall it's a great game and every FPS 
 fan should own this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  This is the most intensive shooter I've ever played. Since the very beginning till the very end 
 you do not stop to shoot. I feel as I am at the real war.
  
  There are breathtaking missions. I would finish this game again If I do not have a lot of game 
 to be finished.
  
  I liked very much COD4 but I think this is better. Some scenarios are well done and balance. The 
 weapons are really nice aligned with the used in the world war II.
  
  In my opinion the graphic could be better, It seems to run at 640p (low detailed texture...) When 
 a game will take full advantage of this console? This game could easely run at 720p... why set 
 it lower?...
  
  Sound is great in my 7.1 home theater. I recommend you, if you dont have it, to buy one of those 
 7.1 home theater.... it will give you a great feeling of intensity in the game as if you really 
 are at war.
  
  I highly recommend you to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Tommy_M
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  No matter how hard devoted fans like to pretend otherwise, the COD series is entirely split between 
 two developers. Both teams may use similar formulas but their games feel very different. Infinity 
 Ward brought us the memorable COD2 and the epic COD4 while Treyarch punished us with the pretty 
 but broken COD3 ( the mutant offspring of Big Red One if you notice the models are the same ) 
 
  
  I have read several reviews that claim Treyarch's latest offering is COD4 reborn.
  
  It isnt.
  
  World at war follows Treyarch's usual phiosophie of watering down the COD game 
 design and hoping gamers wont notice. It's difficult to describe but compare the feeling of ducking 
 desperately behind cover in COD4 as your team mates scream out relevant phrases and the bullets 
 fly to the constant spawning of japanese cannon fodder and you'll see that while the game mechanics 
 maybe similar, they work for one set of games and not for the other.
  
  This is compounded by Treyarch's now familier ( yes i brought big red one and COD3 ) AI. Or lack 
 there of. Enemies are at their best when standing still behind cover because this is as real as 
 they get. They will ignore you, spawn behind you, they will stand two feet infront of your teams 
 guns in bold defiance of their own mortality and due to some creative clipping they will charge 
 straight through ( literally THROUGH ) your team mates to stick you with pointy things.
  
  Technically World at war is a mixed bag. The first level looks drab and the explosions/fire effects 
 are so blurry they made me check the resolution my PS3 was running at. But after that the sun comes 
 out and there are some really nice looking environments to be seen. Sun light sends rays through 
 folliage, water looks, well watery ( as long as you dont look at it close up ) and some of the 
 textures display pleasing definition. Of course some of them dont. Sound wise its standard fare, 
 guns are good enough but then they should be by now. I should say i was never exactly blown out 
 of my seat by the explosions or background noise, things seem a tad muted. On the whole its a pleasant 
 enough technical experiance as long as you dont scrutinise it too deeply
  
  So why the top half score? Well despite the notable and numerous handicaps of actually being a 
 Treyach game World at war manages to be genuine fun for a reasonable amount of the time. The problem 
 is that it is never all that much fun. Its strange that it feels so uninspiring next to COD4 when 
 it is supposed to be so similar. 
  
  The best I can say is that this game is worth playing, its not going to stand up to an Infinity 
 Ward COD offering but it's the best of the Treyarch attempts so far, it would be a sweeter pill 
 to swallow if they were sold at a reduced price but that would be like admitting mediocrity.
  
  Thanks for reading what was more of a rant than a review.
  
  PS; I didnt mention the multiplayer 
 because i havent played it yet so obviously read other reviews for that bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenga13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  the call of duty franchise returns with a masterpiece called call of duty world at war i only rate 
 games with a 10 rating only if they deserve it this definitely deserves it a deeper story that 
 take you into the lives of two men pvt. miller and pvt. dimitri petrenko miller of the marine raiders 
 who's battle start in the pacific and dimitri of the red army who's battle starts in 1942 germany 
 who survives a deadly massacre when he awakens he finds his comrade dead then he finds a Sargent 
 he and the sarge who also survived together they hunt down general armsel. miller's story begins 
 with him and his squad going missing you then see miller and his squad being interrogated one of 
 his friends die the Sargent roebuck saves his they later escape as you play through the level this 
 games graphics goes beyond what call of duty 4 did multiplayer offers bigger maps more perks new 
 teams gamemode's and a little something when you go prestige also you unlock nazi zombies when 
 your beat story mode this allows you and 4 other people to fight of endless waves of nazi zombies 
 through via coop thats right cod5 also offers coop gameplay the only thing is cod5 has a short 
 story mode i beat it in a day but hey thats good you can play nazi zombies now right well cod5 
 deserves the 10 rating I played atleast 20 hours of online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4life15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  it was a fun and addictive game single and multiplayer. Great and i mean great story line perfectly 
 mixed with great gameplay and is one that you can play over again and again. now to the clever 
 co-op part of the game about time they had it and even online is better with competitive or just 
 normal its great. And to the (spoiler if havent played yet) the NAzi Zombies thats just fun and 
 a challenge and with the online play with 4 players is fun as. now to the multiplayer online. Its 
 addictive and fun but sometimes frustrating xD lol with party problems and bad connections sometimes 
 and those super players that just own everyone somehow. otherwise its great and a lot of barracks 
 to achieve but one thing is that there is only a points reward for head-shots why no camo. Also 
 they now made the top level 65 and then on to prestige. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Call Of Duty. This time it's back to WWII, as we wait for Infinity Ward's 
 next version. The Pacific campaigns are a great add on, seeing the war outside Europe really adds 
 to the single player experience. Seeing as how COD4 took no more that 6 hours on single player 
 I decided to play thru on the hardest setting to try to get my money's worth this time around. 
 The hardest setting is very unforgiving, one mistake and your out, but that's not a totally bad 
 thing, making every move count. The Russian missions are good as well, just not as strong as the 
 American/Pacific ones. This being COD we know what matters, online multiplayer. And COD WAW does 
 just what it should, it doesn't fix what's not broken. The multiplayer is just as good as COD4, 
 the maps are diverse enough to even have me playing with different classes depending upon the terrain, 
 which is new for me. Playing on the PS3 I have had next to no problem with lag, or finding matches. 
 And other than the once every 4 hours or so that someone appears inside a wall the glitches appear 
 minuscule. Bottom line, if you liked COD4 and the multiplayer, go buy COD WAW, get online and kick 
 my ass, as I'm usually the one dying the most. You won't be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3boy_2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I think that 90% of COD4 players were dissapointed to hear that Treyarch would replace Activision 
 in this game of the series. Buf even more were dissapointed that the series has gone back to World 
 War II. But overall its a great game that continues the success of COD4
  The COD5 Single-Player is exciting but no longer than COD4's Single-Player, and the characters 
 are far less interesting. The Single-Player gives you memories of COD1,2,3 and Medal of Honor because 
 of the setting and missions. This is a nice touch but the single-player's fun decreases as it goes, 
 and will make you want to play Multiplayer. There were 16 COD4 maps in COD4 but in COD5 there are 
 far less. The Multiplayer levels and ranks are nearly exactly the same, having 10 prestiges, yet 
 this time having to go through 65, not 55 levels. COD 5 also has the same game modes including, 
 Team Deathmatch, Mercenary Team Deathmatch, Free For All, Headquarters, Domination, Sabotage, Search 
 and Destroy and all the Hardcore games, yet there is no longer team tactical which supports less 
 players in a match or Ground War which supports more players in a match. There can be 6-18 players 
 in one match. But at least they have added War which is like a momentum type of Capture the flag. 
 The Create a class is still there which is great, and this game seems like it prefers single-fire 
 guns rather than machine guns. 
  This game is great but just isnt of the same power of COD4, i know it would be hard to keep up 
 the good work made by COD4. I reccommend this game and for all COD4 gamers, this is just as good, 
 you can even say its just and upgrade or a COD4.5 haha hope this helps
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  So last year Infinity Ward released the there new addition to the Call of Duty series, Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Unlike the other ggames in the Call of Duty series, Cod4 was placed in 
 Modern Warfare. It had amazing multi-player, with a perk system and customizable guns. It was one 
 of the best games last year.
  
  Now we have the new addition in the Call of Duty series, Call of Dut: World at War. It takes every 
 thing that made COD4 good, and puts it in a WWll setting. Immediatly this turns off most people, 
 but it actually is a better version then the COD4. In the single player you start off as a captured 
 POW (prisoner of war) in a Japanese camp were you watch them stick a cigar in your partners eye 
 then slice his throat. You are saved by a marnie who's squad came to come find your missing squad. 
 The japanese are very unpredictable, they have a new tatic introduced into this game, the banzi 
 attack. They will play dead, hide in tall grass in ghille suits, and pop out of holes covered by 
 wooden boards with grass on top to shoot you, or charge you with bayonets. When you get charged 
 by a bayonet charging Tojo (Jap) you will be forced to the grouund and the game goes into slow motion 
 and you have to press down the right analog stick (R3) at the right time to stab them in there neck.
 
  
  The other frontier you fight on is the russian/German frontier were you take revenge for mother 
 Russia in the part of the story the is gripping as you start as the underdog and push your way 
 to the heart of Germany. It is the normal WWll on these missions just with a better story. Close 
 quarters combat, Nazi's and tanks. Yes, tanks are in this game, as your only vehicle in the gme. 
 Tanks are only drivable on the Russian/German frontiers. They are slow as mess though. You have 
 vehicle perks though for multi-player though so don't fret. 
  
  Now on to the part you all want to hear about, the multi-player. The muli-player is like COD4's, 
 perks, customizzable guns, and fast games. The game remains the same, almost. There are some new 
 perks there cool but nothing special. One thing i like i unlocking sniper scopes for your bolt 
 action rifles. You start with the gun and no scope (except for the first bolt-action rifle) so 
 you just look through the sights to aim at people and it is amazingly effective, if you can hit 
 your target. There are also bigger maps. Maps like Outskirts, and Cliffside are triple the size 
 of maps like CoD4's Backlot. Tanks play a big part in the game also. They are easliy destoyed with 
 satchel charges, sticky grenades, rifle grenades, bazookas, the less effective frag grenade. It 
 improves over Cod4's multi-player and it is very addictive. 
  
  I give it a solid 9.5, Hope to see you on those fields soldier!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a amazing game. The graphics are awesome. The battles are intense, 
 and new grenade types make it even better! The guns aren't as powerful, but still they are pretty 
 good. Here are some descriptions.
  
  Story Line
  The story line takes place in World War II, and you play as two marines. One in the Russian Army, 
 and one in the American Army. You fight in the air, ground, tanks, or call in some dogs to kill 
 everyone. You fight in swamps, banks of seas and stuff like that.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics truly are amazing, especially fr the PS3. The guns always look real, people have real 
 deph and description. Sequences are not choppy, and finally people fly in the air when you throw 
 a grenade at them! Or their arms and legs blow up...
  
  Gameplay/Controls
  Pretty easy controls, which makes it easy to play. So you won't have to worry about weird things 
 like, if you had to press TWO buttons to knife someone.
  
  Sound
  Amazingly life-like sounds, which makes it all the better to see people screaming. Their mouthes 
 move WITH their words, so it looks real.
  
  So there is my review, so YOU decide whether this game is for YOU or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  OK, lets review again another COD which call World At War... We will walk back past the memory 
 lane when u playing this game. It goes back to the Old WW II style.. Cant treyarch do anything 
 more better ??? Ok , is not that bad doing a WWII although the story and the game looks more better 
 than epic than the previous WWII but the problem is why is it all I see is Modern Warfare style. 
 I was having a DeJavu playing this game , from the looks og the HUD to the mulitplayer , all looks 
 the same ... SHOULD I rent or Buy this game ... But in the end it took my heart a bit and i bought 
 it.
  
  Once i pop in the disc i am having my first difficulties which is the system, I don understand 
 and Y is my PS3 is a bit slow and loading that cause me crash and Jam in certain spot... I felt 
 unstable and always appear the "reading HDD" word.. Modern Warfare was smooth like a jely but this 
 is like a pancake where crust at the side and smooth in the inside. I been crash for the game 3 
 times a day. I don know is my Ps3 having problem or the Disc having problem. 
  
  Talk less about the CD and lets go to the story. Story is same old fighting JAP and NAZI. U wil 
 be controling 2 person , 1 is from America and 1 from Russia. U know the story who fighting who, 
 so less explain ... The game is kinda EPIC and I mean big !!!! It is more adventure with all new 
 flamethrower and tank .. I having a nightmare playing Medal of Honour the previous "Rising Sun".. 
 Is ok this series bring back the root to WWII.. After playing solo campaign u will win Zombie mode.. 
IS ZOMBIE GETTING FAMOUS" all kinds of zombie game are poping out Left 4 Dead, Resident evil 
 5 and even Sainst Row 2 have Zombie in it !!!! OK , it fine additional mode so they have more replay 
 value... U can even play COOP with slit screen offline or online 4 ppl with ur frens . IS good 
 they bring 2 player to the COD series. 
  
  Following to the multiplayer, I don know How should I ezplain this. BIg and disastrous or Small 
 and Crowded?? Now they offer quite a new map .. there are big map where u will lazy to run adn 
 even a small map where after u die, a step and u will meet ur enemies ... The map are ok but sometime 
 s there are not any feel of the COD4 intense in it ?? Next thing is Gun, there are kinda hard gun, 
 sniper u have to kill untill u get the marksman to win ur scope. What kind of Sniper that doesn't 
 gave u the basic and need u to kill b4 getting it ?? Is hard with different type of gun and their 
 fire rate are hard to control .. Guns are less the problem since u need to get used to it since 
 u get used to Modern Warfare.. Other thing are look similiar to COD4 and nothing new except tabun 
 gas and Flamethrower and did i mention TANK in the multiplayer ?? Now U can able to sit TANK in 
 the game like Battlefield2 .The is also bugs and glitches inside the game and player is using it 
 like hell and killing ppl . Is so pissing ppl off. I cant stand it after i play for 2 month and 
 i stop . Player been hidding under the map and shoot ppl and hidding inside the stone to shoot.. 
 Its cheating , different than hidding in the roof or place , at least u are still able to shoot 
 but hidding under the map and stone is impossible to shoot through .
  
  Everting are almost perfect because of the copy and paste format that wat Infinity Ward have done 
 .. Its good to maintain but plz offer us some new thing ??? We hope u will do more better in ur 
 next project. and fix ur bugs and glitches . While i waiting for COD6 or Killzone 2.. Nice well 
 done copy game !! TREYARCH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdcjb100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok I know there has been much criticism upon Call of Duty World At War. The new game maker Treyarch 
 is actually very good. There new to the COD series and they did a good job taking over from Activision. 
 You start out on the Pacific side of the war and you try to escape from the ruthless Jappanese 
 also this is the first Calll of Duty game to fight in Pacific War front. After you beat the campaign 
 on any difficulty you unlock a mode known as "Nazi Zombies" wow this is the most addictive game 
 ever. It may onlt be one level but man is it hard. I don't even know how many rounds you can get 
 too. The Veteren Campaign is very tough compared to Modern Warfare. 
  The new coop mode both Competive and just the friendly one are amazing i noticed zero lag. THe 
 ranking system now takes you to 65. And overall it is still very addictive. I recomend this game 
 to anyone. a 9.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octospit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  with the COD4 engine, the visuals are still lookin great and with the addition of different attack 
 goals - sickin' da dogs or artillery. this game is very playable after the missions, which is a 
 tad short for my taste. the multiplayer is where it's at and with the coop zombie game, i found 
 hours of great gameplay if you can find others to play with. war option and capture the flag are 
 additional game options that can fill your hours of fun coop competition where you go head to head 
 with over 10+ people in heated WWII action combat. the graphics are great looking and even improved 
 where battle damage is concerned. flying bodies and torn limbs adorn the battlefield when you make 
 use of grenades, anti tank grenades, flamethrower and tanks. with the addition of flame armament 
 and actual WWII tanks, the fight is alot more grittier and ugly than the previous COD4 game. which 
 can easily make this a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkGoo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I just started it, about 5 hours in, and this is way to much like the older versions. I mean some 
 nice features like 4, but nothing new to speak of. And same old WW2 stuff. I guess they delivered 
 on what they promised, but I think the company could try another avenue. Or should I say I might 
 be willing to shell out some coin for a new approach, but not the same old story. I'll up date 
 the review if the next part of the game has something special in it to change my view on it. But 
 if we continue down the current path, I would have to rate it passing to waste a few hours killing 
 bad guys with ww2 weapons and that's about it. Now I'm rambling because I have to come up with 
 another 200 characters to post this review. I'm not sure the game deserves this much attention. 
 But I'm willing to put it in because I don't write these very often. I think I'll try resistance 
 2 next, maybe they have added some stuff to the story to make it worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyWormy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  With Infinity Ward working on Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Treyarch was assigned with "Call of 
 Duty: World at War. With a lot of doubt and criticism of older games in the series, for example 
 Call of Duty 3 that is Treyarch developed World at War was not expected to be very great. 
  Taking things back to World War 2, World at War splits into two theaters; The Russian pushing into 
 Germany and the fight in the Pacific islands of Japan. They story is very well told and memorable 
 and gruesome. The narrating of the story makes feel even MORE realistic.
  The online play is not 'very' different from Call of Duty 4. Just the addition of new guns, gore, 
 vehicles, a couple of new game modes, new level cap, and prestige class awards. There are a few 
 new game modes for the online play, War, Capture the Flag, and Hardcore Free-for-All. The action 
 is still as fast and exciting as Call of Duty 4; Sure as fresh as Call of Duty4 but it is still 
 great online play. The guns are balanced, one new reward for a 7 kill streak. What people were 
 asking for... DOGS. These dogs will rip the shred out of anybody. Of course they are not invincible 
 as you can kill them, but they are very effective. 
  There are also two new game modes. Co-op and Zombie mode. Zombie mode is unlocked with the completion 
 of Story mode on any difficulty. There is now split-screen co-op and online co-op. It puts you 
 and whoever you're playing with on two sides and battle the same battle and keeps track of deaths, 
 kills, and revivals. Online is basically the same without the dual screens. It is also very intense 
 like the single player mode. It will keep your heart racing.
  The bad thing about World at War is that it won't feel as fresh and new as Call of Duty 4 was. 
 It has similar controls, mechanics, and same feeling with a WW2 theme. 
  Besides the Cons (which aren't very big) this is a must have for a Call of Duty fan or for any 
 FPS fan. This is worth the money and once you play it, it will surprise you with what Treyarch 
 has done.
  ---DeadlyWormy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I never believed COD was worth 60 bucks for cod4, but 70 for this junk? Geez, who thought of that??
 
  
  Graphics (10/10) Unquestionably good graphics. Not a problem but worth jack in scoring, truly. 
 Gameplay (4/10)
  
  Take Battlefield: bad Company, take out the explosions and cars, go bacvk in time (thats kinda 
 gay and you have cod5: waw.
  
  Replay Value (6/10)
  
  COD had a crappy campaign but i beat it for nazi zombies (really a good reason to play it ;] ) 
 and i went online and played with all the idiots hiding in trees, so they got gay kills until i 
 got flamethrower. To me, its only worth going for the psn trophies and then getting rid of it.
 
  
  Sound (N/A)
  
  Typical COD gun sounds. Not judged.
  
  Online Value (4/10)
  
  Like i've already mentioned, idiots in trees. done deal. Overall (24/40) = 60%
  
  Sorry Activision, 
 didn't like it (once again) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassanalimounir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best action packed call of dutys in its series, at first before it came 
 out it didnt look to good but once i had played it i thought it was better than the hit game of 
 the year 2007 , call of duty 4 mdern warfare.
  they may of used the call of duty 4 engine for gameplay, but the campaign and storyline are brilliant 
 with there unique brutality and ultimate realism.
  the way in which the campaign is set out on a realistic period of time for each part of the second 
 world war in japan and germany is very well layed out and the operations that take place are all 
 set within this real time period. my favourite missions are burn em out, little resistance and 
 blowtorch and corkscrew for these missions are the most intense and action packed.
  the gameplay for the playstation 3 proved to be the best of all the platforms as well as xbox360. 
 however i wasnt to confident with the pc gameplay.
  for this excellent and exciting game i am going to give it a solid 9.5 for its brilliant gameplay 
 and how much i enjoyed it, however i would have given it a 10 if they had made a new call of duty 
 engine instead of fours to change the gamplay and movements of the surround ing characters online 
 and in the campaign. thumbs up from me. best game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taz9024
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World At War is good game to follow up COD4. But when playing it I couldn't help but 
 feel that the developers simply took Modern Warfare and put a WW2 theme over it. The environment 
 creates a sense that you are in a run down city or deep in the jungle. And the surprises that come 
 out truly get at you the first time you run into them. The story is really great except for the 
 fact that it seems really disjointed going from 1942 to 1944 and back kinda messes up the flow 
 of the game. Even so you still like the characters no matter how messed up in the head they may 
 be. Multilayer is pretty much the same the only difference being the perks and weapons and of course 
 the tanks that pop up here and there. In the end this game might as well be a carbon copy of its 
 predecessor but with something that good there isn't anything wrong with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooleyspugs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This was my first purchase for my PS3, but its by far impressed me with the console, and also the 
 good old call of duty that i know from my previous consoles.
  
  I found the gameplay completely consuming, showing the full aspects to just how real war is just 
 wrong and the extreme measures that people go to, to win. It shows every aspect in gritty realistic 
 detail, and by all shows how human instint of survival takes over all over senses.
  
  Iv read reviews slating about the game being disrespectable to war heroes and the men who fought 
 in these battles. I find that totally wrong, if these people dont like these games dont buy them. 
 In essence it could be said that all war games are disrespectable to these people. But these are 
 just games and are jut trying to portray just how awful war is.
  
  I rate this game extremely highly, and i am incredibly impressed with the storyline, gameplay and 
 graphics.
  
  A great sucess in the range for Call Of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ERoBB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Call of Duty 4 made an amazing mold, and this game sticks to it.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is COD 4 exactly. It has the same arcs in the story, the same types 
 of sequences, the same skeleton. But with new characters, environments, and oh yeah, its World 
 War II.
  
  If thats fine with you, you'll love it. If you wanted a step forward in the Call of Duty franchise, 
 this isnt it. Its more refined, maybe more polished, it has better voice work including Keifer 
 Sutherland and the great Gary Oldman.
  
  The online multiplayer is what you'd expect, with some nice tweaks. Instead of calling in a helicopter, 
 you'll bring in a pack of German Shepherds. You still level up in rank and gain new guns, all fun 
 for stat/RPG nerds like myself. 
  
  But the surprise to me; is this game seems like the developers wanted to tackle Vietnam, but didnt 
 quite have the guts yet. You'll stalk through rivers while being ambushed, enemies will play dead 
 and trap your allies bodies with explosives. And this side of the campaign seems like the main 
 draw, the focus, and the Russian campaign is twice as good.
  
  Gary Oldman is amazing as your friend and leader Reznov. You'll crawl through marshes of dead Russians, 
 snipe enemies while planes fly overhead, you'll storm through subways. All good fun. But I couldnt 
 help but notice the sniping portion is directly stolen from Enemy At The Gates. Oh well; it was 
 the best part of the game. I also thought the two man sniping portion from COD 4 was the best part 
 of that game; so maybe there's a pattern.
  
  Well, if you like Call of Duty, buy this game. But dont expect too much new. This could be viewed 
 as a WWII expansion pack of Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Lots of speculation has arose with the latest edition to the Call Of Duty series, 1. Treyarch are 
 back in development (who done the mediocre Call Of Duty 3) and 2. It's back to World War II.
  
  While i don't mind World War II games, i can see why people initially are dissapointed. If 
 it's not broken don't fix it, and with Infity Ward who developed the outstanding COD4, i can agree. 
 But this game completely surpassed my expections of it, and bought me back to the days of COD2, 
 with the vast superior and responsive engine from COD4.
  
  In this game you follow 2 campaigns, one is from the Americans point of view as they battled the 
 Japenese, and the other is the Russians and their invasion of Germany. Keither Sutherland and Gary 
 Oldman voice the commanders of each battalion, and they they do a fantastic job! One problem with 
 Keither Sutherland is, that i kept thinking he was jack bauer! That slightly took the effect away, 
 with Gary Oldman pulling a far more descrete accent.
  
  The engine as i mentioned is from COD4, and it's limits really are tested in this game. Controls 
 are extremely fast and responsive, and it really feels are you are thrown in the midst of battle. 
 You're frantically running for cover, strafing to supress fire, and you're springing away from 
 a grenade about to detonate 2ft away from you. This is seriously Call Of Duty at it's best!
  
  Graphically aswell, the game is stunning! With the environments and player models looking vastly 
 superior than the COD4 counterpart, i can say with confidence that this game definately looks better. 
 One very stunning aspect of the visuals is the shadows, they are unbelievable!
  
  Sound aswell comes outstanding as standard with Call Of Duty games, and here is no exeption. You 
 always feel you are in danger with explosions and gunfire constantly bombarding overhead, and it 
 really adds to a very memorable experience. Voice acting as i mentioned is spot on, and the comrades 
 and enemy shouts are very realistic.
  
  The campaign isn't incredibly long. As far as i remember there are around 15 stages, altogether 
 it took me 6-7 to complete roughly. You will die in the campaign, loads!! The good thing about 
 this though is the difficulty isn't too hard. Yea you will die loads, but it makes you feel as 
 though it's your fault and not the game. So instead of throwing the controller, you'll restart 
 the checkpoint, make sure you constantly in cover before moving, throwing back grenades, and not 
 rushing out into the open. It feels incredibly rewarding when you've finished a stage.
  
  The multiplayer is definately as good as COD4. I don't want to go into it too much because i'll 
 be typing forever, but most of the modes are back again, and you can still add perks customize 
 weapons which i was glad to see. A nice addition in the online are the use of tanks. They withstand 
 around 3 rocket missles, and 1 player drives and fires rockets, whilst the other is on top and 
 manning the turret. The good thing is they don't feel overpowered. You'll get a lot of kills inside 
 a tank, but you'll also feel constantly vunerable as you are openly exposed to bazooka blasts and 
 sticky grenades which will finish you off in seconds.
  
  Overall, this is an absolutely amazing game, i very highly recommend it. It's worth jumping back 
 into a WW II cod game for the last time (hopefully) , and having a real blast in the campaign and 
 multiplayer. This game is as good as Call Of Duty 4, but the fact that it uses the same engine, 
 modes, and even recycles a few set pieces in the campaign, it doesn't make Call Of Duty World Of 
 War revolutionary. But what's not broken, don't fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksekulovski19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  this game is really goo once you get used to it. it is a big change froma ll of the modernized 
 weapons in COD4. it brings in more of the realistic shooting factor in the game. i liked how it 
 is harder to get all of the good perks in this game. in COD4 it was way to easy to get the good 
 perks. the shooting is a lot more challenging because guns back then were not as accurate as the 
 modern ones we have now. i would recomend this game to experts and beginners to shooter games. 
 it has good direction when playing online also. the voices that tell you where to go and what to 
 do is a big help if you new to the game also. the thing that i did not like is the dogs. they are 
 not as effective as i thought they would be. the kills for the dogs should ahve been less. they 
 are too easy to kill. this is what this game has and doesnt have compared to COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercolts41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Tanks are way too powerful on online play..
  Other than that, game is amazing!
  Great but short story mode, awsome story mode, and great feel for the world war II feel. Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch took the engine of the great COD4 and brought it back to WWII. Should be a good game, 
 right? It is. It's familiar, but it suffers from a couple things. It's too familiar, you will get 
 bored of it very quickly. And like COD3, some missions will just seem impossible until you've attempted 
 them 20 times. I guess that explains the "Purple Heart" trophy.
  
  To sum it up quickly, Call of Duty: World at War is COD4 with COD2 weapons. Nothing new here really, 
 but still a fun game. Some of the good things about COD5 are, obviously, the graphics, which are 
 great, and the online. The maps in this game are bigger and more wide open. This means you'll have 
 to up your game and keep your head on a swivel because there will be shots from all angles, and 
 lots of spots for everyone's favourite, snipers, to hide in.
  The single player is slightly longer than previous games, but is actually improved greatly. Missions 
 take longer, the voice acting is great (Kiefer Sutherland and Gary Oldman did great jobs) and the 
 story is well... not much of a story in regular Call of Duty fashion, but that's not a problem.
 
  
  Any fan of Call of Duty will love this game, but for others, you will likely be bored out of your 
 mind by it once the story is done and you've played all the online maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KungFuPanda12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  If only I had a time machine, I would go back in time kill Hitler, stop 9/11, and not buy Call 
 of Duty: World at War.
  
  I was one of those people who reserved the game and bought it the day it came out and I've got 
 to say the only way to describe my feeling for this game is... Disapointed.
  
  Now, I'm not saying that its not a good game, but if you compare it to COD 4 there are some real 
 disadvantages to this game. For example, Modern Warfare had many more weapons, or, at least, I 
 think that the creators of this game had to search far and wide for weapons to use; most of them, 
 to me, are almost the same (so many semi-automatic weapons) .
  
  However, there are some bright points to this game. If your someone who prefers campaign mode over 
 playing online, then World at War brings many aspects to the table. Like the new Death Cards, which 
 are secrets cards found throughout the campaign mode that you can use on private matches in co-op.
 
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty: War at War is an above average game that is a lot of fun, but is not 
 for someone who has a lot of online friends. I just wish that I didn't buy it.
  
  If only I had a time machine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkguy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is absoluty the best WWII game ever made up till date and i think its the best call of duty 
 yet. It has a lot to offer and is not the same as the other ones. What i like the most about it 
 is the new feauters they have put. And some the new weapons i havent seen in other call of duty's. Simply 
 just get this game is worth every penny. its the best first person shooter created in 2008 and 
 i think it sure kick's the crap out of resistance 2, far cry 2 and end war. If you are still having 
 doubts in buying this game, just get it and you will be sure to love it. There is no other WWII 
 game that can compare to this one. The visuals are hardcore i havent seen another first person 
 shooter that has better visuals than this one. The game has a lot of mini games my favorite one 
 is the natzi zombie mode you just kick the crap out of natzis and there zombies that's pretty hardocre. 
 I just fell in love with this game simply when i just put the CD in the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teacher4tc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  i have enjoyed this game very much and contiue to enjoy all of the Call of Duty Series popping 
 out! I especially like the new Cocktail bomb as a new touch, I also enjoy the fact you have to 
 earn your rank for each gun, Dont want to say to much more and spoil this, 
  
  Over all I think Call Of Duty has come out again with a Awesome game and has continued to keep 
 my on the edge of my seat, with its flashy bombs and old time sniper guns and styles. I will say 
 this, if your looking for another modern day war fare then you will be not most likely over whelmed 
 with this piece , I have also enjoyed the graphics and all the background noise and explosions.
 
  
  I am very satisfied and looking forward to more and more to come each year of a series I belive 
 in my opinion will continue to just get better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemariens22
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  like many of you when i herd tryarch was making another! ww2 game i thourght oh god what a waste 
 of time but how wrong i was this game is way better than i thourght you play two roles both as 
 two privates one in the american army fighting the japanese and the other in the russian army figthing 
 off the germans both storylines are fun hard and exciting to play. the game has many strong points 
 such as graphics variety of weapons and diverese mission to keep it interesting and fellow squad 
 mates and real life stats and real ww2 movies to make it feel like your there not to mention the 
 co op which is always good and the awsome zombie nazi survival mode which u unlock at the end of 
 the game plus the online content which is great to play. 
  its main down points are the lack of music threwout the game which can make the sounds a bit boring 
 and doesnt emerse the player the way it should and the at times very stupid ai which has trouble 
 even aiming in the right direction let alone actually killing the enimies but all in all cod world 
 at war is a must be for any fan of the cod series well done tryarch 8 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Cal of Duty: World at War is an fantastic shooter that Uses the engine that Call of Duty: Modern 
 Warfare ran off of to bring you to the frontlines as a United States Marine and as a Russian Red 
 Army Soldier. On all fronts this is an excptantional package. Its an impressive game visually that 
 displays some grand scenes of carnage such as a massive fortified german HQ or a paccific beach 
 with tons of soldiers running around amongst explosions and bullets, and flames, wich plays a pretty 
 big part in the game. In fact one of the key features in this game is fire, from a Marine with 
 a flamethrower to Russian soldier with a molotalve cocktail, fire is pretty important. And fire 
 is a great way to show how much grittier and realistic this games is. Seriously, this game is alot 
 gorier and bloddier, alowing you to take limbs off of soldiers or burn them into there flesh is 
 pealling off of them. Artificial intelligence is not bad, but could be better, especially when 
 considering how hard the game can be at times. Sound is what you would expect from a Call of Duty 
 game, unmatched, realistic sound with an exquisite sound track. As far as gameplay goes, shooting 
 is fun and burning is awesome, nothing ever wheres out there welcome either, mixing up your missions 
 with vechile segments and different gameplay styles, types. Multiplayer is also a big draw to the 
 game and its as good if not better than Call of Duty 4's. CooP is also excellent. And especially 
 fun to play in "Nazi Zombie" mode, when you are trapped in a house with zombies breaking in from 
 all directons. Overall Call of Duty: World at War is a superb shooter and a reason to get excited 
 when Treayarch anounces a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-a-a-a-2-24-5-
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  this game has a solid single palyer unlike COD 4 had this gmae will tak about 13 hours unless you 
 play on vetern to get all the trophies on ps3 but the pacific theater makes a great storyline and 
 when you fly in a plane and take out the 3 merchant ships and you have a tank and wipe out the 
 the japanise forces. then when you beat the game you get the nazi zombies witch are fun ahs heck 
 you cna paly split screen or online and the onleine is crazy fun and i got to level 15 and it is 
 crazy then the multiplayer it is the same thing as the COD 4 enguine and it is still as fun and 
 addictive as the lst one the only down fall is is that the guns arnt the greatest out there and 
 it fells like it takes for ever to unlock hard core and the challenges for the guns are weird some 
 have just one and other have 4 diffrent sets also the tanks are fun to drive around and shoot the 
 heck out of peole another thing that ticked me off was that the snipers in this game are to shot 
 kills so this makes me mad becasue i will snipe and you have to shoot the same person twice that 
 is so hard te flame thrower are really sweet to walk around with i wish if oyu shot them in multiplayer 
 that the tank would explode and kill the person 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warghost15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT WHY A 8.5? THIS SHOULD HAVE BEEN RATED AS IF THERE WASNT A COD4 ITS A WHOLE 
 NEW GAME. ANYWAY THIS REDEFINED WW2 CAMPAIGN IS SHORT BUT VERY FUN BUT MAINLY GOT IT FOR MULTIPLAYER 
 LOTS OF GUNS, FLAMETHROWER! TANKS, ITS BETTER THAN COD4 IN SOME WAYS BOLT ACTION SNIPER RIFLES 
 IS FOR REAL SNIPERS ONE SHOT ONE KILL! DOGS, LOTS OF PERKS, DONT THINK ABOUT GETTIN THIS GAME JUS 
 GET IT SO U CAN HAVE WW2 AND MODERN WARFARE! DIDNT LIKE WEN HEARING ABOUT GOING BACK 2 WW2 BUT 
 WEN I SEEN IT THE JAPANESE AND THEIR WAY OF FIGHTING I HAD TO GET IT BEST WW2 GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  graphics:8.5 recycled from last year
  gameplay:7 the online is very poor which i will explain
  campaign:9
  levels:3/10
  
  o. k. 
 i know everyone loves the online but its LAME
  ok everytime i die i watch my kill cam on my screen the guy is unloading his thompson and i attempt 
 to knife him and all of a sudden i go through him and hes behind me knifing me its rediculous....
 
  the online is still screwed up from cod4 and they didnt update anything though i mean they just 
 made new player models and terrible levels made for campers and noobs to just sit around and plant 
 bouncing betty's
  and my internet is very fast i have at@t uverse and its at 300MBS so either im playing with laggers 
 or the game is messed up....
  the game is fun at times when the opponents are running around and arnt setting bouncing betties 
 everywhere its rediculous...
  and why did they put in bouncing betties everyone just sets them in open spots and sit in corners....
 
  im still enjoying it but my main complaint is other players lag and noobs
  but w/e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever played, and possibly the best, that's right CoD4 
 diehards, it is possibly EVEN better than CoD4! The singleplayer is short, and I beat it the day 
 after I got the game on regular difficulty, although I have replayed most of the game on harder 
 levels. It was very fun and innovative and while bringing back many CoD classics like the Mosin-Nagant, 
 PPSH, Thompson, M1 Garand, MP40, and other great weapons it introduced new instant classics like 
 the Flamethrower and Type 100. After beating the quick singleplayer I rushed to play what I had 
 been most looking forward to, the multiplayer! It is just as good if not better than that of CoD4 
 with just the same amounts of innovation and fun that make CoD games never get old (except for 
 CoD3 of course, which Treyarch has clearly learned from) . My favorite multiplayer weapons so far 
 are the Thomspon, FG42, MP40, MP44, Type 100, Double Barreled Shotgun, Mosin-Nagant scoped, and 
 others. It lived up to all my expectations and hopes and I think it is way underrated! Come guys, 
 get over CoD4 and come play this! Overall a must buy for all fans of FPS games! 
  
  Note: Many of the CoD4 diehards never played 1 or 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostXII
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I must say that in this game, more is definitely more as they packed so much into one package, it 
 is kind of like the orange box, but not quite... still the campaign is great, though not as great 
 as Call of duty 4, the multiplayer is just as addicting and on top of it all there is a nazi zombie 
 survival mode. I must however tell my faults with the game, the campaign is short, about 8 or 9 
 hours and alot of the campaign is just kind of boring, also the campaign doesn't really feel like 
 it is meant for Coop as you are basically fighting over who gets to kill this guy or that guy, 
 it feels like a race, also the multiplayer is sometimes frustrating since matches are usually closed 
 due to connection problems or the host quits and it won't just pause for a few seconds to find 
 a new host, also zombie mode, as addicting as it may be, it gets old after a while, and the zombies 
 are too powerful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilgarun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Quick and short = Buy it
  
  If however you want more information read below
  
  Graphic:
  Thease are one of the best Graphics ive seen on any FPS game ive ever played, from 
 the huge explosion effects to the very gory Blood effects everything is tuned for greatnes. if 
 i actualy had a better game to name on graphics here i definetly would name it, but at the moment 
 this games visuals just blow my mind i realy felt like being in the game, thus far only one other 
 game has made me awe like this on the graphic section and thats MGS4
  
  Gameplay:
  I dont know what to say, everyone knows the diference between a mouse and a controller in FPS games.. 
 its huge. but the way this game has programed the smoothnes of turns and the placing of the button/effects 
 makes me actualy think i could play this game with a controller and maby even excel against some 
 keyboard/mouse users.
  
  Music:
  This game has one of he best Tracks ive ever heard in FPS games, it fits perfectly in the sitsuations 
 you are in. and gives you that adrealine pump which you need.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Has max player limit of 18 instead of the Xbox version which i think only can suport 16 players 
 at a time.
  the multiplayer features in this game are awesome from Deadly TDM to killing Zombies in a Co-OP 
 mode it has everything...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is OK. Its in WW2 now instead of modern, this is neither bad nor good. It is almost exactly 
 like Cod 4 only with worse guns, worse graphix, and a few other minor things. Some of the guns 
 are more fun to play with but most just suck compared to Cod 4. I hope the next Cod will be modern 
 because I am going to be playing Cod 4 until then because this game is just a complete copy of 
 4 only a little worse. The graphix are terrible, i might even compare them to N64 because when 
 the ground is supposed to be textured it is just flat and it is blurry and annoying. The story 
 mode is a bit more fun than 4 with the online co-op mode but the split screen co-op is terrible, 
 it frames the screens it two player so on a big screen TV it shrinks to about a 19" screen with 
 some crap around that screen which just burns in on a Plasma. The multiplayer online is fun though, 
 almost as fun as 4. The game is essentially the same as Cod 4 only in a different time period and 
 if you are satisfied with Cod 4 don't buy this unless you really want a new Cod 3 cause thats what 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kspeed_VSC
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Last year I saw COD 4 publicitys on tv and my first impression was like: "Definitely im not going 
 to buy this....", but when i go to gamespot and see that the game had a 9.0 score I thought that 
 i should see more about the game... A month later I gave the game a chance and I bought it.
  The game was practicly perfect, great story the problem was the duration, perfect multiplayer, 
 and excellent graphics.. Rapedly I became adicted to the game. But as always we get tired so i was 
 expecting the next one... when i saw that the game was about WWII Iwas completly surprised because 
 the modern stuff of COD 4 was a great idea... still i was expecting to see more about the game and 
 in October camed the bad comments saying that the game was bad... Then comes Resistance 2 and all 
 the critics were good.
  But in the past friday I had the chance to buy a game and i bet in COD... so when i got home i played 
 it and i saw that the game was more like an authentic war... in the levels of Okinawa and in Berlin 
 that was like war... bombs exploding ,Rockets, Tanks appearing and exploding next... And the end of 
 the game is unexpected and suberb.
  The multiplayer mode is like the in last game, with some little addictions and inovations... For 
 me this is the best WWII game of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reynolds916
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I am very impressed with this game. I was expecting a lame replica of Call of Duty 4 but with worse 
 guns and a less interesting campaign. I could not be more wrong. The campaign is incredible and 
 puts a different perspective into world war two that hasn't been seen from the COD series, the 
 japanese. Also as an added bonus they added a Nazi Zombie mode. Thats right i said a zombie mode. 
 All though it sounds really cheesy, I can assure you that it is phenomenal and you are missing 
 out if you haven't tried it. To explain it breifly, you start with a pistol in a large room with 
 windows boarded up. You start to see zombies slowly creep up to you in the first few rounds (don't 
 worry it gets harder) . As you complete more waves the zombies become much much faster and in greater 
 numbers. I would definately recommend this game to any person who loves various FPS games.
  
  ADD ME -  PSN-The_Marine_Force 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draknaar
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  ... it was cracked up to be. I mean, yeah, it has gone back to world war two and there are alot 
 of new weapons and stuff, but it was pretty much number 4, old style. They didn't really introduce 
 anything new, the layout and class system are exactly the same as number 4, and all they did different 
 in the killing spree rewards was dogs instead of a chopper.
  
  It is still fun as hell to play online and I enjoy it alot, I just believe they could have brought 
 a little more to the game to make it even more interesting. But the revert back to WWII was a bit 
 weird as well. To be honest, I wanted them to make another modern, or even a little futuristic 
 game. Not that I dislike the time frame it is set in, but it would have been cool if they did.
 
  
  So overall it is a good game, and I loved the mutliplayer - hours of fun there - but to me the 
 game didn't bring anything new. Still, I give it a good rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boboj17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun game. Worth every cent. The campaign environment is different (killing the Jap Nazi's) , 
 yet it feels the same as other world war 2 shooters. Most of the weapons are the same as most excepted 
 the flamethrower which gets old fast. The multiplayer is amazing though. The best W. W.2 online 
 i've played. It feels alot like COD4 with the perks and weapon upgrades, which is a good thing, 
 but it still doesnt feel like theres enough customization. It just feels like there needs to be 
 more perks and weapon upgrades. The most impressive thing about COD5 has to be NAZI ZOMBIE. Your 
 barricated in a house and have to stop zombies from forcing their way in and killing you. This 
 is an amazing feature that I heard nothing about leadin up to the release. I think this is a feature 
 that needs to be seen in more games. I think the game is easly worth the $60 pricetag, but dnt 
 expect the story to be as dynamic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moneyman1982
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me first say this game is no where near as good as COD4. I played COD4 all the way to the 
 ten prestige stages, and still continued to play for many more months. But COD5 is just boring, 
 the single player takes about 5 hours to complete....... yes only 5 hours. And the online play that 
 made COD4 so popular has become a big let down. They have now raised the prestige level to 65 adding 
 another 10 levels from it's previous title COD4......... why did they do this, who knows. And what 
 do you get for prestiging........ another crappy custom weapons slot and the flamethrower. And the 
 extra custom slot is really pointless as you already have 5 and 5 is more than enough. The online 
 maps a boring and some are really small, which brings back the problem of the respawning. In one 
 game me and my friends where killed in total between us of over 40 times without even being able 
 to move our charater. The weapons are crap the attachments are crap and the perks are almost the 
 same as COD4. Also if you're a big fan of the new PS3 trophies like I am. Well your going to have 
 to complete the game on vetran if you wish to get most of the trophies. And let me just say this 
 can become really annoying. As most the time you wont be even able to even move before you're shot 
 dead on the spot or have 10 grenades thrown at you. I got so mad I ended up braking one of my control 
 pads.......... It's not fun on vetran. There is one great thing about this game though. The new 
 Nazi Zombie mode. This is basically an endless stream of angry nazi zombies trying to kill you. 
 It can be a great laugh with some friends and trying to prove your worth on the COD5 leaders board 
 list. But you dont get any experience points doing this, so it feels pointless at times. Well that's 
 my review if you bought COD4 you'll no doubt by this anyway. And for new comers to the COD series 
 lets just say it's went down hill since COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewangotkool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war is a very good game and is as good as all the other call of dutys and 
 maybe even better but the story line is not that good of call of duty 3 and 4. The graffics first 
 of all are preaty much the same as call of duty 4 but a totally diffrent game as it's set in WWll. 
 To me the fact that it's based in WWll is boring as all the others are in the same time exsept 
 call of duty 4 but this time it's also in the pacific war and it's abit diffrent to the others.
 
  The multiplayer is good to it's the same rules and stuff than call of duty 4 but the weapons are 
 diffrent and the whole gameplay is abit diffrent to the 4th. A friend of mine on psn told me the 
 multiplayer is boring and the 4th is better but i find this one is better because i'm not crap 
 in it as i got it the morning it came out and it's just diffrent in a good way to the 4th one.
 
  If your thinking of buying this game then i you should and if your a fan of first person shooting 
 games then you'll love this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comrad_Sniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  The single player is epic, the music is too, even the multiplayer will rock you. (lol) This game 
 is a must get because its the longest single player in the CoD series and once you beat it, you 
 unlock a highly addictive Nazi Zombie mode which pits you and your online friends (or go single) 
 against endless waves of the un-dead. The highest wave I've gotten to is 19 and I belive the highest 
 with-out hacking is 29-31. This is a MUST own game! Don't think Tri-arch did a horrible job. I 
 think they did a better job that Infinity Ward did with CoD 4!!! BE WARNED THE END OF THE SINGLE 
 PLAYER STORY IS EPIC. Speaking of single player, you can tackle the story with co-op play. It is 
 for both offline and online players. However the single player has 1 very cheap and over powered 
 weapon... the Flamethrower. I always used it because of the damage it did. I was mad when i was 
 forced to swap it out with a M1 Garand or something else. None the less, it is the best WWII FPS 
 out there right now so go out there and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh263
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  overall but there are to many load screens and has to read the HDD far to often now on to the campian 
 i think its a good game the story line is exciting and keeps you on yours toes and makes you want 
 to replay the solo campaign is still abit short compared to alot of other games on the market i 
 finished the whole campaign the day i got it. it but then you get the online its good but its just 
 the same as cod 4 and i was bored of that after playing for 18 days so i just got bored of cod 
 5 after 17 hours the maps are all the same and the weapons are just awfull overall its ok but the 
 online lets this one down also the trophies give this game a big boost for me with out these i 
 think it would be a ww2 cod4 also the zombie feature after you complete the campaign is very nice 
 but still has its bad points for example in the first few rounds the zombies take to long to appear 
 ill give it an 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngusRedeemer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  So... the mostly-anticipated game of the year is finally here. I got it as an early suprise instead 
 of having to wait for Christmas :)
  
  I'm not quite sure what to say about it, the story mode is very good, can be slightly challenging 
 (even on easier difficulty settings) , but it's not kick-ass like CoD4. The online multi-player 
 is really fun, the online maps are HUUUUUGE and the old guns are very interesting, and slightly 
 cool :) And the addition of co-op mission modes is definitely a bonus (but, I have yet to really 
 try that out) .
  
  The only real dissapointment with this game, is that it just doesn't blow you away, the directing 
 of the action sequences just doesn't seem up to scratch, but I guess that's not totally Treyarch's 
 fault. It's just that, since I've already got CoD4, it was difficult to top it.
  
  However, even if it is a slight dissapointment, the popularity of the online game is sure to make 
 it 40 (-ish) well spent.
  
  If you want a popular game that absolutely EVERYONE ELSE is playing, then get this. But, if you 
 want a great game that'll really impress you, go for Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare... you might 
 even save enough bob to buy yourself a headset to go with it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riajmiah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  obviously going to give it an extra 0.5 over the 360 version as it looks better, Gamespot can we 
 have a comparision? lol 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 
 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words this is making me tired 
 now 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words gamespot = Microsoft i dont know why but 
 the xbox 360 version of every game is better rated than the ps3 version they both look exactly 
 ythe same to me flippin hell 100 words 100 words 1000 words my first review good isnt it 100 words 
 you need to play ti yourself on both systems does look better on the ps3 version and thats the 
 gods honest truth. okay so its 120 characters remaining 123456789 10 11 121 13 14 what a game its 
 just amazing jus ridiculously amaxzng you are a twaat for reading this jibberish i cant believe 
 it you are still reading this look gamespot microsoft are giving a cheque to all those who kiss 
 their assses go on gamespot go for it you deserve it, -0.5 for all ps3 makes of every game got 
 nothing else to write really getting really bored now i hope they print this, and offer me a job 
 at micros- i mean gamespot to review all up coming shiitebox 360 ghames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty World at War needs something that I can't believe isn't on their. Split screen co-op 
 online!!!! And I don't mean the story because it has that, but the game would of been even better 
 if you could level up online and play ground war and all that with a friend. Me and my friends 
 are always taking turns and I seriously was hoping that World at War would have co-op online but 
 nooooo, the developers just couldn't think of it could they? It's common sense. It's like Resistance 
 2, why'd they take out the slit screen co-op for the main story? Helloooooooo. Game developers 
 need to take more time and make their games better with more "play with your friends kind of modes". 
 Aside from that WAW is a great game and an instant classic. It's the best WW2 game and one of the 
 top fps games out their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Last year, the Call of Duty franchise moved into the modern day, sales increased a lot; the game 
 won several of the year awards and it still pretty popular today. Now dispite WW2 being a boring 
 setting for a video game these days, Treyarch feels that we need another game (and hopefully the 
 last) based in WW2. Given Call of Duty 4, Call of Duty: World of War has a lot to live up to, does 
 it exceed expectations, or does it deserve a dishonorable discharge?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game follows the Americans, fighting against the Japanese in the Pacific Ocean and the Russians 
 invading Germany and Berlin, it's intersting to follow these sides, as they haven't been explored 
 a lot in video games; it also means that the game is much more brutal than the past Call of Duty 
 games. The story is mostly told via small briefing cut-scenes during the loading times, filled 
 with footage from the war, while it's familiar, it's always nice to see stuff like that in Call 
 of Duty and the way it's presented here is pretty good. Unfortunately, the story isn't as good 
 as in the past titles, the game jumps from year to year, which makes it feels like your just getting 
 thrown from one battle into the next, which means there ain't gonna be a lot of time for character 
 develop and thus you end up not really caring for your friends (save for a few characters) . It 
 does offer some new perspectives on the war, which is really nice.
  
  8.0
  
  Gameplay
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Not much have changed this time around, it's still the same old same old you've been playing since 
 Call of Duty 2, which doesn't necessarily mean a bad thing, it's still a fun to play and still 
 challenging enough. There are some new additions though, there's a flamethrower in the game, which 
 is pretty cool to use, but it's a bit overpowered, especially in multiplayer, even though it'll 
 take a long while before you can use it in multiplayer. There's also viechle again, the controls 
 are good and it's not hard to drive around in the tanks. The only problem is, that in a multiplayer 
 match, you'll easily own the entire match. Multiplayer is still the same as in CoD4, though there's 
 more perks and a level cap at 65, there's also some new modes. It's still the same multiplayer 
 from Call of Duty 4, though it's still as fun as before. There's also co-operative for the single 
 player campaign, where you and up to 3 friends can play through the main campaign, either together, 
 or compete for who gets the most points, it's a really nice addition and it's really fun. When 
 the game is over, you open another mode called Nacht Der Untod (Night of the Living Dead in German) , 
 where you and up to 3 friends are trapped in a house, getting attacked by endless waves of zombies, 
 it's massively fun to play this mode and a really nice addition. 
  
  The set-pieces in the game are still awesome, there are some great "Oh my god, can't believe that 
 happened" moments, but there's far between them, some levels have hardly anything going on. 
  
  Unfortunately, not everything is perfect, in the main campaign, it always seems like it's up 
 to you to push forward, in order for your buddies to advance, which can be really tough on Veteran. 
 In multiplayer, everytime I finish a match, I also get the "server connection timer ran out" message, 
 and this happens everytime I finish a match, I don't know if it's my connection, but Call of Duty 
 4 didn't have that problem. I also encountered a script error in the second last stage, which I 
 fixed by restarting the level a few times. There have been 2 patches for this game even before 
 it got a week old and I still have those problems with it. Though not a deal breaker, it is pretty 
 annoying.
  
  The main campaign can be finish in 10 hours, which is standard for first person shooters, but it's 
 a good length, and with the cooperative modes and multiplayer modes (dispite server connection 
 issues) are still a blast to play. 
  
  9.0
  
  Graphics
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game runs on the Call of Duty 4 engine, but it still fares pretty well today, the graphics 
 look a bit better than Call of Duty 4, there are a few more details on the characters and it's 
 even possible to blow a person's legs and arms off. The game runs at a smooth 60 frames per second, 
 I haven't encountered any frame rate issues or a visual glitch, which is pretty cool.
  
  10
  
  Sound
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sound is pretty cool, it's the kind of game that's best played with a surround sound set. 
 The music is a mix of rock and electronia, it's good and fits the setting somewhat. The voice acting 
 is good; Keifer Sutherland (who plays Corporal Roebuck in the American campaign) does some good 
 voice acting, even though it can clearly be hard it's recorded in a studio at times. But the best 
 voice performance has to be Gary Oldman who plays Sergeant Reznov for the Russian campaign. He 
 provides a pretty awesome Russian accent and he doesn't sound like he normally does, but he does 
 by far the best job in the game.
  
  10 
  
  Overall
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  While it ain't better than Call of Duty 4, Call of Duty: World at War is still a great game, it's 
 easily one of the best FPS games this year, just don't expect any game of the year awards, or to 
 be better than Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSE369
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I made sure i had gotten a good amout of time spent before reviewing this game, especially after 
 the last Call Of Duty toook soo much of my time with its imersive multiplayer and great singler 
 player story.
  
  My first impressions were okay, after the game starting and seeing that the menu hadnt changed 
 much from COD4 i was a bit dissapointed to see the same layout and barely any change... but then 
 again as the old saying goes: "if it aint broke then why fix it?" ,but the great thing about the 
 menu is that players of COD4 will feel right at home with everything.
  
  When starting the single player campaign you see that the controls are more or less the same and 
 the gameplay is just as good and imersing as the last game in the series, but i thinkt he greatest 
 part would be the real impressive cut scenes, they are short but interesting non the less especially 
 the real world war 2 fotage that is put in.. though more work could have been put it, they were 
 still very impressing and a great change from other FPS games where you have to just stare at the 
 loading screen until the mission starts. Also the single player campaign is lenthy and reallt worth 
 it with different types of missions like my favourite tank mission. Also the flamethrower is a 
 great addition to the host of weapons and is a real enjoyable change.
  
  Now the offline split screen is as great as ever and just like the rest of the game, not much has 
 changed.
  
  The online split-screen is also great! and while playing it a few times with family and friends 
 the game was steady most of the time and there were barely any lag issues making it just as good 
 as the offline split-screen.
  
  The online multiplayer gameplay is again as good as the last game with the change from radar to 
 recon plane, air strike to artillary and helicopter to attack dogs and the changes are real good 
 and perfectly put considering the game setting. And lag issues are very minimal, considering the 
 period COD4 had gone through at launch before the servers had become stable. Also there are other 
 great additions like more than one prestige mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3_Oblivious
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really gone deep into the story, because I just really want to play the multiplayer. 
 The new guns are really good, and the maps are surprisingly fun to play on, but it has more open 
 spots where you can die from. I got tired of CoD4 and this game is not really the same for. Sure 
 Treyarch copied mostly everything from CoD4, but this game is still fun to play. It has many new 
 additions that separate this from CoD4. The only problem I have to say about the multiplayer is 
 that they overpowered the sub machine guns so you can't really win with a rifle. The co-op online 
 is amazing. I love the Nazi zombie game mode. It is very challenging and is a great time waster. 
 Overall this is a very fun game to play and mostly anybody who played CoD4 will surely love this 
 one, and if you don't then fine we are all entitled to our own opinions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  It was a wonder as to why we were getting another WW2 shooter, especially because it's been done 
 to death. Why did they bring this out after COD4? Well, it's probably to seal the historical slate 
 to a clear understanding that it was the most devastating war the world has ever had. We definitely 
 know that now and all our hearts have been given to the brave soldiers that have changed the world 
 today.
  
  CODWAW is one of the most brutal shooters I've ever played. The gameplay and mechanics are the 
 best that has ever been presented to date, and in some ways it excels over COD4 in this factor. 
 Aside that, it shouldn't really be compared to modern warfare at all but to the previous WW2 shooters 
 that have been majorly successful in the past. The campaigns are set out wonderfully from the fantastic 
 intro's to each and the characters that grace the battlefield during this amazing journey into 
 the heart of iron. 
  
  The weapons are great including of course the Flamer and Browning, and it was an absoloute blast 
 to tear the nazi's to pieces and set the forests on fire. This game is a must for FPS fans no matter 
 what, but my god it paves the way for a new modern warfare addition in the future that will kick 
 ass beyond imagination.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0yd1e
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  lets start with the game engine which is the cod4 engine in another teams hands, difficulty levels 
 range between hard and god damn pathetic! for example on veteran difficulty setting the game is 
 the same as on the lower difficulty settings no extra objectives nada! so the only diffrence is 
 the fact that every enemy on the game will simply bypass your teammates/squad in order to put a 
 bullet in your face without your teammates/squad even looking at your enemy let alone trying to 
 help! and on another level you are required to shoot a sniper in a building accross the street 
 which may sound simple but the fact that your up against a sniper with telecinectic abilities so 
 is able to shoot at you when you are hidding behind a solid wall with no holes or any way of seeing 
 me!! WTF then you go online to find that most people prefer to hide in a corner and shoot you, 
 well i understand that this is not the games fault but the fact that it has been developed with 
 sloped walls that you can sort of climb up and sort of hover on whilst crouching looking threw 
 the window shooting everyone that walks bye makes alot of people hate what could of been and should 
 have been a great game is in fact a complete bore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adawg42025
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the single player and the zombies at the end ,but the single player 
 can not live up to expectations for my replay value. I buy games most the time for multiplayer 
 online and cod5 sucks the maps blow you play same 4 over and over its dumb , weapons suck the graphics 
 blow this game is a rip off of infinity wards awsome cod4, there engine there game treyarch ball 
 droping on cod5 dont belive the hype if I were you I wouuld just keep playing cod4 and wait till 
 cod 6 comes out cause infinity ward will be doing that one and it will be sick . i really liked 
 the zombies at the end that was pretty cool but i have already sold this game fo 55 dollars on 
 amazon so I got most of my money back I do like wwII but i think they could have made better weapons 
 and better online maps there hard to see people everybody just camps otherwise your running around 
 a big circle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played any Call of Duty game, you know what to expect. If you haven't World At 
 War is a great place to start. For World At War, Call of Duty goes back to WWII, which all depends 
 on taste. Some people prefer WWII, some people prefer Modern. Personally I like both. The game 
 is fun no matter which you prefer.
  
  COD WAW is intense. The solo campaign is short, probably six to eight hours, but it is Intense 
 and never lets down. Most of your playing time will come from competitive multiplayer which is 
 pretty much the same as COD4, but with WWII weapons. There are a few little additions like the 
 flame thrower and bayonet attacks that are cool though.
  
  The graphics are great. Everything is sharp and clean, especially the flames from the flame thrower.
 
  
  Sounds are fantastic! Lots of big explosions, and gunfire sounds authentic.
  
  The only factor that lowers the score is the been there done that feeling, it's COD4 in WWII, but 
 this is the best WWII FPS ever made, by a longshot.
  
  If you like WWII guns this is the game to play. If you prefer modern stuff stick to COD4. Personally, 
 I will be Playing COD WAW for a long time...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleon5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I finished the single player campaign last night, it was amazing. The graphics were excellent on 
 my PS3. Some of the environments/missions seem somewhat recycled from previous CoDs, but Treyarch 
 makes up for it with the brutal combat combined with the great graphics that will send shivers 
 down your spine (just try the flamethrower) . It is a clear change from the Medal of Honors and 
 previous CoDs. If you're still hesitant about the game, rent it and blast through the single player 
 campaign. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  I haven't tried it out yet, sadly, but it uses the same engine as CoD4 which really isn't a bad 
 thing. WaW online seems to be like a mod to the CoD4 online. Nonetheless, I'm still excited to 
 start bayonetting nubs and take my double barreled shotgun online! (O, and new perks have been 
 added, I need to see what this banzai perk is)
  
  =^_^= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  First of all we all knew that this game was going to use the same engine as it's predecessor. The 
 comlaints however were made not for the gameplay, graphics or other things but the fact that 
 the franchise went back to the WWII era. So this game has been approached by all with a prejudice 
 in mind.
  
  Personally I loved the game. The single player mode is not only deep and exciting but it takes 
 us to fronts we've never been before. Sometimes it can get a bit hard but this is what it's about. 
 The addition of extra levels such as Nazi zombie level is amazing. Being able to play the single 
 player mode co-op online is a refreshing experience. The graphics, old school weapons all add to 
 the experience. 
  
  In the end this game really offers great gameplay and the online multiplaying is really enjoyable. 
 Must buy for the fans not only COD4 fans but the fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koosoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  INFO ------------
  Well, everyone is all like "Call of duty world at war sucks, its bad since its in world war 2, 
 AGAIN, and etc." Well, i also agree ww2 is getting a bit old, but the new thing is that WaW goes 
 into the Japanese part of the war, which i found interesting. 
  
  Multiplayer ----------
  The multiplayer is the same from call of duty 4, which is a good thing. It's action packed, fun, 
 thrilling, co-op, and the nazi zombies is SO FUN. Mostly when you have friends over, its all we 
 really play now, its extreme =)
  
  Guns -----------
  Well, if you played some of the ww2 games you'll see some returning favorites, and also a few new 
 guns here and there, mostly the flamer. When i saw it in the trailers i was wondering how fast 
 the ammo ran out, since it was a overpowered weapon, and i figured out that it has unlimited ammo, 
 it just needs to recharge which really doesn't take that long. So I just set everything on fire 
 when i have it =)
  
  Graphics --------
  the thing that amazed me when i first played the game was the graphics, i expected it to be pretty 
 low, but i was shocked, i know graphics when i see it, since i have mgs4, which is beautiful.
 
  
  Sound ----------- The sound is also pretty good, everything sounded how a world war 2 gun should 
 sound like.
  
  Story -----------
  And now the story, in all call of duty games the story has been amazing, and for WaW, it had a 
 dark setting to it, mostly the Russian part. I'm not going spoil anything so don't worry, It should 
 keep you glued to your seats and always having fun.
  
  So that's it, if you were wondering if you should get this for Christmas, then get it, you'll have 
 a blast, mostly if friends come over, its fun :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba41025
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Hi My name is Lachlan. And this is my review for call of duty world at war ps3. I love this game. 
 It is the best game ever made and always will be. way better than gta4. And modern warfare. I love 
 the new multiplayer modes on it like the nazi zombie. Now that looks fun. The campaign is exiting 
 and emotional. The guns are awsome. and the chracters perfect. This game goes back to world war 
 2. Which makes it even more exiting. I have only played on cod and that is cod4. This game I would 
 recommend top anyone. It is so fun you will be addicted to it. Which is a great thing. I will never 
 stop playing this game because it is so awsome. The most salient difference between World at War 
 and Modern Warfare is the WWII setting. In the campaign, you split time between two soldiers in 
 two offensive theaters: the Russian push out of their homeland and into the heart of Germany, and 
 the American struggle to wrest Pacific islands from the Japanese. Though you'll alternate between 
 them every few levels, the campaign feels like one solid progression, thanks to the adept pacing. Thanks 
 for reading By Lachlan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  NOTE: Before I start, I'll just say that I haven't played mulitplayer yet, so obviously, I will 
 not mention anything about that portion of WaW in this review. 
  
  COD WaW is a game that I was very skeptical about before release. After Treyarch's previous poor 
 offering (CoD3) I wasn't expecting anything but just another run of the mill FPS with WaW. However, 
 that's NOT the case! The game is great! It's very challenging, has a great campaign, and in a lot 
 of areas, it's just as good as CoD4. 
  
  Gameplay - Overall, the gameplay is very good. The CoD4 engine is the main reason why. WaW plays 
 a lot like CoD4, and that's definitely not a bad thing. 
  
  Graphics - It's not MGS4, but the graphics are very good. I'd say that they're comparable to CoD4. 
 Everything looks great. From the enviroments, to the tanks and other vehicles, to the weapons and 
 characters. Everything looks good, so I'd say the graphics are a definite plus in WaW. 
  
  Framerate - The action isn't as smooth as CoD4, but it's damn near close! There aren't any serious 
 or really noticable slowdowns, even with a lot of action on-screen. Overall, the framerate is solid 
 and is consistent throughout the action. 
  
  Sound - The sound effects are stunning! You can hear bullets flying past you, and the sound of 
 explosions going off all around. The intense sounds of WaW will defintitely immerse you in the 
 game. 
  
  Replay value - With the inclusion of trophies, as well as just being plain fun, the campaign is 
 something you'll definitely want to play more than once. Veteran difficulty is something that will 
 test even the most skilled gamers out there, and it's one reason why the replayablilty of WaW is 
 increased for those that want a real challenge. Playing this game on Veteran is by far the hardest 
 game I've ever played, and is by far the greatest challenge I've faced in a videogame.
  
  Overall - Overall, CoD WaW is an excellent game that exceeded expectations. Treyarch did an outstanding 
 job, and really brought us a great FPS. If you are a fan of the CoD series, or even just a fan 
 of FPS in general, then CoD WaW is a game you don't want to miss out on.
  
  Gameplay - 9-10
  Graphics - 8.5-10
  Framerate - 9.5-10
  Sound - 9.5-10
  Replay Value - 
 9-10
  Overall - 9-10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  No.. There's your answer. COD5 isn't as good as, nor better than it's predecessor, COD4. However, it 
 is still an excellent game that lives up to the hype.
  
  It doesn't do anything particularly new. We've all fought World War Two countless times before in 
 videogames, and the two fronts, the Eastern and Pacific fronts, are nothing new either. Yet somehow 
 Treyarch manages to make it all seem new again, thanks to a new sense of brutality, which makes the 
 player feel as if they are genuinely at war, right from the start. Limbs fly off, pools of blood collect 
 around the piles of dead bodies littered around the games barren landscapes. The player, feels, for 
 possibly the first time, that they are experiencing something much closer to a real war than naything 
 captured in a videogame before. This is highlighted by moments of brutality that emphasise why this 
 game has been rated 18 in many countries, a first for the series.
  
  In terms of gameplay, again, it's nothing new, although there are some inspired moments that give 
 the coolest bits from COD4 a run for their money. The objectives are fairly similar to those featured 
 in previous installments in the series, such as eliminating mortar crews and holding off huge attacks. However, it 
 must be said that the combat is slightly different to that experienced in other world war two games. Japanese 
 soldiers charge at the player in fast paced banzai attacks that create a real sense of chaos, even 
 if this can be repetitive at times. The Eastern front features more generic combat, with troops exchanging 
 fire from behind cover. However, it still seems exciting and tense, as dozens of troops fire at each 
 other in some of the grittiest locations to ever feature in a world war two game
  
  The levels on the eastern front are a mixture of woodland and dark, war torn cities, whereas the 
 Pacific levels are made up of jungles and mountains. The settings are such a contrast to each other 
 that the game remains interesting visually throughout. The graphics are brilliant, with explosions 
 rocking the landscapes, and soldiers running around dodging fire. It creates a sense of excitement 
 and energy that hooks the player.
  
  It must also be said that the game does have some flaws. It is very short. The characters are extremely 
 underdeveloped, which means you don't really care about them. However, these are minor flaws in an 
 otherwise great game.
  
  Onto the multiplayer. It doesn't strike the player as as immediately addictive as COD4's, but it's 
 still great fun. The tanks don't unbalance the game. They're powerful, but you can blow them up easily 
 with the right perk or weapon. Other new additions, such as the dogs, seem a little forced and silly, but 
 mostly the multiplayer's really fun to play.
  
  So, overall, COD 5 is an excellent game. It has flwas, but it's exciting to play and well worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonwhiteygibbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  world war 2 , been there done that right? wrong!
  
  the japanese kamikaze attack and ambushes bring a whole intensity to the series that the others 
 lacked. 
  nothing gives you more satisfaction than shoving a bayonet into an enemies heart or countering 
 his attack and sticking him in the throat with a knife while his inches from your face.
  
  just walking along in the grass is suspenseful. enemies ambush from the grass, concealed spider 
 holes and snipers hiding in the trees make it hard to feel safe. your constantly scanning your 
 surroundings for ambushes.
  
  the story's gripping and the sniper levels are amazing.
  the game has a real dark feel to it and isn't afraid to show how devastating war really is.
  
 
  personally i love the weapons from ww2 but can understand why some people dont like the idea of 
 taking a step back from modern warfare. but the truth is, if cod4 hadn't came out before it, it 
 would be the best fps on the market. absolutely amazing and not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielreader22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  COD5 has never been this intense before! The gore adds a real war experience to the game, and really 
 hits you deep within will your killing soldiers! New weapons kick ass! Especially the flamethrower! 
 I'm practically dying from intensity playing this! The objectives aren't hard, and aren't easy. 
 Enemies are so fun to kill! Especially with the FG-42 or trench gun! Lots of blood! And also, there 
 is a graphic content option in the options menu. So if you want to show this to your younger brother, 
 I highly recommend turning this on. It reduces gore and language. Different game modes online are 
 really fun and highly addictive! The graphics are beyond belief! And extremely intense and realistic 
 battles really builds adrenaline and tension! Making you play longer!!! I honestly think it's better 
 than MW! If you respect history, and are a fan of WWII, buy COD5!! One more thing. If you're hurting 
 in finances and can't afford it, buy it from Gamestop. If you trade in two next-gen console games, 
 you can get it for just 19.99!!!!!!!!!!! That's right! I'm not sure if it's temporary, but it most 
 likely is. I also think you have to trade in the specific game for it. For example, if you're buying 
 it for PS3, then you have to trade in two PS3 games you're bored with or don't want. But I don't 
 know. Anyway, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy1213
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war, made by treyarch (who made every other cod except cod 4) has once again, 
 gone back to WWII battles instead of modern warfare, but that is not a negative. COD WOW is very 
 much like modern warfare, which is a good thing. it adds some new weapons including bolt action 
 rifles (which, to me, are kind of annoying) rifles, machine guns, etc. yes, you can still create 
 your own classes. yes there are new perks and perks used in cod 4. All in all, if you already have 
 cod 4, i would say maybe rent this game because you could just be playing cod 4 and cod 4 is a 
 little better than world at war. Besides, next year, infinity ward will be coming out with a new 
 call of duty which im sure will be better. it is a great game for people who have not experienced 
 modern warfare yet, but if you already have, pass this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  At this point in the first person shooter race it is funny to see a World War II based entry; likewise, 
 it is nice to look at it on a next-gen console with some juiced up graphics. Still, the physics 
 of Call of Duty: World at War contain the same elements we have seen on their other releases. This 
 game is basically Call of Duty 4 with a World War II twist. 
  
  The Single player is yet again short and for the most part boring. It feels like playing one of 
 the older releases from this franchise. In addition, I felt reminded of the Medal of Honor series 
 while playing this game; some of the levels were similar in tone and delivery. The physics and 
 controls are exactly the same as COD4. It still feels like you are on a pair of roller blades when 
 you move your character. 
  
  The multiplayer is the same as well. Same menu set up, ranking system, perks, and server connection 
 boots while the host quits when he takes a beating. If you have played COD4 then you have played 
 World at War. Just be prepared for a downgrade in technology and slightly less accurate crosshairs. 
 Don't forget the tiny maps for the folks with the small attentions spans and the patience to seek 
 out their enemy. Did I forget to mention that ridiculous Kill Cam is back as well? What happened 
 to killing your enemy without him knowing where you were smart enough to hide? Did they consider 
 raising your battlefield awareness?
  
  In my opinion they should have released this game as an ADD-ON instead of charging full price. 
 It wasn't worth the full price to play the same game with different weapons. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  the graphics in the game are good but gets really anoying when you have to keep on running beocz 
 the enemy are throwing grenades.
  
  the multiplayer is really addictive with lots of challanges to complete.
  
  you could say the 
 weapons are not as good as COD4 but that was modern warfare and this is world war 2 so oviously 
 thats going to be the case.
  
  but COD5 fights back with the flamethrower and attack dogs.
  
  overall i think its a really 
 good game and everyone should add it to there collection.
  
  but i really hate it when people say the weapons let it down but kmon like i said before its world 
 war 2. 
  
  the tanks are a major plus aswell in the multiplayer gamelay.
  
  now missions this year there where more missions plus a cool new bonus round called nazi zoombies 
 where you could co-op with a friend i just shoot endless zoombies.
  
  not forgetting co-op sumthing COD4 dosent have is also a new great feature and should be in all 
 future games.
  
  well thanks nd good bye
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Nintendo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is good if your a fan of the series and enjoyed the games before the infamous CoD 4. 
 If you played CoD 4 and never played the previous ones then it's likely that you'll hate the downgrade 
 of weapons and technology.
  I'm the latter of the two described above. There are some things that Treyarch have not learned 
 from it's predecessor's, the campaign as always is way too short. Most people can finish this in 
 a day, it needs to be longer! What made CoD 4 so amazing was that the sizes of the maps were a 
 nice size where players could get from one side to the other fairly easily, some moaned about maps 
 being too small or big, but most of the time it was just right. What Treyarch did was not continue 
 with the good sized maps, but go with the big maps that so may people hated. the majority of the 
 maps in CoD 5 are as big, if not bigger than the much hated Creek and Broadcast. This means you 
 spend most of your time roaming around the map looking for opponents and after several minutes 
 get sniped off to have to repeat the process again! This is evident in most games but it does not 
 occur as consistently as it does in this!
  There are obviously additions in this installment, tanks is the most obvious one. The familiar 
 UAV is now a recon plane, an airstrike is now an artillery strike which is much more lethal and 
 wide spread which adds to the annoyance. Finally the dogs replace the helicopter.
  The dogs and the tanks have to be the most annoying additions in the entire game. Firstly the tank. 
 Whenever there s a tank on the map, there is always one person if not more who rushes over to it, 
 then they slowly move towards enemy territory where they run over and blow up everything. This 
 is extremely annoying, especially if your not on the tanks side. As you will inevitably be a victim 
 of this noob addition that takes a ridiculous amount of ammo to get rid of.
  Secondly the dogs. They may be able to get the user more kills than the helicopter did and it's 
 fair that the other team can fight them off, but if you are the other team, when you respawn you 
 instantly get eaten alive by, you guessed it, a dog. But you can fight them off right? Yes, but 
 not when there are two or more. Therefore you have no chance and the game becomes extremely annoying 
 especially when this is a regular occurance... in the same match!
  Now, guns. The selection is obviously a downgrade from CoD4. The bolt action rifles are basically 
 sniper rifles, and the rifles are just weaker equivalents as you have a faster fire rate. The machine 
 guns are quite useless as, although powerfulish, take a long time to actually come out from the 
 barrel, and there is sight aid for these either. So they are pretty useless due to the slow fire 
 rate. The guns that do have a sight aid, you now get a black dot, instead of a red dot. This is 
 a very very small black dot that makes your aim worse as when you bring it up you have to move 
 the gun down so that you can get the dot to actually touch the enemy.
  Enough about hating the game, here are the positives... when you get an assist now, the amount 
 of points you get depends on how much you weakened the enemy before they got snatched from you. 
 4,6,8, these points aren't just for personal gain anymore, they go towards the overall score of 
 the team, making matches quicker so your not stuck on the same map for a long time. When killing 
 a dog, you get 3 points which also is added to the team score.
  Overall if you like the older type of war and were a fan of CoD before number 4 then you would 
 probably like this, if not then you won't like it as much and will become quite annoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magatsu23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is back to WW2. yes it is true. many have thought about it as a step back in relation 
 to the amazing COD4: Modern Combat. I myself thought that nothing could beat the single player 
 campaign of that said game. COD4 was above all words visceral. you felt the bullets, the impact, 
 everything. from the sounds and sights, to the awesome gameplay (including the adrenaline packed 
 multiplayer) it was one hell of a game. one of the best shooters in years. so, when Treyarch was 
 announced as developer, and going back to WW2 noone gave them much credit. but they deserve a lot 
 of it. A LOT OF IT. COD5 is hands down an awesome game.
  
  Yes, awesome. COD4 might have had a great storyline, but COD5 has something that COD4 did not have. 
 Legitimacy, History and Epicness by its side. you ARE fighting in Stalingrad. you are defeating 
 the Japanese empire, in battles against hundreds of oponents. you are invading Berlim and the Reichstag. 
 you are fighting battles that have already been fought, and have been incredibly detailed in this 
 game. WW2 was the greatest and biggest and bloodiest war in history, and this game shows it. and 
 i think it shows it in an honorable way.
  
  this is a classic scripted shooter, but what a blast it is. it has near flawless presentation, 
 amazing audio (the soundtrack is something to behold) and the great Call Of Duty gameplay. the 
 story is told in a fast and well paced manner, making you always curious to what is about to happen. 
 enemies are brutal (even if the AI is sometimes a bit dumb, but very rarely to be a problem)
  
  production values are of the charts as said. but the multiplayer is also great. from SplitScreen 
 Coop (which was missing from COD4) to online coop, and all the multiplayer madness from COD4, this 
 is an amazing and very fun package (with a big plus from the Nazi Zombies mode)
  
  all in all, this is an awesome game. it deserves a lot more than an 8,5. it just isnt perfect, 
 because no game is, and this is a formula that has been tried and tested. but here, it is taken 
 to new heights, in a very polished and satisfying way.
  
  in short, buy this game, you wont regret it. if you like shooters, this is the game. i was tired 
 of FPS, but this game lit my fire once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdgood11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The campaign of Call of Duty 5 World at War is just simply amazing. By far better and longer than 
 modern warfare. But when it comes to online there are multiple questions. 'Are there gold guns'- (no) , 
 '55 levels?' (no) 'more guns and classes'- (yes and no) .. all these questions and more have been 
 asked, and there are answers. Well no gold guns.. but im not to worried about that. Instead of 
 55 levels there are 65. Im not too crazy about this, but it does make it a bit harder in the long 
 run. From what i hear, you get a flame thrower at the end (level 65) of all prestiges. More guns... not 
 so sure about that.. but you can get 15 classes! once u get to the certain level though. I really 
 like the fact you can drive tanks, but when others get them on other teams, u don't have much of 
 a chance, unless you have the bazooka! (or another tank) Good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  COD5 is just like COD4. Except this one has harder, but better, Online Play. Also, It's WWII. And 
 NAZI ZOMBIES rock. The game has really good graphics and a good storyline. Here are the pros and 
 cons of this game
  
  The Good
  --------------
  * Awesome Graffix
  * Good Gameplay
  * Cool Storyline
  * Online Play is more realistic
  * Co-Op Gameplay is a nice addition
  * 
 Zombie Mode is raw
  
  Bad
  ------
  * It's World War 2 !!!!!
  
  All in all, a nice game. Buy it if you liked four. Also, Zombie Mode is fun Online. Pair up with 
 some friends, shoot off a zombies head, only to have it come after you beheaded.... Ah, good times, 
 good 
  Yeah, also they have trophies. And other stuff. And in Zombie Mode you can get a RAY GUN!!!! WEE 
 OOO WEE OOO WEE OOO WEE OOO WEE OOO! I am gonna type random stuff AGAIN to fill in the stupid character 
 minimum! WOE DFUEBFP: IOBF PIUEBF: OIH W: L~IO HBW: O IH F: OIHWE:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigsolid88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  I reason I buy because COD5 and COD4 is have same graphic, different story. COD5 is really cool 
 in story and more deep. I can't stop play on online is pretty cool and can't expalin it. Lot of 
 gun in world war is cool and werid. I never see lot of WW2 guns in my life. I admit COD5 online 
 is better than COD4. Sorry COD4 fan about that. I heard lot people unhappy with WW2. Come on!!!!! 
 what big deal between modern and WW2. It same graphic. All people is stupid and fool. I like 7-streak 
 dogs, it can kill dogs. I am tired of COD4 7-streak kill helicopter. It long and kill fast. it 
 hard target helicopter with bazooka. Everyone know that. I am really like it. I wish make a next 
 call of duty game. It will happen watch it. I can feel it. On Fall 2009. No matter what I can play 
 game like COD4 and COD5. it still same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Well to get to the point, Call of Duty: World at War is the best addition to the series yet!!! 
 It carries a very solid, yet fun campaign, the graphics are extremely well put, and the rest is, 
 well... indescribable in my opinion. Just so everyone knows you can't get in and out of vehicles, 
 and no (sadly) you can't climb trees. I found that I enjoyed this Call of Duty better than Modern 
 Warfare. It was more challenging and it carried a better storyline, plus you don't have Captain 
 Price from CoD2 and CoD4 yelling in your ear constantly, but the characters in this CoD are better 
 and their campaign perspectives are way different than the other Call of Duties. Also when you 
 beat the campaign, watch the credits (not to wreck anything) but you'll be in for one hell of a 
 surprise!!! But as for multiplayer (I'm not the one to be asked) but from what I gather, it is 
 very very intense. I swear this is one of those games, that you wish had some of the demo features, 
 but you just ignore them and just get soo into the game that you say "What?" by the time you're 
 at the last mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallOfDuty75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  awesome game. better than others in so many ways! want to play over and over again. great storyline 
 and great weapons to!
  awesome graphics on ps3 system and the BEST online game. get this game fast because once you take 
 it in your gameplaying hand, you will never ever ever let go intil call of duty 6 comes out! money's 
 worth every  blowing action. action figures are also available 
 at stores. great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great 
 game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5: World at War is a great return to it's familar wartime setting. Call of Duty 5: 
 World at War restores all of the depth of the early Call of Duty installments, whilst sucsessfully 
 bringing back all the features that made Call of Duty 4 such a hit. The new features of Call of 
 Duty 5 also add even more to the replayabilty. Call of Duty 5 is a game containing so much to play 
 through, it is one of the very best war games on the PS3 so far.
  
  Call of Duty 5: World at War requires you to go through two gritty storylines both concerning war 
 and conflict. One war of the Japense Imperial Army in the pacific, and liberate Berlin as part 
 of the Soviet Army. Call of Duty 5, from then on, plays much like the early installments of Call 
 of Duty, filled with a wide variety of new weapons such as the flamethrower to take out on your 
 enemies. The diversion of paths in Call of Duty 5 is very intresting, as ultimately, this adds 
 even more depth to COD as both of these parts display a highly engaging dark and rivetting perspective 
 at these scenarios. The split paths make the game even more bold, and arguably even more exciting.
 
  
  Graphically, Call of Duty 5 brims with detail, gore and atmosphere of the greatest kind. Call of 
 Duty 5 ultimately really makes Call of Duty a much more realistic feel to it. Not only do the graphics 
 boom with action, this makes Call of Duty 5 a lot more engaging, as you truly feel you are in a 
 world with refuge and rage.
  
  Call of Duty 5's online is a wonder to behold. There is quite a lot to do. There is the classic 
 deathmatch option with one or more players, and little minnigames like Nazi Zombies. The variety 
 of COD 5 online is amazingly good, and ultimately has tons of replay value.
  
  Despite what a fun game COD 5 is, there are a few flaws with it which do hinder an otherwise fun 
 time. COD 5 suffers from momentarily stiff AI, and slightly feels rushed. COD 5 also only feels 
 like COD 4 set back in time. A lot of the elements in COD 5 feel copied and feels ultimately a 
 little bit uninspired. COD 5's online minnigames like Nazi Zombies feel like relatively pointless 
 additions, and feel like pointless busywork. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 5 that is not quite as fun as Call of Duty 4, but still, one of the most 
 fun games of 2008 by miles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andtillo3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD- good graphics, all the guns and bombs are pretty sweet!, good size maps! story is sweet! 
 Never gets boring! Online is different than COD4 but still interesting and enjoyable! 
  
  THE BAD- hand grenade signal is faint and will piss you off!! possibly the online setup may bother 
 you! Personally i love the Call Of Duty sets there all awesome COD4 alot of people have and know 
 how sweet it is. well this is just a step up! i recommend to purchase this game. I beat the game 
 within 7 hours. i would say it really made me interested and usually i dont try to beat a game 
 withing a day or so but COD5 really was interetsing and deffinately worth your while. i suggest 
 you rent it if you arent to sure then if you like it go out and pick' r' up!!! This game really 
 make you want to keep playing it. It is fairly easy to beat i played it on Regular and i also played 
 COD4 on regular so i would say doesnt matter what you play on im sure it is just right and awesome 
 FPS game! You can also call for dogs to come and attack the enemy and you can drive tanks! Most 
 things blow into pieces but not everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnedson
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Length of play time is disappointing at best. Maybe I expected to much with the review scores so 
 high. I must say i will not be adding it to my collection !!!! The graphics are good and the story 
 line is good but aside from that its pretty much same old same old. For $60 I expect alot more. 
 I feel ripped-off spending $9 to rent it. I probably wouldnt feel so disappointed if I would be 
 compelled to play more than once, but like i said same old same old. If you are looking for a game 
 to hold your attention this isn't it As far as content, in the tank battle you are out there on 
 your own with all enemies aime at you. aircraft chapter is way to easy . Yhere was one instanc 
 where I was stuck in a loop after being killed with no chance to fight out of it and had to start 
 chapter over. When I see Activision on a game label I'm usually pretty happy with the product. 
 I just think there could be so much more. I have read other reviews and it sounds like everyone 
 is on the manufacturers payroll. This is not a game worth buying. I had more fun with DUCK HUNT!!!!!!! 
 I would get more enjoyment with $60 of toilet paper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  in call of duty world at war the missions look harder because the enemy's start running toward 
 you and try to stab you but u have to kill them fast before u die and have to start over. the new 
 weapons that they have is the flamethrower, the flamethrower can kill anything they can make tanks 
 explode and they can kill enemy's fast by burning them or burn up everywhere. nthe graphics in the 
 game look just like call of duty 4 modern warfare. in call of duty 4 modern warfare and call of 
 duty world at war it's the sam because they can run and stab people execpt that in call of duty 
 world at war yor mostly in the forest and its dark so you wont see that much things so yo have 
 to use your map to know where your team is so you dont get lost and die easily because you wont 
 have help if your lost, but in call of duty 4 modern warfare there is, more daytime because your 
 in an abanded city but there is alot of enemies and there hard to kill because they always hide 
 from people and come out of no where and try to kill but you team always kill them even if your 
 team dies they come back to life and help you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  So it is finally here cod5 a game that you have to admit you were pretty scared of to. When it 
 came was first know everyone one was mad because it was ww2. well YOU SHOULDN'T BE. Because cod 
 is back with a bang and loads of stuff and lets start this off. Story. ........ It's ww2....... 
 You storm the beach of Norway ........ did I say it's ww2? People it's a world war 2 game don't 
 expect it to have a huge story you know it's basic ww2 stuff. Graphics. Really the graphics in 
 this game are beautiful I mean WOW they are really good and I will say this when you play only 
 and go to the map with the pink leaves then you will know what I am talking about. Plus another 
 thing they added was dismemberment. Thats right you hear me grab your double barrel shot gun and 
 go have fun out there. Gameplay. Okay the controls are the same as cod4 you know r1 to shoot yada 
 yada yada. Some great things are the streak kills radar is still here but now air strike has been 
 replaced with artillery strike and now the helicopter has been replaced with dogs which is good 
 because now you can actually fight back against not just get your ass shot at in the middle of 
 the street in cod4. Really some people were mad at the facts that there are dogs but really I prefer 
 it I mean The helicopter was way to powerful and chance were you died by it at least two times 
 in every match. And you probably only took down two a day. But now with the dogs they are still 
 dangerous but they can be killed. But still there are a lot of dogs. Really to me this was a much 
 better feature. Now the guns. well my favorite is the double barrel shot gun and every other gun 
 seems to work fine so yea enjoy.
  So this game is a mandatory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdood333
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war is the best world war 2 game i have ever played. with the different enemies 
 and loads of wepons you'll actually have a choice in this war. As people talk about world war 2 
 they think of America fighting the Germans. But while we were fighting the germans we were also 
 fighting the Japanese on the islands. while ont the islands we were in fear of the crocs and different 
 types of animals that could kill us. But call of duty world at war isnt about fighting in the wild 
 its about fighting for our country! Also we never think of the countries that helped us in this 
 world war. The russans. These bad asses were cruel. but they fought for there country as hard as 
 we fought for ours. and what i mean by cruel is that they killed there own men for retreting! But 
 as you play call of duty world war you'll see very little of that. with the whole wide rang of 
 wepons you'll feel like you have everything you need to fight this war. but dont get too cocky. 
 this game if tough, but dont feel like you cant succeed. im someone who plays first person shooters 
 alot and this was a trip! banzi attackers! snipers in trees! you get a flame througher! no worries 
 your covered! you get the m1 garand granade luancher! that thing is wicked cool. if you like call 
 of duty 4, you'll like this game just much. i dont know about the online play but it has the same 
 system as call of duty 4. you will like this game as much as any other. call of duty isnt the best 
 but winning the war and getting a taste of what your great grandfather did and some of you even 
 you dad. this game shows you what hell they went through. the love between the brothers! THE PASSION 
 THEY HAVE FIGHTING FOR THIS COUNTRY! AND WHAT EVER THEY WILL GIVE TO KEEP THERE FAMLIES SAFE! and 
 what they have lost during there journy to do the best for this world. you will not forget this 
 history. this great war which has spent over hundreds of thousands of men. this game is the best. 
 and always will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirteen_zombie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Do you enjoy occasionaly blowing someones lower portions off? Spewing flames out of a giant torch? 
 Lighting things on fire and hearing them go boom as body parts scatter? Well then soldier sign 
 here and date here your enlisted!
  
  COD4 moder warfare was and is hands down one of the greatest mulitplayers currently out. If you 
 agree with that statement go pick up world at war if you havent already. Its meaner, just as tuned 
 in, fantastic level design and gameplay, plenty of online modes, challenges and unlockables to 
 keep you gaming. 
  
  Not much needs to be said about his game, especially if you've played COD4 moder war fare. If you 
 liked the formula in COD4mwf theres nothing in World at War you wont love. The addition of flamethrowers 
 and molotov's is alot of fun and interesting. 
  
  Pick it up and get in there soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Playing the game at the first couple of minutes was ok, since i was expecting the whole new weapons 
 upgrades and the of course the new spice that was supposed to be show but changing from a weapon 
 to another started to get on my nerves and of course the limited movements, he cant even jump over 
 a small barrier....
  Can't start a Coop campaign before finishing the 1 player campaign!!!!!!!!!!!!! where is the democracy 
 :)
  
  The story seesm good i've only played the first 3 levels but i don't think i will play the rest 
 of it sadly.
  i will try and play it online but i don't have high expectations on it.
  bottom line i wish i never paid that amount of money to play an ugly version of call of duty
 
  
  the weapons are so useless. changing a mug every 6 shots with a weapon that doest have the proper 
 aiming gear and its sucks!!!!
  maybe i'm being too harsh on the game but it was a big disappointment for me and i hope i will 
 be able to get used to it with time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiltz04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The game play is like all other call of duties. The missions are always fun keeping you 
 interested all the way through the game... The game has a great storyline and keeps up to par with 
 COD 4 with real footage of WWII.. Some of the footage is graphic and really represents the struggles 
 of WWII and for some people who don't know much about this time will gain a somewhat of a better 
 understanding... Its amazing that they show how many people died during certain wars, and the replication 
 of D-Day coming up to the shores just makes the game absolutely untouchable. Enemies popping out 
 of the grass!!! This kept players from running through the levels, because they would pop out and 
 immediately shoot you or attack you with a knife. 
  
  Sound/Visuals- The weapons used in WWII are replicated nicely in this installment. They sound similar 
 to the real life sound and keep you thinking to which gun you will use in certain situations. The 
 visuals are not as touching as COD modern warfare but they are better than most other shooters. 
 The installment of Keefer Sutherland as one of the voice for one of your comrades is amazing... Gotta 
 love Jack Bauer lol... The explosions from air strikes seem more detailed to me then past COD's.
 
  
  Online Play- The online play is similar to past call of duties.... I enjoy the online play the most 
 more so than the single player modes. Capture the flag is one of my personal favorites! Online 
 with your friends is very fun.... Try Resistance 2 online, that will blow you away!
  
  Overall its a good game, i still think COD Modern Warfare is slightly better although this game 
 really takes you back into history . The game is quite challenging to me from past COD's. I think 
 a simple rent of this game will do the job if your a single player junkie... but if your an online 
 player try this out and Resistance 2 and then decide which one you like better!... Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiff_p239
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Before this game game out, I was dying to get it. Then I started reading about how everyone thought 
 this game was going to be lame so I changed my mind about it and decided to pass on it. However, 
 curiosity got the better of me when I started reading the reviews so I picked it up anyway. Before 
 you finish reading this, do know that I have beaten the single-player campaign and spent a number 
 of hours in the multi-player as well.
  
  The single-player campaign in this game is nowhere near as good as that of COD4. I found myself 
 just wishing the story was over so that I could unlock Nazi Zombies. You never really feel like 
 you care about any of the characters in the game. I know that since this game takes place in WWII 
 there has to be historical accuracy, but I didn't care about what happened to my character (either 
 Russian or American) . The Russian campaign is driven purely by hatred and desire for revenge. The 
 enemy AI in this game can be horrible as well. As some reviews have said, there are times where 
 you'll see a Japanese soldier and an American soldier standing face to face with their guns pointed 
 at each other but then nothing happens.
  
  As for the multi-player, it's COD4 set in WWII, which for me is a bad thing. I'll admit that I'm 
 not the best when it comes to FPS games, but I really missed the high-tech scopes and weaponry. 
 The one thing that I did like better was the fact that the artillery strikes actually could kill 
 you even if you or a teammate called it in. It just seemed more realistic than the airstrikes in 
 COD4. The addition of Capture the Flag was also a positive for the game but I didn't feel the same 
 way about the War mode. I think Domination in COD4 was better since it forced you to hold multiple 
 positions all at once rather than have you capture 5 locations one by one. I did like the idea 
 of co-op and competitive multi-player, but I didn't really find it to be much fun. Rather than 
 having your stupid AI squad mates, you have people who can fight intelligently but it doesn't make 
 much difference since the enemy AI is still not too smart. I also wasn't too impressed with the 
 addition of the tanks in the multi-player. It just seemed like a cheap gimmick. However, my biggest 
 problem with the online play has to be the spawning. There were so many times where I'd get killed, 
 respawn, and then be killed before I could even turn around to orient myself on the map. I can 
 understand that happening on the Dome level since it's not much bigger than Shipment in COD4, but 
 it happened all the time on the larger levels as well.
  
  
  All in all, this isn't a bad game. It's based on the COD4 engine so they would've had to try really 
 hard to screw things up. However, it just doesn't have what it takes to really draw you into the 
 game. I just wish I had rented the game rather than purchased it. I could've gotten everything 
 that I wanted out of it in a single weekend. I'm sure a lot of people will love this game and that's 
 great, but I just wasn't all that impressed. Everyone's entitled to their own opinion and this 
 is mine. Take it for what it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aznstylez1987
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  COD4 was ground breaking with it's addictive online play and compelling (but short) story mode. 
 COD5 is sub par, with some flashy add ons to tide over its fan base. The graphics in the campaign 
 mode are still great, the added little details of blown off limbs and mangled bodies definitely 
 adds to the reality of the game. However, with weapon modeling resembling that of COD3 and the 
 lack of sound accuracy (i. e. for explosions or gun fights in the distance) makes multiplayer mode 
 less climactic. 
  
  After beating the campaign mode, the unlockable zombie mode is fun, but the lack of level selection 
 takes away from the full potential of this extra mode. 
  
  On the whole, the game play is less intense and if you are expecting a great sequel, this is not 
 it. Hopefully, COD5 will hit an era (i. e. Vietnam or another version of modern combat) with the 
 same addictive playing level as that of COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  So COD5 starts out where youre hostage at a japanese camp with some random soldier. So the chief 
 slits the soldiers throat and he's about to kill you and then you're fellow marines come in and 
 save you and you're ready to start the first level. Overall, World at War is very much similar 
 to COD 4. Some things you might notice is the gameplay is much smoother than COD 4, and the voice 
 acting is very good and the weapons soun very brutal. Online gameplay is very much the same as 
 it's predecessor except 3 kills=recon plane,5 kills=airstrike,7kill streak=attack dogs. The only 
 downfall about COD: WAW is the campaign is very short like Modern Warfare. There's only 16 missions 
 in the campaign and you'll probably finish the game within 4 or 5 hours. In the campaign you also 
 play a russian soldier named Dimitri Petrenko. The russian campaign starts off like the american 
 campaign.. you're in a german massacre and weaponless and then you meet Sgt. Reznov. The graphics 
 in this game is amazing and the violence is deadlier than ever. You'll see people's heads blow 
 off and their limbs bleeding like hell. The story is more on the emotional side as you claim victory 
 for your country, with many sacrifices. So the game ends when you're overtaking a German Reivhstag 
 and you raise the Russian flag. In my opinion, best COD ever. BUY THIS NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas81093
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Right never wanted this game my mum bought it me instead of Mirrors edge.
  So played it anyway because of all the hype. Start of the campaign is eventful to say the least. 
 But gameplay starts to get repetative after awhile. Its a the same all the way through run here 
 and shoot. So the only reason i gave it a 7 is the zombie mode. That is the only good thing about 
 it. Co-op is ok not good but its not bad ether. So the main reson people bought the game online.
 
  Exactly the same as COD4 just worse all right ill admit i prefer dogs to helicopters and artillerys 
 got a better feel to it. But the game engine is a the same as be fore ranks go higher this time 
 to 65 i belive. custom wepon sets are lacking the choice of call of duty 4. The scopes are anoying 
 to say the least if your not used to them. Best add on for wepons to me was the bernet. Only reson 
 play online played a free for all earlyer only using the bernet come 1st :D. The maps are quite 
 boring most small and compact some only just a little bit bigger then shipment. so all in all this 
 game was never worth the hype Developers should be ashamed to just try and copy the one before.
 
  so my message to anyone who is anticapating buying this game just stick with COD4 Its Better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedT
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ist thought:
  
  I really wanted to like this game after seeing previews. I thought wow, this looks like it will 
 be just as good as cod4 and should be better. My thinking was that they would perfect the on-line 
 play for ps3 but they did not.
  SO WHY PLAY THIS WHEN COD4 IS BETTER?
  
  Problems:
  
  There is absolutely no sense of community. All they added was a spot on the screen where they put 
 the total # of users. Some of the graphics actually look silly (i. e. the gun models) on the weapon 
 selection screen. The animations of people running do not look right, they do not have that flow 
 of human motion that was so smooth in cod 4. The dogs look lame however they were still a nice 
 touch. The tanks were completely lame, you had to actually hit the person with the shell in order 
 to kill them most of the time. You had to blow up the tank, for effect of realism they should have 
 made it your goal first to take out it's tracks then try to blow it up (they did this in story 
 but I did not see it in the online) . They failed to make it better in everyway and actually managed 
 to make it worse in some aspects.
  
  No Originality
  
  Finally I am just sick of ww2; I have rented 3 ww2 shooters but could never convince myself to 
 purchase them. This one uses the same formula they always try to use, the large scale battles, 
 the attempt at narration by fictitious 1st hand accounts. They have managed to market an entire 
 generations trials and tribulations to the point that I actually feel bitter towards the game developers 
 for it. If you buy this game your grandfather or great grandfather's generation will not be the 
 only one they are taking advantage of but your own generation as well by managing to suck another 
 dollar from your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackShadeDark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  When Infinity ward unleashed Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare, everyone got heavily excited about the 
 multiplayer. Guess what this game does it again!
  
  The singleplayer is mind blowing!
  
  The singleplayer is as tense as the multiplayer for sure but this time it has an unique feeling 
 to it. The games real fought battles are amazing. For the American campaign you'll be fighting 
 with the Japanese warriors. And it gets very tense at some parts like when you get attacked when 
 all the Japanese guys feigned death in the middle of the jungle. Suddenly light flares everywhere 
 and charging bayonet warriors! Fantastic! Same goes for the Russian campaign when you try to siege 
 the Reichstag. You have that feeling of immense chaos all around you, especially with your friend 
 Sergeant Reznov shouting gruesome things about the Nazi's. Conclusion: The singleplayer is an awesome 
 introduction to Call Of Duty World at War and it's gives you a shot at all the weapons. After you 
 finish the campaign you unlock Nazi Zombies which totally rocks. You can play it co-op offline 
 and co-op online or even solo. It might start slow but it gets tense after a few rounds. Certainly 
 a great addition.
  
  The multiplayer is the same like Call of Duty 4 but that is certainly a great thing. There are 
 additions like vehicles (which at sometimes feel overpowered but are ok) , bayonets and flamethrowers 
 and some new perks. The weapons and perks are nice to use just like in Call Of Duty 4. But ofcourse 
 there is something missing if you played Call Of Duty 4 a year long and that is the excitement 
 which you had when you first played Call Of Duty 4 - BUT ! That doesn't hamper the gameplay for 
 sure! This is certainly a great game that won't break down on you. And even if you think it's bad 
 because Treyarch made it, your wrong, f*cking wrong! Treyarch may have made a mistake with Call 
 Of Duty 3 but this is a killer game.
  
  Minor note: If you where rock solid at Call Of Duty 4 online, you might suck at the beginning. 
 That really sucked for me sometimes just getting pewned some matches because in Call Of Duty 4 
 I had team death matches where i had like 48 kills and 4 deaths (PS3)
  
  CONCLUSION: If you loved Call Of Duty 4 you will love Call Of Duty World at War too or even more! 
 With that said: I'm off to enjoy some Zombie ownage online and ofc some noobslaughtering too ! 
 
  
  I'm looking for some friends to play with me too ! :)
  add my PSN if you'd like to play with me. I don't have an headset yet (going to get it in a few 
 days) So feel free to add me to your friendlist (but mention my review of gamespot if you invited 
 me)
  PSN: blackshadedark
  
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commdraco
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  As you all know COD: WAW uses the same engine as COD4. However all the time I was playing COD4, 
 I would think, "Wouldn't this be cool with WWII weapons?" And then they came out with CODWAW. This 
 now one of my favorite games. It has the missing parts of WWII, not in the previous games, like 
 the Japanese. They brought back the tank which i enjoyed from the first game, even though it is 
 a little hard to kill. And the heavy machine guns, also only in the first game. I absolutely love 
 the ranking system. There's more to win and I believe that COD has the best out of any game. I 
 enjoyed the game mode "Boot Camp" due to the fact I did not have to face game testers on my first 
 match, they usually destroy you making it so that it is harder to get a good K/D ratio at first. 
 The only thing I did not like about the game is that, just about all the trophies are only for 
 the campaign mode, and only a couple are for On-line and even thous are only CO-OP. Thank you for 
 reading my Gibber Jabber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davytiger
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Well, in the past Treyarch have not, by far, been the best game developer in the business! At one 
 point i though they were the worst! HOWEVER, CoD 5: WaW, has changed my perspective. CoD 5 is an 
 awesome game with great, NEW guns better multiplayer, and a staggering story mode (which is good 
 that it is longer!- The only point which let CoD 4 down!) It does not matter that it uses CoD 4's 
 game engine, this just proves how good it was and how successful it was. Come to think of it, for 
 people that despise it, then you better get used to it because most game developers are now starting 
 to use the engine (like Quantum Of Solace, to name just one!) 
  The graphics are awesome, which should be by now in this technological age! It is great fun going 
 up to an enemy and shooting them down (which is always very dramatic) it it also quite fun but 
 quite horrible when you can knife an enemy in the head, and when you can incinerate somebody with 
 the new flamethrower added to the game! Of course, like any new game, it does take some getting 
 used to the new maps online, but once you know your way around, you can start to have a lot of 
 fun! 
  
  Basically this is one of the games of 2008, like CoD 4 was for 2007! Just buy this game and you 
 WILL love it, that is almost a guarantee! i do have one thing to say: JUST HAVE A LOT OF FUN!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docscott31
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Heres are the problems as i see it with with COD WAW,
  
  In reviewing this game i have to compre it to COD4 as its really the only reason i bought it,
 
  I love COD4, in my eyes COD 4 is perfect, especially as an online multiplayer, 
  i have played COD4 for over 30 days, gladly achieved 10th level prestige and done nearly all the 
 challanges and i always go back for more.
  
  Ive played COD WAW all weekend and found it to be a chore, its not fun, far from it, 
  i can 
 only stomach 2-3 hours at a go, compared to 4-6-8 hours on COD4.
  
  The main thing i dont like is the sound, its terrible, now this might not bother some people but 
 when its on a 5.1 home cinema system you expect grenades to go BOOM and an artilary strike to sound 
 like one, they dont, they sound pathetic. I cant beleive the people from tryech sat in te recording 
 studio and were happy with the sound fx?
  All the in sound fx are weak, even your footsteps and your enemies footsteps dont sound right, 
 and in game music? i dont think so!
  
  The graphics may be on the same engine as COD4 but IMO they are n't as good, too much gloom, i 
 know thats maybe what they were after to capture the fall of berlin for example, but it makes for 
 a miserable playing experience. Ive been going back and forth between to the two and COD4 is far 
 superior in every department.
  
  Tha gameplay itself feels like COD4, all the games are there, free for all, search and destroy 
 etc.. but it does n't feel right?
  It feels lie an inferior version, a cheap copy, the guns are mostly rubbish and the respawning 
 points are at times a joke!
  
  Then theres the maps, some of them are not very interesting, just labryinths that sprawl all over 
 place, we could all design maps that are just big and confusing, 
  but theres nothing like CRASH, BACKLOT or CROSSFIRE etc ...
  
  I must admit i was sceptical 
 a few months ago when it was announced that it was to be a WW2 scenario, but the trailers and previews 
 won me over, i really wanted to like this game and was looking forward to it, maybe too much, but 
 know i feel terribley dissapointed and will continue to play COD 4 until COD6 comes out.
  
  verdict - dissapointing and very over-rated!.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  if any one played call of duty 4 then made what they thought was the up grade to 5 they should 
 be mad as hell. i dot think that they even put any effort into this game. yes there is always going 
 to be the gamerswho are going to say it's the best game yet. its ok to lie to your self but please 
 dont lie to others. if no name was on the disk and any one went to play this game they would say 
 it's a cheap rip off of call of duty. the dark and grity is more like cheap and easy to make. this 
 is a sad game. after 5 min. i was done thats it all it took was 5 min. reach down deep and tell 
 your self the thurth you know that you just got ripped off if you paid full price for this shell 
 of a game. i've heard it said that the zombie nazi part is great! think about that a call of duty 
 game with zombies. that is sad is this wolfenstein no is this resident evil on it is CALL OF DUTY! 
 ACTIVISION has done what many a gamer knew they had the power to do step up to the plate and mess 
 up what no one should be to do. but the flip side is the next call of duty will be great. so untill 
 that time keep playing 4. but if you think 5 is good have at it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastshot77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Everything and more. The engine is smooth, and the graphics are amazing. I had played the Medal 
 of Honor series, and enjoyed all the battles brought to my PS2. But the Activision is now the benchmark 
 all others will try to aspire to. Call of Duty 4 brought the Modern Warfare to life. Call of Duty 
 World at War takes me back to a time where soldiers were welcomed home, instead of ridiculed. Anyways 
 I highly recommend this flashback into history. Rent it, buy it, steal it, do what you have to 
 do! 
  
  Since this has to be 100 words. I have only played the 1st level, and believe me it outlasts a 
 lot of the games I have bought recently . From when you get ambushed in the Pacific to when you 
 push out the Germans out from mother Russia. I would recommend this over Far Cry 2 and Socom. Although 
 the machanics are different , the experience is more worth while. When I do go online, I will update 
 this bad boy, but if you have played Modern Warfare you kow what to expect. Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good - Great Story, Great Multiplayer, Pretty Decent Visuals, Smart AI.
  
  The Bad - Seems like a WW2 version of COD4, Online is frustrating, CO-OP seems to be not working 
 properly online.
  
  
  Well where can I start, I picked up this on Friday afternoon. I was impressed with the visuals 
 at first, But it daunted me how much this game is like it's Sister, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
 
  It really does seem like you are playing the WW2 Version of COD4, It has the same Engine, Interface, 
 Multiplayer (Almost) , But other than that, This game is really solid. 
  
  I love the Campaign, Seems repetitive at first, But it gets interesting. The guns are good, But 
 are really just the same COD4 guns, Made into WW2 guns. There is now Flamethrowers which you use 
 in a Mission called 'Burn Em Out in the Story, And can be unlocked Online too. The Enemy AI is 
 very clever, Even on Medium difficulty, They always catch you, But they are dumb sometimes too. 
 But also, They can't see you when you throw smoke in your path, So it adds a little bit of realism 
 to the mix. The Story overall is repetitive, But does get alot of action, But feels amazingly similar 
 to COD4's story, With the Missions you do, The type of missions etc.
  
  Now, How could you beat such a Great Online Multiplayer experience Call Of Duty 4 Offered? You 
 Don't. You just bring the exact system back into play, Tweak the Perks, Guns, And add a Co-Op and 
 your good to go, But thats not a bad thing. Its building on a great thing. COD4's multiplayer was 
 great, So is this. But it has fairly boring maps, Annoying Weapons, Alot of Campers.
  
  To round off, This is a 'Buy later or Buy now, Your choice' Type of game, If you love Shooters 
 and have the cash, Buy it. If you love Shooters, But have just got Resistance 2, Buy this later. 
 
  
  Break down.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Story - 8/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Multiplayer - 9/10
  CO-OP (Online) - 7/10
  CO-OP (Offline) - 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danRPGff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Ive only been playing it for over a day, few hours on the campaign and the rest online. BUT this 
 is without a doubt the the best in the COD series, thought it would be impossible to beat COD4 
 but WAW done it! 
  
  The first few hours i wernt too keen on it but as i kept playing it, getting used to the enviroments 
 and weaponary i started getting right into it! WWII is a perfect scenario to test the the COD4 
 gaming play on, yeah be great to go onto somthing like Vietnam etc after now they know this ones 
 a hit!! 
  
  Everything in the game is pukka!! The enviromnets, the sound, the gore, the weapons, perks, vehicles... 
 everything is spot on!
  
  For everyone who slates it saying ''its the same as cod4'' .... so??? Thats good! so stopping be 
 mugs and slating the game because of that reason! 
  
  Anyway this game is a must!! Go out and get it now, give it a chance, i guarantee if your a fan 
 of COD4, War games or large online multiplayer gaming then this is your game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Brilliant graphics, but still no improvement on Call of duty 4: Mordern Warfare.
  
  Gameplay: One again, the computer reacts to your movements, there are brilliant battlefields, 
 but the previous number was just as good if not better. And it still contains a good old school 
 sniper level during campaing mode, which, can be fun with more than 1 player but any more than 
 2 people and you can't see properly. Bayonets ( a knife on the end of your gun) is a great new 
 addition and so is the destructable flame thrower.
  
  Online: Many maps seem very similar. Broken buildings, deserted town, dirt roads. Apart from the 
 odd map, they are pretty much all the same. Tanks can now be used which is a nice touch.
  
  Advice: Gat call of Duty 4, alot more stimulating.
  
  Thankyou for reading this review.
  
 Please rate thumbs up or down.
  Over and Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  this is my opinion so maybay some will not agree with me but this game is lot better than modern 
 warfare lot better graphics and gameplay the story is more realisic because it actually happened 
 the world war. The guns are cool very good guns when you get far on the online and bigger level 
 and harder to prestige and there is know 10 create a class wich i havent unlocked them yet but 
 you unlock the last one on the 10th prestige wich i think you can have more perks and guns in one 
 class but to be honet i dont know but i am exited to unlock ot to see. The best thing about this 
 game is the soliers when their legs explodes of and the arm and head very cool ect i was lying 
 down i was a sniper and a guy on my team as running and he was exploded with a grenade and one 
 half of his leg flew right on my side. This game is fantastic and you must get it because there 
 is a lot more maps on the online gamplay and better ones and last a lot longer and know that you 
 unlock new thing if you prestige it will make you really tempted to prestige so you must get thi 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uneek_808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  When i found out i was being made by the same guys that made COD3 i was like oh hell no here we 
 go again. But after playing the game it pretty much lives up to it's predecessor. 
  
  
  Everything about this game is badass! from grahics to gameplay all excellent. controls are just 
 the same as COD4. 
  
  storyline is ok. kinda has this history channel-like presentation at the begining of each level. 
 but events in the game are just as epic and exciting as COD4.
  
  Multiplayer have more game modes to choose from but seem kinda rehash... but in a good way, well 
 in my opinion anyway. for example, you have free-for-all and then you have free-for-all hardcore. 
 my be the same game mode but at least its a bit more various. other new modes include veteran, 
 which is almost like a headquaters and domination kinda mix. 
  
  but all in all World At War, just like COD4, is worth the admission price and i guarantee that 
 you will play the SH*T out of this game if you are for mutiplayer frag feasts. but if you are the 
 solo kinda guy then still this game has some pretty good replayability thanks to the trophies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatloaf1993
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  The first thing that I thought when I played COD: WaW is "This is just like COD4 only WW2" but it 
 isn't, it is nowhere near as good.
  
  When COD4 came out it was a revolutionary FPS but now a year later... it isn't. The game has hardly 
 changed at all and thanks to the "new" guns the shooting controls feel inprecise and even clumsy.
 
  
  Which leads onto the other problem of the guns, online has always been a big part of COD4 and it 
 is again here, the "new" guns make for some of the most boring matches ever with all the power 
 of a pea shooter. After about 2 hours of going through the guns you will wish that there was a 
 M4 Carbine somwhere on the list.
  
  The storyline is too short and incredibly annoying, one of the more memerable levels was where 
 you have to find and kill a sniper. This is the single most frustrating thing I have ever done 
 as the sniper you are given is too inacurate whereas the German sniper can kill you with ease.
 
  
  Having now completed the sniper level I can now say that things do not get much better, the whole 
 level is rubbish and the end is a repeat of the start because yet again you have to find a sniper 
 which takes alot of sitting waiting to be shot and then reloading the last checkpoint to kill him 
 first next time. The whole game seemsm to go downhill from there on with all the exitement of crawling 
 along the ground and running around in circles trying not to get shot while slowly being burned 
 to death.
  
  I have also now noticed the terrible AI where your friends and allies just walk past each other 
 without shooting at each other.
  
  The summary of this game is good but no where near as good as the amazing COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  Well i feel two faced simply because i am editing this review i think i jumped the gun with my 
 first review of CODWAW which im sure has happened with Gamespot i. e. GTA4 but enough of that my 
 true thoughts on this game.
  
  Call of duty world at war the name only shows the obvious year you will be fighting in COD back 
 to its roots so to speak, Wether thats a good thing or not is a diffirent story i find myself hard-pressed 
 to give CODWAW any credit over COD4 this game has been in the making for 2 years and i wouldnt 
 discredit you if you thought it took by far less.
  
  I would start by saying weaponary online multiplayer are just awful the most unbalanced thing i 
 have ever seen, You will be lucky to see anyone else using another gun that is'nt the MP40 but 
 then again they may push their limits to use a Thompson or perhaps the PPSH41 you see the submachine 
 guns have been made in the way that you could very easily shoot one person over a long distance 
 with a submachine gun... Now if memory serves me right what my Grampa told me the smg's were mainly 
 used in-doors or clearing trenches not sniping they wouldnt have any effect the bullet wouldnt 
 travel far enough nor accurate enough so thats me basically just proven CODWAW is as realistic 
 as Steven Seagals movies, And to ridicule the guns further a headshot with some guns wont kill 
 someone straight away so you will have to hit them twice or maby three times stupidly and last 
 of all the rifles are weaker than the submachine guns bizzarely.
  
  The good bit about this game would be the singleplayer and the competitive co-op being able to 
 play through the singleplayer with upto 4 players is just great makes it easy to beat bits that 
 you werent capable of doing on your own, But my main love for this game and the only reason i havent 
 sold it is the Nazi zombie i cant explain it but its just so genius and with Verrukt (German for 
 Crazy) it gets that kind of Quake feeling about it with the silly voices when you buy perks from 
 the vending machines etc do alot of kills.
  
  But overall i wouldnt reccomend anyone spending 30 or 40 pound on buying this brand new it simply 
 isnt worth it i havent brought myself from selling it for only one reason and well that simply 
 isnt good enough want my best bet COD4 all the way its a by far better game you can use every gun 
 in your arsenal without feeling cheated out COD4 is where the real skillful players are is basically 
 what im saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGWORTHY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Having played every COD in the series I could call myself a bit of a "COD GEEK"! But I have to 
 say I was not looking forward to "WAW" I thought the Beta sucked usual bad resporne and in my opinion 
 bad maps.
  
  So when I got COD: WAW from ASDA 27 I did not know what to expect and dam was I wrong the full 
 version seems to play completely different the single player is usual COD standard just the use 
 of the COD4 engine makes the icing in the cake, and changes this WW2 escapade into a playable work 
 of art.
  
  As for the multiplayer I know the engine was already there to use but boy have they used it to 
 its potential well done! I feel this will be again another reason for my wife to want to divorce 
 me (JOKE!)
  
  Yes WW2 has been hammered but this is one WW2 game which should be bought by any first person shooter 
 fan! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Never in my wildest dreams would I have imagined Call of Duty World at War to be nearly as good 
 as it has proven to be. They take every single wonderful part of the previous installment COD 4 
 Modern Warfare and run with it along with building on top with the flying body parts. I know there 
 will be some out there that will not buy this game because it reverts back to World War II, but 
 why you hatin? They have done a very nice job in taking old school weapons and bringing them into 
 the modern age with different perks and upgrades. The reintroduction of the tanks is great to see 
 since COD 4 removed all vehicles, and also World at War has really succeeded in creating fast paced 
 shoot um up style game play where even the large maps are having constant gunfire and excitement 
 as an enemy Tanks rolls by rumbling the walls of your room. This is honestly a great game and I 
 hope everyone gets a chance to give it a try, just to put to rest the notion that Activision is 
 the ugly step child in the COD franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyrichbell
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Too DARK the maps are pitch black... but should be just as good as modern war fair... ihope. No improvement 
 though, they should have just kept it the same as moder war fair and gave us 25 massive maps.. 
 (for Free) . Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps 
 are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are 
 too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too 
 DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps 
 are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are 
 too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too 
 DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps 
 are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are 
 too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too 
 DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps 
 are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are 
 too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too 
 DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps 
 are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are 
 too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too 
 DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.................... Maps are too DARK.......... Maps 
 are too DARK.......... Maps are too DARK.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay its in world war 2 who cares? i dont care about that its an amazing game with amazing graphics 
 BUT key word BUT its a little short when it comes to the single player though very intense and 
 bloody game its still cool and people are upset about world war 2 modern warfare got a 10 from 
 me but half of it wasnt a real war the british arent fighting seperatists in russia right now theyre 
 helping us beat iraq call of duty 1,2,3,5 are about a REAL WAR!! I cant believe people are upset 
 about call of duty back in world war 2 i wanted it got paid 60 bucks for it and its fine its great 
 there is no reason why people should be upset about a game going to the biggest war in world history 
 then going to a war that isnt real now if you played in iraq for a fake reason with the brits and 
 americans i would say go for it because you could consider that real i loved it multiplayer was 
 amazing single player amazing however to short and the exclusive footage of the gamess if anyone 
 is a fan of the call of duty series this game is one of the biggest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaksCreed
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first hears that Call Of Duty: World at War was going to go back to it's routes of WW2. 
 I must say I was thinking of not buying it because I would like something new. But when you play 
 it, it's like an upgraded version of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. During the course of the game 
 you'll play the story of the U. S. Marine Raiders battling though the land of Japan. Then you play 
 the war on the other side of the world of the Soviet Army vs. Nazi's. As you play you don't really 
 see how sad and how deep the game goes until you reach you final mission of each army. To add replay 
 to the game, their are numerous amounts of goodies to search for. Including trophies for the game, 
 there are also things called Death Cards that are like the Intel of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 but instead of making the game "interesting" and easier, it makes the game more challenging but 
 has somethings that make it "interesting". Finally when you beat story mode you can go do a new 
 mission where you defend off a house from Nazi Zombies! But be prepared because it's scary, so 
 if I were youI would go in a co op game with some friends and tackle those evil Nazi's once and 
 for all. So as you can see this is a fantastic game that I think Gamespot really underestimated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecastillo619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Well, Call of Duty World at War is a first person shooter set in World War II. You're put into 
 the boots of both a U. S. Marine fighting in the Pacific Theatre and a Russian Red Army Soldier 
 fighting in the eastern front in Europe. These two parts of World War II saw the most violent fighting 
 ever to be sparked among humankind, in which the game glorifies. World at war provokes a certain 
 feeling; a certain word that describes a lot about it. Gritty. Dark and muddy grit is how I explain 
 this game. That dark and ugly feel literally strikes an ache in your gut. Men shouting in agony, 
 bullets whizzing by your head, blood staining the ground and walls, and all hell and chaos going 
 on around you. This game couldn't pin down that feeling any better. You'll get sick while playing 
 it. The Call of Duty franchise has come along very far; keeping this sense of victory and achievement. 
 This game almost shakes all of that off. Even though you might be winning the battle, you feel 
 guilty from doing all of these horrible things to your fellow humans; god awful things that would 
 even make the toughest of the tough cringe. This game isn't afraid to show what happens in war, 
 and after playing it, you'll realize just how awful war is.
  
  First off, I just want to say something that might make some people mad and maybe even confuse 
 them a little. I didn't like Call of Duty 4. I didn't like it for a couple of reasons. The game's 
 plot was too fake and uninspiring so I lost the feeling of being immersed, the graphics we're fairly 
 good except for the puke quality textures, the guns we're boring and insipid as in there wasn't 
 an outstanding characteristic for each gun as they all fired and sounded alike, and way too much 
 stuff going on at once in the multiplayer. Another thing about the multiplayer is that there was 
 too many different modes; all I ever played most of the time was ground war since it was the simplest. 
 Yet, as usual, the game I didn't like turned out to be everyone else's favorite in the franchise; 
 mine being Call of Duty 2. Well I have to say, that after playing World at War, I believe it is 
 the absolute best. I just wanted to let you know about that.
  
  First thing I would like to mention about World at War is the controls. The controls are perfect. 
 In the last Treyarch game, Call of Duty 3, I had a real hard time with the aiming. The auto aim 
 function made it real slow and disjointed and did that thing where when you turn, it goes slow 
 at first and then suddenly turns real fast. It was also annoying since you couldn't turn the auto-aim 
 function off either. In World at War, the aiming is smooth and responsive. You're even able to 
 turn off the auto aim function this time around. All the buttons are mapped in the right spots 
 to make controlling the character as comfortable as possible. The controls are real easy to get 
 familiar with. The shooting action itself is done very well. Although it may get a bit repetitive, 
 the large variety in weapons keeps the action fresh. You can get all of the World War 2 era weapons, 
 such as even a double barrel shotgun. I didn't even know they used that in the battlefield. All 
 the weapons that were featured in previous call of duty games make a comeback and even get a make 
 over such as the PPSH which is one of my favorites. There is also more variety in grenades. You 
 have your basic frag grenades and smoke grenades and such, but you'll also be able to get gas grenades 
 that temporarily stun the enemy and flare grenades in which, well, I forget what the purpose of 
 those are.
  
  The sound design in World at War is great. Bullets make a loud ringing sound as they ricochet off 
 of metal, your men shout orders and strategies among each other, the sound of the sliding steel 
 as you reload your bolt action rifle; all of the sound design is done very well. One thing I love 
 about the sound design is the Gun sounds. They sound very real and use this sort of Doppler effect 
 whenever they're far away. If you close your eyes, it will literally sound like you're in a war. 
 This game has one of the best soundtracks I have ever heard. The soundtrack samples all sorts of 
 musical pieces such an orchestral sound, a grungy metal sound, and an a euphoric ambient sort of 
 sound. The music provokes an unusual feeling for a World War II game, like something isn't right. 
 In matter of fact, throughout the game it feels as though something isn't right. With that strange 
 sounding ambiance playing in the background, it really clouds your perception of what is right 
 and what is wrong. With this, World at war is heavy on emotion. In the Russian campaign, your comrades 
 trust that you will kill an enemy, even if they surrender or are already slowly dying. The pressure 
 from this weighs in on you and leaves you confused as to what is happening. In the pacific campaign, 
 the image of Japanese soldiers running while on fire out from a bunker; hearing their screams of 
 pain and agony makes you pity them. All of this going, with the soulful music gives you a very 
 emotional experience. The plot is very involved with the emotion as people you believe you had 
 grown somewhat of a connection to suddenly die. It may be a bit hard to follow the plot, though, 
 since it mainly progresses during gameplay in which all the action that's going on grabs most of 
 your attention. But World at War is a mind altering experience that will probably leave you with 
 a different view of war.
  
  As I mentioned the action grabs most of your attention, it also is very fun. The AI is fairly smart, 
 but smart enough to make the action visceral and intense. The Japanese's sudden banzai charges 
 will startle you although they can be easily defeated this way. The sheer number of enemies is 
 mainly the thing that keeps the action going. At one time, I could literally count about 40 npc's 
 on screen and the game still running at a smooth 60 frames per second. For instance, after you 
 beat the game, you unlock this zombie survival mode, which is fun but I have yet to experience 
 it at it's funnest since I haven't played it on co-op yet. In this mode, after you survive a number 
 of rounds, the number of zombies on screen increases so much that is it relevant to Dead Rising's 
 number of on screen zombies. The action is great and pure fun. Especially with the new co-op mode 
 that I have been dying to have in a Call of Duty game ever since the second one. If no one really 
 does fight alone, then why hasn't there been co-op before? With all these enemies that you fight, 
 you really need some friendly help, and your half-assed AI allies don't entirely get the job done. 
 So far, I haven't played it on split screen which is really the way I want to play it, but the 
 online co-op is real fun. There are a plethora of situations where an intelligent, freindly hand 
 can really help out. I 'm a bit disappointed in Treyarch, though, for not including online splitscreen. 
 They did that with the PS3 version of Call of Duty 3, and they still freakin' did it. Other than 
 not having online split screen, the multiplayer is real fun. It entirely resembles Call of Duty 
 4's multiplayer mode so there isn't much to say there instead that you use World War II guns and 
 instead of calling in a Helicopter after 7 kills, you call in a pack of dogs which is equally as 
 annoying. So if you are were wondering if the multiplayer experience changed too much, no nee to 
 worry any more.
  
  So in a nutshell, Call of Duty World at War is fun, emotional, visceral, mind altering, and very 
 satisfying. I sincerely think it is one of the best games I have played. I haven't felt this much 
 emotion in a World War II game since Medal of Honor Frontline in which emotion is why I fell in 
 love with the genre in the first place. A little something right quickly, you know how Gamespot 
 uses those emblems in their reviews that use little descriptions to explain a certain aspect of 
 the game? I remember there being one that says something like "somewhere along the game, our reviewer 
 saw something say awesome is just made him snap" or something like that. For me, this happened 
 near the end of the in which I won't spoil. As I was about to complete an objective, and enemy 
 suddenly popped out of nowhere and shot me. One of my comrades jumped in, pulled out a machete 
 and executed these 300-esque moves one him. In matter of fact, it even did that authentic 300 photography 
 where it got all slo-mo and what not. This was seriously bad ass. I mean, to tell you the truth, 
 This game gives a very similar theme like 300; A story that happened so long ago that comes back 
 retold and modernized for us modern audiences. It's presented in such a way in which it is almost 
 dream like. Wow, I think my passion for this game is getting just a bit pertinacious. All you need 
 to know is that it's a great game. So on my Jesse's Scale of Awesomeness, this game scores an over 
 9,000. And that's that.
  
  
  
  P. S. Although I may have put the "Time spent laying to date" counter to 100 or more hours when 
 barley the game came out a day ago, that is the amount of time I hope to spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patatopan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, Call of Duty World at War is a first person shooter set in World War II. You're put into 
 the boots of both a U. S. Marine fighting in the Pacific Theatre and a Russian Red Army Soldier 
 fighting in the eastern front in Europe. These two parts of World War II saw the most violent fighting 
 ever to be sparked among humankind, in which the game glorifies. World at war provokes a certain 
 feeling; a certain word that describes a lot about it. Gritty. Dark and muddy grit is how I explain 
 this game. That dark and ugly feel literally strikes an ache in your gut. Men shouting in agony, 
 bullets whizzing by your head, blood staining the ground and walls, and all hell and chaos going 
 on around you. This game couldn't pin down that feeling any better. You'll get sick while playing 
 it. The Call of Duty franchise has come along very far; keeping this sense of victory and achievement. 
 This game almost shakes all of that off. Even though you might be winning the battle, you feel 
 guilty from doing all of these horrible things to your fellow humans; god awful things that would 
 even make the toughest of the tough cringe. This game isn't afraid to show what happens in war, 
 and after playing it, you'll realize just how awful war is. 
  
  First off, I just want to say something that might make some people mad and maybe even confuse 
 them a little. I didn't like Call of Duty 4. I didn't like it for a couple of reasons. The game's 
 plot was too fake and uninspiring so I lost the feeling of being immersed, the graphics we're fairly 
 good except for the puke quality textures, the guns we're boring and insipid as in there wasn't 
 an outstanding characteristic for each gun as they all fired and sounded alike, and way too much 
 stuff going on at once in the multiplayer. Another thing about the multiplayer is that there was 
 too many different modes; all I ever played most of the time was ground war since it was the simplest. 
 Yet, as usual, the game I didn't like turned out to be everyone else's favorite in the franchise; 
 mine being Call of Duty 2. Well I have to say, that after playing World at War, I believe it is 
 the absolute best. I just wanted to let you know about that.
  
  First thing I would like to mention about World at War is the controls. The controls are perfect. 
 In the last Treyarch game, Call of Duty 3, I had a real hard time with the aiming. The auto aim 
 function made it real slow and disjointed and did that thing where when you turn, it goes slow 
 at first and then suddenly turns real fast. It was also annoying since you couldn't turn the auto-aim 
 function off either. In World at War, the aiming is smooth and responsive. You're even able to 
 turn off the auto aim function this time around. All the buttons are mapped in the right spots 
 to make controlling the character as comfortable as possible. The controls are real easy to get 
 familiar with. The shooting action itself is done very well. Although it may get a bit repetitive, 
 the large variety in weapons keeps the action fresh. You can get all of the World War 2 era weapons, 
 such as even a double barrel shotgun. I didn't even know they used that in the battlefield. All 
 the weapons that were featured in previous call of duty games make a comeback and even get a make 
 over such as the PPSH which is one of my favorites. There is also more variety in grenades. You 
 have your basic frag grenades and smoke grenades and such, but you'll also be able to get gas grenades 
 that temporarily stun the enemy and flare grenades in which, well, I forget what the purpose of 
 those are.
  
  The sound design in World at War is great. Bullets make a loud ringing sound as they ricochet off 
 of metal, your men shout orders and strategies among each other, the sound of the sliding steel 
 as you reload your bolt action rifle; all of the sound design is done very well. One thing I love 
 about the sound design is the Gun sounds. They sound very real and use this sort of Doppler effect 
 whenever they're far away. If you close your eyes, it will literally sound like you're in a war. 
 This game has one of the best soundtracks I have ever heard. The soundtrack samples all sorts of 
 musical pieces such an orchestral sound, a grungy metal sound, and an a euphoric ambient sort of 
 sound. The music provokes an unusual feeling for a World War II game, like something isn't right. 
 In matter of fact, throughout the game it feels as though something isn't right. With that strange 
 sounding ambiance playing in the background, it really clouds your perception of what is right 
 and what is wrong. With this, World at war is heavy on emotion. In the Russian campaign, your comrades 
 trust that you will kill an enemy, even if they surrender or are already slowly dying. The pressure 
 from this weighs in on you and leaves you confused as to what is happening. In the pacific campaign, 
 the image of Japanese soldiers running while on fire out from a bunker; hearing their screams of 
 pain and agony makes you pity them. All of this going, with the soulful music gives you a very 
 emotional experience. The plot is very involved with the emotion as people you believe you had 
 grown somewhat of a connection to suddenly die. It may be a bit hard to follow the plot, though, 
 since it mainly progresses during gameplay in which all the action that's going on grabs most of 
 your attention. But World at War is a mind altering experience that will probably leave you with 
 a different view of war.
  
  As I mentioned the action grabs most of your attention, it also is very fun. The AI is fairly smart, 
 but smart enough to make the action visceral and intense. The Japanese's sudden banzai charges 
 will startle you although they can be easily defeated this way. The sheer number of enemies is 
 mainly the thing that keeps the action going. At one time, I could literally count about 40 npc's 
 on screen and the game still running at a smooth 60 frames per second. For instance, after you 
 beat the game, you unlock this zombie survival mode, which is fun but I have yet to experience 
 it at it's funnest since I haven't played it on co-op yet. In this mode, after you survive a number 
 of rounds, the number of zombies on screen increases so much that is it relevant to Dead Rising's 
 number of on screen zombies. The action is great and pure fun. Especially with the new co-op mode 
 that I have been dying to have in a Call of Duty game ever since the second one. If no one really 
 does fight alone, then why hasn't there been co-op before? With all these enemies that you fight, 
 you really need some friendly help, and your half-assed AI allies don't entirely get the job done. 
 So far, I haven't played it on split screen which is really the way I want to play it, but the 
 online co-op is real fun. There are a plethora of situations where an intelligent, freindly hand 
 can really help out. I 'm a bit disappointed in Treyarch, though, for not including online splitscreen. 
 They did that with the PS3 version of Call of Duty 3, and they still freakin' did it. Other than 
 not having online split screen, the multiplayer is real fun. It entirely resembles Call of Duty 
 4's multiplayer mode so there isn't much to say there instead that you use World War II guns and 
 instead of calling in a Helicopter after 7 kills, you call in a pack of dogs which is equally as 
 annoying. So if you are were wondering if the multiplayer experience changed too much, no nee to 
 worry any more. 
  
  So in a nutshell, Call of Duty World at War is fun, emotional, visceral, mind altering, and very 
 satisfying. I sincerely think it is one of the best games I have played. I haven't felt this much 
 emotion in a World War II game since Medal of Honor Frontline in which emotion is why I fell in 
 love with the genre in the first place. A little something right quickly, you know how Gamespot 
 uses those emblems in their reviews that use little descriptions to explain a certain aspect of 
 the game? I remember there being one that says something like "somewhere along the game, our reviewer 
 saw something say awesome is just made him snap" or something like that. For me, this happened 
 near the end of the in which I won't spoil. As I was about to complete an objective, and enemy 
 suddenly popped out of nowhere and shot me. One of my comrades jumped in, pulled out a machete 
 and executed these 300-esque moves one him. In matter of fact, it even did that authentic 300 photography 
 where it got all slo-mo and what not. This was seriously bad ass. I mean, to tell you the truth, 
 This game gives a very similar theme like 300; A story that happened so long ago that comes back 
 retold and modernized for us modern audiences. It's presented in such a way in which it is almost 
 dream like. Wow, I think my passion for this game is getting just a bit pertinacious. All you need 
 to know is that it's a great game. So on my Jesse's Scale of Awesomeness, this game scores an over 
 9,000. And that's that.
  
  
  
  P. S. Although I may have put the "Time spent laying to date" counter to 100 or more hours when 
 barley the game came out a day ago, that is the amount of time I hope to spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate_puccio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  things like stabbing people have really got into dept, also when you shoot people sometimes there 
 body parts come off, like there legs, there arms, or even there heads. but if your not a big fan 
 of the gore then you can go to the options menu and turn all the bad stuff off. story seems longer 
 than cod4 but I may be wrong, in my opinion I thought it was longer but thats me. online is good 
 to. you can do co-op story mode or nazi zombie mini game with you and three friends. nazi zombie 
 is a mini game that has nothing to do with the story, its separate, you get it after you beat the 
 story. you and three friends battle off unlimited waves of zombies. at first they send like 8 zombies 
 then they double and again and again..... and so on. after level 10 it get really hard ive only 
 made it to 11 and even that was hard. im not gonna spoil the whole game so what are you waiting 
 for, go out there and buy it and see for yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I can see where people are saying it is exaclty like COD4. But that doesn't take away from the 
 enjoyment of this game. What people seem to have a problem with is the fact that the playability 
 and AI and graphics are pretty much the same. But like I said in the title, if it ain't broke, 
 don't fix it. Hey it works for John Madden football. How many years in a row have we played the 
 same Madded football with really only the lineups changed?
  
  The AI is still pretty amazing. I don't think they could have improved it from the previous COD 
 so why not leave it the same. I lie how the enemies actually recognize that there are other people 
 in the player's party to shoot at, not just the player (I experienced this problem in the new Resistence 
 game - horrible man, just horrible) .
  
  Graphics have never been a problem in the COD games and the same is true for this one. Well thought 
 out levels and nicely placed hiding spots for enemies (campain mode) .
  
  Multiplayer is still a blast. I only played a few hours on this so I can't say much about it.
 
  
  Only drawbacks are when that sometimes I can't distinguish between enemies and people on my team. 
 This only happens on the darker stages. Also, the grenade indicator isn't as large as in previous 
 games so I miss seeing it a lot. As you can tell, this is how I die the most.
  
  All in all, this game is still excellent. I wish COD would do another wartime game in this era 
 (or perhaps a future war game) . Enjoy this game people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt in my mind that this has to be the best game made so far for any system. I believe 
 that without a doubt that this is much better than cod4 modern warfare because there are so many 
 more things that you can do. There is nothing bad about this game. I know like 5 people that said 
 that this game was going to be horrible and then when i talked to them after they got the game 
 they said that this game is amazing and that they definitely misjudged it at first. There is just 
 so many more things that you can do in this game that if you are a fan of the call of duty series 
 you are going to love this game. It has the same feel as cod4 but everything else got changed. 
 There are much better weapons, game modes, perks, weapons, and most importantly amazing maps. This 
 game also has amazing graphics. I have played this game for about 5 hours so far and I am already 
 hooked on it. The campaign and co op is amazing. This game is just too good to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  If you like World War 2 shooter, you will like Call Of Duty 5. If you're looking for COD4 with 
 WW2 settings, this is a must get for you. Just simply call it COD4 with a WW2 settings, a lot has 
 changed except for the great gameplay.
  
  You play as two sides, two story that plays alongside, an american and a german. I'm not sure if 
 it continues where COD3 leaves off, all i know is that you're playing the last few moments of WW2.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Better than COD4 by a tad. The lightings are beautiful, especially when you use flares. Charactors 
 in the game is excellent, framerate is solid, the best part, you don't need any install to your 
 HDD, Fallout 3 required 5GB, yes the graphics doesn't seem as nice as COD5, it tells that games 
 doesn't even needs HDD installation, somehow HDD installation has become an exploit.
  
  Gameplay:
  The duration of the single player is similar to COD4, which is roughtly 5 to 6 hours 
 on your first play through, i would recommand u play on normal first, cause it's still some challange 
 at that difficulty. 
  
  There's trophies, but not a lot. Anyway to me trophies are gimmick and the system isn't working 
 well, why so many sync when i want to view them? and the levels doesn't seem to do a difference.
 
  
  Set in world war 2, ur weapons are the likes of older weapons. These weapons are great to handle, 
 your controller vibrates with every shot. Pressing ur R3 would engage you in a melee attack which 
 would kill any in just a hit. Similarly, enemies near enough can melee you as well, but it's pretty 
 easy to counter and stab them back.
  
  Is COD5 Realistic? Certainly. 2 shots from a rifle kills a soldier, and a headshot kills it instantly, 
 the best part which they imported from COD4 was the "alive dead", where some enemies didn't die 
 but just seriously injured, they can pistol shoot you, so it's always best you confirm targets 
 around u are really dead.
  
  You get the same dose from COD4, tanks, planes, sniper missions. But they don't seem repititive 
 because of a differently set environment and weapons. The storyline is great but sometimes it confuses 
 you cause it tells two stories at one time.
  
  Multiplayer remains the same except you could use tanks now. You still have the usual peaks to 
 use. The lag is also minimal, but bare in mind 1 bar connectivity will make the game unfair for 
 you due to bullet lag. Also it remains that they won't be any lobby. Co-op and nazi zombies seems 
 great fun but i've yet to try them. Controls wise, it's the same as COD4.
  
  To put it in a sentence, COD5 has gameplay 90% alike to COD4.
  
  Sound:
  Excellent surround 
 and voice acting. Bombs go really bassy and bullets sounds real good and accurate. Occasionally 
 when you die to there's granades near you, your allies would always shout. It really gives a great 
 feeling when your army shouts: CHARGE!!!!!
  
  COD5 is an excellent COD4 remake, although single player a tad lacking compared to COD4, the co-op 
 campaign and nazi zombies makes up for it, making COD5 the best Virtual WW2 i've had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quexoismytag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I played COD 4 for almost 22 days online over the past year. Did I get my money's worth??? Yes 
 1000 times over. I just picked up COD WAW yesterday and do I enjoy it? Yes. I have yet to beat 
 the single player and am leveled up to about 16 online but its an exciting twist as I haven't played 
 any WWII games on the next gen console yet. Flamethrower never gets old. I like the twist on an 
 already great engine. Who hated getting shot by the chopper when you coulda sworn you were protected? 
 Well now all you have to do is fend of some killer german sheppards. I have a dog and its just 
 a game so dont freak out that your killing old yeller. Anyways I was on last night and there was 
 44000 people online.. yes it tells you the number of people which is cool. The new perks different 
 scenes and weapons will have me hooked killing you fools for sometime. So its worth the money if 
 your tired of COD4 and want something "fresh" Lata see ya kids online. I will OWN YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poporb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  yes the game play is the same as cod4 but thats a good thing, think of it like a CoD4 super map 
 pack or some thing if you like cod4 you will love WAW cuz its the same thing just in the jungle 
 with more blood and more dity 'like saw off shotguns' this game is just off the hook at 7 kills 
 you get to send in dogs instead of a helicopter, this game also brings weapons that no other cod 
 WWII game has plus vehicels in multiplayer game is off the charts!
  
  the multiplayer is just as good as Call Of Duty 4s if not better it has more levels plus 10times 
 more unlockable stuff then Call Of Duty 4,
  
  this games campain is also unbeliveable just as fun as Call Of Duty 4s if not better plus a co-op 
 for campain its hard for me to belive that some people dont like this game!.
  
  all i have to say is treyarch have outdone there selfs with WAW and that this is a must buy game 
 to any one who thinks they are a Call Of Duty FAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martial900
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Being on campaign is so sick. I still havent completed War of Worlds. That's why its both challenging 
 and immersive. I love the cinematics. It's authentic. Being on campaign is so sick. I still havent 
 completed War of Worlds. That's why its both challenging and immersive. I love the cinematics. 
 It's authentic. Being on campaign is so sick. I still havent completed War of Worlds. That's why 
 its both challenging and immersive. I love the cinematics. It's authentic. Being on campaign is 
 so sick. I still havent completed War of Worlds. That's why its both challenging and immersive. 
 I love the cinematics. It's authentic. Being on campaign is so sick. I still havent completed War 
 of Worlds. That's why its both challenging and immersive. I love the cinematics. It's authentic. Being 
 on campaign is so sick. I still havent completed War of Worlds. That's why its both challenging 
 and immersive. I love the cinematics. It's authentic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panthermusky
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  I would rather still play cod4 than this one. The game design is B rate at best, the guns are just 
 all over the place yes i know authentic! I really thought it was gonna be the next step in cod 
 but it feels like a prequel. Im selling my copy and regret buying it! The game itself was pretty 
 good, but the multiplayer is just not as fun as cod4. I think that they through this game together 
 really fast to get more sales for christmas or something. and being released on the WII? DS? omg 
 give me a break. COD4 was the reason i bought ps3 and never sold it. This game I wish i could erase 
 from my memory. Its just like the other cod games its like they took that old cod2 and repackaged 
 it. I would have prefered they do VIETNAM, or IRAQ or how about a N KOREA what if option? YAWN 
        SAVE YOUR MONEYYYYYYYYY. I am a die hard cod4 fan and absolutely love that game this was 
 just a let down. IF you have money to burn why not but sixty bucks buys alott of gas!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arturin1987
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  I am 20 years old and I have never played a single ww2 game, or any that I remember. The COD franchise 
 started with COD 4. COD 4 was and it still is an awesome game, but I think I need a break, you 
 might ask why. I remember playing Mario games when I was 10 or 11. I remember playing driver, need 
 for speed, marvel vs capcom, gran turismo 2 on psx when 15 . I remember playing fifa street, NFL 
 street, grant turismo 3 & 4, grand theft auto, God of War, WWE wrestling, need for speed hot pursuit, 
 X-man on PS 2. until I was 18. I stop playing once I started college. In my gaming history I don't 
 remember playing any ww2 shooters at all. Yeah I played shooter like delta force, max paine, agent 
 007, half life, I just don't remember any ww2 shooter. Taking into consideration that COD 4 was 
 a great shooter, I am willing to take a break and play world at war online for a few months, I 
 would then switch to cod 4 once COD 5 by infinity award returns. 
  
  I think that a ww2 game on the ps3 is not a bad idea, I want the next installment from infinity 
 ward to surpass modern warfare in graphics, online, basically everything cod 4 offered. I am someone 
 that buys a 3 or 4 games a year. So I always try to choose wisely. world at war is definitely one, 
 that adds to my collection that starts with my favorite cod 4, grand theft auto, paradise city, 
 assassins creed, and fight night round 3. I am still waiting for gran turismo 5 and an another 
 good arcade racing game, underground might be a good choice but I still dont know. 
  
  world at war offers the best ww2 experience, you can play campaign a couple of times and any co-op 
 game is always good to play with friends. it takes a little bit to get use, but once you get use 
 to the weapons and ww2 scenario, this game is definitely one of my favorite ps3 titles. So I gave 
 this game a 9 and this is just because the campaign is really short. so just like cod 4, world 
 at war is a great online experience that still needs to expand on its campaign. but hey maybe if 
 the campaign drags, the interest decrease so I am sure its not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duderonomi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Had my reservations, got it today. So good maybe better than COD4. Seriously, I didn't think it 
 could get better, then this game hit. Cash in all the Resistance, Fallout and Dead Space. You're 
 going to spend all your time playing this game. Coop - awesome. Competitive - awesome. Single person 
 campaign - awesome. This game is what you should get for $60. It's going to be a nice long winter 
 with this one. Really, really cool. I played COD4 all the way through online twice and I'll definitely 
 do that with this one. Give the guns a chance, they grow on you. I don't normally review games 
 but because of all the questions about the WWII setting I thought I would share my thoughts. Once 
 again - must have.
  It wants me to put more words and I've come this far so here it is. awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee2009
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  So first thing this morning i got my copy of COD 5. Graphics are as good as COD4. I am only 5 hour 
 in to this game and most of that is online play. So my review is on multi-player mode of COD5. 
 To be honest so far i am not impress at all. I do not enjoy the guns. I am on level 20th and i 
 have not found a single good gun to enjoy this game with. Most of the guns take too long to load. 
 I know what you are thinking, the game is on WWII, so obviously it is true in respect to that but 
 still COD5 should be more fun but because my expectation were so high for the next title but i 
 am disappointed. i am enjoying exploring the new map. The tank is the new edition. instead of bomber 
 plan, you have ground bomber. and instead of chopper, you have dog. Any how if you are reading 
 this review to figure out buying this game or not. my suggestion is that if you dont buy this game 
 you are not missing any thing at all. keep playing COD4. If you are a hardcore COD fan and there 
 are no better game out there than why not. Might as well. 
  
  Bottom Line: Based on the phenomenal success of COD4, i think the creater of this game stop trying 
 as hard on this new title. Because most of us will buy this game any ways. I am better off buying 
 new shooter game like resistance 2. Atleast there are more player than just 18 or 12 ( based on 
 what you are playing)
  
  And if you do end up buying this game, save your self some money and dont waste your money on special 
 edition. I guess that self-explanatory. It's a waste of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z-Blood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is incredible. I immediately played multiplayer and i already am at lvl 19. This 
 is one of the best multiplayer games today. Better then 4 in my opinion. What makes this awesome 
 is that there are soooo many more choices of games to play in multiplayer. You have new modes such 
 as Capture the flag, Veteran, and more. The servers are SO much better and i haven't had one screw 
 up yet. The online is smoother and alot of fun. The story mode is amazing so far also and is really 
 icredible. Best of all, you get trophies baby! And alot of them too. I can't wait to play more 
 every second. So for any Call Of Duty fans or FPS fans, this is a must. GO GRAB THIS  
 Z-Blood is the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The newest Call of Duty game has a lot to offer to shooter fans. The single player campaign, which 
 is purported to last around 6-7 hours, never lets up on the intensity, and the multiplayer package 
 is one of the most well rounded and well executed in any shooter. The graphics and sound do not 
 disappoint, the controls are well mapped and will be instantly familiar to anyone who has played 
 a CoD game, and the weapons feel good. However, no amount of praise that I can (and will) lay on 
 the game could divert my attention from the fact that everything in WaW has been done before. This 
 creates the feeling that, despite the fact that I've only played five to six hours, I have already 
 seen just about everything that the game could throw at me. 
  
  Usually I try to go in depth about the mechanics of the games that I review, but for WaW this is 
 simply uneccesary. Treyarch's latest shooter feels like a mod of CoD4, adding a few cool weapons 
 and game modes and shifting up the setting a bit, but never really changing the core gameplay. 
 That said, the new weapons such as the flamethrower and bayonnette-equipped rifles are sick fun 
 to use against the mostly intelligent enemies (burning entrenched Japanese soldiers out of trees 
 is especially cool) , and the new multiplayer modes are great. It's just a shame that players must 
 reach rank 14 in order to access anything besides TDM and DM. I love a good TDM game, but can I 
 really put up with it until I reach rank 14? I'm not sure. Finally, vehicles have been added to 
 four of the thirteen multiplayer maps, and while they do add a bit of variety, in the end they 
 feel like a distraction from the core on-foot action. 
  
  The graphical package in WaW packs a big whallop thanks to the amazing CoD4 engine, but it does 
 not quite seem the equal of CoD4. Maybe it's just because I've been staring at CoD4 all year and 
 have become accustomed to the great graphics, or maybe it's because so many other great looking 
 titles have come out since CoD4. Maybe it's just my imagination, but WaW seems to look very slightly 
 less sharp than the last entry in the series. Regardless of my obsessive graphical nitpicking, 
 this is an amazing looking video game. Character and gun models as well as the environments look 
 just as good as any other multiplatform game out there. 
  
  WaW's musical score delivers for the most part, but occasionally seems a bit childish. Replacing 
 the orchestral score in some particularly intense sections of the game are squealing guitar riffs, 
 which feel more than a little out of place when accompanying WWII action. This quirk is made up 
 for by the excellent voice acting, particularly from Keifer Sutherland. Sutherland makes for a 
 perfect commander; his voice radiates passion and urgency. A weird side effect of hearing him bark 
 orders at me is having sudden flashbacks to the hit Fox show 24, of which Sutherland is the star. 
 
  
  By now, WaW should sound like a pretty great game, and it is. I would love to have given it a 9/10, 
 but as mentioned before the generic setting and same-y, me-too gameplay come back to bite it in 
 the butt like an angry attack dog. Maybe I've just been spoiled by Valkyria Chronicle's totally 
 unique approach to 1940s era combat (great game, by the way,) but really I think it's more than 
 that. Gamers have been buying WWII shooters since the original Playstation was out, and the sub-genre 
 has made little attempt to change since then. It's just starting to get old. It's like Treyach 
 is afraid of messing too much with the CoD formula established by Infinity Ward for fear of screwing 
 something up. Yeah, they added a co-op mode and a zombie uprising mode, both of which are great 
 fun, but we've been playing those in other shooters for years. At this point, the CoD series doesn't 
 need more new modes; it needs a few new gameplay mechanics to keep fans hooked. Don't get me wrong, 
 I love WaW and will remain addicted to it for at least a few months, but sometime in the near future, 
 something in the CoD universe will need to change in order to keep me buying, and I'm not just 
 talking about setting. 
  
  Graphics: 9.75/10: About as great as CoD 4.
  Sound: 9/10: Great voice overs complemented by out of place sounding guitar riffs.
  Gameplay: 
 8/10: Fun, but feels a bit empty or generic by this point.
  Entertainment: 8.75/10: Still a very entertaining game, but I don't know how much longer Treyarch/Infinity 
 Ward can keep this up without changing a few gameplay mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty WaW uses the same engine as 4 but it is an improvement in just about every way. There 
 is more specific perks such as flack jacket which deals entirely from reducing explosive damage 
 and gas mask which specifically protects against gas grenades. Most everything in COD WaW is just 
 the WWII version of 4. Flares are flashbangs and Gas grenades are concussion. There are vehicles 
 and vehicle perks. These vehicles are only in a hand full of maps but are actually pretty well 
 done instead of the atrocious ones in COD 3. There are just as many weapons if not more in COD 
 WaW such as sticky grenades and flame throwers but weapons aren't faction specific like past WWII 
 games. There is also a new awesome zombie mode and you can collect cards which can be used in the 
 online and split screen COOP campaign such as suicide king were you explode killing all enemies 
 in the room when you are downed. There is also split screen online. So while COD WaW wasn't the 
 break through 4 was it still improves the game play facet in almost every aspect. You decide if 
 its worth the extra 60$ as many players are on both games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak523
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  For those of you gamers out there who actually played Rainbow Six Vegas and enjoyed the Co-op multiplayer, then 
 you should definitely buy this game. Hell, if you enjoyed any kind of online Co-op game then you 
 should buy this. Sure Treyarch is doing WW2 again (which I think they overdone) but hey, come on, 
 doesn't mean you can't enjoy the damn game. Just think of it as renewing the WW2 topic. If you 
 just let that stupid little problem effect your gaming WITHOUT even trying it then you shouldn't 
 be called a gamer...... you butthole. It does have gameplay that would bring you to the CoD4 days 
 but that's probably the only slight demerit of the game. I guarantee you that if you buy Call of 
 Duty World at War, you would surely be gaming on your ass, back, stomach for at lease longer than 
 when you first bought CoD4. Probably out of either aggravation of the game, but I'm sure that it 
 would give you that..."OOH SH*T!! I JUST WASTED HIS NOOB ASS!!! DID YOU SEE THAT?!?!?!?".... for 
 a day or two, maybe more.
  Your Gamer,
  GameFreak523 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  It is bassicly cod4. It has co-op which is good and it is world war 2. The game is great. The is 
 absultely fun! Just like cod4 awesome multiplayer awesome gameplay awesome graphics. But it is 
 just not worth 60$ if u have cod4. If u dont have cod4 dont get this instead. It is more fun. But 
 not alot more fun the cod4. The story is ok. Multipley hasnt changed that much. Activision tried 
 to do the same thing as cod4. Thats why they put it into world war 2. The wepons have some new 
 stuff other then cod3, cod2, cod1. The flamethrower for example is extremely fun. THE GAME IS ABSOULTELY 
 FUN. But could of added way more to the 
 
  EDIT: Ive been seeing people disagree with this review. DONT DISAGREE IF U DONT EVEN HAVE THE GAME 
 HOW DO U KNOW ITS NOT LIKE THIS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
