-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/callofduty3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals.
 Amazing sound.
 24-player online play.
 Feels just like you're a small part of a huge war.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign doesn't play much differently than Call of Duty 2.
 Story isn't particularly engaging.
 Inconsistent frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,156 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it plays like many other WWII-based first-person shooters, Call of Duty 3 is a great game 
 with top-notch production values. 

  World War II may have ended in 1945, but that hasn't stopped the axis and allies from waging war 
 against one another on the video game front. And now there's a new battleground -- the PlayStation 
 3. With Call of Duty 2 developer Infinity Ward having moved on to other projects, the series has 
 been placed in the hands of Treyarch, the developer behind Call of Duty 2: Big Red One. It did 
 not disappoint. Call of Duty 3 on the PlayStation 3 is a great game with thoroughly enjoyable multiplayer, 
 quality presentation, and some mildly-interesting tilt-control support. It is missing a couple 
 of features that its Xbox 360 counterpart contains, and the frame rate is far less reliable in 
 this version, but the overall intensity and playability of Call of Duty 3 remains intact, despite 
 these few issues.  

          There's never a dull moment in Call of Duty 3.     

  Call of Duty 3 takes place in 1944 during the Normandy Breakout. After landing successfully on 
 the beaches of France, the allied focus was on getting the Germans out of France and liberating 
 Paris, which was under Nazi control at the time. As was the case in the last game, you're placed 
 in the role of several different soldiers and you'll participate in campaigns for America, Britain, 
 Canada, and Poland. Each country's campaign has a unique storyline that is supposed to get you 
 emotionally involved with the characters, but the stories aren't very interesting; there's a soldier 
 with a strong distaste for the French, an overbearing sergeant, and a young radio operator who 
 has been labeled a coward. Though the stories aren't particularly engaging, fighting for four different 
 armies works because it gives you a sense of not only how much effort it took to wrestle control 
 of France from the Germans, but also that it wasn't just the United States that lost men and women 
 in World War II.  

  The game opens with a brief training mission. Here, you'll learn how to fire weapons and throw 
 grenades, as well as how to move around. The controls offer a lot of variety, yet they're still 
 easy to learn. You can fire your weapon with R1, but this doesn't allow for much accuracy. For 
 precision aiming, you'll want to press L1, which raises your gun to eye level and lets you use 
 the weapon's sight. Here, you're vulnerable during the time it takes to raise your weapon and while 
 you wait for the blurring effect that simulates your eyes focusing to clear up. It's a subtle effect, 
 but it works really well and it's not overdone. You can also perform a melee attack by pressing 
 the right analog stick or by rotating the controller 90 degrees. Clicking the left analog stick 
 brings up your binoculars -- an unfortunate button-mapping choice because it's far too easy to accidentally 
 push the stick down when you're scrambling for your life. You can toss smoke grenades to create 
 cover and frag grenades to clear large groups of Wehrmacht. Call of Duty 3 also lets you scoop 
 up grenades thrown by the enemy and toss them back. To prevent your grenades from being returned 
 to sender, you can "cook" a grenade by pressing and holding R2, which lets the grenade get closer 
 to detonating before you throw it. This is an important technique to master -- not only because it's 
 useful, but also because screwing it up results in a grenade exploding in your hands. Because there's 
 no health bar in the game, you'll need to watch the screen when you're getting hit. As you get 
 shot, the edges of the screen turn crimson and close in around you the more you get hit. Should 
 you fall victim to a grenade or a bullet and not die, all you have to do is seek shelter to recover 
 your health.  

          Close-quarters combat is a new, albeit uninteresting, addition to the series.     

 
  After your training is complete, you hop in the back of a truck and ride into battle. When you 
 get out of the truck, or rather are blown out of the truck by an explosion, you're boosted over 
 the cemetery wall. Here, you'll find yourself in the midst of one of the most impressive firefights 
 in any first-person shooter to date. Everywhere you look, there's carnage. Bullets and grenades 
 whiz through the air while bombs explode all around, leaving soldiers to scramble for whatever 
 cover they can find -- be it a bombed-out mausoleum or a grave stone. The bodies of your fallen comrades 
 are strewn about the battlefield -- a stark reminder that unless you want to join them, you need 
 to keep moving. A later level sees you making your way across a pasture using a tank (and even 
 the carcasses of dead cows) as cover to shield yourself from the Nazi soldiers who surround the 
 field. Most of the rest of the game's 14 missions aren't quite as intense as these two examples, 
 but there's rarely a dull moment to be found.  

  Call of Duty 3 isn't a run-and-gun FPS, but it's not as slow-paced as a tactical shooter, either. 
 You'll fight alongside CPU-controlled soldiers, and you'll generally need to stay behind cover, 
 pick off as many soldiers as you can, and then advance to the next safe location. Since you spend 
 so much time behind cover, it would have been nice to have the ability to lean, but you can do 
 pretty well without it. Because the game's artificial intelligence appears "smarter" than a typical 
 FPS, it can be frustrating to be unable to clear a particular section because of cheap tricks like 
 how new enemies will spawn to replace fallen soldiers in outdoor levels (they don't do this indoors) . 
 But once you come to grips with the fact that you can't kill them all, it shouldn't bother you 
 much. You still need to be careful not to shoot fellow soldiers, but the game is forgiving -- you're 
 not forced to restart when you fire that first bullet into your comrade's chest. Call of Duty 3 
 isn't a terribly difficult game on the default setting, nor is it particularly lengthy, clocking 
 in at 8 to 10 hours from start to finish. On the default difficulty, enemy soldiers aren't very 
 aggressive and they'll follow the same patterns over and over, so it's easy to sit back and wait 
 for them to show themselves. Series veterans looking for more of a challenge will want to bump 
 up the difficulty to hard or veteran, as doing so results in a vastly different and more intense 
 experience. Enemies are much more aggressive, they're better shots, and your health disappears 
 much quicker.  

          If you're not blowing something up, you're doing something wrong.     

  Mission objectives 
 are varied but don't stray far from what you'd expect from the type of first-person shooter that 
 takes place in World War II. Sometimes you'll simply need to get from point A to point B, while 
 other times you'll need to defend an area from attack, rescue hostages, or plant explosives. You'll 
 also have to use your binoculars to mark targets for air strikes, man stationary guns, and even 
 ride in the back of a jeep and pick off bad guys with the jeep's machine gun. A couple of other 
 scenarios have you behind the controls of a tank and you'll need to eliminate enemy tanks and armored 
 vehicles. The tanks are unwieldy at first, but once you get the hang of them, it's a blast driving 
 around and blowing stuff up. Rather than a single path to success, there are multiple ways to approach 
 missions. Sometimes the game presents you with clear-cut options, while other times you'll have 
 to find them on your own. Each objective is shown as a star on your radar, making them easy to 
 find even in the heat of battle.  

      

  The motion-sensing capabilities of the Sixaxis are used in a couple of ways, but none of these 
 add much to the experience. Rather than just hitting a button to plant a bomb and then running 
 away, you'll need to hit a button, rotate the controller a few times to insert the fuse, and then 
 hit a button to arm the bomb. There's also a close-quarters battle mechanic that takes place when 
 you're surprised by an enemy. These scripted events have you rapidly tilting the controller left 
 and right to fight off your attacker and then pressing a face button to finish him off. Some of 
 the scenes look pretty cool, but the mechanics are boring and there are less than 10 of these situations 
 in the entire game, so they're rather worthless. Not all of the game's action takes place with 
 you on foot. There are a few missions that place you in the driver's seat of a jeep, and it's your 
 job to follow the checkpoints and avoid enemy fire while escaping from an area or rescuing hostages. 
 The driving missions aren't particularly exciting, but driving by holding up the Sixaxis and using 
 it as a steering wheel is pretty fun.  

          The cut-scenes look nice, but they can't be skipped, even if you've already watched them. 
     

  Call of Duty 3's online component is more robust on the Xbox 360, but there's still a lot to like 
 on the PlayStation 3. Twenty-four people can play online, but whereas four players per Xbox 360 
 could go online, just one person can play on a single PS3, and there's no ranked play. Having 24 
 people in a match makes for some intense action, though it's difficult to make a difference operating 
 as a lone soldier. There are nine different multiplayer maps and six different match types available 
 for play, including team battles, capture the flag, headquarters, and more. If you're looking to 
 play as something other than a basic soldier, there are seven different kits to choose from, including 
 a medic who can revive players and a support soldier that delivers ammo. And you won't have to 
 hoof it all the time, either. Jeeps, tanks, and motorcycles are found throughout the levels, adding 
 even more depth to an already deep multiplayer experience. Playing on prerelease servers, the online 
 action ran smoothly with nary a hint of lag.  

  It's worth noting that we encountered a handful of bugs in the single-player campaign. None of 
 these prevented the game from being completed, but they did force us to restart levels from previously 
 saved checkpoints. In several instances our soldier got stuck in the floor, and we got temporarily 
 stuck a few times because a computer-controlled soldier had stopped in front of us, while another 
 stopped right behind us. The most annoying glitch was that the CPU can occasionally see and shoot 
 through walls and doors, which lead to many frustrating deaths.  

          The guns are detailed and look great.     

  Call of Duty 3's visuals are great, though 
 a problematic frame rate leaves the game looking decidedly less impressive than it does on the 
 Xbox 360. The game, of course, looks best in high definition (the maximum resolution is 720p) , 
 but it still looks nice when viewed on a standard television display. The draw distance is excellent, 
 and you'll never notice any buildings or textures suddenly popping into view. Whether it's a farm 
 in the French countryside or a war-torn village, each level is very detailed and looks fantastic. 
 The outdoor environments are particularly impressive, and though you'll run into an invisible wall 
 should you stray too far, smart level design makes them feel larger than they really are. There 
 are plenty of lush bushes, thick grass, and large trees to use as cover, and they all look great. 
 The textures feature a lot of detail and look nice when viewed up close. It's hard to appreciate 
 every little detail when you're trying to escape death, but the cutscenes offer a chance to enjoy 
 the improved presentation without having to worry about getting shot because you stopped to admire 
 the falling rain, planes flying overhead, or a puddle that has collected in a hole left by a grenade. 
 The game's effects are outstanding. Throwing a smoke grenade results in a thick cloud of smoke 
 so dense and so realistic you'll sometimes find yourself squinting in an effort to see better. 
 Explosions from grenades, rockets, and bombs are similarly impressive.  

  There are a couple of visual issues that mar the otherwise great graphics. Key amongst these is 
 the erratic frame rate. It was fast and mostly smooth on the 360, but the game's extremely choppy 
 on the PlayStation 3. This problem isn't limited to hectic battle sequences either -- it'll chug 
 in rooms that are completely empty. It never happened to a soldier that was alive, but after you 
 kill them, dead soldiers will occasionally get stuck in walls and even float in midair. It's also 
 possible to see the sparks from weapons fire through solid walls. Even though most of the textures 
 are quite good, some of them aren't all that impressive and some of the indoor environments, houses 
 in particular, are repetitive.  

          Should I take the Rolls or the Tank? Yeah, the tank's a good choice.     

  Call of 
 Duty 3 sounds great, even if you're listening to it through your TV's built-in speakers. But if 
 you've got your PlayStation 3 hooked up to a surround-sound setup, the game sounds phenomenal. 
 You'll hear bullets coming from all directions and explosions will rattle your (and your neighbor's) 
 walls. The chatter from both your fellow soldiers and your enemies not only adds to the atmosphere, 
 but also provides helpful clues as to what you need to do next. Your squadmates will direct you 
 to the next checkpoint or cover, and listening to Nazi soldiers will let you know their tactics 
 as well as if your presence has been detected. Joel Goldsmith (Star Trek: First Contact, Stargate 
 SG-1) has written a gorgeous orchestral soundtrack that elevates the presentation to another level. 
 Performed by the Slovak Symphony Orchestra, the majestic score is on par with that of any major 
 motion picture. It's a shame there's no option to just listen to the music from the game -- it's 
 that good.  

  From start to finish, Call of Duty 3 is an intense experience and a great game. The visuals are 
 mostly excellent and the sound is some of the best in any game to date. However, an inconsistent 
 frame rate and fewer multiplayer options make the PlayStation 3 version slightly inferior to the 
 Xbox 360 version. Ultimately, if the Call of Duty series hasn't won you over previously, Call of 
 Duty 3 isn't going to do much to change your mind. But for anyone who considers themselves a fan 
 of the series, Call of Duty 3 is a must-play.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (130 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  first off all online play is better than it was in call of duty4. but getting to servers is not 
 better than it was in call of duty4. i respect call of duty serie but call of duty3 was just all 
 most new map pack to call of duty 2.
  singleplayer campaign was good but far from best singleplayer campaigns. call of duty3 was game 
 that could be better but for some reason i dont like it. if u are greate call of duty fan u will 
 buy it but i dont liked to buy game like this in full price.
  
  okay. multiplayer is bad as in call of duty 4 but singleplayer campaign has some funny moments. i 
 like the melee combats. its kind of fun to kick nazies ashes. weapon selection is good too.
  
  i hope that call of duty six is again modern warfare and that there will be multiplayer were 
 newbies can survivour and get kills.
  So again call of duty games has good singleplayer bad multiplayer i just dont like the way that 
 they do the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgordonfan24
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is one of the best installments in the series. Delivering incredible graphics, engaging 
 gameplay and an exctiting multiplayer mode, Call of Duty 3 is one of (if not) the best WWII shooters 
 ever. 
  
  This review won't be perfect since I rented the game for a few days. Let's start with singleplayer. 
 Singleplayer throws you into the perspective of three different soldiers. You will clear out hostile 
 buildings, plant claymores, and have a fistfight with a not-to-friendly enemy. Singleplayer is 
 addictive, fun and engaging. I spent so much time with it I almost forgot to try multiplayer mode...
 
  
  Multiplayer mode is incredible. With many different kinds of maps, classes, and enemies/teammates, 
 multiplayer mode always offers up exciting Thompson duels and outrun a tank sort of events. It's 
 exciting and fun, even better then singleplayer.
  
  In conclusion, if you like WWII first-person shooters with fun singleplayer and multiplayer modes, 
 take COD3 out for a spin. My Rating: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was the first call of duty game to come out for the ps3 not better than 4 and probably 
 wont be better than 5 but it is still one of the coolest WW2 games out there. Now i would really 
 like call of duty 3 to be better in graphics but it is still one of the best and funnest games 
 out there its fun its cool and if i had the choice between some of the medal of honor games and 
 this game i would take this game one of the best like it says in my headline its better than good 
 worse than the best call of duty 4 was a lot funner and a lot better in graphics but call of duty 
 3 is still a great game wait for call of duty 5 it should be better than call of duty 3 going back 
 to world war 2 but if you like call of duty games get this its not a must but it is pretty fun. 
 get this game cause it is one of the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbosss
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  i don't like it but i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition.
  
  i don't like it but i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition.
  vi don't like 
 it but i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition. i don't like it but i think 
 the fourth edition is much better than this edition. vvi don't like it but i think the fourth edition 
 is much better than this edition. i don't like it but i think the fourth edition is much better 
 than this edition. i don't like it but i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition. i 
 don't like it but i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition. i don't like it but 
 i think the fourth edition is much better than this edition. i don't like it but i think the fourth 
 edition is much better than this edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  CoD is back for a WW2 outing in France. You play as Nichols for U. S., Cole for Canada, Doyle for 
 S. A. S and Bohater for Polish tanks.
  
  The levels tie in with eachother. Whilse the Canadians may be pushing North, the Polish are covering 
 them and these level intertwine. 
  
  The levels diferentiate so much that the game doesn't have much identity. One minute its calling 
 targets, next its fighting over a rifle with some poor soldier, next its shooting up tanks in a 
 tanks. These are welcome, but it doesnt stick to the right recipe.
  
  The visuals are so-so, they do the job but won't knock y0ou back. There are alot of those 2d mud 
 ares lying around, even in cutscenes!
  
  The story works and you'll remember Robichaud, Cpl. Keith, Papa jack, and Guzzo for a good while.
 
  
  All in all, it ain't bad, but its only worth picking up on the cheap (which you can do now, but 
 why bother, 4's out)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianAtWar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  
  My review will only have pointers. This review will only say what's good and what's bad.
  
  
  
  Positives
  *********
  - Fast and interesting gameplay will keep you hooked to it 
 for hours
  - Very good controls, except the motion sensor based controls, which are a bit awkward
  - Gameplay 
 is rock solid. Once you start shooting you'll just keep on going
  - Stays faithful and really feels well, in terms of being an FPS
  - Multiplayer gaming is very 
 good, which means you have paid for many many hours of gameplay apart from the single player campaign
 
  
  Negatives
  *********
  - Graphics could have been better, if not the graphics, at least the cut scenes
  - Nothing new 
 in the genre, you can pick up most war-based games and expect the same gameplay
  - Story could have been told better, I am sure most game players just keep shooting, with no idea 
 what was going on, finish the game and start multiplayer. Single player campaigns are supposed 
 to have a strong storyline and this game barely tries to explain the situation except the small 
 briefings before major chapters
  - Some glitches in the game, although not frequent, are extremely annoying
  - Could have had 
 some more and better audio tracks
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Are you getting sick of WWII? I am, but this game kind of brings it to a new light. The graphics 
 are suprisingly good, and it made a great sequel to Call Of Duty 2...
  
  First of all, the storyline. It's in Paris, and the battles are mad as ever. Explosions and gun 
 fire and hand to hand combat make this game special. The graphics are a bit murky though, close 
 up to doors and walls they seem blury, gritty and un - realistic. Some destryoed houses look amazing 
 though, but plowing through water and grass doesn't look so good. Even though gameplay is very 
 hard, it's a little dissapointing. The best bit is gun power. Holding the gun and shooting it is 
 cool, and makes it look like your in the game. Voice acting is also good. Except your character, 
 who hardly speaks at all. And when he does, it isn't apealing. There are alot of levels in this 
 game, and it's hard. Very hard. There are grenades flying all over the place, germans jumping on 
 you with there yellow, gritty teeth and dirty faces.
  
  This game is really good for a WWII fan, but isn't what it's cracked up to be.
  
  7.0/10.0 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Similar to previous COD titles, COD3 is another WWII shooter mainly set in Europe theater. During 
 it's pre-release, I didn't even bother to think about the game, and I was definitely not planning 
 to buy it. After a year when COD4 is already under production, a generous friend of mine gave me 
 his copy of COD3, so I played it since it's free.
  
  After finishing the game, I knew I was wrong about this game. Call of Duty 3 is not really a dramatic 
 sequel compare to COD2 and COD4, but it's definitely worth a try. Treyarch had improved the gameplay 
 over COD2, more notable improvements including the control. Control is one of the biggest challenge 
 a producer has to face while making console games, but Treyarch has proven themselves successfully 
 deliver the best control to us. Despite the game really feels like COD2, but Treyarch had added 
 several cool action to the game, which really makes it a lot more interesting to play. 
  
  However, the story in Call of Duty 3 has nothing really special. In spite of the fact that COD 
 series always come with great stories, COD 3 is a total letdown. Cutscenes are also horrible, gives 
 a very bad impression to the game. Other then that, WWII and COD fans will still love the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  In Call Of Duty 3 your back in WW2 shooting at almost endless waves of Nazis and it's fun. The game 
 does a good job of being a solid stand alone shooter. It also does a very good job of creating a 
 WW2 environment, but most of all it does a job of making it fun. However the game is not without 
 it's problems. Such as the fact that the compass/Minimap thingy sucks. The aiming is also a bit off 
 and reload time is a bit too long for me. However this game still has alot of good parts to it and 
 a good difficulty. Two things that help add up to the good difficulty are 
  1. The huge amounts of Nazis
  and
  2. The limited ammo making you have to switch guns and find 
 which you are best with.
  I also like grenades in the game. Alot less annoying than the ones in Call Of Duty 4. Anyways it's 
 a great, hard game, You should consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I was wondering if this game was really that good for all the reviews I was reading.
  Since COD 4 was out already I thought maybe no one will be laying this online anymore.
  I was 
 totally wrong I bought this game on Ebay because I found it for a really good price brand new 
 and I decided to give a try.
  First impression I was like Holly The game looks good, so I played the single player and it really 
 got me into History. The graphics are good and the sound is awesome.
  I had a hard time getting used to those old types of guns and they look really like the one they 
 used on war, I guess. I did a little research and the game has a good point.
  The online playing is also one of the best games out there. It is really fun, entertaining and 
 it will keep you for hours and hours playing.
  One of my big concerns was that I was reading the game has broken part where it gets stuck, it 
 only happened once to me so im good!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Call of Duty 3 takes a bit of a different approach to the traditional COD world. Rather 
 than playing in token battles of World War II and switching from area to area all over the map, 
 Call of Duty 3 is based on one specific set of battles centered around the Normandy Breakout, working 
 up until the liberation of Paris just 88 days later. Taking control of each region represented, 
 players will jump from the American troops over to the Canadians and Polish, as well as the British 
 forces as they push against the elite German Panzer forces. In this installation, it has taken 
 some ideas from COD: Big Red One and added some cinamatic style stuff to it which is great. Also 
 during combat there is this new melee system where if you get to close to the enemy then you will 
 have this pushing match with your rifle. Of course there is also the usually multiplayer stuff 
 such as team deathmatch and things that most people are are familier with Call of Duty. As usuall 
 The Playstation 3 allows you to play online for free.
  
  Graphics: I would have to say that the graphics are good but bad at the same time. Good because 
 the explotions, gun designs and buildings are really well done, but the character models I found 
 were not as well done as in Call of Duty 2.
  
  Sound: As Usuall the sound in these series of game are alaways amazing from the gun shots to the 
 rolling of the tanks.
  
  Value: All in all I though this was a good game but just felt to similer to Call of Duty 2. I would 
 recommened playing this game only when the price has gone down. I Give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, sadly, the PS3 version of COD3 seemed to be rushed.
  Gameplay: The gameplay isn't quite different, but it's still a lot of fun to kill worthless Germans.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are poor, the only good thing about it is the explosions, which look fantastic, 
 but everything else is broken. When you walk, you won't even see your gun and the audio is extremely 
 poor and so is the voice acting. 
  
  Plot: You will play through 4 characters in the game. One American, French Polish, and Canadian. 
 You will travel through D-Day and Norandy and Hell's Highway throgh a campaign of 14 missions, 
 and yes 14 missions.
  
  Guns: You still have your ol' guns, the MP40. Thompson, M1, Springfield and every thig else, the 
 usual.
  
  That's it, the game is still fun but it's short, broken and suffers from several glitches in online 
 multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to come across a garage sale with this game, Resistance Fall Of Man, and another 
 ps3 controller. The guy was asking for 10 dollars for each item. I did not hesitate to pick them 
 all up. 
  On PS3 I had only ever played Marvel Alliance ( a game I have played through several times yet 
 I still have not written a review about ) , and All star Football 2k8. 
  I have to admit to being pretty happy to try out a good First person shooter. on my new PS3. When 
 the graphics fired up. I was floored. I can only imagine, what will come from games after a few 
 years of getting used to this system.
  Not too mention the surround sound. The bullets wizzing past your head, it truly is an immersive 
 experience. Thankfully, the other shoe did not drop. The game starts right off into a brief tutorial. 
 A mercifully brief tutorial. Then gets right into the thick of things. 
  The gameplay is fast and solid. Controls are very responsive. It also seems as if the difficulty 
 ramps up evenly as you go along. I do have to admit to feeling a bit overwhelmed toward the end, 
 but I really do like that in a game.
  All in all it is a cool experience, whose price is gratefully dropping. I can recommend it, and 
 anxiously await Call Of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DebitOrCredit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I got Call of Duty 3 in hopes of a good sequel to CoD2. I didn't get it. First off, the Single 
 Player Campaign Mode was far too short. You can't skip the extra long cutscenes, so if you want 
 to replay a mission, get ready to take a coffee or bathroom break. I found the coloring of the 
 general background very dark and hard to see. The screen constantly vibrates from cannonfire and 
 whatnot, and it screwed up my aim many times. Half of the time, I found myself randomly shooting 
 in the general direction of the enemy while my invincible friendlies took care of the rest. Also, 
 it is useless to snipe enemies at a far distance given the fact that there is an unlimited spawn 
 until you come close.
  
  To make things worse, there is no splitscreen for the PS3 version! If a friend comes to my house 
 to play Cod3, someone would have to wait to play the bland campaign mode.
  
  The decent Online mode makes up for the loss of splitscreen and the bad singleplayer. Weapon choice 
 is plentiful, and the game modes vary. Do I recommend this game? It's complete crap without Online, 
 so make sure that you're not buying it for the Singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is somewhat good. The multiplayer is a pretty good as well. The game doesn't lag at all. 
 There is 13 missions but only is one a really weak kind. It is a mission where you are in the tank 
 the whole time. This mission is based on the Polish tank division. There is another one with them 
 in it but it is not in a tank. It really isn't to complicated to play and it is worth playing. 
 And so it receives a 9... out of 10. So I recommend to those who still want to get in the action 
 of WWII shooter games but if you are more into the modern days shooters then pass this one up. 
 The action is a bit slower than those of modern day shooters. This is the reason people who love 
 those aren't probably willing to take a step back to this. Until next time this TKT101, saying 
 stay well, stay at home and keeping on playing. Again it is worth buying go ahead if you can find 
 it somewhere other than Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBadass
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is going to seem like fimiliar ground. Instead of trying something new like Infinity 
 Ward, the series yet again comes out in form of WWII set in France and Germany. Treyarch helped 
 make Big Red One which was a great game, but was stomped by Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 and 
 PC in November 2005. This game not only looks better than COD2 but it has some more missions that 
 are as good or better than some of those in COD2. 
  
  Visuals: The Game looks great, and even though Resistance came out next to this game, its a great 
 looking game reguardless. Just make sure your playing on an HDTV to get the full experience. They 
 are cheap now.
  
  Gameplay: You get to play as the soldiers you don''t commonly hear about in the european theater. 
 Polish, Canadian etc. It's very lame sounding at first, but you'll come to not even recognize it, 
 and feel like any other soldier or marine. The levels are as linear as they can get, but all COD 
 game are like that, so its nothing new. The first mission and some later ones are some of the most 
 intense ever seen in a shooter and in the COD series. Weapons in this one come from all over and 
 that becomes more appaerent as you play as new countrymen using their weapons. Despite the somewhat 
 drab single player, the multiplayer was great. I say WAS because now there's only maybe 150 people 
 online anymore.
  
  Taking this one for a spin is risk, but this isn't a bad game. COD4 is out now and even though 
 that game is amazing (I have it on 360) dosent mean you should pass by this game in the series. 
 Besides, we all know Nazis are fun to shoot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The wierd thing is I played Call of Duty 4 first before i played the third title, so it was kind 
 of akward because of the sudden switch. Call of Duty 3 is no doubt the best in the WW2 versions 
 of the series. It has some pretty great graphics in its gameplay and new guns are always a welcome 
 in sequels. Also, it uses the SIXAXIS extremely well, which is one reason i like the game so much. 
 The online may not be so up to date, but at that time it was pretty much as good as it got. Besides, 
 almost nobody plays it anymore so thats a slight bummer, but that blamage can go to Call of Duty 
 4. Sometimes the A1 can be stupid and definately not so next gen cutscenes scatter through the 
 game, but hey, they were just getting used to the new system. So, all in all, Call of Duty 3 may 
 not be as good as Call of Duty 4, but it is definately the best WW2 version in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Now that Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is out this game may not be worth buying to you. But personaly, 
 despite the game having no microphone feature, the online multiplayer was extremely fun and worth 
 playing. I'd rent the game if I were you just to try it out and see if you like it.
  
  To sum it up, graphics are okay, controls are very good and so is the sound. The gameplay for SP 
 is a little bit short and weak (doesn't seem to be a real story, feel uninvolved with the characters) 
 but the MP is awesome.
  
  To put it in perspective the game is worth renting, but definetly the weak link in the CoD lineage. 
 It's upsetting to think that Treyarch is making CoD5 already and we'll have to suffer through another 
 weak link in the franchise -- but at least the MP will be fun.
  
  8/10 at best, more like 7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMontana1004
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty returns with its third installment in the popular franchise us war gamers all know 
 and love. This time Call of Duty takes place during the Normandy Breakout and your objective is 
 the run those axis **** out of France. The gameplay is of course the same Call of Duty gameplay 
 it has always been except there are some improvements. The developers tried to add some interesting 
 new surprises in the gameplay to make the game more immersive but unfortunately there were only 
 a few brief moments where you actually experienced them. Some new surprises include an axis soldier 
 sticking his weapon in your face, being able to plant a bomb like you would in real life, or even 
 getting to fire mortar strikes and other heavy weaponry. You may only experience those memorable 
 momets once or twice, but there are other things that you will do frequently in Call of Duty 3 
 that will never get old like firing from the gunner on the back of a vehicle or throwing a smoke 
 grenade to flank the enemy. Also, I must commemorate the multiplayer because this is definitely 
 the reason why I didn't return Call of Duty 3. Some things that impressed me were being able to 
 plant a land mine, driving a tank, calling air strikes, and of course the ability to revive a downed 
 teammate. Not only was the gameplay a satisfying factor of Call of Duty 3, but the sound and graphics 
 were unbelievable! The campaign levels were very detailed along with the multiplayer maps. Also, 
 the weapons were very lifelike and enemy fire and explosions looked and sounded so real! In summary, 
 COD 3 is a very immerisve shooter with great gameplay and multiplayer and outstanding sound and 
 graphics. Any online gamer should not miss out on the Call of Duty 3 experience! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  what was it like when you did something for the first time in your life and you thought it was 
 amzing, lets say, like riding a push bike, it's amazing, it's life changing, the second time you 
 do it, it's still fun but not as fun as the first time, the third time, you just get on you push 
 bike like second nature, this is what call of duty 3 is like, it is still quite fun as the the 
 first call of duty, but it is becoming the norm and trying to shoot nazi's in the head and in the 
 trouser area just isn't as fun as it used to be. Don't get me wrong, this is still a very good 
 game with potential due to it's well designed levels and fast paced gameplay, but it setting in 
 ww2 is becoming pretty tiresome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  this game was very over rated i thought seeing as i was told that it was rather awesome, i thought 
 it was a real dissapointment and let down its pre decesors alot.
  
  graphics- one word "sh*t". the only good thing about tthese graphics are mabye the characters and 
 the zoom in on the weaponry but other than that i reakon it was ps2 worthy. and the so called destrucdible 
 environments are non existant the closest to it is destroying boxes every now and again which are 
 blocking your path .
  
  gameplay- at first i was really into the gameplay of this one and thought it was rather exciting 
 but as i prgressed i saw the same situations repeated over and over again and again until you just 
 get bored beyond belief.
  
  if you really want to know wat i think you should do, dont buy this game, if you must rent it but 
 you will most probably be very dissapointed as i was with this one. 
  stick to call of duty 4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the next installment in the WWII video game franchise "Call of Duty" , which 
 has usurped the Medal of Honor series as the must-have war game, however the third game doesn't 
 seem match the previous installment's magic.
  
  The Campaign Mode takes you through the wars which took place after the Normandy Breakout. You'll 
 take control of a soldier from each of the American, British and Polish forces, and each mission 
 will vary from which side you're on. For example, the American chapters will take you through the 
 same-old war after war, but when you are the Brits you'll often have to remain stealthy or operative 
 in the night. The Polish soldier is a tank commander, and there are some enjoyable aspects to the 
 variety of these missions.
  
  However, CoD3 just misses the mark. The first mission in Saint Lo is utterly immersive, however 
 the next missions aren't all that exciting, and sometimes they can become quite frustrating. The 
 other levels are very repetitive, regardless of which faction you're on. "Clear the building", 
 "Destroy the Flaks", "Defeat German forces in the area" and "Rescue allies" are all too common 
 objectives in this game. The basic reason why the next game in the series, Call of Duty 4, is set 
 in the present is that Infinity Ward couldn't think of any new battles of WWII without having to 
 re-do battles in the previous games.
  
  Another down point is the frequent bugs which plague this game. Your comrades will run into walls 
 and vanish, your grenades might hit an invisible obstacle and bounce back, and the AI will just 
 run out into the open like a sitting duck. Because your soldiers often respawn, they'll arrive 
 at the same spot, and soon, a mountain of corpses will build up. It's painful to watch as you are 
 behing cover when five of your other soldiers are being brutally shot in the middle of the room 
 or garden.
  
  Behind all of the faults, there's a good game. It's very realistic, and hardcore FPS gamers will 
 love the immersive and this-is-a-real-war feel of the game. The sound of bombs and gunfire is amazing, 
 and the score adds so much more to the outstanding atmosphere that this game has. The Campaign 
 Mode length is great with more then ten hours at your disposal. Then there's the online mode, which 
 will add a lot more lifespan to this game.
  
  So overall, an optimist will claim CoD3 is immersive, realistic and the new gameplay elements like 
 Close-Quarters-Combat and other abilities are fantastic enhancements to the Call of Duty formula. 
 A pesimist will claim the CoD3 is a dull, repetitive and buggy game with only a handful of remotely 
 moving and enjoyable levels. 
  
  I'm the gamer in the middle, but out there in the gaming world there are the optimists and the 
 pesimists, so it is up to you to decide if Call of Duty is a waste of time or the complete opposite. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to put my hands on this game after playing cod2, and now when I have a console 
 I am able to do so... unfortunatelly...
  
  
  Gameplay : 3
  Biggest problem I see with gameplay is constant advance requirement. If you stay in one place, 
 enemy will just keep spawning out of nowhere. I see no purpose for sniping rifle in long distance. 
 Dumb A. I. boring environemnt, feels like you're in locked box forced to go one way all the time. 
 
  
  
  Graphics : 4
  Much worse than cod2. Hard to believe? I know. So much of next-gen hype. Colors look bleached and 
 washed out, weather effects such as rain are "b3yond" horrible, 2D lines fall from sky nonstop. 
 Weapon models are so much worse than in previous game. 
  
  
  Sound : 10
  I have to say, I really liked the voices in this game. Music is fine too!
  
  
  Conclusion 
 : I've returned this game to blockbuster without even trying out Online. Now this game is waiting 
 for another cursed fella who is about to waste his hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game really hit the stop. I love when playing the single player. It's so fun going around 
 and sniper people. This game has a pretty good story line. You get to be the french and american 
 and british. 
  But the online play is the best. i go online all the time and kill the mess out of people. i love 
 to get the mp40 and bambard people. throwing grenades is one of the best things in the game. i 
 always blow away people. and i like playing capture the flag online too. Eder Dam is the best place 
 for capture the flag, and being the americans on this map is the best too. make sure you get the 
 trench gun so that you can throw smoke grenades
  GET THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game's single player campaign. Probably took me around 8 hours on normal difficulty. 
 I died a lot, but they really did a good job with the check-point system with this one, so it wasn't 
 too frustrating to die and then re-load.
  
  There was a lot of different things to do and see, I guess my only complaint was it all happened 
 so fast and then it was over. You were constantly running and diving for cover, I wished there 
 was a couple more slower paced sections in there.
  
  The AI scripting was a little too obvious also. The re-spawning out of thin air was kind of ridiculous. 
 You didn't really get the satisfaction of clearing out an area and moving on because in many cases 
 there was an infinite respawn of enemies forcing you to move forward.
  
  But once I got used to the system, it was clear how to figure out how to make your men advance 
 and where the respawns were happening.
  
  I didn't play any multiplayer, and there didn't even seem to be any option to try out the multiplayer 
 maps without actually setting up a match. I was hoping to get some practice in before jumping in, 
 but since I couldn't do that, I never bothered with Multiplayer. I was also looking to try to play 
 around with some of the morter and tank modes just by my self or with some 'bots, but no chance. 
 That was a bummer.
  
  In Summary, for the $30 they are selling this game for now, the 8 hour single player campaign was 
 really worth it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to begin with this epic, epic saga of stories, really that all come into one at the 
 end to form a nice round ball shaped end.
  The story, i shall start with. Basically, it is split between the british, the americans, the polish 
 (?) , the canadians and the french reisitance. You play as each of these (you play as the british 
 fighting alongside the french resistance any ways) and in the nd you are all at this one key point 
 at which the nazi's are pinned in - chambois. This little town takes an utter pummeling, and i 
 must mention the very first large fire-fight in the game. It is the best i have ever played. There 
 are nazi's cleverly positioned with kar98k's firing at you from all angles and you must try to 
 take them down. Great, great introduction and it couldnt be more cinematic. The multiplayer is 
 also a very fine part of this game, even though sadly there isnt any offline play with friends 
 (that is reserved for the 360 version -- typical) the online makes up for it in bucketloads. With 
 up to 24 players at any one time it comes as a bit of a shock coming from RFoM online to this. 
 Where the aforementioned shooter is very sci-fi and gun-ho, kinda  
 style of gameplay, CoD3 makes you think, and wait in a good spot until some unexpecting soldier 
 wanders past and feels your M-187 trenchgun in the neck. Boo-ya!
  In conclusion, an excellent game with amazing graphics, good physics and easy to use yet rewarding 
 gameplay.
  The sound is also very good, and what a long story!!!
  A must have.
  
  k_g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  War is hell but not as Hell as this one where Call of Duty 3 was released during the PS3 lunch.
 
  The story is like in any other game where there's war agasint somthing but mostly World War 2 
 during the 40's where the Germens have taken over France and the Resistance of America, Canada, 
 Britiain, Poland and the French help to form alincannclle to end the war. Gameplay is pretty basic 
 if you played other shooting games but in this one its more of a Wii version becuase you are waving 
 the controller or fighting a German but if you don't the Wii controller for your PS3. You can just 
 use the normal controls by twiling the analog sticks or pressing L1 and R1 to get out of a fight 
 with Germans who will sneak up on you. There are only 14 chapters in the game all set in France. 
 If your not a story person you'll enjoy Multiplayer where you can play other gamers or working 
 in a team such as capture the flag. The graphics are quite well done set in the 40's but the music 
 in the game is worth listening to specially if your on chapter 13 and 14. Thats just my apinion 
 on the music but the game is worth playing and your learning about World War 2 as well which might 
 help you in school or college if your doing History. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Im telling you this game is 100% awesome everything about this game is just right on the money 
 great graphics good gameplay love the online if you like FPS wwII style this is the game for you. Since 
 the first Call Of Duty came out i loved all the call of duty games and now that call of duty 4 
 is coming out soon very excited, call of duty 3 it does it get any better then this one call of 
 duty 1 was great call of duty 2 was ok but this one beats them all it has everything your looking 
 for in a world war 2 shooter well not everything needs planes but i can easly get over it. must 
 buy game for the people like war games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miniranger
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  I bought this game some weeks ago.
  Before I'd bought it some people told me, that it looked a lot like all the other CoD, MoH and 
 so on games.
  But... I just had to try.
  
  I think the game is nice setup. The graphics are nice, the sound are too. And the gameplay is also.
 
  Yes... It looked a little like some other ww2 games, but that wasn't a thing that made the game 
 bad.. not at all.
  
  I love this game, and I think everyone who like this kind of game, should try it one day.
  
 
  I'll score it with a 9 . Imo I think it would be great with maybe more levels, weapons, and then 
 a little graphics thing... The rain shouldn't go through houses hehe.
  
  The only bad thing is, that it doesn't take a long time to complete. But isn't always that way 
 with these kind of games? I think it is :)
  
  That was what I had to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Having played all the installments of the Call of Duty series I expected much of the 3rd one. Yes, 
 you do get more of the same, but I was very pleased with the quality of graphics and the stuff 
 that was going on in near distance or close by. Great job!
  I started few days ago and found myself not leaving the controller out of my hands. I did finish 
 the game in just 4 days, but even that did not stop me to try the hard mode. :lol:
  I have to admit I'm a big fan of WWII games and shooting at Germans of that era. So this game, 
 again, delivered and relieved me that it was another great WWII shooter. I'm really ready for part 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  my must neglected ps3 game, the only thing good about this is the graphics. the story is the same 
 as all other call of duty's the online is hard to get into, and its boring. most ps2 games own 
 this, most ps1 games probably can own this. the back of ur hand is more interesting than this. 
 u want a good war game get battlefield,  or halo. this game probably 
 will only be enjoyed by war freaks (ex: XBL population, USA population) . excuse the stereotype my 
 cuz dared me to put it there. this game is more suitable for the xbox 360 crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I just love shooters, especially world war 2 shooters, the world war 2 theme is still here alive 
 and strong and this topic must be a great money spinner for the games industry there are just so 
 many world war 2 shooters and strategy games to choose from , BUT can I say i love the world war 
 2 theme I think it's maybe cause we all love fighting the germans, we love the uniforms, the weapons 
 and the vehicles of that time you have to say it makes a great war game, walking through european 
 theatres of war torn villages (especially the french ones) it's all there in Call of duty 3 and 
 lets be honest Yes you guessed it this call of duty franchise is definetly the best, Medal of Honor 
 series does come a close 2nd. But if you continue to want world war 2 themes, what the Hell (war 
 is) get them all!
  
  Call of duty 3 is the best in the series so far.
  
  Excellent multiplayer too!
  
  Highly recommended 9/10 for this one
  
  ps. I never rate 
 a game 10/10 because no man made thing is perfect!
  
  also coming soon, call of duty 4 (nothing to do with world war 2) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackboy3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 delivers the intensity of being closer than ever to the fury of combat during the 
 battle for the Liberation of Paris, the most harrowing campaign of WWII, known as The Normandy 
 Breakout. Through a seamless narrative, Call of Duty 3 delivers the rush of unrelenting battle 
 and breathtaking action of the Allied offensive that changed the fate of the world. Call of Duty 
 3 delivers the intensity of being closer than ever to the fury of combat during the battle for 
 the Liberation of Paris, the most harrowing campaign of WWII, known as The Normandy Breakout. Through 
 a seamless narrative, Call of Duty 3 delivers the rush of unrelenting battle and breathtaking action 
 of the Allied offensive that changed the fate of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marovan12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Here in the game we are going to play with 3 soldiers names: nichols, Cole and Doyle one American, 
 polich and British the thing we need to do is to liberate france We start at the trainin camp as 
 nichols. Then we appear as Doyle with the france recistane, then we are with cole, you are going 
 to be switching soldiers almost every mison and also types of Weapons
  
  Sound: Terrific, Very Terrific That terrific that you are going to love it does not sound the same 
 loud in every part you are like another game.
  
  Grafics: i didnt get to play it in the best potential because of problems with my tv, it does not 
 want to play it at 1080i it playet at 720p and when i play sonic it plays at 1008i, but there where 
 awsome graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Great, Grat you really feel the presion of the german trying to kill you taking your weapon 
 and when hanging from a silo you fill the presion in your chest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is a fun game with some crazy action. u play as a canadian polish british and american 
 soldiers. u play the world war during the french liberation. u get some crazy action i mean like 
 grenades every were body count up the roof and some good guns to cause the damnage. online play 
 is good but not lag free. also in the game theres squences were u use the motion sense to fend 
 off a german trying to throw u off the cliff or trying to stab u wit a knife. frame rates ok it 
 can get prettybad in the begining but nt to bad. graphics spot on good and crisp. so if u like 
 action or ww11 get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assdude6989
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  ok. so many people say this game sucks. well, let me tell u what, this game will rock ure world!! 
 i bet my life that u will not be disapointed with this game. u will play on 14 levels on da singa 
 playa and, i know, it is short, about 16 hours, but da multiplayer will make up for it. as u know, 
 u will play as an american, a canadian, some british dude, and a polish dude. oh, i forgot, u will 
 find a lot of choices on da multiplayer menu. so, if u have a ps3, get this game &Ntilde;&Ograve; W 
 OR ELSE I WILL stalk u until u get this game. have fun with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are awesome. Some of the PS3's best at launch. The textures are great 
 and the player models look very real.
  
  The sound is one of the best factors in this game. The music is awesome and is never to repetitive. 
 But the sound is so good because of the voice acting. Every character has his own voice that sounds 
 like a real person.
  
  The tilt is good but nothing special like good controls it's just great.
  
  The value is a 
 dissapointment. The multiplayer is why. It's fun but you never want to play it. It's because it 
 takes about half an hour to get into an online match. But the campaign is worthy and solid.
  
  The gameplay is fun. The guns are fun and it is just fun to play online and to play campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woodsy1991
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  - Call of Duty 3 -
  
  This Game to me is not a Next Generation Game, because it was on an Xbox and PS2 before it came 
 to the PS3 and Xbox 360. However the gameplay was quite brilliant because of the new ideas put 
 into this franchise which makes this the best in the series. The PS3 version made very good use 
 with the Sixaxis and the Xbox 360 made the multiplayer even more fun than the PS3 Version, with 
 up to 4 players offline, and 4 players on one console online makes this game a must have game for 
 the 360 if your into multiplayer. PS3 Version is just slightly more impressive graphically, and 
 more fun when you wrestle with German soldiers using the Sixaxis. The environments in this game 
 are very similar to the ones in previous Call of Duty Games. But you get to play as American, British, 
 Polish and Canadian, so you get a wide range of weapons to use also. The Weapons are very detailed 
 and if you wish to melee the enemy on the PS3 you can use the Sixaxis to perform the move. Throughout 
 the Game you always appear to be with main characters that never die, so youre going through the 
 game with odd ally dying and many enemies are dying!? But this game is defiantly worth buying as 
 its great fun for when you just want to shoot something. The Game though could have been a little 
 longer as there are only 14 missions but still great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teewii
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  if youre looking for a first person shooter that might be something different from everything else 
 u tried, dont buy this one. the game is really easy, and is way too short... here is only one way 
 of completing the game, which means only one path u can follow, which makes u feel like u have 
 no freedom in this game. every level is the same, just with different landscapes. Its all about 
 blasting germans, which sounds fun, but this game just dont deliver. The graphics are good, but 
 not really next-gen looking... Besides, it doesnt even make u feel like u are in the secound world 
 war, because the story just messes up... infact, there is no story at all during the cutscenes, 
 just some soliders talking. And omg, those germans are so irritating, they just say the same things 
 all the time, with a very annoing voice. they could have atleast made a few more phrases, with 
 a less irritating voice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, is a solid game don't get me wrong. I deeply enjoyed playing through it. Having 
 played all the Call of Dutys to this point I would say that it continues to be a solid series. 
 If you enjoyed Call of Duty 2 and would like to play again than this is the one for you. One thing 
 that was nice was the inclusion of some different nations. The nations were this time around US, 
 England, Poland and Canada. Since I'm a Canadian I very muched like playing as some of my countrymen 
 for once in a game. It was rather refreshing. The only downside is that the Polish and Canadians 
 play very similar to the British their weapons are the same so it is too much different. In the 
 PS3 version of the game the game makes abundant use of the SIxaxis controller. Some of the ways 
 good some bad. The ways I enjoyed were the use to plant charges, and to do various tasks. I didn't 
 enjoy using the controller as a steering wheel and felt it was to unwieldily and not precise enough 
 for the mission. I also didn't like the staged fights with the German soldiers. These felt very 
 scripted, boring, easy and after the second one annoying. The tank battles were a nice break-up 
 from the pace of the shooter. The game does a good job of making you really feel like you are part 
 of one giant war. THe only thing they should do is make you feel more attached to the characters, 
 and develop the story more, hopefully they will improve in COD 4. The Ai in the game is good for 
 the enemy they use advanced tactics pretty well. Your teams AI is sometimes a little slow and they 
 tend to get in the way. Also a nice lean feature would have been nice since you need to use cover 
 frequently in the game. Overall it is a good first-person shooter but it really brings nothing 
 new to a tired genre. If you were a fan of Call of Duty 2 or WW2 shooters this is one of the best, 
 if not then just wait for Call of Duty 4 to breathe some new life into this tired franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty comes back with the same WWII setting. But this time, its based on the Normandy Brake-out. 
 You are set to be different characters as you go through different factions including the americans 
 and the british, trying to liberate Paris.
  
  The story in COD3 isnt very long nor much interesting, depending if you like soldiers doing nothing 
 but arguing and shooting. You dont really get the chance to get to know the people on your squad 
 either. And to add to that, the story isnt quite as long as COD2 unfortunately. And the edition 
 of cutscenes take away the realism we used to feal from previous COD games.
  
  Some of the new features in COD3 include the six-axis controller in witch fit perfectly well. For 
 example, if you need to plant a charge on a tank, you must not only set the charge on the tank 
 but also arm the charge by going through a process of pressing surtain buttons and rotating the 
 controller. Another realistic feature to the game is when you aim your gun. When your aiming your 
 gun, everything blurs exept for the target your aiming at, since your only focusing on the target 
 anyways. Smoke grenades have also been added to the series and can be used as a way to sneak past 
 some germans to get to safer cover or to just blind your enemy.
  
  Unfortunately, there is still no co-op mode witch would be a nice addition. However there is still 
 a well done online multiplayer witch you can play with or against your friends, not to forget that 
 it goes up to 16 players.
  
  So if you dont care about the storyline and just want to play, then COD3 is a great way to get 
 caught up to the series. But if youve already played COD2 then COD3 wouldnt be much of a boost 
 from the previous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GspotDeluxer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all when you get this game you are going to want to complete single player but after that 
 the online is the way to go. Single Player is satisfying but online is where you will play the 
 game the most. There are many online game modes including battle, team battle, capture the flag, 
 war, and many others. You can host games, create, join, and go into instant action.
  
  Lets get to the game play. This game has the best sound experience of any game I have ever played. 
 You can hear enemy foot steps approaching and bombs going off in the distance but you will have 
 to hear it for yourself to get the entire sound experience. Graphically this game looks great. 
 Awesome gun and grenade visuals along with awesome smoke effects.
  
  Oh and the there is just something about picking off an enemy from 500 feet away with a sniper 
 rifle, now thats what I call a satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid0celot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  At first I'm gonna speak my mind on the campaign. When you begin the campaign, it all seems very 
 familiar, the training course reminded me a lot of the one in CoD2. But when you move on in the 
 game, it becomes more and more a cinematic experience, and one of the levels will certainly remind 
 a lot of you of Saving Private Ryan. What has also changed is the gameplay. For example: Your comrades 
 will get the job done, but it will be done faster when you assist them. Another example: Grenades 
 are actually useful in CoD3, they're also cookable this time, and you can even throw enemy grenades 
 back at them. The graphics have also improved, the model details and effects (heat, smoke, dof) 
 are just amazing. And the sound is top quality, absolutely stunning! Add to these features some 
 cool vehicle levels, and you've got a high quality WW2 FPS!
  
  And now for the online multiplayer mode... After I finished the campaign, I started to play online, 
 and it ROCKED, it still rocks and it will always rock (well, at least until CoD4) . A new gamemode 
 called 'War' (like the BF1942 conquest mode) has been added, and there are vehicles in almost every 
 map. But there's more! A medic class had been added, some classes can use AP mines and you can 
 disable a tank by throwing a nade in the hatch! Even with all these new features, shooting allied 
 soldiers with the STG.44 from long range is still the most satisfying thing to do on the battlefield. 
 But as you can read in my review, there's fun for all! So buy CoD3 and join the online mayhem.
 
  
  PS: If you're too good for normal difficulty, you can find a real challenge in hard- or very hard 
 difficulty modes.
  
  Game-On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is actually a WWII first person shooter, people should know this class very well, 
 because there are tons of WWII shooter, almost to the point of being way over done. So if you have 
 played any WWII shooter, then this story should be very familar to you. But the game is mostly 
 about being in the war and all of your experience. So lets just jump right into the good things
 
  GOOD THINGS: since this game is on the PS3 you will naturally expect a lot from the graphics, 
 and they dont dissapoint you. Especially on some of the levels when its raining, completely awesome. 
 the game still manages to have the epic intense war feel and is a lot of fun to play with loads 
 of shooting and action. Lot of the explosions, gun shots and etc. sound realastic. The cut scenes 
 look like the PS2 version, but are still good. You also take use of the wireless controler, you 
 can use it to do lots of neat stuff and really make use of it. Also , there are some intense close 
 combat. BAD THINGS:
  the sounds is good, but just like the PS2 version, sometimes when you are reloading your weapon, 
 you can not hear the reloading sound. It only happened ever once in a while on the PS2, but seems 
 to happen a lot more often on the PS3 for some reason. ALso, there is another sound problem, when 
 you are planting the C4, there are no sounds at all . But at the same time you can still hear the 
 gun shots and people talking. Would have also been nice to have had a 2 player co-op, to enjoy 
 with your friends. Also would have been nice for the game to be a bit longer. Can be beaten easily 
 in a couple of days. \
  OVERALL: if you are someone looking for a good 1st person shoooter, this would be a pretty good 
 choice, but if you are looking for a game y ou can really stick to and get the full experience, 
 the PS2 version is cheaper, still with good graphics and game play and is much cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pherstothelee
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  In the overused genre of Shoot as many Nazis as you can , Call of Duty was always one of the leaders 
 of the pack. Call of Duty 2 was a fan favorite after moving the excellent formula over to the consoles, 
 and in that great success comes Call of Duty 3. Now, the game has been sent over to a different 
 development team. Instead of Infinity Ward, Treyarch has developed Call of Duty 3. Can they keep 
 the feel that Call of Duty 2 created on the consoles, or do they drive the series into the ground 
 like others have with different franchises?
  
  To start, the gameplay from Call of Duty 2 is kept in the transition. There's still the nice one 
 shot kills to keep the game realistic, but for some reason the character that you control can get 
 hit several times and then heal while laying prone for a few seconds. This is obviously a handicap 
 and can be turned off simply by playing through the game on the hardest difficulty setting. Even 
 on the easiest difficulty setting, you will die many times. This is mainly a trial and error game 
 in that if you can't succeed using one strategy, try another one.
  
  An addition to the game is that there are many tasks that you must complete by using the controller 
 in strange ways, such as turning a big gun by rotating the analog sticks and setting charges. There 
 is also SIXAXIS motion control, with the most notable being fighting off an ambush by a single 
 opponent. You must make punching motions and then finish him with a button prompt. There are times 
 when you are hanging from a ledge and need to move the controller up and down to pull yourself 
 up. As with most SIXAXIS control, the features feel a little tacked on and annoying, but you can 
 turn this off as well in the options menu.
  
  Throughout the story, you can play as an American, a British, a Canadian, and a Polish soldier. 
 Each squad has their own NPC's to deal with and their own weapons, but you will most likely only 
 get used to the American and the Canadian, since there are very few missions with the British and 
 Polish soldiers.
  
  The game runs at 1080p at a very smooth frame rate, although there are some hiccups at times when 
 there are many soldiers on screen. The environments and the soldiers are very detailed and make 
 for a very good experience while playing. Another great way to show off the graphics is looking 
 down the sight of a weapon. First, every weapon has a different sight, and when you look at something, 
 everything else blurs, just like when you look at something in real life. When you look towards 
 something else, the object you were just looking at blurs and the other object comes into focus. 
 These little things bring a nice quality to the game.
  
  The sound is great in Call of Duty 3, complete with nasty explosions and gunshots everywhere. There 
 is a drawback to this, however. When the explosions are going off, it's really tough to hear your 
 commands. Putting subtitles on will easily remedy this, though. A small addition to the sound is 
 the ring in your ears when an explosion goes off near you. This is another one of those little 
 qualities that make the game a more pleasant experience.
  
  Unfortunately, you should be able to get the most out of this game in a weekend. There is the story 
 mode that can be easily completed in about five hours or less, and there is online multiplayer 
 for up to 24 players. The game may say it supports 24 players in a room, but there are not even 
 24 players in the lobby at the same time, so there's not much to do in the multiplayer. There is 
 absolutely no splitscreen support for the game. None at all. There's not even a deathmatch for 
 two people to enjoy. It's a real shame that this quality game is put to waste just because they 
 didn't want to add more features or flesh out the story.
  
  Call of Duty is a good game, don't get me wrong. It's just good for a weekend, and you could rent 
 the game and get all you could possibly squeeze out of it in that time frame. It's still one of 
 the best WWII shooters on the market, so go and give it a try, just to experience the story mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaveragejoe90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Infintiy Ward has done a great job on making the best WW2 shooters known to man by designing the 
 Call of Duty series. This is the first entry in the series to take a serious step backwards. Then 
 again, Infinity Ward had nothing to do with this game, something any CoD fanboy will notice in 
 the opening credits.
  
  Why Activision would let Trey Arch mold the first WW2 shooter for the PS3 instead of letting Infinity 
 Ward continue their success, is beyond me. The entire game feels unfinished, with no multiplayer 
 via splitscreen and a short, mostly boring campaign.
  
  The visuals are great and the sound is decent enough to listen to, but I've heard better voice 
 acting in a puppet show.
  
  The campaign is not unlike most other CoD games. You run somewhere, find cover, shoot some Nazis, 
 wash, rinse, repeat. The campaign maps are a little too straightforward for my taste, making you 
 feel like you are restrained to a railroad track. More paths to choose (like in RFoM) would have 
 really opened up the single player gameplay.
  
  The real value of CoD3 lies in the great online multiplayer. The maps are incredibly detailed and 
 some are immense in size (Poisson, Eder Dam, etc.) They are well designed with intricate paths 
 that can be used to sneak up behind the enemy if used correctly.
  
  The soldier classes are well balanced for the most part and the weapons are both accurate visually 
 and in their usefulness on the battlefield. The only thing that I didn't love about the multiplayer 
 is that it is VERY glitchy, and people can often find places to hide and shoot from and are really 
 hard to shoot at because they are 90% IN a wall or a tree or something else they shouldn't be able 
 to be in.
  
  Overall, it would not be a worthy game if not for the online multiplayer. That is the only thing 
 that would keep me from buying the PS2 version for $30 now and just playing the campaign. At least 
 Infinity Ward is working on CoD4: Modern Warfare. Until then... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theycallmeryan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is awesome but a few glitches prevent it from being better. Like starting off with 
 no ammo and having no binoculars (which you needed for the level) and having to start over. Gameplay: 
 8/10. The graphics are excellent, I have seen better in a video game, but not much better. Graphics: 
 9/10. The sound is amazing and would be a 10 but sometimes when you shoot your gun, the sound cuts 
 out for a few seconds. The online is awesome except for no headset support and a few glitches. 
 Online 8/10. I got it for $60 and it was more than worth it. Value: 9/10. This was my kind of game 
 and I would recommend it if you have your PS3 hooked up online and/or if you like shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I've been following the call of duty franchise since the very first game, every since then I felt 
 that it was much better than medal of honour, bringing many important innovations to the genre. 
 Call of Duty 2 expanded even more the concept and improved in every possible way. However, with 
 call of duty 3 the momentum stalled, and i sincerely wish its the last WW2 Call of Duty Game, so 
 that the series ends in good grace.
  
  What I mean, is that the game is technically excellent, with great graphics, sound and gameplay, 
 but it hasn't innovated much from the last chapter. It's almost like playing call of duty 2 again 
 with a better graphics engine.
  
  Only the sepecial action sequences that use the SIXAXIS motion detection bring some variety to 
 he gameplay, but they are few and far between.
  
  This is still a very solid game, and a very good buy (despite the short campaign) , but if no innovations 
 can be achieved in the future, it's a good thing if there is never again a WW2 themed Call of Duty 
 game, because n&ordm;3 almost stays the same that n&ordm;2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Playstation 3's potential shown in COD 
  Call of Duty has been an interesting series, essentially dominating the World War II genre of video 
 games. Call of Duty 3 continues this series very nicely and Playstation 3 shows the potential that 
 games like this have to offer. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is really interesting, 
 though a tad bit short. Regardless, if you have purchased a Playstation 3, this game is certainly 
 one of the top games released a launch, much like what the Xbox 360 did during its launch. I would 
 like to break the game down into singleplayer, multiplayer, and sub-categories that will hopefully 
 give you a better explanation of what this game is about.
  
  Single Player 8/10
  
  Single player is really fun, and I am not just saying that because I enjoy first person shooters 
 or the Call of Duty series. In fact, I am not a big fan of either. But, after purchasing this game, 
 I was actually quite impressed with the single player mode. There is a nice little story that takes 
 place in between the 14 chapters in the game. Each chapter is relatively short, making the singleplayer 
 short overall. However, the chapters feature tough scenarios that you must overcome in order to 
 move further into the game. The health feature, although new in Call of Duty 2, still exists. Your 
 health isn't represented. Just don't get caught up in tons of fire.
  
  There are several difficulty levels, allowing for replay value and opportunities of challenging 
 yourself.
  
  The Playstation 3 adds a neat feature to the game, with its wireless Sixaxis controllers. In order 
 to melee, all you have to do is tilt your controller rapidly to the left or right. The feature 
 sort of reminds me of the Wii, which is pretty cool.
  
  Multiplayer 8/10
  
  The multiplayer feature is pretty fun, although not the most amazing thing I have ever seen. Compared 
 to Call of Duty 2, COD 3 is much faster paced. When you get into an online game, you will have 
 to act quickly and effectively if you want to be successful. There are tons of weapons to choose 
 from, which is nice, and also a variety of games. The multiplayer is always a good break from and 
 a good extension of the singleplayer mode.
  
  Some people have complained about online games not working, however, I have been able to join every 
 online game for Playstation 3, so I am not sure where the difficulties are coming from.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  This is the real deal. New generation graphics on the Playstation 3 at 1080i. 
 Regardless of what TV you have, the graphics will be an enormous improvement from anything on the 
 old generation consoles. But the effective potential that the Playstation 3 has is clearly shown 
 in Call of Duty 3, which is a huge positive aspect. The objects are very detailed, such as guns, 
 wood, faces, houses, and shadows. Everything looks absolutely amazing and you will not regret this 
 game, even though it exists on the old generation consoles. The graphics have indeed matched the 
 potential of the system.
  
  Controls 9/10
  
  I like the controls a lot. The melee function is really cool with the tilting of the controller, 
 and the aiming and firing seems really easy as the R1 and L1 buttons. Reloading is simple with 
 the square button and crouching with the circle button. Going prone can sometimes be a bit awkward, 
 pressing the circle button down, but after a mission or so, you should get the hang of it. Overall, 
 the controls are excellent.
  
  Final 9/10
  
  I think Call of Duty 3 is a huge success on the Playstation 3. Seeing as there are few games to 
 choose from on the PS3, Call of Duty is definitely one of the games that you are going to want 
 to consider. Resistance: Fall of Man may be a game to compare to Call of Duty, which may be one 
 of the reasons that Call of Duty 3 has been slightly overshadowed. But please, give this game a 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Before the PS3 was launched in Europe, I was unsure whether or not to purchase this title - particulary 
 as it meant another &pound;40 on top of the &pound;600 I had spent pre-ordering the hardware and 
 various peripherals to go with it.
  However, I am extremely glad I decided to go for it as this game delivers in every aspect. I began 
 by playing through the story, which blew me away from the first mission in St Lo. This was the 
 fist time I had ever experienced a next-gen game up close (rather than the gamespot reviews) and 
 the difference between it and a PS2 title was incredible. The Allied NPCs were very realistic in 
 their movements and their appearance - with skin textures looking completely life-like. The enemy 
 AI in the huge battle in the church yard at the beginning of the game was also brilliant, reacting 
 to grenades being thrown and looking for any possible cover from the numerous bullets flying at 
 them. I also found the controls very easy to get the hang of, particularly as the trigger buttons 
 L1 and R1 were used for aiming and firing and I find these natural to use in a FPS. The weapons 
 also behaved realisticaly, with the sound echoing around you as you blast the axis soliders through 
 tight french streets. The tilt function was used sparingly but added to the overall experience 
 a lot - particularly the hand to hand battles with Nazi soldiers which came as a complete surprise 
 to me every time. Finally, the online play is where the main value of this title lies. The maps 
 are stunning, with umpteen sniper points and plenty of cover throughout. There are also many different, 
 engaging multiplayer modes and a large number of maps. The only downsides are that you can't talk 
 to people over a headset and the 'players met' function doesn't work for this game, so you have 
 to write down anyone you want to add as a friend on the PSN. Overall, a game that will be remembered 
 as the title which got people to buy the PS3 and play on it for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_hale
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought my PS3 and I decided I needed another game other than Resistance. I bought this game used 
 and I think it was worth my money. I've always been a fan of Call of Duty so if you haven't played 
 the series yet, I suggest you rent the game first. Oh and by the way, the review is telling the 
 truth about inconsistent framerate. I'm used to it because it was like that for the Call of Duty 
 games for the PS2. If you have a Xbox 360, then buy the game for that platform because it is better. 
 Great game other than the framerates. Awesome visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I must start this review by stating that I am not the biggest FPS fan on the planet, but I have 
 been impressed by this title. I'm willing to go as far as to declare Call of Duty 3 one of the 
 best launch titles I have played on any system
  Graphically, this title is a treat to look at. It showcases the full amount of the PS3's power 
 that has been tapped so far. I'm sure that some of this glory will be lost when it is compared 
 to PS3 titles in three years, but for now it is one of the prettiest games I have ever seen.
  All of the actual combat controls are responsive and he game is fairly easy to pick up and play. 
 The game includes some Wii-influenced motion controls, which honestly seem a little frustrating 
 and out of place at times. Still, newcomers to the PS3 can't help but be a little impressed by 
 the fact that the system offers this type of motion sensitive control. While this also may lose 
 some of it's luster in the next few years, it is a cool feature at this time.
  My only problem with the title is the sound. While all of the battlefield effects are very well 
 done, the voice acting and dialogue are horrible. Players are forced to crank up the volume in 
 order to even hear the spoken dialogue, which they have little to no chance to understand due to 
 the actors' horrible attempts at impersonating foreign accents. There may be some sort of plot 
 in this game, but it is lost on me due to the difficulty in understanding the characters. The incredibly 
 soft dialogue also leads to the problem of having to blast the entire house with combat noises 
 in order to hear the characters speak. I'm sure actual combat is very loud, and this is in many 
 ways more accurate to real warefare than if you were able to hear the characters. However, I do 
 not really feel like simulating an actual battlefield in my house while my infant son tries to 
 sleep.
  Call of Duty 3 does many things right, like adding selectible difficulty settings and online co-op 
 play. The overall appearance and pick-up-and-playablility make it appealing to anyone just picking 
 up the system. The sound flaws aside, this is a solid launch title that will provide a lot of enjoyment 
 to new PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvulger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  this game i easily the best... the mulytiplayer is alot of fun, its soooo much fun... the onmly problem 
 is that its to short, call of duty 2 was longer... but this one shows the battle frield in a more 
 realistic way... and does it show... the grapgics are soooo detailed and chrisp... it really adds 
 to the story, and it makes u feel like u were there at that time fighting in the war... the sound 
 is soooo good... its like real explosions... in some games the explosions sound cheap and not real... but 
 no this game, i have to turn me volume down so i can play the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is by far the most accurate, realistic wartime shooter I have come across. The battlefield 
 often becomes so full on that my father cannot even sit beside me while I play it... (he often sits 
 and gives me hints on how to get the most out of simulated warfare.) The sound is fantastic, you 
 can actually hear rounds whizzing over your head and when you fire a Thompson it actually has the 
 same rattling sound as the real thing. The storyline is historicaly accurate, the graphics are 
 great... (you can see the hammer finish on the tanks ect...) and once you set the game on the difficulty 
 level suited to your skill, it becomes quite a challenge to survive. Having smoke grenades do not 
 just smother the screen, they actually confuse the Germans...10 points for realism! All in all, 
 I say it leaves the other real war simulations for dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AncientDragon4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The online play is fun you can have 24 people in one map
  New Maps not on PS2 are Poisson And Fuel Plant they are good
  bu Poisson my favorite and I play 
 war mostly online And Team
  battle It's better then the ps2 version and Xbox 360. They both
  be good if you have either system. 
 You can't boot people on
  this version like on 360. Hopefully the PS3 can come with new maps
  in a update or something. 
 It is a good game to play on ps3
  probably the most popular online for the system so far. You
  will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silicel1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The story is as you could expect WW2 (last couple of months) in europe. If you could get over mastering 
 the controls you should have no problems whatsoever but as i am a PC fanatic (also like consoles) 
 it took me quite a lot to get used to the analog stick. This small obstacle is the only thing that 
 can ruin your gameplay experience, so more experienced FPS consolers would say that its its just 
 matter of time get used to it but not for me. Maybe the gameplay exp. would be ruined by this fact 
 but i found the game more challenging so i can say only good things about it.
  Graphics are good but tiny mistakes in the animations (gun going through the hands of the soldier) . 
 Some minor mistakes but it stands tall and strong.
  My advice is to buy this game if you own a PS3 but probably I will try it out on the PC so..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overwhelminglyD
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Forget the campaign! The graphics aren't the greatest, and the physics are pathetic in relation 
 to what the system can produce. Call of Duty 3 is all about the multiplayer. Whether it's timing 
 a grenade to hit an enemy 50 yards away or just running through the level one-hitting other players 
 with the trench gun, Call of Duty 3's multiplayer is definitely the most fun. The action is fast-paced 
 and aggresive, but not too over the top like Restistance: Fall of Man. It's just perfect.
  
  Remember: forget playing the campaign mode! Go straight into multiplayer to make Call of Duty 
 3 worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Youre past the hard part - youve somehow managed to secure a PS3. Now, what to play on it? After 
 Resistance, your best bet might just be a sequel. Fortunately, that sequel is Call of Duty 3, which 
 repeats its successful formula of strikingly realistic graphics and dramatically scripted action, 
 but adds enough new features this time around to make it worth your re-enlisting.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is still the same straight-arrow scripted game-on-rails it was back when I was playing 
 Call of Duty 2 for Xbox 360, but the developer has refined this new iteration to such an extent 
 that you'll barely notice the lack of freedom. You'll still find yourself facing a never-ending 
 onslaught of Nazi forces that won't relent until you make a mad dash into their midst (enabling 
 your allies to move up) , but this time you've got an even more gorgeous environment to do it in.
 
  
  Nowhere is the staggering attractiveness of the game more apparent than in the second level called 
 The Island. Commando crawling through the mud and rivulets of a rural France, I was brought to 
 our knees by the rain effects that created devastatingly beautiful creeks for me to slog through. 
 Granted, most of the game involves retaking Nazi occupied France, so a lot of the environment ends 
 up being bombed-out houses, but it's little environmental treats like The Island that really show 
 off Call of Duty 3 's best graphics.
  
  These are, however, the same best graphics youll find on the Xbox 360 version of the game. Try 
 as I might, I couldnt discern any noticeable difference between the two, at least visually. So 
 while Call of Duty 3 will certainly do a good job showing off your new $600 piece of hardware, 
 it wont do any better than on your friends $400 pieces of hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minion9
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 21, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it looks great. And yes, there are plenty of Germans to shoot. But it has all been done before, 
 and at least previous Call of Duty games were fun to play. The motion controls just feel tacked 
 on, the game would improve without them. But mostly, the game is just not fun to play. After running 
 around and getting gunned down in two seconds by someone you never saw, the game starts to get 
 annoying. After you have to watch the same movies while the game loads, it becomes angering. But 
 when you have to keep playing the same places over because the checkpoints are way too far apart, 
 and when you have to use the ridiculous controller to fight off a German, the game simply becomes 
 unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainstringer
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I played singleplayer and driving a jeep and a tank in levels are brilliant played this on xbox 
 360 since i got one two and the difference is brilliant the blue ray look's wicked on call of duty 
 3 its feels more world war to me because its lighter and the graphics look awesome i thought it 
 looked a bit dark on xbox 360 and so i buy it for ps3 and it's a must buy as it look's nice on 
 a hd tv.
  The online play is great as can you be a sniper or a medic to a machine gunner or a guy with a 
 bazooka who's got inf ammo so either way what solider is in front you is going to get blown away 
 to hell i notice recentley that sticky grenades stick to the enemy i throw one online and three 
 germans ran at me and i got the middle one and the other 2 there was one in front of the guy i 
 got and one behind the guy i got with the sticky grenade and they didn't realise it stuck and as 
 they ran towards me i got three at the same time in a line behind each other and bang 3 in row 
 i couldn't believe it i killed 3 it was the funnest thing i ever seen as the guy i got didn't realise 
 I got him it was shear brilliant World War you get this game you join the Army
  brillant used 3 time's it's that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  CoD3 once again delivers the most intense WWII combat to your living room, by the latest graphic 
 technology and sound effects.
  The graphics in this game is good, the textures on walls and rocks or even on the grounds are all 
 pretty detailed, and the overall graphic clearity is crisp. I personally have both X360 and this 
 PS3 version, and graphic-wise, they are identical, only the PS3 ver. runs at bit lower framerate, 
 but that doesn't mean it's not smooth : )
  the sound is stunning, where you hear your comrades yelling and fighting alongside with you, with 
 all the noise come from grenades and gun shots, you'd really think yourself as in a battlefield 
 in 1942
  the gameplay is pretty much identical to CoD2, there's not much has been change, since it was already 
 a good gameplay machnism
  
  This game is really fun, intense, and online-able
  
  what are you waiting for ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otaku1093
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was great on the PS2 but the PS3 does it true justice. The gameplay is smooth, some tough 
 controller moving sequences here and there but it adds to the reality. The graphics are great, 
 the sound fits the field perfectly. For one of the PS3's first games this game has great value, 
 and although there is no multiplayer, it's still worth going back again just to have some fun. 
 If you just got a PS3 make sure to get this game, it will certainly give you a feel for the PS3. 
 You are sure to have fun with this game in your PS3's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: American-Eagle
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 brings you closer than ever to the fury of combat. You will fight your way through 
 the Normandy Breakout campaign, the most devastating series of battles in World War II. Featuring 
 all new battle actions, destructible environments, and vehicle-based online Multiplayer, Call of 
 Duty 3 delivers the most cinematic and intense combat moments ever experienced. You will fight 
 alongside your squad through the heavily-defended French countryside in an all-out assault to liberate 
 Paris. With next generation technology, you will experience the most authentic and immersive war 
 feeling yet. The game also has up to 16 Player online Multiplayer support including never-before 
 seen modes and multiple occupancy vehicles. This game is 1 player only, but delivers a lot during 
 your campaign. The game supports full 1080i for an even better looking game. The game is rated 
 as a Teen game for blood, language, and violence. Call of Duty 3 offers a lot and is a great game 
 for the PlayStation 3. The game has great graphics and the soldiers and guns are very realistic. 
 This was my first game on the PlayStation 3 and is still one of my favorites. This game is very 
 addicting and is even more fun online. If you are looking for a great game that offers a very realistic 
 war experience, then make sure you get a copy of Call of Duty 3 for the PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukasN82
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  All right you COD fans out there, the third installment is here, And oh man, couldn't put this 
 one down, This might not be the best in the series but, this is quite something you might consider 
 trying, This time around the game will most likely feel as if you're in the game, from staggering 
 fight sequence with your enemy to unique interactive environments such as setting up bombs to moving 
 cranes, etc. thats when the SIXAXIS kicks in, for me it was awkward at some points and yet incredible 
 how awesome it feels to flick your controller forward to knock your opponets out when you get in 
 a sticky moment. Might take some time to get used to but its a fun experience, a fine addition 
 to the PS3 version. The missions are straight forward, sometimes leads you wondering what is up 
 with that? Nevertheless, COD3 delivers another great experience to COD veterans to new gamers alike. 
 And online? well fellas, see you all there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abefermon
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  la verdad esperaba mejores graficos, pero el sonido es excelente, en cambio es mas agradable jugarl 
 en linea, ya que el juego es mas respetable, es decir existe entre los jugadores una mejor actitud 
 deportiva que en xbox 360. el manejo del control tambien es mas facil y sensible por lo que la dificultad 
 varia un poco ante su competencia.
  del juego solo puedo comentar que es excelente, y casi tan bueno como cod2. tambien considero un 
 acierto que dicho juego tiene una ense&ntilde; anza sobre los lugares donde se llevaron a cabo las 
 batallas y el tipo de armamento usado., asi como los vehiculos, en general un acierto este juego 
 y mas el tenerlo y poder disfrutarlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake341
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a intense, high powered game. It has lots of fun weapons to use. There are fun levels 
 to play in. There are many enemy's to fight against and they will not go easy on you. This is an 
 awesome and fun game to play with. The multi-player online is fun and has a variety of games modes 
 to play in. The story mode is an intense, fun, high powered, and a extreme game. Everyone should 
 buy this game because it is great. It is a great gift for any occasion. Tell your friends to buy 
 this game as soon as possible. Anyone will have fun with this game and they will enjoy it alot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  weel the game was amazing and the grapghics were some of the best (better than Resistance Fall 
 Of Mans) . it does indeed have some flaws, 1. the grenades jump and and bounce around on the water, and 
 dont go off. 2. some glitches in the sound. 3. some of your allies get stuck in places or get stuck 
 running up stairs blocking your path. but in the end it is a great shooter, and should be considered 
 by many, though it isnt as good as call of duty 2 for the x360 which i will give some kudos too, 
 only a small amount ... ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalscowboys22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Coming from someone who never has enjoyed playing MOH or COD i decided to buy this game just to 
 have another game to play. 8.2 being a solid rating in my opinion helped me decide to get it but 
 i still had my doubts. after i put it in and started playing it on a SDTV at my grandparents house 
 i was still amazed at the game going home and playing it blew me away. the game is gorgeous and 
 is well worth playing and owning. also i have never been into online games and after i beat it 
 i decided to look into it and i found another thing i love. this game has 2 difficulty settings 
 and anyone from any age can find one that they enjoy. i strongly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sligzz76543
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Call of Duty franchise. Like all of the games in the series, i greatly enjoyed 
 this one. The only problem i have is the length of the game. I found that the campaign was too 
 short. The storyline was a lot more developed than the other games but just too short for me. The 
 other thing that i found about this game is that it looks better on the 360. This may be because 
 game developers for the ps3 are still becoming comfortable with the programming. Also this game 
 is one of the first generation games for the ps3 so i expected it to look better on the 360 since 
 the 360 has had time to develop more. Anyways this game was a great game and definitely worth playing. 
 The multiplayer is great. I have played both on the 360 and ps3 and both are equally fun. I personally 
 liked COD2's multiplayer more but the use of vehicles in some levels is a good addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanBlocker
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  After spending some time playing Call of Duty 3 I can safely say that its essentially just another 
 WWII first person shooter. You play through the rather poor visuals of the single player campaign 
 in different rolls of different armies that all contributed to essentially the same battle. For 
 a system as advanced as the PlayStation 3 you would expect the images on the back of the box to 
 at least resemble in game play, but it soon become apparent after loading the came up that there 
 pre-rendered. After loading the game up for the first time it was disappointing to see how grainy 
 and poorly constructed the game was. In one online map I saw that an embedded tank was actually 
 3 or 4 inches off the ground. Not normally noticeable from the standing position but when lying 
 flat it stood out. Missions do allow for minor multiple routes but this is often in the form of 
 picking a path you would take ending up in the same outcome.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence in this game is also a point in which the game falls short. Yes of 
 course there is a bit of intelligence there but not what you would expect from a big franchise 
 as Call of Duty. Often I would see the enemy fully exposed. They also seemingly take the same amount 
 of damage no matter where you hit them.
  
  Online is fun if the game gets going and allows for 24 players at anyone time. However no personal 
 stat tracking on the PlayStation 3 version at least does leave you wondering what the drive to 
 perform well is. Just playing a single round for the sake of it does leave you wanting a stats 
 sheet similar to that of Resistance: Fall of Man. Headset functionality also seems to be a feature 
 left out. If it does exist then I failed to get it working or overlook any information in the games 
 manual. This clearly shows how rushed and single player based the game is. Some game modes are 
 nice but as I said they are team orientated and lacking the communication features do make for 
 hard work trying to get a squad together, leaving most assaults down to chance.
  
  Visually the game is poor compare to some of the Sony first party titles such as Resistance: Fall 
 of Man but the sound is as you would expect. Nice smoke effects to make smoke grenades worth it. 
 Unlike those in Battlefield 2: Modern Combat for the PS2, but do seem kind of odd in the way they 
 disperse, often in a noticeable fade. Much like some debris from an explosion fades away. Its 
 not the best FPS on the market but it was originally made for the X360. Not being the biggest Xbox 
 fan in the world I have never played there systems. But if this game is anything to go by visually 
 then Im not missing much. It makes sense that the third parties hadnt had the hardware as long 
 as the first party developers but even this is a shameful experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceriousgamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 had great graphics, gameplay, and controls. it really used the ps3's action sensored 
 controller a lot, which i liked. I think it was a bit too short. the guns were great. (very realistic) 
 but online isn't very fast paced. the game could have been way longer, but i guess it wasn't because 
 it's the same as the ps2 version. i think they should have made a campaign co-op (online) and they 
 should have added some more powerful weapons. grenades are kind of hard to get used to, but once 
 you get the hang of it they're really helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justdaman11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the best launch title for the PS3. The graphics are really great, Sound is 
 fantastic, Gameplay realy gets you involved and into the game, And the Sixaxis is a cool little 
 feature to the game. The guns are greatly detailed. Fantastic replay value. In my opinion default 
 difficulty is perfect, its hard but right as you start to get frusterated you pass the level, other 
 levels include Easy ( but not super easy, definetly fun) , hard ( very difficult and takes patience 
 to pass this) Veteran (freaking impossible, you have to be a complete bad-A to beat this. Online 
 is very fun, with lots of really fun suff like Capture the Flag, Battle, Team-Battle and more. 
 the only problem i've had with this game online the server isn't all that good, And the offline 
 game is kinda short. Overall this is the best game for the PS3 at the moment :) HOPE THIS HELPS 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamzer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is an awesome experience. One of the best launch titles for playstation 3. It takes 
 advantage of the six-axis controls when driving, close combat or setting a charge. I played the 
 ps2 version online it was good but when i bought the game for ps3 it was much better. Graphics are 
 amazing there is a lot of detail put into it like the material of the uniforms is visible together 
 with dirt or shine from the rain. Its an action packed game as there is almost never a dull moment. Your 
 also accompanied by allies almost through the whole game, so you wont find yourself alone in a 
 ditch doing all the missions by yourself. To sum up its an action packed coop game that also has 
 online play to keep you going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knnth
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  CoD3 is an immersive shooter with a lot of great environments, realistic effects and other characteristics 
 that you've come to expect from a well-made WWII game. Where it excels is in the fantastic use 
 of current platform capabilities. It is incredibly nice, technically.
  
  Other than that, it's quite similar to its ancestors, and its cousins. The very linear gameplay 
 tells an interesting story, but you do feel a bit herded through the sequence of events. You get 
 the sense that you're just in another area, blowing something up, defending or assaulting, defending 
 then assaulting.
  
  The score is great, the environmental audio convincing, but in the open and I'm hit start to wear 
 on you after several hours.
  
  Love the action.
  
  Definitely one of the few good launch titles for PS3, and very worth a rental and the time to finish 
 the campaign. Online is very fun, but only for a short time. For online, Resistance is much more 
 diverse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really a fan of COD 3 on the 360 for some reason. Found the game slightly boring and samey, 
 the gameplay a little 1D and there appeared to be terrible AI and graphical glitches. Having said 
 that I thought I'd give the Ps3 version a go to compare. Now for reasons I can't really explain 
 the Ps3 edtion of COD 3 just feels and looks better. The gameplay seems to flow better and considering 
 its a port it shouldn't be as good as it is. The Online game is better and works better than the 
 360 version and there's no lag issues. Its not a perfect game and its not a patch on COD 2 on the 
 360. However overall I found this game more challenging with a few nice tweaks that make it better 
 than the lacklustre 360 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  The Thrid installment of Call of Duty offers the same as it's pervious installments with better 
 graphics.
  
  Graphics are improved quite nicely with cut scenes that are direct to gameplay like the first and 
 second but with sharper images and lifelike characters. Grass flows smoothly, rain drops spash, 
 and even weapons degrade somewhat. Other than that this game is almost the exact same.
  
  Gameplay adds the use of six axis with the ability to bash the enemy with your gun by jerking it 
 which is fun but can get frustrating if it doesn't work. The six axis is also used to do other 
 mini games like rowing or driving a car though those are not as responsive as they should have 
 been and can constatnly delay or not register.
  
  Story itself is fairly short and easy on normal but once you reach the highest level, it becomes 
 a lot more requirement of skill than just running and gunning. Cover is very needed especially 
 when shot in order to regain your shield or what ever you get. Online is also exciting though there 
 is no real reward for doing anything just braging rights and a promotion that lasts during the 
 battle and leaves right after you start a new game.
  
  If you are a fan of the Call of Duy series and don't have the computer to process the game, this 
 one is highly recommended. Solid gameplay and online make this game a must have for CoD fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamasutra
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Another World War 2 game, but is a good game. Its a little short though I finish the game in less 
 that 9 hours. Is a good game even if you havent played the previous two. The multiplayer online 
 is great, you can choose to be one of the axis or a US soldier, can play different games including 
 capture the flag my favorite. One of the few Playstation 3 games worth buying right now. I would 
 hope in the future they can do another war like Kosovo or Iraq enough World War 2. Im getting 
 tired of France and Germany. Thanks to all this game of WW2 I know the Frenchmen are cowards, the 
 polish are a little nuts and the Canucks can do nothing on time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbofthecs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I really do like this game a lot. The only problem is that its so short. But that is all made up 
 with the online play. Only one problem. My internet has been being really crappy lately. So I haven't 
 been playing it much. Thats why I have only played it 10 to 20 hours. I know it will be 100+ by 
 the time I get done playing this game. The graphics are the best I have seen for an army game. 
 Thats why I gave it a 10. Sound kicked ass so it gets a 9. Now on the value I gave it an 8 because 
 you won't play the main game over more then a few times. But the online kicks ass so you will always 
 be playing the game. My tilt is a 10, like I always put for games that I love. I put the difficulty 
 at just right because, well, its just right :) I like to have a somewhat challenging game that 
 I can still beat some what easily. It was easy to learn and i picked it up in just a few minutes. 
 So yeah there is my first review :D I don't really know what I am supposed to talk about so I talked 
 about why i rated it how I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  When buying a new system, one must always take into account the games that are currently released 
 for it and their quality. When it comes to a new system and its launch titles, things can get a 
 bit dicey and it is usually a crapshoot as to what the quality of what you are getting is. Smarter 
 souls wait until they know what games are out and how good they are before they buy the new systems 
 as well the other necessary details before buying anything. What Im basically trying to say is 
 that after buying my PS3 on an impulse Ive realized Im not a very smart person.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is yet another World War two, first person shooter. As far as background story, 
 you dont really need to know more than that, since this game is told in a fairly disinteresting 
 manner. The storyline isnt exactly the freshest nor are any of the individual tasks your people 
 will go through all that creative or new. Basically what you are getting is a game that feels more 
 tried and overdone than anything else and it is quite obvious that EA is simply mining the same 
 basic vein yet again. The one thing that is interesting is that you will control a number of people 
 from each side of the Allies involved in this part of the fighting. You will control American, 
 British, Canadian and Polish soldiers, each following a different side of the battlefield.
  
  As far as the gameplay for this game goes it doesnt really fare all that much better than 
 the storyline does. While the basic control setup you are given is somewhat competent, you cant 
 change any of your buttons in the options menu. This really stinks and leaves you forced to learn 
 how to use your buttons whether or not you like it. Even something as simple as aiming your gun 
 is touchy because you need to line up your targets with your sights, done by holding down the L1 
 button, and firing. Without looking down your sights your accuracy is so far down the toilet that 
 it is almost laughable. You can use machine guns without this aiming, but it requires close range 
 for this to work. This is also very important when it comes to shooting at enemies from a long 
 range, something that will definitely happen often. The bolt-action rifles will be used quite a 
 lot since they have the best chance to hit from the far distances that you will encounter more 
 than anything else. What makes this so harsh is that with the enemies moving and you trying to 
 aim down your sights, you will not be able to hit a single thing, much less the enemies that are 
 pounding on you with machine guns from far away.
  
  This is another source of much annoyance: the incredibly spastic enemy AI. There have been times 
 where I walked into a room, looked around, scoped out the room and then realized there was a guy 
 standing right next to me with his gun aimed at my head but he didnt shoot me. Why this happened 
 seriously eludes me, but it happened more than once. But then at other times, the enemy can pound 
 on you from all the way across an open plains area with full auto machine guns whereas you cant 
 even see them.
  
  I would love to know why this game is so glitchy too. The variety of glitches that managed to pop 
 up is so insane and annoying that I would love to know how the quality testing missed them. I have 
 been shot while hiding behind solid objects by enemy machine guns and debris has been seen floating 
 mid-air and phasing through other objects. Oh, but the best of it all is that there were a few 
 times where enemies showed up as red to my targeting reticule, leading me to shoot them to death. 
 This ends up getting you accused of friendly fire, which forced you to do a restart.
  
  One of the things that are nice about this game is the hectic chaos of being on a full-fledged 
 battlefield. With guns blazing all around you and explosions all over the place you definitely 
 feel like you have been pulled into the middle of a war-zone. However, at the same time this works 
 against you. If you dont happen to hear the name of whichever character you are using being called 
 out and told what to do, you can be left in the dark wondering what objective you are supposed 
 to be trying to accomplish at the time. A nice thing about this battlefield combat is that you 
 will find yourself fighting alongside your ally troops and it feels so nice to fight alongside 
 these troops. Tactical movement and fighting is seriously encouraged in this game and I loved that.
 
  
  My two biggest gripes with this game are not the gameplay or the boring story. You can get over 
 this by simply ignoring the story and getting used to the controls. It is the ridiculously stupid 
 PS3 Sixaxis controls and some of the horrendous vehicle controls. Between these two, I had to fight 
 with myself to keep playing through many of the levels.
  
  The vehicles controls are incredibly annoying in this game. While driving the jeep is actually 
 pretty easy, using the turret is actually very annoying since you dont have a target reticule 
 of any sort, even when using the sights on the guns. However the tank is the most worthless piece 
 of junk I have ever used in any game. I have never felt so vulnerable inside a giant mobile canon. 
 You die very easily in the levels where you are using one and it is quite frustrating.
  
  Worse than that are the Sixaxis exclusive controls. They are so useless and I found myself angry 
 beyond words whenever I was forced to use the controller in this manner. Spinning the controller 
 in circles to insert a fuse in a bomb, trying to move it like a boat paddle to row a boat and jerking 
 it to the left to do a melee attack are all so counter intuitive that it almost physically hurts. 
 The only thing that even remotely works is holding the controller upright and using it like a steering 
 wheel for the jeep, but even then it is simply easier to use the analog sticks. I cant quite put 
 into words how useless the Sixaxis specific controls feel in this game.
  
  In the end, Call of Duty 3 is honestly a mediocre game with a mediocre setting behind it. The game 
 isnt really all that bad, but I am very much glad to have rented it instead of buying it. Above 
 all, I can honestly say that I would gladly play it again given the chance, but if I did so it 
 would be on the 360. This allows me to at least get achievement points for dealing with the frustrations 
 of some of the areas.
  
  Pros: Fighting alongside your fellow troops has never felt so necessary and this game heavily favors 
 tactics over blind charges.
  
  Cons: The game can be glitchy, enemy AI is spotty at times, the Sixaxis controller and vehicle 
 controls are incredibly bad. Score: 6
  
  Recommendation: If you arent sick of WW2 shooters somehow, you could do worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnovak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love the game but I was expecting something new. I know I shouldn't expect 
 anything new from the third game in a series based on WWII shooters, but something would have been 
 nice.
  
  Graphics = a vast improvement over the PS2, but I think they could have done better with body proportions. 
 I noticed some characters that look like their body was two small for their arms and legs.
  
  Game Play = After finishing Resistance: Fall of Man, the controls for COD3 seemed awkward and 
 difficult. The game offers a couple of different layouts, but it is not customizable, and none 
 of the layouts seemed to work for me. I managed ok, but the controls never felt natural to me like 
 they did in R: FOM.
  
  Overall If you are a fan of the series, you will like this installment. If you have not been a 
 big fan, or if you are not familiar with, the series my recommendation is to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Cod 3 is WWII game ya a WWII game maybe there is too many of them and i agree with you. But this 
 game is intense and mostly realistic. once i plaed this game the visuals were amazing the sound 
 was awesome and i thought the campaigne mode was very interesting. The sixaxis control is awesome 
 when an enemy soldier get up in your face and personll. Also the abilty to drive a car in one of 
 the missions was interesting and was really fun. I personally love the online mode and it really 
 has improved from its predeccesors. Overall this is a great game with alot of intesity and very 
 good visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danl1386
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty solid game. The single player campaign is pretty good and online is probably the 
 second best for the PS3 so far- right behind Resistance. First we'll start off with the bad and 
 then progress to the good.
  
  In terms of single player campaign mode, it actually wasn't as long as I would have liked, but 
 it was a pretty engaging experience. There are 14 levels which took me a matter of 2 weeks to beat. 
 Since I had never played a Call of Duty game before- it took some getting used to the style of 
 the game, but after getting used to it I was hooked. The online mode is a lot of fun with up to 
 24 players playing at one time. The environments are very diverse, but I personally only find 2 
 or 3 of them playable. The other environments are either too hard to find your opponent in or they 
 have too many spots where a person can just camp out and destroy the competition. But if you stick 
 to just the levels that you enjoy playing, the online mode is a blast. With Team Battle, Capture 
 the Flag, Single Flag CTF, and War there is a pretty solid variety of modes that you can get involved 
 in. This helps out a lot in making the game very fun to play. A few other complaints I have about 
 online mode are: There are no microphones, so it is VERY hard to be able to figure out what your 
 teammates are doing. I think this would be a great game to incorporate team work into, but sadly- 
 there is no chance since the use of microphones isn't an option. My final complaint is that there 
 is no rating system or stat-tracking system. It would be nice to be able to see what level the 
 people you are playing are and to be able to see your own kills vs death ratio. Overall, this is 
 a pretty solid game which is very enjoyable. A longer single player campaign, more online environments, 
 microphone use, and a stat-tracking system could have easily made this the best game out at PS3 
 launch. Despite these downfalls- Call of Duty 3 is still a very good game which I would recommend 
 anyone who is interested in shooters plays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been an interesting series, essentially dominating the World War II genre of video 
 games. Call of Duty 3 continues this series very nicely and Playstation 3 shows the potential that 
 games like this have to offer. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is really interesting, 
 though a tad bit short. Regardless, if you have purchased a Playstation 3, this game is certainly 
 one of the top games released a launch, much like what the Xbox 360 did during its launch. I would 
 like to break the game down into singleplayer, multiplayer, and sub-categories that will hopefully 
 give you a better explanation of what this game is about.
  
  Single Player 8/10
  
  Single player is really fun, and I am not just saying that because I enjoy first person shooters 
 or the Call of Duty series. In fact, I am not a big fan of either. But, after purchasing this game, 
 I was actually quite impressed with the single player mode. There is a nice little story that takes 
 place in between the 14 chapters in the game. Each chapter is relatively short, making the singleplayer 
 short overall. However, the chapters feature tough scenarios that you must overcome in order to 
 move further into the game. The health feature, although new in Call of Duty 2, still exists. Your 
 health isn't represented. Just don't get caught up in tons of fire.
  
  There are several difficulty levels, allowing for replay value and opportunities of challenging 
 yourself.
  
  The Playstation 3 adds a neat feature to the game, with its wireless Sixaxis controllers. In order 
 to melee, all you have to do is tilt your controller rapidly to the left or right. The feature 
 sort of reminds me of the Wii, which is pretty cool.
  
  Multiplayer 8/10
  
  The multiplayer feature is pretty fun, although not the most amazing thing I have ever seen. Compared 
 to Call of Duty 2, COD 3 is much faster paced. When you get into an online game, you will have 
 to act quickly and effectively if you want to be successful. There are tons of weapons to choose 
 from, which is nice, and also a variety of games. The multiplayer is always a good break from and 
 a good extension of the singleplayer mode.
  
  Some people have complained about online games not working, however, I have been able to join every 
 online game for Playstation 3, so I am not sure where the difficulties are coming from.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  This is the real deal. New generation graphics on the Playstation 3 at 1080i. 
 Regardless of what TV you have, the graphics will be an enormous improvement from anything on the 
 old generation consoles. But the effective potential that the Playstation 3 has is clearly shown 
 in Call of Duty 3, which is a huge positive aspect. The objects are very detailed, such as guns, 
 wood, faces, houses, and shadows. Everything looks absolutely amazing and you will not regret this 
 game, even though it exists on the old generation consoles. The graphics have indeed matched the 
 potential of the system.
  
  Controls 9/10
  
  I like the controls a lot. The melee function is really cool with the tilting of the controller, 
 and the aiming and firing seems really easy as the R1 and L1 buttons. Reloading is simple with 
 the square button and crouching with the circle button. Going prone can sometimes be a bit awkward, 
 pressing the circle button down, but after a mission or so, you should get the hang of it. Overall, 
 the controls are excellent.
  
  Final 9/10
  
  I think Call of Duty 3 is a huge success on the Playstation 3. Seeing as there are few games to 
 choose from on the PS3, Call of Duty is definitely one of the games that you are going to want 
 to consider. Resistance: Fall of Man may be a game to compare to Call of Duty, which may be one 
 of the reasons that Call of Duty 3 has been slightly overshadowed. But please, give this game a 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewmandew7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is one of the best WWII FPS's to come along in a while. It shows the player that 
 nations on all fronts lost soldiers. The game also offers an action packed gameplay experience. 
 The visuals in the game are very powerful as well, but don't quite showcase the PS3's power. Finally, 
 the sounds in this game are incredibly realistic (especially in surround sound) and the music is 
 played at all of the right moments. This game is very well rounded, and here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: 9
  You start the game with a simple to follow tutorial. You begin by shooting helmets 
 off of poles and then move on to learning how to use grenades by blowing up a barn. This game has 
 a very short learning curve, and soon you'll be killing Krauts like a trained American soldier. 
 The controls are very simple, R1 to fire your weapon, L1 to aim, R2 and L2 to throw grenades, etc. 
 You can use this awkward jerking move with the SIXAXIS to do a melee attack... or you can just 
 click R3, which is not revealed to the player at any time and is a bit of self discovery. An enjoyable 
 experience is driving a vehicle. You can always just use the analog sticks to steer your jeep or 
 cycle, but you can also use the SIXAXIS controller to steer, which, after you figure it out, is 
 a pretty enjoyable experience and works well. Some other innovations using the SIXAXIS controller 
 include arming bombs, rowing a boat, and fighting set up hand-to-hand encounters with German soldiers. 
 The hand-to-hand fights with individual soldiers have been deemed as pointless and unentertaining, 
 but I disagree. It gets your moving and keeps you awake. Multiplayer is also a very enjoyable experience, 
 offering many different game modes, including, but not limited to Battle, Team Battle, and War 
 (which involves invading and conquering enemy territory using an area capture system in the form 
 of a falling and rising flag) . There is only lag when you get closer to the 24-player max, but 
 there is no headset support, which makes working with your allies difficult. All in all, Call of 
 Duty 3 offers a great gameplay experience.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Starting off, I thought the game looked fantastic. Then I got Resistance and this game started 
 looking kind of ugly. However, the faces in this game are very detailed and are some of the best 
 I've ever seen in a video game. Also, the clothing looks very realistic with the way it folds and 
 moves. Finally, the tanks are very attractive. At one point in the first mission, you have to climb 
 onto the back of a tank and spot out soldier on machine guns for the tank to attack. Once you get 
 that close to the tank... WOW. You can see each individual bump on the tank. It's not just some 
 flat texture; the tank is actually sculpted with these bumps in it. However, the environments aren't 
 nearly as attractive as in Resistance: Fall of Man, and since I have to base my rating on the best 
 I've seen, I can not justifiably give this game a ten.
  
  NOTE: I am rating the graphics using an HDTV, and visuals on SDTV may not be as great, so I can't 
 speak on that front.
  
  Sound: 10
  The sound in this game definitely gets a ten. There are all sorts of background noise, so you're 
 not only hearing the sound of soldiers that you can see or hear the sound of your own gun. You 
 can hear gun shots off in the distance, the sound of planes flying past, and tanks rolling over 
 the countryside. Also, the sheer quality of the sound is amazing, especially in surround sound. 
 The music score is also amazing. Whether it's '40's pop music playing over a radio during a cutscene 
 or the inspirational music played as you're about to lose a multiplayer war, the music is great 
 everywhere. There's one part in the campaign where you and the other soldiers are at the top of 
 a hill trying to hold it from being taken by German soldiers and you hear this hopeless sounding 
 music, but then... the Canadians to the rescue and the music changes. At this point, you can't 
 help but feel happy. The music isn't all set to play at specific set up points, though. In a multiplayer 
 war, that same hopeless music starts playing as your enemies are about to defeat you. It just inspires 
 you to get over to that flag pole and convert it to your side. Whoever composed this music deserves 
 an award.
  
  Value: 8
  This game is worth $60. You get a great storyline, a superb gameplay experience, both single player 
 and multiplayer, and a perfect musical score. If you have a PS3, get this game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  I enjoyed this game a great deal. I can't stay away from the multiplayer. 
 Actually, I enjoy it more than Resistance's. The only problem with the multiplayer is that there 
 is no online ranking system, which means no matter how many of your friend's you blow up, you don't 
 have anything to show for it. This also inspires people to blow up their teammates because they 
 don't get punished for it beyond being eventually booted from the game. I also enjoyed how it put 
 you into the shoes of small characters in a big war during the campaign. This is definitely a game 
 to pick up. Check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Legend
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the 3rd insatllement of the Call Of Duty series. In my opinion CoD3 is just as 
 good as CoD2 with some new features. For one thing you can now use Sixaxis motion controls thanks 
 to the PS3's controller, to plant charges, control vehicles, gun butt enemies and have gun battling 
 push offs. The controls are intuitive and are really fun especially driving the Car. The campaign 
 is really solid and the cutscenes are very fun to watch, they also allow you at some points to 
 look around at other characters or even move. The action is amazing and you can hear the cries 
 of allies and enemies and the sound of guns everywhere. At times you need to be very silent and 
 there is a lot of diversity in the missions which makes this game more fun. The graphics are amazingly 
 sharp and great, by far the best looking CoD game out there. The framerate is consistent and through 
 my time playing it, it has only dropped once and it was for a split second although there are a 
 few technical issues with your allies getting to close and blocking you from moving through spaces 
 at times. As well the AI isn't the greatest, an example is when I was in a room of 4 guys, 2 of 
 them began to shoot at me whiles the other 2 just stood there. Your allies are also not the greatest 
 at times, at one point my sargeant was shooting at an enemy and continued to shoot at him even 
 after he was dead rather than kill the guys in front of him. Online is okay for the PS3, there 
 is no voice chat which sucks, but there is no lag and the action is kept at a good pace. I wish 
 there were a bit more options and I wish there was Co-Op, but it's not all that bad. All in All 
 CoD3 is a great game, and if your looking for another shooter rather than Resistance you can pick 
 up CoD3. I give CoD 3 an 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EtherTwilight
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  You know the story. It's World War II. Nazi Germany is running amok in Europe, and it's up to America 
 and the rest of the world to save us all - But mostly up to America.
  
  And so, as Private Nichols, you're dropped into the thick of the action. Call of Duty 3 opens with 
 a narration regarding the Normandy assault, then puts you in the Private's eyes as one of your 
 fellow squad mates teaches you how to pick things up, fire your Garand, throw grenades, and crouch 
 to bash a crate. And after the obligatory training session is over, you're off for some Nazi huntin'!
 
  
  Unfortunately, overall, Call of Duty 3 fails to fully capture the intensity of World War II combat. 
 While a lot of the environments are great, a lot of the actual combat isn't that enthralling in 
 the single player campaign. You'll battle in graveyards, farms, storm machine gun nests, tromp 
 through some trenches, and most of the environments feel rather organic. However, there's a drove 
 feeling that detracts a lot from the game's feel. You never feel as if you're truly in the middle 
 of a hopeless battle, and you instead feel as if you're trapped in an average FPS set in 1940s 
 Europe.
  
  In many portions of the campaign, your objective will be to storm an area or defend an area. In 
 either, your squad will most likely be slowly picked off - Only to be replaced by new squad members 
 in moments. The same goes for the German forces, as well, due to the fact that holding an area 
 feels more like waiting for the clock to run out as opposed to truly feeling overrun. This is unfortunate, 
 as it makes most battles more of a Point A to Point B affair rather than the intense, gritty combat 
 you'd expect in World War II.
  
  That aside, the only real danger in Call of Duty 3 is from machine guns. You'll never have to hunt 
 down snipers, or worry about enemy armor too much outside of a couple moments in the game, which 
 is truly a shame. With the wide array of battles that were waged during World War II, it's a pity 
 that the vast majority of it is wading through a seemingly endless horde of German soldiers outfitted 
 with standard infantry equipment and poor AI. Sure, you'll have to assault machine gun nests and 
 mortar emplacements - And while this is all fine and dandy, neither of the two rarely make you, 
 the player, feel like you're in danger. Nests can occasionally be bothersome, but are typically 
 easily flanked, and mortars are just ridiculously pointless in the game.
  
  But you'll get a chance to use mortars, too. Some times, a machine gun emplacement will actually 
 be facing the enemy. You'll even get to use anti-armor cannons, and drive jeeps and tanks! But 
 a lot of these perform rather poorly. The left and right analog are rotated to maneuver the mortar/cannon 
 left and right, up and down respectively, but parts with both don't feel particularly engaging, 
 as enemy units tend to only partially damage you, and you don't feel hard pressed being the primary 
 responsibility in your unit. Driving the jeep around, also, is ridiculously tedious, requiring 
 you to get to a certain point, driving past enemy soldiers trying to gun you down. It never really 
 feels fluid or fun, just an irritation in the way of your ultimate objective. You can also use 
 the sixaxis controller held upright like a steering wheel to control the jeep, but it's extremely 
 poorly executed in the game, and you're better off simply using the analog stick.
  
  The same can be said of most of the game's use of the sixaxis, unfortunately. Some of the concepts 
 are fairly neat, like using the tilt functions to set explosive charges, drive your jeep, jut one 
 of the sides forward to execute a melee attack - Which, in pure FPS style, is far more powerful 
 than your actual gun is, by the way. However, somewhere between neat idea on paper, the translation 
 was lost and what you're left with is a tedious exercise, a few of which are repeated throughout 
 the game, particularly setting changes. Aside from that, you'll also need to use the sixaxis in 
 man-to-man melee bouts with enemy soldiers that pop up every now and then, which are ridiculous 
 boring. You move the sides back and forth for a while, then you press a button. Then you probably 
 have to move the sides back and forth again, then press a button, and the Nazi's down for the count. 
 It really is that boring.
  
  Call of Duty 3 isn't without its fun moments, however. Some of the engagement can be pretty fun 
 and intense, but most of the intensity of combat is from being completely outnumbered by enemy 
 units. A few of the levels have you assault some fairly well fortified positions, in some cases 
 including some nastily placed machine gun nests, and introduce a much more run for cover and hit 
 the deck style of play than the rest of the game, which consists of jumping out of cover and unloading 
 a magazine or getting hit, then jumping back into cover. Although you start with U. S. Army issue 
 equipment at the start of each level, you'll eventually run out as you rarely get additional ammo 
 or supplies during levels, and so you'll be relying rather heavily on equipment garnered from downed 
 enemy units. This isn't troublesome, as that was fairly common during World War II, and I can't 
 particularly knock a World War II game for including a crappy bolt-action rifle when it was truly 
 in heavy use by Germany.
  
  What I can do, however, is knock that the game doesn't give you enough of a variety for weapons. 
 Most of the levels start you with a Thompson or M1 Garand, then you run with those until they're 
 out, most likely relying heavily on picked up MP40s and KARs. What's disappointing is that you 
 almost never see a BAR, and you can almost completely forget about sniping in Call of Duty 3, as 
 the Springfield model 1903 is about as plentiful as the German FG42.
  
  You can also use smoke grenades, which are actually fairly useful in areas of intense gunfire where 
 cover is sparse. Regular grenades - both American pineapples and German potato mashers are available 
 as well, but unfortunately, they're next to worthless. Grenades rarely kill any enemy soldiers, 
 and are also incredibly difficult to throw longer distances. Even when they detonate near the enemy, 
 they typically disregard it completely and continue to lay down fire - Negating one of the primary 
 reasons why you just threw the thing in the first place.
  
  Another strange gameplay issue stems from cover. There are times when, despite being under complete 
 cover, you can still end up taking damage. This is ridiculous when behind thick stone walls, and 
 you'll getting ripped apart by someone a hundred feet away with a 9mm submachine gun. It's really 
 strange, and is obviously a flaw in the game design. The opposite is true, however, for enemy soldiers, 
 as there will be times when despite having a clean shot of them out of cover, you'll miss miss 
 miss miss miss get irritated and rush in with an automatic weapon. This becomes extremely grating, 
 as it actually tends to happen fairly often, and is just poor design. I don't know why I can't 
 shoot someone who's leaning around a wall, less than twenty feet away, with an M1 Garand, but he 
 can sure hit you with his KAR. I guess part of Nazi Germany's secret arsenal was an invincibility 
 and cilpping hack. Actually, has France ever blamed the Maginot Line on a clipping hack?
  
  Though much of the game's graphics are fairly solid, primarily including weapon-design (Which is 
 topnotch) , most of the animations seem fairly rigid and unnatural. There are occasional frame-rate 
 hiccups, as well, which fortunately don't typically happen in combat, just during cutscenes. Explosion 
 animations look extremely cartoonish and fake, detracting a lot of their effect from the rest of 
 the game that's supposed to look realistic and gripping.
  
  Aside from occasional frame-rate issues, the game also seems to suffer from a problem with loading 
 the in mission sequences, wherein your commanding officer flips out about your next objective, 
 and unlocks (read: opens gate, lifts magical invisible barrier, blows up barricade, etc.) the next 
 portion of the map. There were times where I got off the couch in irritation that my game had frozen, 
 only to realize it really was just taking about thirty seconds to load the unnecessary and boring 
 dialogue sequence. Great! Back to fighting Nazis!
  
  And the dialogue scenes really do break up the game. They're extremely boring, character-driven 
 dialogue sequences, which you cannot skip, even after beating the game. It's bad enough that the 
 interaction between your fellow soldiers is poorly written and delivered, being completely contrived 
 and entirely disinteresting even the first time around, but to not even be able to skip the scenes 
 at all, some of which can actually get pretty lengthy, even after you've already beaten the game 
 and dealt with them once, is ridiculously stupid, and there's no better way to articulate that 
 point.
  
  On the multiplayer front, Call of Duty 3 is extremely bare-bones. You can make a match, create 
 a match, or have the game find you a match instantly. Assuming you don't have any trouble connecting 
 to the games, that is, as I have had a lot of problems with CoD3 multiplayer connections, but none 
 in other games. Strange. At any rate, CoD3 offers you the standard fare, and lets you select an 
 archetype for soldier equipment - Heavy assault, scout, rifleman, etc, with up to 24 players at 
 a time. The biggest issues are that there's no stat tracking, no buddy lists, no in depth social 
 interaction or care about the multiplayer. There's also no headset support. Ultimately, you go 
 in, play a few rounds, and then get bored with the poorly implemented multiplayer. It's really 
 a shame, as multiplayer is a place to shine in today's gaming world, but this offers very little 
 in the come join our little world sense of things.
  
  All in all, I did enjoy a playthrough of Call of Duty 3. The combat can be fairly varied, if at 
 times disinteresting, but it does hold up a fun venture. The multiplayer held my interest for a 
 few days, but it's becoming stale quickly due to the lack of any unlockables, stat tracking, buddy 
 list, or any other features that are bogglingly left out. Staunch shooter fans should find something 
 to appreciate in Call of Duty 3, but if you're looking for the next great shooter, the flaws, such 
 as the poor dialogue, simplistic AI, and the usual fare WWII shooter wise, will glare at you and 
 ultimately wear down on you.
  
  But after a second, forced playthrough of campaign, and another day of multiplayer, I've grown 
 rather weary of this title, and there's not a lot to bring me clamoring back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  I love how this game incorporates the Sixaxis controller. The story hasnt changed much over the 
 game series but thats about it. I love WW2 shooters and this one tops them all with incredible 
 graphics and smart AI's. The weapon selction got a little better with this game and it became more 
 realistic. Im glad they got rid of the health packs from COD1 but i wish they would have incorporated 
 a medic like in Quake 4 or at least made healing some sort of challenge like in Blazing Angels. 
 Overall I love this game. The mutiplayer is acceptable and has no lagging as of yet. Although I 
 want them to enable headset use into the mutiplayer gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome, the multi-player was awsome too, like its kinda like day of deafet but better. Have 
 u heard the expression in day of deafeat forums where they mostly say whats the point of bazzakoas 
 and panzershrecks they dont have vehicles so whats the point? well... that us fixed here u get to 
 ride in tanks, jeeps, and motercicles and the classes are way............. beter than day of deafeat 
 ..... now here comes the problems. I WAS PLAYING AND IT SUDDENLY FROZE AT THE END OF THE ROUND.... AND 
 I HAD TO RESTART MY WHOLE PS3 BY THE RESET BUTTON (WHICH IS VERY BAD FOR THE SYSTEM) 5 TIMES!!!!!.... MAN 
 THAT WAS THE MOST MAJOR PROBLEM I HATED ABOUT THIS GAME... ALSO THE SINGLE PLAYER IS NOT GOOD ..... INFACT 
 I HATE THE STORY ITS VERRRRRRRRRRRRRRY GAY ESPACILY THE BRITISH THEATRE OF WAR THERE NOT EVEN REAL 
 SOLDIERS THERE RESISTENCE!!! MAN THATS GAY. overall the game is awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise is probably the best WWII shooter series in the world and it just got 
 a hell of a lot better with the addition of Call of Duty 3 on the PS3. First I would like to say 
 that this is one of the most intense shooters I have ever played and there is seriously never a 
 dull moment... well okay there are a few dull moments but they hardly draw from the experience. 
 The dull koments are when in the middle of a level, some random german comes out and you have to 
 go into a weird form of cqc by shaking the sixaxis. Other than that the game play is practically 
 flawless. The graphics in this game are simply gorgeous and really start to convince you that you 
 are a part of the war. I have not personally run into any framerate issues and although some of 
 the interiors are reused, this game is still top quality in the graphics department. Everyone should 
 know by now that since this is a CoD game, I don't have to even tell you how good the sound is, 
 well okay the sound is as close to perfect as I have ever heard in a game. From the gunshots to 
 the awesome musical score, this game's strongest point is by far the sound quality. While by no 
 means an original game it is still a great one and my only disapointment is the lackluster story 
 line which fails to hold much interest. You will be more focused on the action than the story in 
 Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  It's been a looooooong time since Call of Duty was herd of. It might not of had the best grphics 
 but it was CoD. Now look at it. It's one of the biggest WWll franchise in gaming. My favorite part 
 of this game is the graphics whick are beuatiful and the up close battle sequence and interactive 
 thingys. I love when a guy attacks you and you have to wiggle the controler to fend him off. Also 
 when you put on bombs and stuff you have to like twist the controller around. It gets better online 
 though. You can be a friggin medic dude. Bringin people back to life and what not. All and all 
 the PS3's Call of Duty 3 is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cz62289
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a must by game any hesitation and you will be sorry. The platoon you are with actually 
 draws fire away from you wich makes it a littlle easier and does kill the ocasional enemy. Nothing 
 but great battles and awesome shootouts. One Complaint why wasn't iyt longer. Dont get me wrong 
 the game was eye watering long. But i want it to be as long as WWII. The guns had great detail 
 and spot on real accuracy. The M1 is your best friend in the game so use it wisely. My favorite 
 level is the last level because of the ginormous size of the map and the shooting that goes on 
 around you and in front of you and to the sode of you. Another complaint is why no stat keeping 
 i would like to know how many of them jerrys i killed and how i killed them. One observation why 
 weren't there any jews that i could of saved. Overall a 10 out of 10 !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammyk35
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I can not beleive Activision would release a game like this. This product just doesn't feel finished. 
 Here is a quick run down of how the game fairs in my opinion.
  
  1. Visuals are nice, but if you don't have 720 P, don't expect anything spectacular. This game 
 only plays in 420 p and 720 p. On the back of the box its says 1080 i , but if you go to the Activision 
 website, they explain that that it was a misprint. When it is played in 720 p it looks really nice!
 
  
  2. Single player was thought out well, but it has its problems. The controls feel extremely clunky. 
 At times you can actually get stuck in areas of the map and you have try anything to get unstuck 
 . Sometimes its easier to commit suicide, and start all over. It almost feels like those old junky 
 nintendo games where the QC just wasn't there. The options don't allow you to customize your control 
 scheme which is definately unheard of. The game slows down at times which isn't that big of a deal, 
 but for God's sake, this is the PS3 there shouldn't be that problem. On a final note the game froze 
 on me twice, I read some forums reporting this problem aswell.
  
  3. Multiplayer... this is were I was extremely disappointed. Activision needs to get out of the 
 stone age. The game does not track your stats, there is no way to find your buddys. You can not 
 a make private room *So there is no way to have any type of clan matches, tournaments ect. You 
 can not create a clan. You can't even vote someone off. The only way to do this is by punishing 
 someone for team killing. And even after you do that it takes quite a few times before the person 
 is kicked. Once they are kicked they can still come back to the game. Lastly and most importantly 
 YOU CAN'T USE A HEADSET. WHAT KIND OF *@$#&amp;^ !!! SHOOTER HAS NO VOICE CHAT. You can't even 
 use a keyboard! This is absolutely terrible. There are a whole other host of issues. But i just 
 listed the major ones.
  
  4. The audio for the game is probably its best asset. It definately gives you a feel of being right 
 there I have no complaints toward that.
  
  5. Overall the game just feels rushed. I don't know, maybe because this game was originally on 
 the PC. Regardless Activision needs to get with it. I can definately say if the lack of features 
 are on the next one, you can definately count me out!
  
  Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is the third game in the Call of Duty series (4th if you include Call of Duty: United Offensive 
 as a game rather than an expansion pack) . This game focuses on the battles of Normandy and the 
 battle to liberate Paris from Axis forces. Currently this game has brought back some things that 
 were missed in Call of Duty 2 such as vehicle driving. In the multiplayer mode the original Call 
 of Duty offered the ability to drive vehicles with mounted machine guns into enemy territory to 
 wreak havoc upon the enemy. In CoD 3 that's finally been brought back after being omitted from 
 CoD 2. The levels are beautiful and the graphics and sounds fit the game perfectly. If you're a 
 fan of the Call of Duty series this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theempire30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  In other games when someone in you'r squad dies I would just see it as something normal because 
 it was part of a game. But in this game I actually feal bad when someone in my squad dies now. 
 It takes hold of you from the time you start till the end. The Gameplay is very intense, the story 
 is almost perfect, your squad actually helps a lot now insted of getting killed. I see many great 
 things for this game. The only problem is that it was to short, but playing it online makes up 
 for that. Anyone that like first-person shooters should check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21miller
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Each country's campaign has a unique storyline that is supposed to get you emotionally involved 
 with the characters, but the stories aren't very interesting; there's a soldier with a strong distaste 
 for the French, an overbearing sergeant, and a young radio operator who has been labeled a coward. 
 Though the stories aren't particularly engaging, fighting for four different armies works because 
 it gives you a sense of not only how much effort it took to wrestle control of France from the 
 Germans, but also that it wasn't just the United States that lost men and women in World War II. 
 The game opens with a brief training mission. Here, you'll learn how to fire weapons and throw 
 grenades, as well as how to move around. The controls offer a lot of variety, yet they're still 
 easy to learn. You can fire your weapon with R1, but this doesn't allow for much accuracy. For 
 precision aiming, you'll want to press L1, which raises your gun to eye level and lets you use 
 the weapon's sight. Here, you're vulnerable during the time it takes to raise your weapon and while 
 you wait for the blurring effect that simulates your eyes focusing to clear up. It's a subtle effect, 
 but it works really well and it's not overdone. You can also perform a melee attack by pressing 
 the right analog stick or by rotating the controller 90 degrees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I start playing a new WWII FPS I always ask myself what the designer implemented this 
 time to make the game stand out from the tons of games of the same genre.
  COD3 uses the ultra aged COD game mechanics to trow the gamer into great and immersive shooting 
 action. Many can say that the game plays and looks almost identical to COD2, and in certain ways 
 it is true. The story jumps from Us to Polish to Brits/French soldiers in a way that you might 
 get a disjoined idea of what is the story about. (In the first call of Duty u finished with one 
 ally before jumping to the next ally's campaign and this in a way made things more understandable.
 
  
  I want to point out how the game looks great and I found the visuals much way better then the ones 
 of RFOM, the level design team made a great effort in developing intersting maps layouts.
  
  On the pure technical side, I loved how the frame rate doesn't drop down at all even during 
 the most intensive fight actions, HOWEVER i noticed some frame rate drops in a couple of really 
 odd spots ... such as inside an house.
  
  This really doesn't impact the gameplay at all, but it really puzzles me what does it causes it 
 ... don't tell me that is the RSX that cannot handle it because is not really teh case. I would 
 think that is a code glitch that can be easily fixed with an update.
  
  Just one closing comment, before you can actually play this game you are requested to download 
 4 patches (or files) , the whole process can last around 10-15 minutes. All in all a great game, 
 I put it on par with RFOM or even on top of it for the single player experience. On the Multiplayer 
 side .. it is still good ... but RFOM is way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAFPSMASTERVET1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This version looks even better than the xbox 360 version , It is highly interactive with the bluetooth 
 sixaxis controller , and is probly the most realalistic ear experience on and console so far. It 
 is very intense like the other call of dutys. I personally think it is most exellent and deserves 
 a 9.
  If you like ww2 shooters this is beyond what youve played i recommend you try it out. It supports 
 multiplayer as well! Tip be fast when a german trooper grabs your rifle rapidly shake your controller 
 side to side , enjoy I hope my review helps someone who is looking for a good game and is impressed 
 with the fps gene like I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is an really good game. Espically on PS3 with the sixaxis motion you swing your controller 
 to hit, and the enviroment is totally destructive. There is no diffilcuty really you chose the 
 difficulty you want. I mean easy is like freaking cheap for the nazis. It takes you like 35 bullets 
 to get injured. At hard, ( the difficulty i play on) takes like 4 bullets and you're dead. Its 
 a good game but it could've of been better if its orginal company wouldn't have been bought. But 
 it still good now, contrary to the other ones, you can other than just the americans or british. 
 Now you can be Canadian, Polish ect...
  Still worth your money the online play is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega_specter
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Overall COD3 for PS3 is a wonderful game but I can't help but notice that there are lots of things 
 missing. It is a really fun game to play online but it lacks Organized Online, Buddy lists and voice 
 chat. The graphics are very good and the gameplay is awsome... I would give this a rent before you 
 buy but if your a die hard COD or FPS fan and don't care about organized online then go out and 
 buy it. But i'd have to say its the 2nd best launch title next to Resistance and I should cut it 
 some slack because it was obviously ported from Xbox 360 and only given a few corny motion sensing 
 uses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navigata
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I picked this game up and let me tell you that this game is definitely amazing. For 
 anybody that is a avid war buff and likes these types of games, this FPS is made just for you.
 
  
  Ill start by talking about the graphics in this game. Now obviously they differ from people that 
 have HD TVs and a normal SDTV. I personally have an HDTV with a HDMI to DVI wire into the set. 
 This game outputs from the ps3 to TV at 720p. I have 1080i but it automatically downscaled for 
 some reason. Still this game has a lot of stunning graphics to offer. People say that theres a 
 lot of frame rate issues, well Im going to tell you that there isnt. This game runs very well 
 and has no choppiness. If you have a HDTV you will really appreciate the graphics.
  
  The sound is also very good. Everything from the wepon noises to what the characters say, is very 
 well done. The sound is incredibly life like and mimics that of a real war movie per say. The onscreen 
 battle that is going on is all reflected through the noise. The game play aspect of this game is 
 also very well done. I have not had a chance to play the online yet but I hear mixed things about 
 it. The single player is good, with a couple different types of levels to choose from. You can 
 play the British, Canadian, American and Polish. This time adding to different nations that we 
 have never seen the side from. A great little feature that goes a long way. In conclusion if you 
 like WW2 games and have enjoyed other COD games you should definitely pick this one up. Its well 
 worth the money especially if you have a HDTV.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSGuRu39
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is really cool and i love the health situation, there is no health bar and when u get 
 in trouble you hide 4 a little bit and then u are off!! same thing 4 the online . online is awsome 
 and so is the story, very creative. good graphics and great hand to hand combat. you have 2 button 
 mash to fight the germans off when in hand 2 hand. gets u involed in the planting of bombs and 
 stuff. being a medic is fun on the online, you can select your kit wheather u want 2 b a sniper 
 or a rifleman or a medic or a supportman. very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigE319
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my PS3 four days ago, I bought two games with it. Resistance: Fall of Man, and Call 
 of Duty 3. Because of all the hype that was surrounding Resistance, I played it first. I was amazed. 
 Visuals were truly next gen, and the surround sound was flawless. Then I put in COD. I first noticed 
 that the cut scenes wern't as good, the arm and leg movments reminded me of my PS2. Not a good 
 sign. The explosions were nice, but the debris was blocky, again, very PS2ish. The surround sound 
 was nothing like in Resistance. It continually skipped and sounded scratchy. Overall, I really 
 wanted to enjoy this game (especially for 60 bucks) , but after playing Fall of Man, it was difficult. 
 If your in the market for a FPS go straight to Resistance: Fall of Man, and dont look back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winters1MGSfan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. The online is extremely fun; lots of variety in multiplayer. Graphics 
 are good, but high quality textures should not be put on medium polygon characters. The result: 
 jagged edges. Oh well this will hold a person over, even with linear gameplay, until Medal of Honor: 
 Airborne or Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway comes out. This game does add a few new tricks here 
 and there that keep it interesting ( motion-sensing meele) and that's about it. However, if you 
 are a shooter-type of a person that just bought a PS3 and you already have Resistance (see my review 
 of that as well) , than this is definitely a game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude141
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  cod 3 is a great game with good gameplay and controlls, the sound is excellent and the multiplayer 
 is also great, the one thing that i dont like about the game on the ps3 is the frame rate, for some 
 weird reason it is just not good at all, some levels could be fine where as others would be terrible, but 
 other than the frame rate the graphics are really good in my oppion there are better than x-360 
 cause everything is not so dark, and the explosions are more vibrant, if you have x-360 and the 
 ps3 it would ve hard to tell you wich system cause they both have pros and cons the if you go with 
 the 360 version your going to get good frame rate with slightly worse graphics, if you get the 
 ps3 version you going to get slightly better graphics and worse frame rate. overall the game is 
 fun to play looks good and has some good use of the sixaxis controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  This is the first Call of Duty game that I've ever played, and I was totally blown away. The graphics 
 were detailed and amazing to see, with detailed backgrounds and environments. The surround sound 
 on the game was fantastic, you get totally immersed as you can hear the gunshots going off around 
 you. The online play was also fun and engaging. Their was a problem with the framerate when going 
 through certain parts of the game. Normally when their is a large number of people on screen. This 
 does not take away too much though, from what is an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb2011
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for ps2 and i thought the graphics were pretty good. Then i got a ps3 and wanted 
 this game for it. I traded it in and it was so much better. On ps2 online froze up and lagged every 
 5 min. Also you can have up to 24 players and it never freezes up. This game is a must have. The 
 Campain is fun but the six axis controller makes it even better. Fling your controller out and 
 you whack some German in the face. Tilt your controller up while driving and you get an awesome 
 driving expirience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest, when I looked at the VS trailer between all the next gen systems, it looked 
 like someone had the brightness way to high on the ps3 version. Well anyway to the review.
  
  This is an excellent game. It is on par if not better than the 360 version in my opinion and 
 it shows off the power of the PS3 well. Contrary to other reviews, I have not noticed ANY slowdown 
 or drops in frame rate. Sound is excellent, voice acting is great and great story.
  
  The only problem I have with this game (which is mainly an issue with me) is the controls. They 
 are very responsive but I'm use to playing COD on the PC so if I didn't have that history this 
 would not be an issue.
  
  Multiplayer is great fun. It doesn't handle as many players as Resistance but it is still very 
 fun. There have been sone issues with the connection to other players but it seems like this is 
 getting ironed out. I normally get that message once and when I try to connect again it goes through 
 fine.
  
  Anyone with a PS3 and doesn't own this game on any other system (except Wii) pick this one up. 
 You'll have great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombbay12345
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great shooter but it's not quite amazing. Every level is the same practically. 
 Sometimes they have you doing some crazy unique things. It takes advantage of many things for the 
 better too. It's even historical for you little youngsters! lol.
  First off is the graphics. The graphics definitely not the best part of the game. Washed out colors 
 pull it down a notch. And then there are the collision issues. Some of them are pretty ugly. Soldiers 
 get caught in the ground and the walls. Sometimes some of them are stuck forever! But the particles 
 are pretty good. And let me try to tell you that its not bad at all. It's really good! Just not 
 what the 360's are like. There was also sometimes a inconsistent frame-rate for HD owners I heard, 
 but I didn't take it down a knotch because I don't have one. So to me it's been great. Second is 
 the gameplay, it's also not amazing, but still really good. It's one of the best shooting engines 
 ever made. And the multiplayer is amazing, but that's kinda expected of the Call of Duty series 
 right? Although there are some glitches that down it a lot. Like the ones I mentioned above, getting 
 stuck in a wall is not good when your in the mist of the heat of battle is not so good. There's 
 just no reason why this happens. Also, I found there is very little challenge except for the last 
 two levels. Even on the hardest difficulties. Although you do die a lot, there are many checkpoints 
 that set you back most of the time near where you died. I think the game is a little too forgiving. 
 This could be fixed pretty easily if they ever try however.
  Third, the sound. This may be the best part of the game. I've never heard the music loop ever. 
 And it's not half-bad either. I mean, you don't usually expect good music in a shooter. The music 
 is still kept at a minimum during play though. The audio is amazing if you have surround sound. 
 The gunshots are pretty good and the voices are great. That's also surprising. Although bugs sometimes 
 ruin the moment... Anyway it's really good.
  Fourth is the value. A strong selection of maps for multiplayer makes this make you not want to 
 stop playing. The online experiance is also really good. It's not slow (this is my first online 
 game) and supports a whopping 24 players! The same is not said with the single-player. It's not 
 good enough to make you want to play it next few months. It's fairly short and dosn't have any 
 extras to unlock. Although it still is pretty good clocking in around maybe 8-12 hours and holds 
 fourteen chapters. Which I say is pretty good. Also, the checkpoint save system is pretty good 
 as the levels are very long.
  Few games portray WWII as good as this. I've played many and this is by far one of the best. But 
 you don't see many shooters have as good scenes and cinimatics as this one. Allowing you to look 
 around during most cutscenes is pretty cool and focusing on the person talking. Although, bugs, 
 glitches, and all that crappy stuff you don't like to see drags it down to what could've been an 
 amazing game, but is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman10390
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Good game i bout it enjoyed it loved it nothen much to say after that. Online was pruty good not 
 the best but good maybe a little im provement needed to be made on online. Communications needs 
 improvement i hope in the future there is a way to communicate with the other players unless there 
 is pliese tell me because i dont know. Also i hope there is a wider range of vehicle selection 
 what they has was aenough but i hope to see more then just enough. What would be cool if u can 
 custmise your looks online that would be cool. Anywho good game deffinetly get it if ur into ww2 
 games or even just into war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieDr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  This is a game that wants to be more creative and inovative and blows the top of the roof away 
 in doing so. If you are a fan of WW2 than get this game because if you don't you're missing out 
 alot. In the story it is very believable that all of this happened in the exact way they tell it 
 (I'd bet there's actually a soldier named Nickles from WW2) . The new, more interactive part of 
 the game are actually very fun to do (I go to the same level every time just to see that guy fall 
 from 5 stories up) . From the fighting sequences to just setting up a charge they all just make 
 me want more. In gameplay it is very fun because of the different things you do and how you can 
 do them. The new, throwing a used grenade ability is just plain awesome, the variety of weapons 
 and vehichles are superb, and I don't know anyone that wouldn't say that it is just the greatest. 
 One of the only things that bothers me is that in multiplayer many and I mean many people are somewhat 
 cheating due to a function known as sticky-aiming which allows players to be able to ,practically, 
 just aim down their sight and be looking at an enemy, which I think is just unfair to the actual 
 hardcore gamers that actually want to fire a game gun without some cruch for support. Sure some 
 aren't as good at this game as me or other people, but look closely and you'll see that there are 
 a multitude of gamers that are camping , sticky-aiming , and ofcourse sniping execively. Don't 
 get me wrong I love a good fight but using a lame cruch like that isn't going to help you forever. 
 The graphics of the game are out of this world. The sound is so real I thought I was in WW2.
  This is overall an awesome game that should be enjoyed by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  At first, i didnt know if i was going to buy this game. but i decided to, and i dont regret it 
 at all. the graphics could use a little work, but are still significantly better than previous 
 games. the gameplay is excellent, AI could use a little work. the campaign is very compelling, 
 and brings you into the life of the soldiers. If you are a fan of WW2 shooters, or just any fps, 
 then this is a defineate buy. oh, and did i mention the sound is INCREDIBLE. So, if you looking 
 for a game to tide you by until Rainbow six vegas or killzone, call of duty 3 is a must have currently 
 released ps3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  a super great game never played the second so glad i got this on ps3 one quality  
 i like it much better then resistance the health set-up is great great gun fights helping the tank 
 light up gunner nests is super fun ... if you have a ps3 you should deff get this game very much 
 worth the 60 $ price tag unlike some games out there ... a quality game on around wish you could 
 skip cut scenes even more so if you are gonna replay it but a few minor things are not much of 
 a problem all around A+ good job activision 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adusa05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  To all thoes gamers that give it a low rating are u mad its, and people stop compairing to the 
 360 its 1 year ahead, remember all the 360 problems? this game is very nice and i have no idea 
 wat people keep saying about frame rate issuss maby u guys didnt update your playstation 3 or u 
 guys are on crack. the first mission was amazing cause ive never seen a game look so detailed and 
 the way u can use the conrtoler to hit some 1 or fight for the gun. very intense game very immersive 
 . guns are very powerfull, explosions , multiplayer is amazing. so intense and nerve raking. the 
 is a must have game. hopefully the make a call of duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  CoD3 is the same CoD action we've seen for years, meaning its a good thing. Gameplay-is great. 
 Though the controls take getting used to, I love shooting down Nazis and all that. But, at times 
 the game is so easy. Graphics- are great, but not as good as the X360's
  
  Sound- always the best part of a CoD game. I assume all the gun sounds are spot on and the explosions 
 sound terrific.
  
  Value- the singleplayer is good, but short, and the multiplayer will keep you occupied for maybe 
 a week, but after that, you'll probably want to go back to Resistance.
  
  Closing comments- I gave this game a high score because I love the CoD series and all that, but 
 it's a must buy today with the PS3's limited library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipaq1971
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3, the follow-up to the #1 next-generation game, delivers the intensity of being closer 
 than ever to the fury of combat during the battle for the Liberation of Paris, the most harrowing 
 campaign of WWII, known as The Normandy Breakout. Through a seamless narrative, Call of Duty 3 
 delivers the rush of unrelenting battle and breathtaking action of the Allied offensive that changed 
 the fate of the world. call of duty 3 is truely an amazing game with true multiplayer aspects . 
 this is a must buy for any gamer it is a great shooter for the PS3 to show of its power Action-packed 
 and intense To start off, this game has one of the most realistic graphics of WWII shooters and 
 the sound is just as good u can really hear how the sound of weapons are and the game is so fun 
 and action-packed planes flying ,tanks driving ,trucks ,bombs ,rocket launchers with no slowdowns 
 what so ever and the game is really really fun, the online mode is very good with so much players 
 online at one time and the single-player campaign is challenging. to cut the long story short call 
 of duty 3 is a excellent game and one of the best for the PS3 so if you like realistic ww2 shooters 
 than you should definitely get call of duty 3 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is definatly the multiplayer, that just never gets old. The single player 
 is good but i lost intrest real fast. The graphics are very good, only a few glitches every now 
 and then. I can wait till dev stop making ports and acctually make a game for the ps3 from the 
 ground up, then we wont have all the framerate issues. If you like call of duty and you have a 
 ps3 this is a must get, even just for the online play. It runs real smooth i havent seen alot of 
 lag yet. This and RFOM are the two best games out for the ps3 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentalhelp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is chaotic, bloody, educational, and...... screw education! This game kicks ass!!! 
 This is one of the funnest games I have ever played. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are VERY 
 good. This is seriously the best graphics of a game I have ever played. But of course, it's for 
 the PS3, so it should be good. This game takes you into the action. If you want to get the full 
 experience, you HAVE to get surround sound. I turn mine up all the way, so every time an artillery 
 shell hits, it makes me deaf. Lol. Anywho, the thing that really makes me feel good is the controller. 
 When I got the PS3, I seriously was not expecting this. YOU CAN HIT NAZIS BY SWOOSHING THE CONTROLLER 
 AROUND! I was thinking.... sweet. I like ALL the new features. Especially the mini-games. You can 
 plant bombs, fight off Nazis, and do a bunch of other stuff. But the driving is a little weird. 
 The controls for driving are weird. Plus, you can steer using the controller, but that's REALLY 
 weird. Too bad the controller isn't as sensitive as the Wii. You have to shake the controller reasonably 
 hard to steer, so basically you are getting a huge workout. One of my friends came in my room and 
 saw me shaking the controller, and he said I looked like a madman. Buuuuuut, thank god you DON 
 T HAVE to do that, you can just use the analog stick. You can pick up grenades and throw them back 
 at the Nazi drive, paddle, set charges, get in fights with Nazis, and blow the living crap out 
 of everything. The bonus material is sort of neat. When you beat the game, you can listen to veterans 
 talk about their stories of the war (which is really boring by the way) , and you can watch the 
 videos of the levels you've finished which is pretty cool. NOW ON TO THE BEST DAMN THING IN COD3! 
 THE MULTI-PLAYER!!! Christ, I can't believe I actually played through the whole damn single-player 
 before I tried the multiplayer. All those wasted days!!! You can do WAR- where you conquer, CAPTURE 
 THE FLAG- where you... capture the flag, TEAM BATTLE- where you kill the other team, and BATTLE- 
 where you kill as many suckers as you possibly can and turn their brains into confetti. I feel 
 good when I play. You know why? It's because I have never played a console game online. I am such 
 a freakin noob. Thank you Jesus for this game. Holy hell, if the graphics are this good for an 
 early PS3 game, then I wonder what the graphics will be like in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I had some fears that Call of Duty 3 wasn't going to be that great. After playing Big Red One, 
 I was really scared that this would turn out the same way. I couldn't wait for this game until 
 I heard it was made by them and not by the makers of COD2. But rest assured, It delivers way past 
 those fears and really makes me relieved. Some parts are a little worse than COD2, but it exceeds 
 it in many others. Gameplay-The campaign in this game gets a lot better as it moves along, unlike 
 a lot of FPS's. The game starts off with a fun little training session, and then immediately moves 
 to a huge battle at St. Lo. This level is pretty cool, but it seemed to be missing something. I 
 still can't put my finger on it. But the game improves. Almost every mission is better than the 
 next. My personal favorite is The Forest, but I won't spoil anything. The story is in order of 
 how the events happened in the war. You play as 4 different countries, and it does give you a very 
 cool way to view the war, but it doesn't let you spend quite long enough with each one. Overall, 
 I think I like COD2's way of telling the story, although this is nice. The AI is nothing special 
 but it gets the job done. There are about 14 missions total. They are pretty lengthy and are engaging 
 and varied. There are several difficutly levels to choose fun, so you can adjust to your skill. 
 There are lots of guns in the game, and they are really authentic. They all do have a very distinct 
 feel and you will have your favorites. Once you beat the campaign you can do online, which is extremely 
 fun. There are jeeps, motorcycles, and tanks to drive in the game. I was skeptical at first, because 
 I thought they would ruin the game, but they are really balanced, and most people don't use them 
 anyways. The action definately as a slower paced feel to it than Resistance, and it fits the game 
 well. There are 7 classes to choose from online, and they all have special abilities, such as healing 
 fallen troops, or dropping ammo. There is one problem with the online though, which is very critical. 
 A lot of the games have such a bad connection to them for some reason, that you can't connect. 
 I have experienced this and so have a lot of other players. But If you do find a game, it is extremely 
 fun and there is actually very little lag. You just have to spend an extra couple of minutes to 
 find one. Overall, I think the online is a huge improvement over COD2, if only the connecting was 
 better. I'm hoping this can be fixed later.
  
  Graphics-I'll start off with the pros. There are high levels of detail in the troops, with excellent 
 lighting and lots of wrinkles. They also move and animate very nicely. There will be the occasional 
 jolty movement here and there, but overall, they are very nice. The environments are exceptional 
 too. The buildings are spectacular from just about every angle. When you get up close, they are 
 a little muddy, but not that bad. The ground is pretty nice, but far away, it gets a little muddled. 
 The trees are exceptional. They even sway in the wind and everything. The grass is very nice too. 
 There are individual strands of grass that move in the wind. This game has some of the best lighting 
 around. Smoke is very nice, but it is 2D. Haze looks real and they way light penetrates in places 
 is unbelievable. The ambiance in this game is just incredible. Also, the focus blur when you aim 
 looks really nice and it works really well. Now for the cons. On the PS3 version at least, there 
 is some slowdown. It isn't as bad as some people make it out to be, but it is noticable. Also, 
 the ragdoll is nice but it isn't perfect. The bodies will have lots of glitches and sometimes just 
 hang in the air. There are also some glitches in the levels where you will fall through the floor 
 or get stuck on the wall. So far it has happened 3 times to me. Overall the graphics are nice and 
 very good looking but the lack of polish is evident. Most things just look incredible, but the 
 graphics aren't without flaws.
  
  Sound-WWII games always have good sound. Atleast most of them. This one is no different. The guns 
 and explosions are some of the best in the genre. They're that good. Voicework is also nice, but 
 nothing too special. The music is well orchestrated and is top notch. The only problems I have 
 with the sound is that some of the small things like menu sounds are kind of muffled and when the 
 battles get really intense, sometimes things that should make sound, don't. It's rare but I do 
 notice sometimes in the heat of battle, my gun won't make a reload sound.
  
  Value-The campaign is a pretty good length with a few unlockables and varied difficulties. Also, 
 there are several paths to go through on each of the levels, so the single-player alone will keep 
 you busy. When you put the multiplayer into the mix, you get a very long lasting game. This is 
 worth a buy definately and not just for now. Some things that hurt the value though are that there 
 is absolutely NO stat-tracking or ranking in online. Also, there aren't any motives to play the 
 campaign more than once. Call of Duty 3 has it's problems, but it is a really fun and authentic 
 WWII experience; probably the best one to date, I might add. Some aspects are better than COD2 
 and some are worse, but overall, I'd say its an upgrade. The most relieving part is that this is 
 made by Treyarch and it is very good. Can't wait till COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews on this and I was not sure if I was going to get it.
  I think they were wrong.
  I own Call of Duty 2 for the XBox 360.
  Reviews said Call of Duty 
 3 was More of the Same .
  I don't know if it is the PS3 or the Duty 3, but this game is alot better than Duty 2 on my 360. 
 The Smoke effects are better. The Water is amazing... Damn shot again starring at the water...
 
  I noticed something in Resistance Fall of man that is also present in this game, Everything is 
 alive. The Grass whisps in the wind, this makes the environment come alive.
  I think Resistance does the Ambiance better, but it is nicely done here too.
  Swinging the Sixaxis 
 as if to do a Rifle Butt causes your on screen character to do a Rifle Butt... Cool...
  The Driving Sequences using the Sixaxis takes a little getting used to, however you can still drive 
 via the Analog stick as well.
  Graphics are Very nice, I did not see the Frame Rate Problems spoke of by the Reviewer. The Sound 
 is very good. I did not give the Sound a 10 though because after playing Resistance where there 
 is more clips of audio from the AI characters, I found hearing the same thing over and over again 
 to be very Last Gen of Course my Next Gen 360 has the same problem. I think it stems from people 
 starting to use the Extra capacity available on the BluRay disc.
  
  Free Online Thanks to Sony. Goodbye XBox Live. Until Microsoft gives Live for Free, I will not 
 renew. The Microsoft Fanboys keep trying to convince me that the Xbox Live is somehow better, well... 
 after using them both I can not see the greatness that constitutes $50 a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theassassin9107
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I played this on my friends PS3 on his 53 HD Plasma screen, so don't say it didn't look good because 
 we didn't play in HD. We did, and it looks awful. (In terms of next-gen of course.) This was a terrible 
 upset. If you say this game looks better than the 360 version, you're probably watching 360 videos 
 or looking at 360 screenshots. The visuals are no where near what Sony promised. If that wasn't 
 bad enough, I tried to play the campaign expecting a compelling story and amazing gunfights, but 
 that was cut-short by long load times, costant blurring and frame rate-locks, and all around freezing. 
 This game was three times better on the PS2. End result, crap.
  
  Pros:
  Nice story
  Good range of weapons
  Playable multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  early PS2 style graphics
  frame-rate 
 issues
  constant freezes and locks
  terribly long loading times
  and all around crappy first presentation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_4_life_27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The graphics on the ps3 version are one step ahead of the xbox 360 and about 
 3 or 4 steps ahead of the wii. I love the way to aim with your gun it's so awesome. Im sick of 
 little circles on the screen telling you where to shoot. Those of you who played this game probably 
 know what im talking about. Anyways im a big fan of first person shooters and if you are like me 
 then you have to buy this game trust me you wont regret it. In my opinion this game is better then 
 Resistance: fall of man for its gameplay. The wii version looks like an early playstation 2 game 
 :S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ampofo100
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Unrealized potential is one of the most frustrating things in videogames... especially when the 
 difference between being good and being great is just a matter of details. Take, for instance, 
 Activision's PlayStation 3 port of Call of Duty 3, the follow-up to one of last year's more compelling 
 shooters and one of the most cinematic franchises you'll find. With its credentials and history, 
 you'd think that it would make for quite the grand PS3 launch title -- but grand isn't a word that 
 applies. It's still a competent and engrossing first-person experience, yes, but it ultimately 
 falls short of what's needed to be special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ems3y
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Once I started playing this game, I felt like I've done this before.. but where??? Oh Right! Call 
 of Duty 2 a game released last year. Although has honoring game this is. The story is the same 
 old same. The graphics are good but arent good enough. There really isn't a big different then 
 2 but maybe a bit of awe since we all know all the fight scenes are scripted. I did a test where 
 I played the first few levels about 8 times. Everytime I see the same thing over and over agian.. Whether 
 it's hard difficultly or easy. You see the same enemies dies which were supposed to die by programing 
 it into the script. You see the same people spawn in the location. So basically put it... it's just 
 boring because of the whole quality of the game. The A. I are completely stupid. I stood in this 
 location to shoot people... and they just kept running at me. They didn't bother to think, hey my 
 friends are dieing.. lets go run in there as well so we could all die.. i mustve killed like about 
 20 people.
  
  Basically put it, Call of Duty 3 is for new players and not old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says Though it plays like many other WWII-based first-person shooters, Call of Duty 3 
 is a great game with top-notch production values . i say that i agree.
  
  Call of Duty on the PS3 is simply amazing when you step onto the battlefeild and shoot your first 
 bullet at some nazi scum you will fall in love with this game yea maybe there are to many world 
 war 2 shooters but this one ranks among the top rated WW2 shooter games. Call of Duty 3 is just 
 like Call of Duty, and Call of Duty 2 first person view 1960 (at least i think thats when world 
 war 2 was) style weapons europe takeover you know the whole WW2 thing.
  
  Call of Duty is a game set for the PS3 and is one of the better launch titles for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkaTG
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The controls are fine, they work well with the controller. The SIXAXIS controller does 
 have some wierd uses, like planting bombs, and it really isn't all that fun to use in this game. 
 The fact that you can hit someone with your gun using the controller is cool for a while, but you'll 
 find yourself using the button instead. Overall, the SIXAXIS doesn't show off much of it's ability 
 and really doesn't do much to help the gameplay. The AI is terrible. The AI continuously runs into 
 barrage after barrage of bullets, spawning out of nowhere. It gets repetitive, boring, and plain 
 old LAME after a while.
  
  The missions don't feel like your making a difference in any sort of way. They are random missions 
 placing you with different soldiers/storylines every level and there really is NO story to it what 
 so ever. Before beginning a level, or starting for a checkpoint, you must watch an UNskippable, 
 bad, terrribly voice-acted, and boring cut scene that usually lasts about 3-8 minutes and by bad, 
 i mean BAD. These will get very old and frustrating and make you not even want to retry your save.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are great. The environments look very nice and the character models are 
 insanely detailed and fluent. The ragdoll effects work very well and the explosions are phenomenal. 
 The water effects are definitely a highlight because it is wonderful. All in all, the graphics 
 are clearly this games highlight.
  
  Sound- The weapon sounds are authentic and they really add a lot to this game. I would give the 
 sound department a 10/10 if the voice acting wasn't so god awful. Value- This game has no value. 
 Replay value in the single player campaign is little to none. The first level or so is phenomenal 
 but after that it gets, meh. There is NO reason to play this game over again and, trust me, you 
 will not want to watch those cutscenes for another minute. The online play, simply, doesn't connect 
 3/4 of the time. It cannot connect to hosts, other players, or you are timed out. The online play 
 is dreadful. There is little to no reason for voice chat. There is a bit of lag here and there, 
 thankfully there are no glitches that I've witnessed. There are NO ranking systems, buddy lists, 
 or any sort of extra online features it's just pick up and play. All in all, it is a good game 
 but nothing to really consider a great game. It has many strong flaws that drag down Activision's 
 clear efforts to make this a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass_munch
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game has to be the greatest fps shooter ever...
  i think its campiagn blew BF2 and Halo2's campaign out of the water...
  same goes with the online 
 play...
  
  the graphics are simply amazing...
  every game i have played the grass was just 2d and/or just a couple lines grass growing in simple 
 polygonal shapes unlike in this game the each seperate grass strand is 3d and moves with the wind 
 and crunchs with your steps, and you can then hide in them if your in a field and enimes are around 
 you
  this game has focused on the small details that add to the graphics that neven cease to amaze me....
 
  
  the multiplayer has become evem more fun...
  with 24 player online and vehicals to use
  and different objective games instead of the old team 
 killcount, now they have bomb the base, CTF, and many more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I played this breifly on the 360, but played it for about 2 hours at my buddies house the other 
 day. It seems that this game has the same problem the other ps3 games have..... frame rate. The 
 game is virtually the same game as on the 360, except the 360 version doesn't have the frame rate 
 problems. The graphiccs are awesome. The player animations along with the artwork on virtually 
 everything else is great. The sound is equally awesome, but thats where it stops. Traditional COD 
 fans may be left disappointed and reaching for the 360 version if they have the system, or waiting 
 for the PC version. If not, you are stuck with a game with a glitchy engine and a bad frame rate. 
 I would hope patches would be made available to fix this, but nothing yet. I was really looking 
 forward to this, but was left hanging. Hopefully Socom will have a much better showing.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  
  Seems smooth, but framerate problems and glitchy engine keep it from being anything 
 close to the 360 version when it comes to gameplay. Re-load times are slow. Delayed controls are 
 more prevalent on the PS3.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Excellent visuals, but somehow is still isn't nearly as good asthe 360. Very grainy graphics (and 
 this was on a 1080p 50 Sony) . Face value, you see nothing wrong, but when you begin to move, the 
 frame rate begins to hurt the graphics. The guns and soldiers look pretty real. The graphics are 
 great, but not the best on the PS3.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Through most of it, I felt like I was listening to the audio from Saving Private Ryan. Even without 
 surround sound, it still sounded excellent. Some of the sounds sounded pretty last-gen so I docked 
 it from being a 10, but it's a very minor problem in an otherwise excellent sound scheme.
  
  Value: 6
  
  The games replay value is moderate. Right off the bat you think you will play 
 it for a while, but campaign mode becomes extremely repetitive . And without XBOX Live, this game 
 takes a major hit. Tilt: 6
  
  Eh, if you have played one call of duty you have played them all. It is a fun overall game if you 
 are not familiar with the series, but if you are, you will be falling asleep within the matter 
 of an hour or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 has very impressive graphics but it seems that this is all the developers focused 
 on. The game play is horrible at best, and the A. I. has somehow become dumber. I do not understand 
 where the story in this game came from or where it is going but I lost interest very quickly. Hardcore 
 Call of Duty 2 fans will be disappointed with COD3 because feels like you went back in time. At 
 least in COD2 you were able to flank enemies and pick your path to your objective. This game it 
 is completely one dimensional and you have to follow set paths which makes smoke concealment useless. 
 The A. I. is so bad that you can walk up to enemies that are hiding behind things like trees and 
 boxes and just wait for them to step out and shoot them. You could be standing on the other side 
 and it's as if you were not even there. The game makers added hand to hand combat for COD3, and 
 it is pretty much worthless. Also, now when you plant explosive charges on things, you actually 
 have to insert the fuse, screw it in and pull the pin which is another huge waste of time and ultimately 
 unnecessary. If you still feel that you need to play this game for yourself please rent it and 
 save $60; anyways, I know that some rental stores give you a discount if you return it the next 
 day which you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raile
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are somewhat better than COD 2, but the gameplay is pretty flat, so it doesn't make 
 that much of a difference. Even though the series was always linear and scripted, previous version 
 were imaginative enough to have me immersed. This one feels like it's on rails, indicating little 
 or no replay value. In terms of the story, the writing is predictable and contrived, which makes 
 me think one of two things: either the writers think I'm dumb, or they're too dumb to know the 
 material is poor. They even bothered to include a hot female member of the french resistance. I 
 haven't finished the game, but I wonder where that plot line is going? Perhaps she becomes stranglely 
 attracted to the silent but strong protagonist who proves he has the stuff of heroes. I'm flattered. 
 Lastly, the orchestral score sounds about as synthesized as I've ever heard. It's a good thing 
 this series is going back to infinity ward for COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfanatic5
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when playing COD3 is the improved visuals. There's no denying that this 
 game looks better than its predecessor in just about every way. Once you start playing however, 
 you'll notice that the game lacks the polish, direction, and continuity of the last entry.
  
  Let's get over the graphics already. Yes the grass blows in the wind, and lays flat after you 
 walk over it. Yes the particle effects look great, and the water effects have improved. But ask 
 yourself this........ Does making everyone's uniform AS WRINKLEY AS FREAKIN POSSIBLE actually add 
 to the realism? Apparently adding more wrinkles equals more details, which means more realism to 
 those who believe it. Unfortunately, when the uniforms are wet, they look like unrealistically 
 wrinkled rubber outfits (say that 10 times fast) . Some of the levels are amazing to look at, but 
 the majority aren't particularly fun or interesting in terms of design.
  
  Speaking of design, I think for every one thing Treyarch did right, they did three things wrong. 
 First off, I wish that FRIENDLY FIRE WAS TOLERATED! Seriously, your artificial squadmates are so 
 stupid, they will love to trap you from all sides while you get shot to death. Did I mention they 
 love to jump in front of your gun every time you try to shoot? They did a better job of hindering 
 my performance then helping, which means they were a useless addition in terms of gameplay.
  
  Can I pick up the weapons of my fallen comrades? Of coarse not, that would make sense, and 
 we can't have that. But we can force you to sit through horribly acted cut scenes that you can't 
 skip. Even worse is when you turn on your 360 to load your last checkpoint, and you have to watch 
 the unskippable beginning cutscene yet again before you can begin where you left off. Let's not 
 even talk about the shoddy hit-detection from your gun to your enemies.
  
  Ok, let's. Sometimes you will be aiming your weapon directly at an enemies head, and after firing 
 multiple shots, nothing happens. This happens mostly when you aim through a window, or a hole in 
 the wall, and after adjusting your position, sometimes your bullet actually reaches the enemy. 
 Other times, your bullets won't hit the enemies, even though your aim is dead on. However, if you 
 move about three feet closer, your bullets now magically reach the intended target. Because there 
 isn't an explanation for this, it often leads to confusing moments where you simply can't understand 
 why this is happening.
  
  Enemies, comrades, weapons, and just about everything will clip and fall through walls, floors, 
 and any solid object. Not matter how good the graphics are, this type of glitching immediately 
 takes you out of the realism, and let's you know you're playing a buggy game. Your squadmates will 
 often get stuck, forgetting what they were programmed to do, and you will wait for minutes until 
 the A. I. allows you to move on. Example: In one level, my objectives told me to meet back at the 
 jeep. I went to the jeep, but my comrades were over by a barn, shooting at nothing in the sky. 
 I didn't want to restart the mission, so I pushed into them, moving them until they all glitched 
 and remembered to go to the jeep. After several minutes of crappy programming, we were all in the 
 jeep, and the mission continued.
  
  COD3 tries too hard to be cinematic, and most of this results in uninteresting moments where you 
 spend more time watching than playing. Treyarch tried to spruce things up by making minigames out 
 of trivial tasks such as placing explosive charges, aiming a mortar gun, and even the ridiculous 
 close combat encounters with the enemy. While the intentions were good, these moments don't add 
 any depth or realism to the game, especially since they walk you through the process every time 
 your faced with one of these tasks.
  
  The story and progression is all over the place, constantly jumping from country to country, and 
 becoming harder to follow (or maybe it's so convoluted that you don't care because you just want 
 to shoot things and blow them up) . The missions seem less focused, and every level becomes a shoot-a-thon 
 with countless enemies that can take a ridiculous amount of damage before dying. COD2's levels 
 felt like they were well planned out, offering variety in mission, pacing, and action. Every level 
 in COD3 feels like a crazy combat zone, where you're constantly shot from every direction, and 
 most of the time you won't know why you died, or who even shot you.
  
  Just as this game begins, it's over, and there's nothing worth seeing at the end of this one. In 
 fact, the end credits are perhaps the most boring, uneventful, un-rewarding credits ever made. 
 I've also never seen so many pointless entries in a game's credits before. I was waiting for the 
 names of Activision's janitors, dentists, name of manager of local Burger King, people who saw 
 the commercial on tv, made-up names, names that Activision thinks are funny, names of their pets, 
 friends of cousins who knew someone who talked to a brother of a developer for COD3, etc. After 
 15 minutes of waiting you get nothing........ nothing but the feeling of having $60 more tacked 
 on to your credit card bill.
  
  COD3 has it's moments, and if multiplayer is your thing, you will most likely get your money's 
 worth out of this one. Personally I'd rather have no multiplayer, and have a longer, beefier solo 
 player campaign. Veterans of the series will blow through this game in one or two sittings, and 
 there isn't a whole lot to keep you playing the solo campaign again. The game is far less polished 
 than the last entry on 360, and not even the improved visuals can make this the better game. If 
 you don't have COD2, get that game instead, and you won't be dissappointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
