-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/callofduty4modernwarfare/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 High-quality story mode packs in a lot of thrilling and unexpected moments.
 Well-designed multiplayer progression gives you something to shoot for online.
 Terrific audiovisual presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign mode is much shorter than those of the average shooter.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 9,486 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 5, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package. 

  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say,  interesting  in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters.  

           While the game may feel short, it covers a lot of ground.      

  The only real catch 
 is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping up with this style 
 of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. While you can raise 
 the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does is make the enemies 
 frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun.  

  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water.  

  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take.  

  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things.  

           The campaign takes you to multiple locales, but they're all full of guys who are begging 
 to be shot in the face.      

  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play.     

  You'll also always have something to work toward, regardless of mode, because in standard, public 
 matches, you earn experience points for just about everything you do. Capturing control points, 
 getting kills, calling in support, all of these things give you points that go toward your rank. 
 Ranking up unlocks most of the game's multiplayer content.  

  The class system in Call of Duty 4 is also very interesting. Each class has a different weapon 
 loadout and different traits, called perks. As you rank up, you eventually unlock all five of the 
 preset classes and the ability to create your own class. This lets you pick your own main weapon, 
 your sidearm, attachments for both weapons, what sort of special grenades you want to carry, and 
 three perks. The perks are broken up into three groups to help keep things balanced, and as you 
 continue to level, you'll unlock additional perks. These class traits are one of the game's neatest 
 tricks and, again, really helps to set COD 4 apart from the pack.  

            We're pretty sure that real war doesn't look quite as cool as Call of Duty 4 does.   
    

  Perks in the Perk 1 group are more focused on explosives, letting you get more flashbangs if you 
 like, or letting you lug around a rocket launcher, which is great for taking out enemy choppers. 
 The other two perk groups have traits like juggernaut, which increases your health. There's also 
 last stand, which activates when you are killed by dropping you to the ground and switching you 
 to a pistol, giving you a moment to kill the guy who took you out before he realizes you're still 
 squirming around and finishes the job. Our current favorite is martyrdom, which causes you to drop 
 a live grenade when killed. It adds a healthy dose of mayhem to the proceedings. The perks and 
 other unlockables feel nicely balanced, too, so you probably won't run into situations where one 
 class is just better than the other. As it should be, your ability to point the red dot at the 
 head of your enemy and squeeze the trigger before he does the same is still the deciding factor. 

  While there are a ton of compelling gameplay reasons to play Call of Duty 4, it also has top-notch 
 presentation. The graphics are fantastic throughout, and they do a great job of rendering wide-open 
 fields, tight buildings or houses, smoke-belching silos, and lots more. Some of the multiplayer 
 maps look like they've already seen a lot of action, with blast craters, destroyed tanks, and other 
 things that you can hide in or behind. It also has terrific lighting, so everything looks as it 
 should. Everything sounds right, too. When you hear a battle raging in the distance, it sounds 
 appropriately muffled, and up close, the crack of an M16 or the full-auto barrage from an AK-47 
 are appropriately loud and angry sounding. There is also quite a bit of voice work throughout the 
 game, and it's all nicely done. The music, for the most part, is the typical sort of action-movie 
 music you've come to expect from a first-person shooter, except for a rap over the end credits 
 that seems to simultaneously detail the game's story while also acting as a subliminal diss record 
 with some slick talk about how this is the third chapter by Infinity Ward, perhaps lightly inferring 
 that you should ignore Treyarch's contribution to the series, Call of Duty 3. It's great.  

           There are plenty of things to unlock in the game's multiplayer mode.      

  COD 
 4 is available on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC, and each version holds up admirably. The 
 differences between the two console versions feel mostly negligible. Both systems deliver good 
 frame rates and have good, easy-to-use multiplayer setups that most closely resemble Halo 2 and 
 3's party system and matchmaking playlists. The PC version of the game uses a more traditional 
 server browser to get you into games. Both systems work just fine on their respective platforms. 
 The PC version has the ability to run in a higher resolution, if you're equipped with a PC that 
 can handle it, but it seems to scale quite well. You can also create servers that allow up to 32 
 players to play at once on the PC, as opposed to a limit of 18 in the console versions, but given 
 the size of the multiplayer maps, putting 32 players in them makes things a little too crowded. 
 Despite listing 1080p support on the back of the box, COD 4 appears to prefer 720p on the PlayStation 
 3. The only way to get it to run in 1080p is to tell your PS3 that your TV doesn't support 720p 
 or 1080i, but the difference seems minor. Either way, you'd be hard-pressed to tell it apart from 
 its Xbox 360 counterpart. And all versions control just fine, making the decision over which version 
 to buy totally dependent on which controller you like the most.  

  It's a shame that the single-player is so brief, but you should only skip out on Call of Duty 4 
 if you're the sort of person who doesn't appreciate great first-person shooter multiplayer. The 
 quality of the content in the campaign is totally top-shelf, and the multiplayer is some of the 
 best around, making this a truly superb package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (816 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  Infinity ward knows what's up when it comes to war games. Call of Duty 2 was excellent, offering 
 a new type of multiplayer experience to accompany the new generation of consoles. Now, with Call 
 of Duty 4, they have polished both the multiplayer and single player experiences to a near-perfect 
 sheen. 
  I'll start with the single player. The campaign sees you fighting with an array of modern weapons, 
 all of which feel and sound superb. You play through the perspective of different people at different 
 times. Every mission is unique and the objectives are diverse. The whole single player experience 
 is extremely tight and it's a joy to play through the beautiful environments. The story is fast-paced 
 and full of action. There aren't too many cutscenes, as the game keeps you in control for the vast 
 majority of the time. Overall, the game is worth the price (you can find it pretty cheap nowadays) 
 for the single player alone. 
  Now on to the good stuff. The multiplayer package in COD 4 is so fully-featured and ground breaking 
 that you'll find yourself sinking tens of hours into it without a thought. You start out with a 
 few basic weapons and perks (little things like dropping a live grenade when you die that help 
 you out in battle) and earn experience for killing people, winning matches and meeting certain 
 criteria during a match (Ex: kill people while crouched, kill yourself and someone else with a 
 cooked grenade) . The experience unlocks new guns, new perks and attachments for your guns. The 
 multiplayer is extremely diverse; you can run and gun with an assault rifle or put on some camo 
 and hide in the grass as a sniper. Every approach is a ton of fun. The menus are streamlined to 
 the point where the whole system becomes second nature quickly.
  So whether you're looking for a solid single-player shooter or one of the finest multiplayer games 
 ever to grace consoles, you'll find everything you need for months and years to come in Call of 
 Duty 4. Highly recommended. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  when call of duty 4 came out i thought it would be bad because everyone at my school hated call 
 of duty 3 and ive played the ps2 version and not the ps3 one and i thought it would be horrible. 
 but it turns out call of duty 4 is one of the best multiplayer games ever and one of the most realistic 
 war games ever.
  
  in modern warfare you play as three guys paul jackson, soap m and some other guy. how work for 
 differnent types of the army like paul and the other guy go after terroists and soap russians i 
 think (havent played it in a while) . and you do like ten missions and its over which dissapoints 
 because it could of had been longer but the story mode is a lot of fun like you can call in rocket 
 strikes on terroists and other really realistic things. on the multiplayer side of the game is really 
 fun with psn or with a friend though im pist off because half the time im busy so friends cant 
 come over ans i still have dial up. yes dial up so i could get psn but itll be really slow. luckly 
 its free. though when a friend does come over multiplayer is a whole lot of fun because i havent 
 seen multiplayer this realistic back then. though how come for cod 3 its 24 online and for this 
 its 18 its still a high number but still. The game graphic wise is i dont see whats so great about 
 the graphics i mean back then this was considered amazing because not game has mastered this before. 
 what makes the game fall flat though is that theres no co-op. co-op wouldve been amazing it wouldve 
 been better that cod 5.
  
  The Good
  Great storyline that never falls flat
  good choice of weapons
  really realistic
  addicting multiplayer
  
  The Bad
  no co-op 
 
  less multiplayer
  too short
  
  Call of duty 4 is one of the best multiplayer games you can get but i hope its longer in modern 
 warfare 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat12kenny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  What can i say that already hasnt been said about this game already . The single player is very 
 short but the online is very fun and addictive. Cod4 single player campaign is excellent though 
 it does have its fair share of problems like the grenade indicator but that wont ruin the game 
 i think this game is better than waw because ww2 is a step back in my opinion the ending is great 
 and your commanding officer dosent make the finale ending c redits just adds to the intensity. 
 Cods online mode is the games backbone and the supporting feature in this game the maps and the 
 gameplay are sollid as well as the weapons and the games perk system if buying this game try get 
 the GOTY edition as it include the downloadable maps that you can purchase off PSN or XBOX LIVE. 
 Cod is a great addition to a series of games that set the standard of what online games should 
 be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MARK__
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is a brilliant game in all aspects and at the time of writing I still think it's the best 
 game out. I have not given any game a 10/10 as yet and probably never will, but if any game was 
 going to get it, it would be COD4.
  
  The game can more or less be divided into two, the campaign and the online multiplayer. I found 
 the campaign very enjoyable, I originally had this game on 360 but now I have it on ps3, I have 
 played the campaign through three times (nearly) . The only bad thing you can really say about the 
 campaign is that it's fairly short, but the game play is excellent and there are certainly some 
 memorable moments. Also it's a challenge on top difficulty. I particularly like the sniper mission 
 which is just brilliant, I wish they could make a full game like that one mission. 
  
  The multiplayer is where I have spent all the hours, I think I racked up about 8-10 days on my 
 360, now I only have a PS3 and I have racked up 2-3 days play time on that. It's just very addictive 
 and if you have online this game really is excellent value for money. This has kept me occupied 
 for over a year just playing online. You progress through prestige ranks and unlock weapons, aim 
 sights, camo and perks as you progress. I particularly like playing search and destroy and team 
 deathmatch, but there are many game modes and they are all good. All you could say bad or annoying 
 about multiplayer is when people are camping; this can be frustrating but its all part of the game. 
 Also a lot of people tend not to like some of the perks. Overall though this is the best multiplayer 
 ever and its probably my best ever game.
  
  The weapons are excellent and more importantly the weapons are accurate, there is nothing worse 
 in a shooting game when you are clearly hitting but nothing is happening, you certainly don't get 
 this with COD. I also think the graphics are top notch. The grenades are perhaps a little over 
 powerful at times. Overall this is a great FPS and my all time best game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Although I don't rate Call of Duty 4 the marks that many give it, I don't believe this game is 
 over-hyped by all means. 
  Each level immerses you with a completely different environment from the last, and in each level 
 is something new and exciting. In some you will have to rely on stealth and in others you will 
 be charging in with your team into various buildings, where you will be looking for the main leader, 
 but with negative results. But however they come, you won't get bored. There is always new weapons 
 you encounter and each one provides a different source of firepower.
  The level design is quite incredible with lots of small details that really look right in the setting 
 they are. The mission objectives are also ranged and providing a range of different activities 
 that will keep you from being bored. Sometimes you will be asked to just wipe out a squad and others 
 will provide more of a challenge such as taking out tanks or helicopters.
  The gameplay goes well and the good artificial intelligence will provide brilliant, realistic encounters 
 that can be seriously intense on higher difficulties.
  For a game that came out in 2007, the graphics are surprisingly good compared to games of this 
 era. The graphics add to the detailed environments and will keep you playing until the end.
  Unfortunately the single player experience comes to a stop long before you would expect. At about 
 6 hours or less after doing your training on the first level you will be confronted with the credits. 
 This won't hinder your enjoyment of the game, but at a high price in stores it could prove frustrating.
 
  However, your money will be well spent if you like the fantastic multiplayer package that won't 
 get boring, and will last much longer than it's single player campaign.
  
  Story- 4/5
  Characters- 3/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 4/5
  Sound- 3/5
  Length- 1/5
 
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: A range of mission objectives that don't get repetitive, Quality and exciting levels, 
 Engaging environments, Great graphics, Never-ending and intense multiplayer battles.
  
  Bad Points: High asking price, Very short single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  This time I will review the honoured Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare. It really showed us that 
 you can play very good multiplayer FPS-games on the PS3.
  
  You can never expect something mindblowing from the single player. Not this time either. It was 
 okay, but short. I would recommend to play through it before entering the multiplayer, just fo 
 getting in the mood and controllers if you aren't that experienced. I really liked the mission 
 with the sniper. 
  
  But we all know, the important thing is the multiplayer. It really is awesome. Up to 18-players 
 in big and amazing maps. There are lots of different game modes such as domination, search and 
 destroy and the original team deathmatch of course. You will be able to unlock weapons, upgrades 
 and perks, which makes it fun to plan your own strategies in different maps. The multiplayer lags 
 a bit now and then, but that shouldn't be a common problem.
  
  And in the end: Who would I recommend this game to?
  This game is meant to be owned by every 
 person who owns a PS3 and likes a good shooter. You can expect new things, because this isn't the 
 "Boring, old and original World War II" style. Even after the release of Call of Duty 5 : World 
 at War, people have moved back to this game.
  
  + Multiplayer
  + Weapons
  + Feeling
  
  - Short single player
  - Lagging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikoflishas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Awesome Graphics, Realistic Enviromnents. Addictive and Competitive Multiplayer, Lots of 
 Weapons to choose from.
  
  BAD: Short Campaign 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is by far the best game I've ever played in any console. 
  
 
  The game looks and feels real, you must aim through the weapons to be sure that you'll kill the 
 enemy, you can sprint for a limited amount of time, and you will carry two weapons at a time, the 
 primary weapon, which may be a Shotgun, Sniper Rifle, SMG, Assault Rifles, LMG, etc... And the 
 Side gun, but you can take others weapons in the floor. There is a melee attack which is very useful 
 when you are close to the enemy, it's a knife (Quick and Lethal)
  
  Single Story Mode is exciting, not very compelling but it is fun; it is short compared to other 
 games yet it is good. You will be playing as a new member of an antiterrorist organization. You 
 will be accompanied by your squadmates which aren't stupid yet they are nothing to be impressed, 
 they will usually kill any enemiy to come close to them but surely they won't protect you. You 
 have a static personality, you won't talk nor see your face; you'll only be following and receiving 
 orders from Capitan Price. Enemies are aggressive and act similarly as your teammates. Throughout 
 the game there are hidden laptops with information about the enemy, there are 30 in total, this 
 may give replay value to the Campaign.
  
  Multiplayer is where the fun is found. It is quick, very well balanced, competitive and of course, 
 fun. Maps are well designed, sizes vary since small (Good for Shotgun) to Big Size (Nice for a 
 Sniper Battle) . At the beggining of each online battle you will have the option of choosing a weapon 
 class which before joining a battle you will have to create. Perks are special abilities that you 
 will be able to choose in the Classes. You have 3 of them as a maximum. You can have physical advantage 
 like Steady Aim, Iron Lungs (for sniping) ; you can have weapon advantage like Claymores, C4, Overkill 
 (2 Primary Weapons) , etc...
  In Offline Battles (Split-Screen) is very similar to the Online, with the only difference that 
 you won't be creating your class, there is preliminated classes. It is equally of fun to the Online, 
 my friends and I meet in a house to specially play COD4. 
  
  You won't regret to get this game, it is very complete and multiplayer is just awesome. This game 
 will last for many years to come, none game that I have bought after this has beaten him, not even 
 Killzone 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe_nfl_fan1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is so amazing. the graphics are top notch and effects are very cool.
  the single player is awesome from the bit ive played. the weapons in single player have special 
 attahments and stuff. the sroryline is pretty simple but great. its quite intsense allot of the 
 time and sometimes even scary. Even though ive praised the single player allot, the muti-player 
 is where this game really shines. The game modes include donination, capture the flag, cage match, and 
 of course team deathmatch. you are able to customize classes and use them in all modes exept old 
 school. you can put in perks that improve your play. also you can add silentsers and red dots and 
 for snipers extra scopes. the maps are very in depth and look amazing. thats about it. oh and ps: if 
 you camp in buildings that are inclosed where nobody can see you unless they come up in the building, you 
 can get killed because bullets will go through walls if you have deep impact as a perk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fujiv1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review:  Im going to jump right into this as soon as i started playing Modern Warfare i was shocked to see 
 how far the graphics have come since the PC platforms were made and i just knew i would fall in 
 love with it.
  After playing 5 hours of singer player with well detailed battlefields, guns, Lighting and really 
 good exciting missions it was over just like that a very short campeign.
  It wasnt until i heard how many people were going online with the game saying how its the best 
 FPS out there then i found out for myself i wont spoil it for you and say why its so good because 
 you will find out for yourself like i did and thats what made me decide this is the best game i 
 have ever played on the PS3. Trust me.
  Then they brought out Call Of Duty 5: World at War yes they went back to the world war i thought 
 it was a huge mistake but i think it payed off yes the graphics are amazing yes the gameplay and 
 mission are fantastic but does it beat Modern Warfare i always say that you can never beat an original 
 and i personal think im right but im not saying world at war isnt good and that they havent improved 
 from there old games but still if you log on to Modern Warfare there are plenty of people who have 
 the same feelings as me towards the game. 
  Buy Modern Warfare Its Money Well Spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpdawg3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game wil definitely change how people view the Call Of Duty franchise. They escape from the 
 old World War 2 setting to bring the gamer to a new era. The weapons areas and everythiong has 
 been modernized. I love the new online where you can battle your friends. The game never gets old. 
 another new feature is the kill streak. If you get a 3 kill streak you can call a radar and know 
 your enemies position. 5 Kill streak gets yu an airstrike that will award with many kills. ONce 
 you get a 7 kill streak you can call in a helicopter. This extra lasts for quite a long time and 
 will supply your team with many kills over time. The helicopter will not go away until it is either 
 shot down by the enemy, or its maximum time on the field has expired. This game is so addicting. 
 The gameplay and online is greatlly organized. I cant wait until the modern warfare2 comes out 
 later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  call of duty modern warfare was was one of the best shooters to reach the shops in 2007 made by 
 activision. And in my opinion the best shooter made so far.
  
  Campaigne- the story can be a little short and it took me about 5 hours on regular but there is 
 a huge step to vetran difficulty were game play just becomes frustrating. If i had to some it up 
 short and sweet. Deffinatly worth playing before you hit the online. You even bond with the characters 
 your playing with.
  
  Graphics- very realistic enviroments, this game was a huge step in finding out how far graphics 
 can be pushed.
  
  Multiplayer- the online gameplay is fantastic and increadibly addictive you will find your self 
 playing for hours on end trying to gain your rank up so you can prestige it is deffinatly fun trying 
 all the different game modes and trying to unlock better weapons
  
  A must have buy it plz
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceozo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 takes the franchise out of the World War 2 setting and into something completely 
 different.... Modern Warfare. Modern Warfare takes place in Russia and an unnamed Middle eastern 
 country. You play as Sgt."Soap'" Mctavish of the British SAS and Sgt. Paul Jackson of the United 
 States Marine Corps. It's your classic Call of Duty game where you move from point a to point b 
 and kill anything in your way. Call of Duty 4s campaign will take you around 6 hours to complete 
 but the quality of it will keep you coming back for more. There are some memorable moments one 
 of my favorites is the mission based solely around staying hidden and sniping. The endings are 
 extremely sad and epic for both the Marine and the SAS soldiers that you play and unfortunately 
 when those endings come you will have to say goodbye to the soldiers you've grown to care for. 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a fantastic looking game, the textures are the best I've seen 
 in a shooter, guns look very realistic and the settings will seriously make you think you're standing 
 in the thick of the action. The sound is incredible bullets whistle past your ears they rip through 
 wood and if you have surround sound each explosion will make you jump out of your seat. The gameplay 
 is First person shooting so you know what to expect. However the set pieces in this game will make 
 you want to push and see it through to the fantastic end. The online is fantastic, if you thought 
 the single player was fun well the online is incredible you get to fight in several different modes, 
 you've got the usual deatmatch and team deathmatch plus sabotage where you have to put a bomb in 
 your enemies base and vice-versa, you also can play Search & Destroy where one team puts a bomb 
 in a base and the other team defends. It's very addictive. Not to mention as you level up you gain 
 the ability to create your own class, complete with what weapons you want to use and perks. Perks 
 are special abilities you can use for example juggernaut gives you more health and Martyrdom allows 
 you to drop a live grenade as you die. So in conclusion you should buy this game you will love 
 the new modern weapons, the awesome characters, the great locations and the addictive online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cod4dude101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty of Duty 4 is an AMAZING game! It has the best multiplayer experience that you will 
 find in game. I think that everything in the game was great except for the fact that the campaign 
 is very short, if you play the game on normal, you will finish in about 5 hours. But don't get 
 turned off because of this, it has a online experience that will keep you hocked on for hours and 
 hours. It is so fun leveling up and unlocking new guns and perks. The online maps are also great. 
 There are about 10 online maps. My favorite is the map called shipment. It is a small map with 
 containers all over it and is a great place to rack up your kills. Another map that i like is called 
 pipeline. In this map i love to snipe. But don't get me wrong, I like all the maps. TRUST ME BUY 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You won't regret it. :~) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto-19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:10 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World At War delivers many different kinds of gameplay. For the FPS experts, there's 
 veteran for you; good luck. For the other people there are easier game modes. The online play for 
 this game is highly addictive, extremely fun, and you will never get bored. The multiplayer is 
 amazing as well, and the perks you can use are endlessly fun, the dogs you can send, the radar, 
 the dogs, the bouncing bettis... never-ending possibilities. Nazi Zombies... where to begin? This 
 is probably the funnest shooting game I've ever played. It never ends, it's never repetitive, it's 
 amazing. The guns you can use are awesome, they're unique, they're fun. To sum all of this up, 
 get this game, because it's one of those games that you should, without a doubt, have on your shelf 
 ready to play with you're buddies.
  
  -Crypto-19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:49 pm PT
Review:  call of dutys singleplayer campaign is great. every time u are playnig it theres feeling of action 
 movie.
  theres lot of great moments in it. But one thing that i personaly hated is that in online play newbie 
 like i cant survivor 5seconds.
  call of duty 4 multiplayer could be way better if newbies could get to servers that is full of 
 players in same rank. So if u what to buy this game becaus of its online play u have to be hardcore 
 player.
  
  There was one problem is singleplayer game too. but this problem is allmost in every game. singleplayer 
 campaign was too short.
  
  in a way there was something good in multiplayer. what i liked was class making.
  so call of duty 
 4 good singleplayer and bad multiplayer. i hope next game has multiplayer too....
  
  one thing call of duty 4 has done way better than other games in serie. its first of the games that 
 is not from 2nd world war.
  So buy if u what one of the gratest singleplayer experience
  if u whant greatest multiplayer experience buy resistance2 or rfom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountyhunter4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  The best of the COD series by far with a multitude of weapons and levels along with a great single 
 player campaign and a sequel to the modern warfare family coming soon. When I play this game game 
 it does what it is supposed to do, ENTERTAIN ME in single player and definitely multiplayer which 
 has got to be it's best feature in the game call of duty 4 may not be as new as world at war but 
 it is better in my opinion with the greater variety of weapons and such, but don't get me wrong 
 world at war is an amazing game especially with the nazi zombie mode, which hopefully the next 
 modern warfare game will have its own version of this game mode, anyone looking for a great multiplayer 
 to play by themselves or with friends should get this game, but call of duty 4 does have a missing 
 feature that would have been great if it had been added, co-op campaign, if it was added then cod4 
 would have been even more addictive then it already is. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty Modern Warefare is nothing short of amazing. With an excellent campaign mode spanning 
 through conflicts like those you would see today in places like war torn Russia, and the Middle 
 East you can't help but feel refreshed not to be in WWII. Enhanced only by awesome multiplayer 
 pieced together by a perk system which gives you abillites other players might not use or have, 
 and allowing you to combine them to make you skilled in paticular areas like Sniping. Online also 
 has prestige mode which can keep you playing even after you've beaten the game and reached the 
 level cap. All the weapons are based on the actual weapons used by the military today, and all 
 of them feel so comfortable to use without issue. The controls are perfect and easy to use, and 
 wear onto you so you never forget how to play. The maps are great along with excellent graphics 
 to keep it visually appealing online and offline. I can only say this game needs to be in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjja807
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Aaaah call of duty, the sounds, the gunfire, the online play! Everybody needs to buy this game! 
 This is a game that offers little in the story mode, but adds itself up in online play. Call of 
 duty is a first person based shooter that offers a great story mode and will keep you in a coma 
 when you stay up playing its online play all night. This games story mode is very short and doesnt 
 move its franchise any where special, but its online has a new fresh feel to it and will set a 
 great example for many games to come. The game is co-op up to four players and is online up to 
 eighteen players. During online play the game allows you to gain levels, which will unlock new 
 weapons, perks, and challenges for you to complete during online. This feature is very nice to 
 have and makes you want to play! Which is a good thing! So anyone who hasn't played this game before 
 will need to go out and get a copy, because this game will be in history for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmjs2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Call of duty for is a magnificant shooter and will be stuck in our memories for a very long time. 
 the fantastic missions, the ending of it has got to be one of the most tragic and graphical endings 
 of all games. the offline mode aren't the best i've seen like Arcade mode but the story is definetly 
 worth going through at least five or six times. the settings for the CODMF are fantastic from the 
 streets of the war torn middelr to queit street in europr to an flashback to Pyapt. The online 
 mode is a completly different story i wish there would be co-op but without it is still fantastic. 
 the range of weaponry perks and modification make the online a fantastic experience. the great 
 maps and expansions, the standard maps like Wet works overgrown and showdown and the added expansions 
 which contains Broadcast, Chinatown, Creek and Killhouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_borowka
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  Cod4 was one of the greatest games ever made. From the campaign of fighting terrorists or the intense 
 online clashes. I think that cod4 deserved game of the year. It has excellent graphics, great weapons 
 and a fun story. The only criticism I can make is losing attachements and camos in prestige mode. 
 I need to get codWAW but my parents might not let me. I can't wait till cod6 i know it will be 
 amazing. I am scared that they will postpone cod6 because of the recession. The makers of call 
 of duty are gaming legends. If someone want to add me on PSN my id is poland77. Thank you for reading 
 my review I hope that you see this game as a masterpiece too. I love this game since i got it you 
 should too. I think that the team deathmatch is the best because it makes you use teamwork to fight 
 enemy teams. As i said before this will be a classic videogame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonomatt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  When my mate told me about this game at first it sounded to me a really good online game, and it 
 was, I then, like i normally do, play the storyline and that became to easy. I took the mistake 
 of only doing the training course once and that's a bad idea. Take it two or three times to make 
 sure that it is the right difficulty for you. If you go away for a drink or food while the game 
 loads, bad idea, you won't know who you are as you play 3 characters in the story line (including 
 one you just move your head) .
  
  My mate also said it was a good online game and it is, that is till you find out you can't have 
 4 mates round your house playing online. On the brighter side f that the create a class is good 
 but it is not as good as any of the other games i've played like this. When it comes to online 
 or even split screen i prefer battlefield because of the classes made and the ability to drive 
 cars/tanks/planes ect and revive your teammates.
  
  Overall, i don't know what to say but i know that the 2nd hand shop might get it later this week 
 who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter I have ever played so far. However, the story mode is a little 
 weak compared to online play, but not to say that it is bad by any means. Anyone who is wondering, 
 this game is BETTER than COD: World at War for a few reasons, but World at War beats it in a few 
 categories.
  
  The gameplay. Now this is what makes this game SO great. The movements are quick and the guns feel 
 great. They really captured everything you want in a first person shooter. Crisp, clean, precise 
 actions and shooting that you couldnt ask for more.
  
  The online. Now although this is why this game has been given so much praise, this is the biggest 
 area I have a problem with. The online is wonderful for one player, but only one player. There 
 is no online spit screen, only LAN. Also, while the game modes are great, there is a lack of them. 
 There isn't really a unique game modes that would have made this game all the more better.
  
  The graphics. Now this game is some of the best graphics I have seen on the PS3. They are just 
 plain amazing that it is not a chore to see who is who and what is what on the battlefeild.
  
  Overall, if you don't have this game you need to get it. I promise you wont be disappointed. 
 This was one of the best $40 I ever spent in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare leaves the familiar German and Pacific landscapes to try and tackle 
 the Middle-east. It does so brilliantly. Graphics are top-notch, and battles are invigorating. 
 Story mode ends fairly quickly, but the epic battles continue online. One part in Story mode, however, 
 is chilling and nags at your emotions. You are caught up in a nuclear explosion, and your character 
 is barely alive. Dead bodies and ruin are everywhere. You stagger around aimlessly for a while, 
 taking in the all-too-real-looking destruction, when finally you die. It is cold and can hit your 
 conscience pretty hard.
  Online battling is fantastic, being lag-free and extremely realistic. Due to the skill level of 
 the players, you are forced to turn every corner cautiously and ready to fire. 
  Modern Warfare is an excellent change-up from the old WWII Call of Duty's, and has a good replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I at first thought this was just another shooter that got way too much publicity but I was somewhat 
 wrong. I played this game much later than anyone else I just borrowed it from a friend 2 weeks 
 ago. Even though it's already a year and a half after it's release the game is still quite popular 
 and sells well. I was very surprised when I finally played that it was much different than any 
 other shooter since it takes place in modern day hence the name modern warfare. The single player 
 was very well done, you play two different operatives a British soldier and an American soldier. 
 The storyline is simple there is a terrorist in the middle east and in Russia, you have to stop 
 him. He has nuclear capabilities so you do everything possible to track down this terrorist. I 
 found the campaign fantastic but too short it took less than 10 hours to complete. Campaigns should 
 be top priority in shooters then multiplayer. I didn't like how the main focus was the multiplayer. 
 The graphics and sound in the game were ahead it's time and were extremely well done. In surround 
 sound the bullets will feel as if they are passing your ears.
  Now to the multiplayer the main reason everyone plays this game, simply it's a great multiplayer 
 you can't go wrong playing it. Most people believe it's the best out there. It provides organization 
 along with plenty to do and just plain fun. Within the online a number of goals are set the player 
 must reach level 55, complete challenges to unlock weapons and attachments and as well as new gameplay 
 types. At first basic weapons and deathmatch and team deathmatch are available as you level up 
 new weapons are unlocked and gameplay types like sabotage and team tactical. The challenges range 
 from getting a certain amount of kills with each weapon to falling 25 feet and not dieing. 
  In conclusion Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a shooter that almost was perfect but because of 
 some flaws it just didn't cut it. But it is definitely a game worth playing but not worth buying 
 until the price goes down, it's still $60 when it should be $30. If you're looking for a game for 
 it's long campaign look somewhere else or just enjoy the short campaign and it's great multiplayer, 
 I still believe this game is a tad overrated. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenHailey
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is very overrated. One of the aspects that I didn't enjoy about 
 the game was the fact you could not see who the actual enemy is at all during the game play. There 
 are bullets flying across in all directions and you can't tell if it is coming from your allies 
 or enemies. In the pause menu you can see a map which shows the enemy whereabouts but this so small 
 you have to just guess where the enemy is. The only thing I liked about the game was that it told 
 you when you were hurt and had to find a space to get your health back. I prefer the first person 
 action from Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots. I gave up on it because obviously first person 
 shooters are not my type of game. I know a lot of you won't agree with my opinions about this game 
 but you maybe better at computer games than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpstar12345
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  SCORES:
  Graphics: 10.
  At it's release and even compared to the CODWAW. COD4 still holds its own. 
  
  Gamplay: 10+
 
  NOTHING. NOTHING that is out currently or in the next couple of months has the same level of gameplay 
 as this game. COD4 set really high marks on ONLINE gameplay. Percise controls, dead-on accuracy 
 and hit detection. The controls are fluid as with the graphics. This game is the reason why so 
 many people were complaining about how other games are not working right or if the game controls 
 for a particular game is glitchy. But don't listen to me.. Just read some of the forums for Ressistance 
 2 or Killzone 2. I think game companies try to make games too realistic sometimes and add in "features" 
 that really takes away from the GAMPLAY ability. For instance, the recently popular "BLURRY" effects 
 when you move. Look at Killzone 2 and other recent shooters, it blurs when look around. Not sure 
 if it's a rendering latency or feature, but if it's intentional, it's a shame. I know that there 
 are some motion blurs when you move fast but the recovery should not take 3 seconds unless I am 
 drinking a beer. Another "feature" is the bobbing effects when you run, some games really over 
 do this. Look at Bad Company for instance, I see many people complain about this feature in forums 
 also. Sometimes its good to use certain effects but game companies should not make it too pronounced 
 (if I shoot a 3 hundred pound mass with a pistol, he should not float like a feather) if you use 
 the rag doll effects, don't over do it.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 10+
  My rating on REPLAY VALUE is tied on the following formula. How much bang for the buck I get for 
 the game.
  How much entertainment am I really getting for my $60.
  
  Price/Hours
  Movies:10/2 = $5/hour (too pricey)
  Bad Company= $60/10 ($6/hour-quit playing)
  Resistance 
 2 = $60/15 ($4/hour-quit playing)
  COD World at War = $60/40 and growing (1.5 dollars/hour and decreasing)
  COD4 = $60/300+ = ($.020 
 cents per hour... and DECREASING) .
  20 CENTS per entertainment hour and decreasing. If you factor in all of the money I saved by NOT 
 going out to the movies and eating out, I think this GAME actually made me money indirectly. I 
 cannot complain about that... Almost as good as BATTLEFIELD 2 (PC)
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  PSN: SuperDodgeBall.../ InstantOwnage
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  i'm kinda late to review this amazing game. Call of duty series of world war was good but modern 
 warfare is great. They did a great job on this game, creating this amazing shooter that stands 
 out between all of other shooters out there. This shooter is the best shooter of all time. With 
 it is realistic mechanical desing, shooting, gameplay, effects and of course multiplayer. The gameplay 
 is excellent.. you can be satisfied with this shooter. The campaign is intense and great,, very realistic 
 amazing graphics. Sound is very good too. It even has a nice story considering other shooter almost 
 have none. The multiplayer is the best shooter multiplayer online, you know that millions of people 
 play this game. It is addictive and you can never get bored of it because of it is great multiplayer 
 game selections like team deathmatch and search and destroy and so many others. The leveling up 
 is amazing, the guns are great. I mean everything is amazing about this game. I shouldn't even 
 saying much. It is just amazing.. if you didn't play this game or didn't like it you are out of 
 your mind.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Value: 10
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  
  OVERALL: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobadila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty modern warfare is probably the best shooter available for the PS3 at the moment. This 
 is because of a single player game that is thrilling from the start and offers lots of different 
 challenges as you progress so you can have your skills tested in many different situations throughout 
 the campaign. But although great the single player campaign is very short and what really puts 
 this game ahead of its opposition is the amazing multiplayer. I do not usually play multiplayer 
 games online but the multiplayer on call of duty is the best I have experienced on any game. Not 
 only are the many different game modes very enjoyable to play, but the experience system, the challenges 
 and the ability to unlock new modes, guns, perks and other items means you can be playing for hours 
 on end and you are really rewarded for killing your opponents or completing objectives.
  
  All of this makes Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare the best shooter I have ever played and a game 
 I would recommend to anyone with an interest in FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarriersArmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  The single player is not the attraction point for this game, it took me half a day to complete, 
 maybe not even that! Although it does look graphically amazing and shows different areas of the 
 armed forces through out the campaign.
  
  Yet nothing matches to that of the online multiplayer. Offering a number of well designed and great 
 looking maps on which to play a variety of games modes. It really will keep you playing for hours 
 on end! The release of the new maps to the multiplayer, available to purchase from PSN and XBL, 
 added extra playing time to explore and get to grips with the new environments. 
  
  Along with the maps are a selection of well balanced weaponry, each having their own pros and cons 
 with the addition of weapon attachments allow the player to become creative and produce a weapon 
 that best suits their style of play.
  
  A completely immersive experience for all first person shooter fans!
  
  Happy Gaming. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: derabrex
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  Wow CoD4, an excellent FPS. A great but short campaign, tons of modern weapons, perfect control 
 setup, killer graphics, and the best part of the game and what's made it so epically great: online 
 multiplayer!
  
  Addicting, fast paced action. Tons of unlockables and awards for leveling up. A perk system that 
 allows you to mix and match to fit any style of play. Many attachments that allow you to customize 
 your weapons
  
  Cod4 is a great game with fantastic multiplayer, and a good singleplayer campiagn. That's not why 
 you should play the game though, because online is where its at in CoD4.
  
  perfect 10/10
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  Audio-10/10 
  Multiplayer 10/10
  Singleplayer 10/10
 
  
  This game is much better than World at war as well. I know all of my friends who played i went 
 right back to Cod4 after only playing Cod: WaW for a few weeks. No other Fps out there can compare 
 to the CoD4. It is the best online shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best shooter out there. All the guns have something speacial about them. 
 Your not stuck with one gun because the rest of them suck. All hit detection is crisp. Good story 
 line to go with single player. Great Ranking system for the multi player. Could have added trophies 
 or unlocks. All levels are laid out to be easily remembered and numerous positions for campers 
 to hide. Theres no reason why this game wasn't the game of the year.
  Great way to keep the call of duties going. Hope the new modern warfare is just as good. Some ideas 
 I have are: using certain perks with others... such as grenades with claymores. or silencer with 
 the red dot. I do, however wish you could jump a little higher in some of the games such as hardcore. 
 Oldschool should not be the only one. This is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 now comes away from the old WWII franchise and settles in to modern war. Its online 
 multiplayer is utterly outstanding. Possibly one of the best online multiplayers ever. The story 
 mode is pretty short as I zoomed to the credits in under 5 hours on easy. Online has a variety 
 of detailed maps. There are over 20 maps altogether wich will keep you busy. Theres loads of guns, classes 
 and perks to unlock as well as going up ranks ans winning fun challenges. My advice is to all the 
 people who play cod5 waw, stop playing it and start to play cod4 cause this is the game thats better. 
 Its better by far... well better than cod5. Anyway this is one of my favourite games ever made with 
 hardly any downsides, except from a couple of tiny graphical errors. Thanks for reading my snappy 
 quick review. read my other ones on all the PS3 games on gamespot. See yah next time. bye. Oh and 
 sorry if I offended you cod5 players about your rubbish game, im sorry, but you just need to face 
 the facts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheez-it_kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the greatest shooters out to date. I've spent tons of time on this game, 
 but never actually beaten the campaign completely. :) This is game worth buying on any Ps3 or 360, 
 doesn't matter.
  
  Gameplay- The fast pace action is amazing. You're always caught in the middle of the fight, and 
 it never gets boring. The campaign is not that great since its just waves and waves of enemies 
 until the next objective, but its still really fun.
  
  Graphics- The graphics for this game are top notch. Everything looks great and all explosions, 
 shootings look amazing. 
  
  Sound- There really isnt music to this game so thats a bit disappointing but it's not that bad. 
 The sound effects are breathtaking. They make you feel as if you're actually in the battle.
  
  Online- This is probably the best feature of the game. The online battles are so much fun. 
 You may experience lag, but its usually your connections fault, not the servers. The community 
 has nothing to really talk about, just like any other game, most friendly players and a few annoying 
 people. The create-a-class system is very nice, it spices up the battle and gives everything a 
 new feel to it.
  
  Overall- You need to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:11 am PT
Review:  I can't lie: my lack of affinity to war games made me apprehensive to this, even after I bought 
 it. Between watchin' a friend play it online, & lettin' a relative tinker with the campaign, I 
 finally played it for self. Upon sight, it's a fantastic game visually. This is what next-gen is 
 all about. Once you start to maneuver thru the campaign, it becomes more amazing! The storyline 
 keeps your attention. So much so, that I blew thru the campaign in about 8 hours, even without 
 the game guide! The cutscenes tied the story together well when a mission was completed. The online 
 play is definitely the headliner here. Minus the folks that take themselves entirely too seriously 
 online (you know, them dudes goin' extra hard to be the next check-earner for playin' games! - 
 LOL) , the online experience is great. The team play is fluid. I'll blame some of the other player's 
 blue tooth sets for the mixed bag of vocal quality when they speak. However, playing this is going 
 to jet propel me to finally stick in COD: World At War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best realistic shooter till this day. Realistic shooters must be playable, fast; 
 enjoyable Mock realism is really what they are. If u may this title did the best job till this 
 day in this specific genre. simply the truth as i see it . I still prefer classical shooters but 
 this stuff is really fun if u want to get involved in some Rambo like fantasy. You will always 
 heal even if u were hit by like 5 bullets ! just duck some place and the regeneration item on your 
 back will automatically heal you.
  
  Excellent Weapons I really like it !
  
  The game is really intense I think the best in the series so far but it is somehow short! when 
 i come to think about it again i think world at war is more intense and a bit longer than this 
 title. 
  
  The issue of W2 game vs Modern warfare games arises again luckly these 2 titles r the best out 
 there. modern warfare was really heavily influenced by World War pervious titles the gameplay elements 
 r all there waves of soldiers coming from every angle get to cover aim down the sight and shoot 
 .... repeat 
  
  wave after wave of intense battles till the end of this short addictive title
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, COD 4, Modern Warfare, however you address Infinity Ward's modern day FPS, you 
 always have one word in mind: awesome. COD 4 has incredible gameplay, unmatched, class-based multiplayer, 
 even up against Team Fortress 2, and literally the MOST realistic graphics ever seen in a shooter. 
 The game is an incredible value, even with its short single player campaign, and the fact that 
 the campaign is one of the most polisheed ever played doesn't hurt either. Throughout in multipayer 
 that anyone with a beating heart can love, and you have a recipe for genius.
  
  To start, lets talk about presentation; the first thing you experience when you pull out COD 4. 
 The sound is tremendous; the machine gun affects will literally rattle you a bit, and the screams 
 of your enemies and allies ringing across the battlefield is convincing. The graphics, especially 
 in single player, are worth the admission price alone, as everything, perhaps with the exception 
 of characters models, mirror their real life counterparts admirably well. The character models 
 are not QUITE as good looking, but they look good enough to enjoy interacting with. Oh yeah, the 
 framerate is at a solid 60 frames per second, a stat that puts most modern shooters to shame.
 
  
  The campaign is awesome. While the absence of coop is a tad disappointing, the 5 to 8 hours you 
 will put into the campaign are some of the most tense you will experience on your PC, 360, or PS3. 
 The missions range from gunning down terrorists from a helicopter, going hard core sniper and taking 
 out a terrorist leader from over a mile away, to the same, huge scale battles that the Call of 
 Duty series is known for. Meanwhile, the story will steadily move you across the game's levels, 
 and the hate meter is definitley high for these terrorists. 
  
  But COD truly shines in the multiplayer offering. While you can always hit it up 4 player split 
 screen style, the 18 player online is the best I have yet experienced, and it does not lag. They 
 say the fantastic Resistance 2 multiplayer is similar to this online mode, but with all due respect 
 to that game's fanatstic options, COD 4 is the undisputed king. You will start with a few preset 
 classes, leveling up as you get kills and complete objectives in the game's many, well designed 
 match types, which I won't spoil for you (don't worry; they have team deathmatch) . Then, once you 
 reach level 4, you will gain the option to create your own class. Here you will choose a primary 
 weapon, sidearm, grenade, and perks for your own custom class, and perks are undoubtedly brilliant. 
 You basically take one skill for each of three types and assign it to your class. Perks range from 
 dropping a grenade when you are killed, having more health, or doing more damage with each bullet 
 fired. They are very well balanced, meaning they won't guarantee you a win, but smart players will 
 get a boosted strategic element to tamper with. The 16 maps are also great, with all of them playing 
 well and providing many areas perfect for firefights. By time this review was written, a new map 
 pack has also come out, and those maps might be better than the ones you get out of the box. In 
 short, you are going to fall in love with the multiplayer.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, COD 4 has it in spades. If you take some damage, you can go behind cover 
 and your immediate health will regenerate. You are able to fire the gun as soon as you spawn, but 
 you will want to hold the the L1 button on the controller and look down the sights if you want 
 a chance of hitting anybody. This aim mechanic feels very natural, and it is quite rewarding to 
 use. You can also sprint, and in the single player, you can lock on to enemies nearby your target 
 reticle by quickly tapping and untapping the aim button. This is handy for taking out groups of 
 several enemies quickly, and it is executed very well. The gameplay is easy to pick up and play, 
 and you won't want to drop the controller.
  
  So what is the verdict? Call of Duty 4 is easily one of the best first person shooters ever made. 
 The fresh modern setting is welcome after slogs of past WW2 shooters, and the gameplay, presentation, 
 and online are nearly flawless. Coop's absence and a short campaign are only minor faults, and 
 they will not mar your experience in any way. Put plainly, Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is an 
 absolute must buy if you are willing to go down fighting, and especially if you have got a love 
 for multiplayer fragging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply great, and if you do not have it yet you are really missing out. It may be 
 just a tad bit overrated (there are a few better games, I repeat FEW) but it is simply amazing. 
 The gameplay is fun and amazing, with a good singleplayer campaign and legendary multiplayer that 
 simply must be experienced. The singleplayer is a ton of fun although it is rather short. You will 
 fight across the middle east, russia, and eastern europe with pretty realistic combat situations 
 and a variety of gameplay styles, even a level where you are a gunner in plane! The great thing 
 about the multiplayer is simply that it is fun, not overly competitive, and very addicting! There 
 are a variety of maps from the campaign with minor changes that are all fun to play on. The matchmaking 
 system is efficient and a lot better than old-fashioned find or create a game lobby systems. The 
 create-a-class system is great as well and is a mold that all multiplayer shooters should use in 
 my opinion. Simply put, you must experience this game!
  
  Graphics: 9.0 The graphics were pretty realistic and awesome, although not the best I have seen.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 The gameplay was simply awesome and filled with variety!
  
  Story: 8.5 The short storyline that accompanied the campaign was pretty engaging with top notch 
 voice acting and overall was pretty believable. 
  
  Replayability 9.5 Even after you finish the singleplayer and play the multiplayer for a long time 
 this game will most likely never grow old on you.
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 9.5 A great game that is one of the best FPS games ever, 
 with just enough variety and fun to make it so good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiago2525
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  i am telling u about the game very good game i say10/10 because it has every thing, action, killing, 
 dogs, snipers, etc. To me the story is very good it has good starting and end it is about what the 
 game is baste on modern warfare. Me i like the in-tells they put so ppl cant put in the cheat codes 
 so they get every thing, the in-tells where very smart 2 do so we have 2 find them when we r playing 
 and when u get all of them u get all of the cheats. Now 2 the online very good the online 2 me 
 was the best online game i everd played in my life, there is a lot of game modes but not as much 
 as codwaw. All i say is that u ppl if u dont have this game get it now very good game there is 
 going 2 be a #2 i herd, it is called call of duty modern warfare 2 that is what i herd dont no 
 if it is true but it is coming out April 2009 i think. i like cod4 u should get the #2 it is going 
 2 be 1 crazy game
  
  
  add me if u want:) on this
  youtube channel: bobjob2525 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  After the release of Call of Duty 2, everything was going great for Activision. They had garnered 
 a huge fan following and had made a modern masterpiece out of a series that was originally just 
 "another" competitor against the then omnipotent Medal of Honor series. all of Duty was bang on 
 track and everything was going great for them. But then came along Call of Duty 3, a game developed 
 by Treyach which when looked at indivudually is great and an FPS worth playing, which when compared 
 to the other COD games and compared to what we expected, fell flat. COD3 was a major disappointment. 
 Activivsion had to do something or one of their most major franchises would die. 
  
  It was then that Infinity Ward returned to make another sequel and the Call of Duty series returned 
 with a vengeance. Exactly one year after the previous installment, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 hit the stores. 
  
  The very name of the game reflects the fact that this installment is different than the previous 
 major titles of the series. First of all, it has a subtitle- "Modern Warfare." And the subtitle 
 quite much tells you what the game is about.
  
  
  Activision and Infinity Ward knew when they were developing this game that the time of World War 
 II had come to an end. They had to move on, and try something completely different. And so, that 
 Call of Duty will be set in the present day. 
  
  
  The story of the game, even though nothing special, is good and can lead to some great sections 
 in the game and some spectacular cutscenes and battles. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is as refined, shining and polished and rounded as few games have 
 hoped to be till now. It has a very high level of sheen and quality and with a surprisingly stable 
 framerate (what with there being a lot of activity all over the screen all the time, with some 
 great environments, blasts, weapons firing, or soldiers or vehicles or whatnots) , great sound, 
 sharp and clear lighting effects, spectacular graphics, great gameplay and gameplay mechanics, 
 and the best online till date, this game has everything going for it.
  
  The graphics of the game are as good as any game can ever hope to be. Always, the background, be 
 it large and magnificent cities of epic scope or dark and dreary and conjusted areas in a small 
 buildings, the graphics are always very well sharply defined. There is always a lot of activity 
 on the screen- thousands of bullets might be fired in a moments, many vehicles and characters would 
 be present in the screen, there might be blasts behind you or all of them together. But the frame 
 rate never ever drops. Also, there are great lighting efeects and everything looks the way it should.
 
  
  The gameplay of the game is like any other shooter, only more refined and polished. Always, there 
 is a compass at the bottom of your screen which shows your ultimate objective's location. All you 
 have to do is move and shoot and shoot and ultimately reach your destination. Sounds pretty boring, 
 right? Wrong. Never before has "moving and shooting and reaching your ultimate objective" been 
 so refined, fun and brilliant. I simply don't have words for it.
  
  Then, there's the game's online mode (out of which team deathmatch is my personal favourite) . The 
 game has six modes and many many many maps to chose from. Also, there's the class system in which 
 you can chose your own class which will ultimately decide which weapon you wield and what type 
 of player you will be. As you unlock more classes, you will be able to make your own classes and 
 decide which weapon they wield, which grenades they carry and so on. 
  
  You earn experience points and as you level up, you unlock more stuff for the online mode. 
  
 
  Basically, COD4 is a very rounded, polished, refined and a high quality experience. Every aspect 
 of the game is almost perfect. Only, its campaign is too short and you can finish it in five-six 
 hours. But the quality of the game in general and the online mode make up for that. Buy this game 
 NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_pride69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  It looks like many fans got what they wanted when the Call of Duty finally left the WWII setting 
 to the modern era. So, Infinity Ward decided it was time for a change, and Call of Duty 4 is the 
 result. This superb first-person shooter presents an extraordinary multiplayer experience, brief 
 but intense single player campaign, and great visuals and audio. Call of Duty 4 is remarkably one 
 of the best first-person shooters to date.
  
  Call of Duty 4's story takes place in an unknown Middle East country, where a rebel terrorist faction 
 has risen to power and poses an immediate threat to their enemies and to the rest of the world. 
 Meanwhile, Russian Ultranationalists in Europe want the Motherland to go back to the old times 
 of the Soviet Union and are getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction. The player has 
 the option to play as Sergeant "Soap" McTavish of the British SAS, and Sergeant Paul Jackson of 
 the USMC 1st Recon. The British SAS go up against Imran Zakhaev, leader of the Ultranationalists 
 and has already seized nuclear weapons, and the US Marines deploy in the Middle East, where they 
 fight their way to the terrorist, Al-Asad. What Soap and his team has to do is to attempt to stop 
 the Ultranationalists' plans of acquiring more nuclear weapons, and the USMC has to do the same. 
 Together, they must fight their way to prevent a nuclear war from happening, and keep the peace 
 around the world.
  
  Gameplay is almost similar to previous Call of Duty games. HUD, for example, contains information 
 on the mission and how directs the player to the next objective and then the next. The biggest 
 difference though, is the modern setting present in this game, rather than the World War II setting 
 in the past games; weapons are more sophisticated and more deadly compared to 50 years ago. Also, 
 since we're living in the modern age (and not in WWII) , players tend to be more 'tuned' with modern 
 things. The ability to sprint for short distances can give the player a possible advantage against 
 the enemy, especially when one wants to take out enemies in a quick and precise fashion. Knifing 
 is a more convincing instant kill than hitting the enemy with the butt of your rifle. Besides, 
 it's more fun that way. There are three positions the player can perform; standing, crouch and 
 prone stances. Each stance can provide an advantage in combat. For example, accuracy is better 
 when in prone stance, crouching beside walls and vehicles can give the player some cover from enemy 
 fire. Standing, I guess, can give players speed and agility when sprinting and jumping to avoid 
 enemy fire or to get away from a grenade and from its blast radius that's thrown your way.
  
  Players can throw frag grenades, stun grenades, and flash grenades. But, the player can also 
 equip grenade launchers to increase firepower in combat. Silencers can give players stealth in 
 multiplayer and the enemy can't detect you on the map so easily. Scopes such as the iron or red 
 dot sight varies a player's accuracy in battle. Overall, it depends on the player's skill anyway.
 
  
  Single player campaign was Call of Duty 4's main problem; it was too short. I have to say though, 
 that the campaign itself was intense from the get go. Each moment while you're playing either the 
 SAS or the US Marines never lets you have time to sit down, relax and think about the situation 
 in front of you. It's like you have to keep moving or doing something, or you'll die when the enemy 
 finds you completely defenseless. Every single mission in the game's campaign mode is pretty realistic, 
 or close to being realistic that it gives you almost a definite experience of what a regular soldier 
 would encounter in real combat in the front lines. Sadly though, it was over way too quickly, and 
 leave you to wishing that they would have made it longer.
  
  But the best feature about this game is its incredibly, extremely competitive multiplayer. There 
 are many modes to try out, like the common Team Deathmatch or Free-for-all. Split screen mode can 
 hold up to 4 players, but only one player can be online at a time. Points are awarded to a player 
 when they successfully kill an enemy player. It could be 10 points in a typical Team Deathmatch, 
 but points vary in other modes, like Sabotage or Headquarters. The other modes' point variation 
 is determined not on just killing enemies, but performing other things, like planting or defusing 
 a bomb, or successfully capturing a headquarters, and you gain additional points the longer you 
 have it in your team's possession. In a typical Deathmatch, two opposing forces try to rack up 
 more points than the other force. A team wins when they reach a certain amount of points. For kill 
 streaks, 3 straight kills gives the player the ability to call in a UAV, which displays enemy positions 
 on the map for a brief period of time. Five straight kills gives the player the ability to call 
 in an airstrike, while seven gives the ability to call in a helicopter. It's different in online 
 mode than in Split-screen mode, being 3 kills is an airstrike and 5 is helicopter in Split-Screen 
 mode.
  
  Perks and the leveling/ranking system are one of the best features in Call of Duty 4's multiplayer. 
 The player starts out at level one, and must rack up enough points to be promoted to the next level. 
 The more levels the player is promoted on, the more perks and abilities are unlocked for the player. 
 Getting to a certain level can unlock more weapons, scopes, additional slots, etc. Perks are is 
 a major multiplayer concept. Perks are abilites the player can perform in battle. For example, 
 Stopping Power gives the player increased damage, or Last Stand and Martyrdom gives the player 
 a chance to retaliate against an enemy player while dying, but at least you get the chance to take 
 him down with you. There are a maximum of three perks the player can equip during battle. Perk 
 1 contains Stopping Power, Martyrdom, etc. Perk 2 contains defensive abilities like Juggernaut 
 or Overkill, and Perk 3 gives you additional weapons to equip, like extra grenades or RPG's. The 
 player can also make custom classes, with weapons and perks of their own choosing, or the player 
 can just stick to the five-preset classes present in multiplayer.
  
  There are also many challenges in multiplayer mode that the player can complete. It includes killing 
 an amount of enemies with a specific weapon, or taking out a helicopter a decent amount of times, 
 or how many times you've killed somebody with headshots. Additional points are awarded when completing 
 these challenges. Each level you get promoted on, more difficult challenges are available. But 
 aside to the points, challenges and leveling up, the "Prestige Mode" is sort of like the multiplayer's 
 crown jewel. Prestige Mode is when the player reaches the maximum level of 55, and has the option 
 to start all over at level 1. Perks, weapons, etc. are restarted as well. But a special insignia 
 is presented right next to the player's username, indicating that this player has completed a Prestige 
 Mode or two. It can be repeated up to a total of 10 times, with a different insignia awarded everytime. 
 Prestige Mode is only available in the console versions.
  
  Call of Duty 4's graphics are superb; one of the best I've seen in a first-person shooter. The 
 sharp visuals, background, and environment are greatly done and realistically presented. The walls 
 and buildings that were torn apart look like an actual bomb hit them, or it could have been a fierce 
 battle just ensued in that area. You can actually see the crumbs and pieces of debris lying everywhere, 
 or the paint peeling off a vehicle. They did a great job in presenting other things like the blast 
 craters, derelict tanks and other vehicles, or things that continue to catch on fire, and all that 
 stuff. The lighting, weather and shadow effects were done well, and makes the environments more 
 vibrant and realistic. Controls are sharp and easy to handle, so the player won't have to complain 
 about anything in that particular area.
  
  Game also has great sound effects. The sounds of a helicopter taking off, the roar of a tank's 
 engine, or an exploding bomb were nicely done in the game. Sometimes, you can even hear gun fire 
 in the background, making you feel that there's another battle going on outside of that area. The 
 loud, violent gunfire sounds, especially, are so distinctive that you would know if someone is 
 using an M4 Carbine or when somebody is picking people off with a .50 Cal, or when you hear the 
 brief click of a claymore, and a typical player's reaction would be, "Oh ****!" because you know 
 you've set it off, and you know you're dead right where you stand.
  
  Music is done to excellence. It really fits the game's modern, realistic setting, and hearing some 
 of the tracks feel like this is what you would hear when you're watching a dramatic war movie. 
 Voice acting is also great. The screams and the grunts of the enemies and teammates sound menacing 
 and convincing that you would be alert and ready for them. The dialogue of some of the characters 
 are funny and interesting sometimes that you just want them to be your commanding officer or a 
 buddy in the front lines. The deep, heavy breathing of when the player is low on health makes you 
 feel tense and more careful, and you know you're about to die unless you find cover. 
  
  So to sum it all up, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a superb modern first person shooter that 
 is absolutely realistic; complete with a short but extremely intense single player campaign, terrific 
 audio and visual presentation, and an enjoyable, highly addictive and competitive multiplayer that 
 stands tall against other shooter games. If you haven't played this game yet, then I'm telling 
 you; you're completely missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: financeranger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I am reviewing the COD4 game for the PS3 and this is the first game I decided to jump into online 
 gaming with. First off this is THE FPS game to own. I am reviewing the COD4 game for the PS3 and 
 this is the first game I decided to jump into online gaming with. So, if you want to run and gun 
 this is for you. I am a fan of shooters that are somewhat accurate, not really a sci-fi shooter 
 fan since I am an Army Soldier.
  First off the good
  1. The story mode was short (if you blazed through the easiest difficulty) , but it has solid replay 
 value. For one finding intel pieces in the game unlocks cheats, and re-playing levels on veteran 
 mode will challenge the most skilled players
  ****spoiler****
  2. The story has enough drama (for dudes at least) , action, and progression to keep you sucked 
 in; however, the best part is that the single player story is a mere training camp for the multiplayer 
 masterpiece.
  3. I paid $40 for it (at eBay) , it can be had for less than $20 now, a great addition to any collector
 
  4. A fair amount of weapons and varied roles (SAS vs Marines) keeps things interesting
  5. Excellent multiplayer with a ranking system that literally pulls you in (I have played for 13 
 days total time and am on level 6 prestige)
  6. Challenges that keep you progressing through the various weapons maps and perks
  7. Soundtrack 
 and graphics were awesome, only after 6 mo do they grow a bit old
  8. Headset support is good, but the ability to mute others in the lobby (and during game loading 
 would be great)
  9. Wide array of setups (LMG, SMG, Sniping, Shotguns, Assault rifles)
  10. Sweet sounds (with this hooked up to a good stereo you can feel the blasts, hear people approaching 
 you, claymores arming, etc)
  Now the bad
  I am not 100% on how the host is picked, but this needs work, I mean most matches online I would 
 place in the top three (towards prestige mode 4) , but occasionally I would only get 2-3 kills
 
  With 1 bad and 10 good this game gets a 9.5/10. It is worth playing if you are a FPS fan, especially 
 if you love FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  I play Call of Duty 5 and compare it to this. Both are equal. Call of Duty 5 went back WWII. It 
 could of been a lot more successful with a new engine, and making it more modern, but that's what 
 Call of Duty 4 does. Although, of CoD5 was more modern I would of liked it better with the zombie 
 mode, but it didn't do that. Well, this is the Call of Duty 4 review, not 5. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 has great graphics, not amazing, but great. The character models are great, but 
 the voice acting is terrible in my opinion. Everyone just sounds the same to me. -5 for terrible 
 voice acting
  
  Well, I can't really say much about the campaign since it's really short, but it was really fun 
 while it lasted. It was better than CoD5's campaign. -5 for being short
  
  Call of Duty 4 has great multiplayer. It has things like levels, create your own class, and A LOT 
 of people online at once, but there is one problem. It gets old soooo fast, and it has such an 
 immature community. Starting from the 10 year olds trash talking and swearing to the 16 year olds 
 that swear in every sentence. For crying out loud. -10 for having multiplayer that gets old fast, 
 and an immature community. I know there is nothing they can do about the community, but I'm just 
 telling you the truth. You can mute them, but if you like to communicate with your team... sucks 
 for you. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 has many pros and cons, and if you cant handle annoying kids, then stay 
 away from this. Otherwise, it's definetly worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  oh man, how do i describe this game, hmmmm, well i can break it down:
  amazing, epic, masterful, best online, awesome guns, montages (lol) , gold guns, prestiges, srry i have to 
 stop here, if i continue youll be up to the age of 100 lol, this game has the best fps online action 
 to date in my opinion, i love the glicthes lol you can run in the sky and shoot your enemies when 
 they cant shoot you! they wont even know your there lol. excellent game! for those of you who love 
 first person shooters!!! this is a must  
 WARNING: contains highly addictive montages and online action lol
  
  
  HAVE FUN OUT THERE! please dont ask me how to do glitches or easy kills, i havent played the game 
 in a while due to many great games coming out, but, you can see some glitches on youtube!!! thats 
 the resource you go to! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-BossSnake
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Mordern Warfare is made by the founders of the Call of 
  duty series Infinity Ward, it plays great and looks as good, its not a lie if someone says its 
 one of the greatest FPS'ers ever made!
  
  Plot-You mainly play as a SAS soldier (Soap Mctavish) and a US Marine (Paul Jackson) .
  There 
 is a pawer strugle in Russia, some Russion 'Nazies' decided to take control of mother Russia and 
 with Russia they are able to control 15000 nukes.
  Well the USA and GB coulden't let some nazies have much more then enough nukes to destroy the whole 
 US of A, so prapare to call the airstrike and play hot potato with granades cause this is gonna 
 be one hell of a ride!
  The game may be short but it feels long as cause of the twists and turns and plenty of suprises.
 
  Plot=9.9
  
  Gameplay-Now what would a FPS be without awsome gameplay?
  COD4 has some of the most intence action which will make you sweat all over your controler.
  
 Granades will blow every second, bullets will wizz past and you got practicly no cover cause you 
 and the AI could shoot walls.
  Gameplay=10
  
  Sound-Cod4 got some tracks and the voice acting is supberb, its just intence hearing soldiers cry 
 whil guns fire and bombs blowin up along with the sound of allies and enemies get shot.
  Sound=10
  
  Visuals-Call Of Duty 4 simply looks great, theres so much detail and texter, sometimes (altough 
 u rarly got time cause if u stay still to long ull get a bullet in ya brain) you will have to stop 
 n just admire the art.
  Visuals=10
  
  AI-The AI is smart when there seconds from death the enemy will pull out a hand gun or with a last 
 breath drop a granade.
  They will find cover and when you throw a granade and they see it they will either run, duck in 
 cover or throw it back.
  The AI is great but there are glitches.
  AI=9.5
  
  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a must get for any fps fans.
  Altogether=10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first PS3 games, and it made me interested in First-person shooting games. The 
 story is great (though it's kind of short) and I enjoyed every level of it. The controls are excellent, 
 unlike in the past shooting games which the reactions are kind of slow especially when you're already 
 getting shot at. The title speaks for itself, Modern Warfare present day setting and weaponry 
 and I the use of military vehicles/aircraft are very cool. The graphics and sounds are excellent; 
 it makes you feel like you're in a real war zone. I'm not really sure whether it's short or just 
 maybe because I enjoyed it pretty well. A must have game that people shouldn't miss. This game 
 is action-packed from beginning to up until the end. Multiplayer online is also superb! I highly 
 recommend this game, especially to FPS fans, and for those who are not into FPS games this might 
 change your mind! You won't regret getting this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesehead9099
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. Lets divide this review up into different 
 sections.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 COD4 has breathtaking graphics, and on an HDTV you will be amazed at the extreme 
 amount of detail in this game's environment. The graphics are not the best by any means, but they 
 are still great. 
  
  Sound: 10/10 The sound effects and music in this game are simply wonderful. From every grenade 
 explosion and bullet shot to the adrenaline pumping and sad at times COD4 soundtrack theme, this 
 game is shining with audio excellence. Again, the sound is best on an HDTV with HDMI cable.
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 10/10 The gameplay engine in COD4 is so addictive and flawless, its no wonder 
 that Treyarch used in their new installment of the series Call of Duty World at War. Its hard to 
 describe, but you can be rest assured you won't be disappointed with this game's sharp responsive 
 controls and fast-paced, action-packed gameplay.
  
  Campaign: 8.5/10 The campaign in COD4 is amazingly short. Its over in a flash, but the quality 
 of it is great, and you will get absorbed into the captivating, if not real, story. Its rather 
 emotional at times, and i dont want to give out any spoilers, but all in all its a gritty, sad, 
 storyline with a powerful message.
  
  Online: 10/10 At last, the online. This is where Call of Duty 4 shines. The Call of Duty 4 online 
 is simply the best online competitive multiplayer i have ever played in a shooter. Again, no wonder 
 Treyarch copied it in COD5. This is an insanely fun and addicting mode, and again, just adds to 
 the value of this package. I dont want to spend too much time going on and on about all the features 
 like the perks and classes, but be assured that you will have a great time with this game's online.
 
  
  OVerall: 9.5/10
  This game is a must have for any PS3 owner, and you will be playing it for a long, long time. (if 
 you have online and love shooters) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubb55
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like the boat level but after that it seemed to move up in quality every level and was 
 a joy to play. plan to play the new one over the holidays and am looking forward to it. Was kind 
 of easy most of the time and seemed sort of short to me but the action was good. didn't feel like 
 a rail runner even if it was. all the new games seem much better than the old days of ps1. and those 
 days we all had jobs. great music good color and lots of things going on. but to short is the only 
 gripe I have and I have played them all. The last level with the hand gun was a great idea for 
 a change. there was some spots that I fell in love with this game but like all games made by men 
 it didn't hold me to long but I still love playing them. I think some hold you in the action and 
 let you look around a bit and I wish this one would have let me do that to but I had to pause it 
 all the time to stop the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was always going to be an ambitious game, Infinity Ward was leaving behind the comfort 
 zone of World War II and instead venturing into new territories and risking it all by creating 
 a game based on modern warfare. The risk paid off, and what we now have is one of the best first 
 person shooters out on the PS3 now, with a multiplayer to match.
  
  As soon as you load the game up you know you're in for a treat, the intro video shows a desolated 
 town within russia, and then the various feats that you can perform within the game, a nice summary 
 of what to expect - Nothing but pure quality from veterans in developing top notch shooters.
  
  The single player opens up with you being given you're basic training by the SAS, well to be 
 more accurate its you finishing you're final days training, with them going over a quick recap 
 of all you can do. It's very well implemented and gives you a good feel for the controls. You then 
 run an assault course before you are thrown into the action in your first actual misison aboard 
 a ship. 
  
  The graphics within the game are outstanding, from the dynamic lighting to the weather, to the 
 way bullets hit different sufaces, creating sparks if they hit metal and holes when they puncture 
 thin materials like wood and tin sheets. The character models are also brilliant, and the animation 
 is superb, with ragdoll physics implemented to give a good sense of realism in the fight. In Cod 
 4 there is no health bar, you regenerate life just like you would within games such as halo, however 
 when you're in danger you're screen flashes red, meaning you need to get to safety and wait untill 
 you've recovered. 
  
  The levels within COD 4 are all very well thought out, both the multiplayer and the single player, 
 they all offer a wide variety of ways to fight, from close intense interior fights, to long tense 
 sniper battles between teams. The Ai in single player is also top notch, enemies seems as desperate 
 to survive as you do, and will use every trick in the book to do so, including a few new ones, 
 like feigning death then pulling a pistol out on you before they themselves die.
  
  However the single player is over all to quickly, and what you're left with is the stellar multiplayer. 
 The ranking system within Call of Duty 4 is brilliant, you get a whole range of targets to achieve 
 such as 50 head shots with a certain weapon, with these targets you gain experience with which you 
 level up. As you level up you gain new perks and new weapons, however you need to complete the 
 challenges to unlock the add ons, such as red dot sight or the ACOG scope. The perks are great, 
 from martyrdom where you drop a grenade when you die, to iron lungs, where you can hold you're 
 breath for longer as a sniper.
  
  Online is generally lag free and the variety of modes ensure you'll never really be bored, from 
 search and destroy, to modes suuch as ground war, which is standard deathmatch and a few other 
 modes but on a much larger scale. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is a tremendous success and an experience not to be missed 
 by any PS3 owners, regardless of whether they are fans of the genre or the series. This game simply 
 is one of the best out there, and raises the bar for other games everywhere. It's great singleplayer, 
 although too short, and its perfect multiplayer make it The best war game out there.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soranobody
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Inifinty ward should make all call of duty games. Here me Tryarch. Call of duty 4 is a FPS that 
 takes place in mordern times and it is the best in the seires. The single player campiagn is pretty 
 good time at least 8 or more. The single player campign is told through as your playing the game 
 barley a cutscence all game which i find to be a very good thing it keeps you alert. You will see 
 many violent stuff it deserves its M rating which is good youll see you die as your a presdient 
 of a country and youll see a nucler bomb go off as you die. Sounds Epic. On the multiplayer side 
 of things it could be the funest multiplayer on the psn. You will never have a proplem finding 
 anyobdy online. It has a cool ranking system where you can level up and make your very own classes. 
 Im sensing a trend i just cant stop saying good things about this game a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Modern Warfare is an awesome game, like all the Call of Duty games. It has a short yet good campaign 
 and the multiplayer is addictive; especially online. Playing for hours and hours and hours...
 
  
  Story Line
  Taking place right now in our time, you play as two soldiers, one in the Special ops. and one in 
 the army. Fight in the deserts of Iraq and Iran as you fight incredibly tough enemies. Sneak, barge 
 in or whatever, you will love it.
  
  Graphics
  Awesome graphics, which means life-like. Guns are incredibly detailed, and the grenades are better 
 than ever. Characters are amazingly detailed to the last point, you might say they overdid it. 
 Landscapes are truly revolutionary.
  
  Gamplay/Controls
  Easy to use controls, so know problem worrying about how to run. No special buttons, just plain 
 simple and to the point.
  
  Sound
  Good sound affects, voices coming from the enemy seem to show where they are, and they yell something 
 when they attack. Soldiers talk to each other, tanks rumble, planes do the vroom thing and so on.
 
  
  I would say ANYONE would like it, just make sure you can play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayushd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  ok honestly this game is probably the best shooter i have ever played even better than tom clancy's 
 gr. I AM NOT KIDDING YOU HAVE TO BUY IT 
  
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND- 9/10
  Ok honestly i started playing this game in late 2008 so by that time the game was almost an year 
 old and i have seen some better graphics. So the environment graphics are ok like trees and all 
 that natural stuff but the buildings and manmade is very nicely done and when you fight in a city 
 it actually exceeds the look of a war torn country AMAZING. Very beautifully done. The sounds are 
 very good too your earpiece keeps on getting messages from your captain the guns actually sound 
 like guns. Oh yeah and the explosions are as good as Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter which means 
 they are absolutely AMAZING. 
  
  GAMEPLAY AND STORY- 10/10
  Personnely i think the story is a bit confusing and hard to follow. But the gameplay covers up 
 for that. 
  It's pretty obvious that this game is such a good because of the gameplay. Man, even Battlefield 
 Bad Company doesn't have such good gameplay. The war seems so real and the Artificial Intelligence 
 is very high. The way your guys breach the doors in enclosed places and the speed in which they 
 cover large amounts of spaces is awesome. The thing i like about it is that when your fighting 
 with the British you are in a small squad of 5 guys and you aren't the captain so you dont't get 
 to command. Personnaly i think that is very good and just being part of the group is very nice. 
 Next when you fight with the US army you do those large skirmishes in the city with a hundred of 
 your guys and hundreds of enemies fighting it's is amazing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare as taken a huge step forward from the World War II era to modern 
 day shooter. There's new weapons, equipment, and armor. In Call of Duty 4 players assume the role 
 of two characters in the fictional war that takes place in the game. Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish, 
 a member of the British S. A. S and Sgt. Paul Jackson, a member of the USMC. Though missions for 
 both characters takes place in different locations they are both fighting toward the same goal, 
 to stop the terrorist forces of Khaled Al-Asad and Imran Zakhaev from using the nuclear weapons 
 they have obtained.
  
  Call of Duty 4's campaign is excellent and fun tun to play and it's still fun to play over again 
 and again. However, there's a downside; the game is too short. The campaign spans about less than 
 6 hours. The AI is superb; they will use cover and throw grenades at you. In the campaign you can 
 sometimes call an air strike or chopper which is really cool. There's many guns to choose from 
 and to use as well. Graphics a looking at its best, but the sound might want a little boost.
  
  Like previous games in the series, Call of Duty 4 also has a multiplayer side, with different 
 adversarial- and objective-based modes that range from simple team deathmatch to games where one 
 team must plant a bomb while the other defends the bombing positions. The players in COD4's multiplayer 
 are class-based, and players quickly earn the ability to customize their own class, but can only 
 can put one attachment to a gun at a time which is disappointing. Aside from choosing a weapons 
 loadout, each class also has three "perks," which are unique abilities that fall into three different 
 lists to help keep them balanced. Perks include the ability to hold more ammunition, faster reload 
 times, the ability to drop a live grenade whenever you die ("martyrdom") , and so on. Players earn 
 in-game support attacks for getting kill streaks, allowing them to turn on radar to see enemy movements, 
 or call in air strikes or chopper support.
  
  Players also have levels of experience, and getting kills or completing objectives in multiplayer 
 games gives experience points. Going up in level unlocks additional weapons and perks. The player 
 level tops out at 55, at which point players either keep all of their unlocked gear or opt for 
 "prestige mode," which rolls everything to level one, but displays a new icon to other players 
 to broadcast the choice to unlock everything all over again. There are ten total levels of prestige.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is overall a great shooter for anyone who like shooters, or is just 
 a plain Call of Duty fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saka55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY 4: MODERN WARFARE:
  Call of duty 4 is one of the best games i have ever played.
  
  Online:
  Online play is the 
 best i have ever played. I have never had any problems when trying to find a game. You grow up 
 to level 55 and then have the choice to stay there and not grow any more levels or go onto prestige 
 mode where your weapons are all reset and you start again. There is a wide variety when choosing 
 what sort of game you play. My favorites are Team Deathmatch and Domination.
  I give multiplayer 10/10
  
  Story mode:
  A lot of people criticized story mode with how short 
 it was but personally it was really good. It probably took me about 10-14 hours to finish. It has 
 a pretty good storyline the whole way through.
  I give it a 8.5/10
  
  Multiplayer (offline) :
  Offline Multiplayer was no where near as good as Online. You play all 
 of the levels you play online with max 2 players on each team. Overall it was ok.
  I give Multiplayer (offline) a 7.5/10
  
  Overall:
  The best war game made to date. Storyline 
 was great but not fantastic and offline multiplayer was ok. With all of that i give Call Of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STO-109
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is simply one of the best games i've ever played. It has a deep story that is backed 
 by a cool unlockable at the end of the game and a Top Notch Multiplayer Mode. Call of Duty isnt 
 the same as the others. Infinity Ward took the series to new heights by dropping the old WW2 sad 
 song and adding the Rock and Roll of Modern Warfare. From ranking up and hitting prestigue to complete 
 that certain level on Verteran it is all there and highly addictive. After a year people still 
 flock the online because of the massive static waves of Modern warfare. Everybody really got sick 
 of the old WW2 sad song and was ready for something new and refreshing and Infinity Ward delivered. 
 The Story is rather short and should take the average player a good 8 hours to complete. Its very 
 easy and requires little strategy. You cant stay in one spot for too long or your enemies will 
 drop a grenade in on you to lure you out. And it only gets harder as you go up in difficulties. 
 Overall though this is one of the best FPS i've ever played and for the price of $49.99 you can 
 have a game that has a deep and wonderfully scripted single player story and one of the top multiplayer 
 modes ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semix2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  --Overview ---
  Due to lots of other having it, i got the game with my Ps3. Wow, well at least at first. A good 
 game. My first shooter too. It starts out great, with great quality, the ending makes you feel 
 "wow thats over already", but also "wow that was good". Its a short game alone, but a good one. 
 When you get online though, well you won't touch your other games for a while, not ever RAC or 
 Sonic. (Yes i like sonic 06)
  
  --Stats:
  
  Gameplay- 9.75
  very fun, and seems to stay that way
  
  Graphics- 8
  Good graphics, and your players guns 
 and gloves look great, but sometimes outer areas are not ALL beautiful like Ratchet and clank (future 
 to americans) games.
  
  Sound- 9.25
  Great sound effects, but the BGM is basically the same the whole way through, luckily it always 
 fits.
  
  Tilt- 8.5 - 10
  Single player is the 8.5, but online you never stop basically.
  
  Story- 8.75
  Apparently 
 it's been done before almost, but its still rocks, and for my first it really rocks.
  
  Technicaly- 7.75 - 9.25
  The framefate alone is good and online it CAN be good, however i usally 
 get a bit of lag, and it is common to get the dreaded "connection interrupted"
  
  Controls- 9.75
  Great use of the controller, just missing out on SIXAXIS and DUALSHOCK 3.
  
 
  Overall- 9.0
  Damn I just get drawn to it.
  
  --Semix
  
  (Note: Sorry for the short review-busy latley) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  Call of Duty 4 is another first person shooter. But you can't really blame it, call of duty was 
 the first successful FPS, so its their thing to make more and more FPS'. CoD4 adds great story 
 line, smooth gameplay, awesome graphics, and addictive multiplayer (if you start winning) .
  
  We'll start with cons,
  CONS:
  - The single player game is WAY too short.
  - Bad 'lobby' 
 system online. Level one against level 55? ouch. 
  - Repetitive.
  - Guns feel good, but they feel the same for most parts. 
  
  PROS: 
  - The storyline, i think 
 is one of the best stories out there, They just rushed it a bit. 
  - Graphics are great, and it runs real smooth. 
  - It's repetitive, but heck, its way addictive. 
 
  - Multiplayer has a ton of content, making up for, not so much content in the rest of the game. 
 
  - Adrenaline. Single player OR multiplayer, it's really easy to be sucked in. 
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4 IS great. If you don't like FPS' then of course you won't like this, 
 but for those who DOES, this would be one of the better multiplayer content that they'll find out 
 of all the other online shooters. Single player, there ARE better ones, but this one is up there 
 with a great story. It's certainly gives a good rush when you're into it. This isn't a MUST have, 
 it's a.. Borrow a friend's until you get bored of it and then give it back, game. Unless you really 
 wanna kick you're friends butt. If that's the case, it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt-Salt
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Played it round a friend's house.
  
  Why is everyone so in love with this game? It's just another ordinary modern first person shooter. 
 Sure, the graphics and sound are good, but the gameplay is simply repetitive. 
  
  This game is all I hear everyone talking about - 'You going on Cod 4 tonight?' over and over again... 
 It's like they've never played a first person shooter before. The online is obviously addictive, 
 no idea why, all you do is go round shooting people over and over again, how unbelieveably, incredibly 
 fun my friends find that. It has seriously poisoned the minds of everyone I know, they now all 
 think they know everything about guns - just becuase they have played this overrated game too much. 
 I have used these in-game 'perks' you can get, they are quite plain and do not provide much attainment. 
 
  
  The only apsect of this game I found good was the story, which was interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curranh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing through the campaign and seeing the new selection of guns and gadgets. The campaign 
 was definitely short but what there was for one was excellent, intricate story line, excellent 
 visuals, and awesome guns to choose from to help complete your mission. the feature of being able 
 to shoot through walls is fun and new. The exilerating feeling of shooting some bursts through 
 the wall and then finding a wall at the business end of it all is great!
  The online is something new, I love the lay out and the perks! The perks are insanely helpful and 
 interesting. Yet they can be annoying but in a good way! After killing a guy you feel the adrenaline 
 pumping until a grenade goes off under you and BAMM! it's all gone. The maps are extremely cool 
 for campaign and online multi player.
  I also loved the interactive flash back of a British special ops sniper were enemies are crawling 
 all around! How you completely blend in as a unit of tanks and sentries are rolling by within two 
 feet of you!
  -curranh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myth-Q8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is addiction.....
  i don't know the magic behind this game....
  it has been now more then a YEAR & this game servers still HOT....
  i connected the past few 
 days the servers still busy with players.....
  i really addicted to this game...... i tried many shooters but i come back to this game just after 
 i finish the other crappy shooters....
  i tried bioshock-resistance 1&2 - COD5-Rainbow1&2-Bad Company....
  must of these games are good..... 
 but i can't keep playing it for more then month....
  the only game that made me play a game other then COD4 is R2 the co-op mode..... & if ur friends 
 is not online u will not find the co-op that attractive....
  although many games tried the same engine that used to build COD4 but those games were way behind 
 the graphics of COD4... (e. g. James Bond-COD5) ......
  i think if infinity ward didn't release a real COD5 nothing will let the players abandon the servers 
 of COD4.... coz Treyarch don't have the courage to compete with infinity ward.....
  i hope Killzone 2 make a potion for me to remove my addiction for this game....
  in feb. we will 
 see....
  the BIGGEST mistake Activision made was creating COD4, coz this game will be compared to the next 
 Call of Duties..... (e. g. the reason behind leaving a very good game like Call of Duty WORLD IN 
 WAR was the comparison between the two games) many says keep playing COD4 & save the 60 bucks...
 
  which i agree with them
  coz this game will LAST......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the actual single-person campaign, but I can honestly say I love the online multi-player 
 portion of this game. Great weaponry, fast paced, great gaming type options, and very little lag 
 despite all the action. The only negatives are ..............
  
  1) PS3's lack of a reliable way to play with your friends. I hear the Xbox version does not have 
 this problem though.
  2) Total lack of cooperation amongst teammates. This sort of cheapens the game sometimes, and turns 
 it into a random "run around like an idiot" type of game. 
  3) Lack of mic usage. Nobody coordinates at all. I do miss the Socom mentality of cooperation and 
 communication. I play Socom online too, and if you don't have a mic on Socom ..... there's no point 
 in playing.
  3) Speaking of mics ........... open mic games should never be allowed. Too many idiots who like 
 to hear themselves talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Conroy-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game!!!! I mean a must, definetly, no exceptions of not getting it game! 10/10 
 for Single Player and definetly for Multiplayer. Piles of game modes to choose from and a exciting 
 Campaign Mode! I started playing online when I bought it and found out how amazing it was to play 
 it online!
  
  There is a wide selection of weapons and guess what.... I have them all for you!
  
  Pistols:
 
  M9: Good mag size, very common basic pistol. best for close range. used best with bandolier
  Usp .45: more damage than the m9 with better range (better sights)
  M1911 .45: good ammo cap, 
 good damage bad sights IMO (lvl 16)
  Desert Eagle: Good ammo, high damage (lvl 43) BEST PISTOL!!!!
  Gold Desert Eagle: good ammo, high 
 damage, ITS GOLD PLATED!!! (lvl 55)
  Sub-Machine Guns:
  Mp-5: good damage, good rate of fire, great accuracy, overall an excellent SMG. only problem is 
 that the sights seem to drift around in sustained fire.
  Skorpion: high ROF, lower damage, short range.... looks cool though (low damage makes it a poor 
 SMG, good accuracy though)
  Mini-Uzi: very high rate of fire, medium damage, kind of poor accuracy at longer ranges (jumpy sights) ... (lvl 
 28)
  AK-74u: high rate of fire, excellent damage, good range, good accuracy
  P90: VERY high rate of fire, good damage, good accuracy at short-somewhat medium ranges (not the 
 best at long range) NASTY CQC weapon.. (lvl 40)
  Assault Rifles:
  M16A4: 3 round burst, excellent accuracy, high damage, med rate of fire. (good chance of killing 
 in 1 burst with stopping power)
  AK-47: fully automatic, good accuracy, high damage, high rate of fire (high recoil makes it hard 
 to hit at longer ranges)
  M4: fully automatic, high accuracy, good damage, high rate of fire (lvl10)
  G3: Semi-automatic, 
 excellent accuracy, good damage (lvl25)
  G36c: Fully automatic, excellent accuracy at med-med long ranges, high damage, medium rate of fire (lvl 
 37)
  M14: semi automatic, excellent accuracy, high damage, high recoil... stick with g3 if you dont like 
 recoil (46)
  MP44: fully automatic, medium accuracy, medium-high damage, short-med range, IRON SIGHTS ONLY!!!!! 
 (lvl 52)
  Light Machine Guns:
  M249 SAW: very high rate of fire, good accuracy, good damage, good range
  RPD: high rate of fire, 
 good accuracy, increased damage (over SAW) , good range
  M60E: high rate of fire, great accuracy, high damage, good range (lvl19)
  Shotguns:
  W1200: 
 Pump, short range, high damage, slow rate of fire (due to pump action)
  M1014: semi automatic, short range, high damage, high rate of fire, 4 round magazine (lvl31)
 
  Sniper Rifles: (all high accuracy)
  M40A3: Bolt Action, low recoil, med-high damage, slow rate of fire
  M21: Semi-Automatic, very 
 low recoil, medium damage, high rate of fire (lvl7)
  Dragunov: Semi automatic, medium recoil, high damage, high rate of fire (22)
  R700: bolt action, 
 medium recoil, high damage, low rate of fire (lvl34)
  Barett .50 cal: semi automatic, high recoil, EXTREMELY HIGH DAMAGE, high rate of fire. (INSTANT 
 OWNAGE) (lvl 49)
  
  Weapon Attachments/Inventory:
  
  Red Dot Sight: this sight replaces your standard iron sights with a RDS reflex sight with a small 
 red dot (hence Red Dot Sight) that makes it easier to aim your weapon
  
  Grenade Launcher: This allows you to fire 40mm HE grenades from your gun by pressing the left d-pad 
 button and using R1 to fire (Replaces Perk 1)
  
  AGOG Scope: A scope that allows weapons a longer range capability, but it causes aim drift for 
 your weapon (crouch or prone reduces drift)
  
  Silencer: This silences your gun and makes it so that when you shoot you dont show up on radar
 
  Grip: Increases Accuracy on Light Machine Guns and Shotguns, (replaces perk 1)
  RPGX2: Gives you an RPG launcher and 1 extra grenade
  Claymore: Trip activated mine with about 
 a 160 degree blast radius (in front of the mine) great for defending yourself if you're a sniper 
 or setting up traps.
  C-4: Remote detonated satchel charge, L1 to throw, R1 to detonate (once selected) good for defending 
 small areas or setting up traps (double tap square with weapon equipped to detonate too)
  
  Ranks:
  LvL Rank XP Required
  1 Private First Class XP: 0
  2 Private First Class I XP: 30
 
  3 Private First Class II XP: 120
  4 Lance Corporal XP: 270
  5 Lance Corporal I XP: 480
  6 Lance Corporal II XP: 750
  7 Corporal XP: 1080
  8 Corporal I XP: 1470
  9 Corporal II XP: 
 1920
  10 Sergeant XP: 2430
  11 Sergeant I XP: 3000
  12 Sergeant II XP: 3650
  13 Staff Sergeant XP: 4380
  14 Staff Sergeant I XP: 5190
  15 Staff Sergeant II XP: 6080
  
 16 Gunnery Sergeant XP: 7050
  17 Gunnery Sergeant I XP: 8100
  18 Gunnery Sergeant II XP: 9230
  19 Master Sergeant XP: 10440
  20 Master Sergeant I XP: 11730
 
  21 Master Sergeant II XP: 13100
  22 Master Gunnery Sergeant XP: 14550
  23 Master Gunnery Sergeant I XP: 16080
  24 Master Gunnery Sergeant II XP: 17690
  25 2nd Lieutenant 
 XP: 19380
  26 2nd Lieutenant I XP: 21150
  27 2nd Lieutenant II XP: 23000
  28 1st Lieutenant XP: 24930
  29 1st Lieutenant I XP: 26940
  30 1st Lieutenant II XP: 29030
 
  31 Captain XP: 31240
  32 Captain I XP: 33570
  33 Captain II XP: 36020
  34 Major XP: 38590
  35 Major I XP: 41280
  36 Major II XP: 44090
  37 Lt. Colonel XP: 47020
 
  38 Lt. Colonel XP: 50070
  39 Lt. Colonel II XP: 53240
  40 Colonel XP: 56530
  41 Colonel I XP: 59940
  42 Colonel II XP: 63470
  43 Brigadier General XP: 67120
  44 Brigadier 
 General I XP: 70890
  45 Brigadier General II XP: 74780
  46 Major General XP: 78790
  47 Major General I XP: 82920
  48 Major General II XP: 87170
  49 Lieutenant General XP: 91540
 
  50 Lieutenant General I XP: 96030
  51 Lieutenant General II XP: 100640
  52 General XP: 105370
  53 General I XP: 110220
  54 General II XP: 115190
  55 Commander XP: 
 120280
  
  Multiplayer Game Modes:
  * Free-for-All - Every man for himself.
  
  * Team Deathmatch - Use teamwork to kill opposing players and reach score limit.
  
  * Team 
 Objective - Domination and Search & Destroy. Capture flags in Domination, with respawning. Destroy 
 and defend objectives in Search & Destroy, no respawning.
  
  * Team Tactical - Small team Deathmatch and Search & Destroy.
  
  * Capture the Flag - Try to 
 steal the enemy's flag and return it to your base.
  
  * Search and Destroy - Much like Counter-Strike's bomb planting mode, there are two teams: attackers 
 and defenders. Attackers try to plant a bomb at one of two bomb sites, and defenders try to defend 
 the bomb sites. If explosives are planted, defenders must defuse them. Players only have one respawn 
 per round. A round is over when all players on one team are killed, or when the bomb explodes or 
 is defused.
  
  * Headquarters - A radio spawns somewhere on the map. Your goal is to capture the radio for your 
 team. If Team A captures the radio, they must defend it from being destroyed by Team B. Team A 
 will only have one respawn until the radio is destroyed or the max time limit for the radio is 
 reached. Team B will respawn at set intervals. Team A earns points for every second the radio is 
 held. To capture/destroy a radio, you must stand in the area of the radio. The more players, the 
 faster you destroy it. A new radio spawns when time limit is reached or the radio is destroyed.
 
  
  * Domination - There are flags at certain points around the map. All flags start neutral. Teams 
 battle to hold the most flags. Game ends when the time limit is reached, or the score limit is 
 reached.
  
  * Sabotage - Similar to Search and Destroy, only the bomb is neutral and there are objectives located 
 in both teams' bases. Each team's goal is to take the bomb and blow up the objective in the enemy's 
 base. The bomb carrier can fire his weapons, but his position will be announced periodically throughout 
 the game. Also, unlike Search and Destroy, players will have unlimited respawns as opposed to just 
 one per round.
  
  Well that's all from me! This is my first review and I worked alot on it so I hope you liked it!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Here is a reveiw of COD4 
  
  Graphics- amazing, best 1st person shooter ive seen, feels life-like and has some stiff movements (turning)
 
  
  Controls- Your regualar 1stperson shooter controls, R1 shoot, R2 greanade (frag) , L1 aim, L2 grenade 
 (smoke, stun) , O crouch or lay flat out, X jump, triangle change wepons, square reload, R4 knife, 
 R3 run
  
  Maps- 16 maps, some examples bog (a night map, takes place in a marshy-city type area) Crashdown 
 (Day map, large buildings and lots of sniper spots) ECT.
  
  Online- the online is amazing, with great games to play, such as ground war, deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 capture the flag, free for all and more, depends were you are, but i usually never lags.
  
  Wepons- the wepons are amazing, they deffinatley make the game alot better, there are M6 Carbines, 
 Snipers, Deagles (desert eagles) , shotguns, oozies, and alot more. 
  
  I definatley recomend this game to whoever has a PS3, this is the best modern shooter game out 
 there and probably in the COD series. So, Hope you enjoy my review
  
  _seannyboy357_ 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canana
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:00 am PT
Review:  Callof Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a first-person shooter video game developed by Infinity Ward 
 and published by Activision. It is the fourth segment of the Call of Duty video game series, leaving 
 out expansion packs. The game interludes away from the World War II environment of earlier games 
 in the series and is alternatively set in present days.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfareinserts new weapons and engineering to the Call of Duty series, 
 including the M4A1 carbine, the M203 grenade launcher, the AN/PEQ-2 Target Pointer for use in conjunction 
 with night vision goggles, the MP5SD submachine gun, and the FGM-148 Javelin portable anti-tank 
 guided missiles.
  
  Thegameplay of Call of Duty 4 shares various features with previousgames of the series. Once 
 again, players fight alongside AI-controlled teammates. They help during the game's missions by 
 providing cover fire, shot down enemies, and clearing rooms for access. Using shelter helps the 
 player prevent enemy fire or recover health after taking significant damage, as there are no armor 
 or health power ups. When the character has taken damage, the edges of the screen glow red and 
 the character's heartbeat advances. If the character stays out of fire, the character can recuperate. 
 When the character is within the blast radius of a live grenade, a marker shows the direction of 
 the grenade, helping the player to either run away or throw it back to the enemy.
  
  Similarto previous games in the series, the player takes on the role of various characters during 
 a single-player campaign. You will take the role of "Soap" MacTavish for most of the game. The 
 characters' participation in the story occurs concomitantly and intersections the consequences 
 in the game. As such, the player's viewpoint can change from one character to another among missions. 
 Eachmission attributes a series of goals; the player is led to each objective with the HUD, which 
 marks its guidance and distance. Some objectives make that the player arrives at a checkpoint, 
 while other objectives require the player to annihilate foes in a defined location, stand their 
 ground to defend an objective, or plant explosive charges on an enemy machinery. The player is 
 often accompanied by friendly soldiers, who cannot be distributed orders. Laptop computers involving 
 enemy intelligence appear during the campaign, and can be collected to free game bonuses.
  
  Callof Duty 4: Modern Warfare runs on an engine with characteristics that include real world-dynamic 
 lighting, vigorous silhouettes, among others. Particular objects, such as cars and some structures, 
 are destructible. This makes astute cover from secretion important, as the defence supplied by 
 objects such as unnatural fences and delicate walls do not definitely protect players from damage. 
 Bullet speed and stopping power are decreased after penetrating an object, and the decrease is 
 dependent on the thickness and surface type of the object. The game makes use of a energetic physics 
 engine, not enforced in preceding Call of Duty titles. 
  
  Callof Duty 4 aspects team-based and death match-based multiplayer modes onseveral maps. Each 
 mode has an objective that requires unique plans to complete. You can call in UAV investigation 
 scans, air attacks, and attack choppers. A game ends when either a team has obtained a predefined 
 number of points, or time finishes in which case the team with the most points wins. However, in 
 the unusual case the points are even when the time expires, a Sudden Death mode is switched on 
 in which there is no re-spawning and the team who either has the last man standing, or achieves 
 the objective first are the winners. Yourperformance in the multiplayer mode is trailed with experience 
 points, deserved by taking down other players, accomplishing objectives, or by being a member of 
 a victorious team. 
  
  
  As you gain experience, you advance in levels, unlocking new weapons, perks, obstacles, and gameplay 
 modes. The highest available level is 55, with the option to play "Prestige" mode; this resetsyour 
 level back to 1 and all earned bonuses are lost in exchange for a special in-game symbol. This 
 process can be reiterated up to 10 times with a different symbol being given each time, giving 
 you a total of 605 levels to  grants experience points and may 
 release weapon attachments. Whenyour level level increases, it may unlock new weapons, perks, 
 or challenges. At lower experience levels, you only have access to five pre-determined classes. 
 However, you earn the capability to customize the classes. You will also have challenges to attempt, 
 including achieving a specific number of kills with a specific weapon or shooting down a helicopter 
 or executing a number of head shots.
  
  Thegraphics in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare are marvelous during the game, and they do a great 
 job of rendering buildings or houses, vehicles, among others. Some of the multiplayer maps look 
 like they've already seen a lot of action, with blast craters, tanks, and other things. There is 
 also quite a bit of voice labor during the game, and it's all pleasantly done. The music, for the 
 most part, is the standard kind of action-movie music you've come to hope from a first-person shooter.
 
  
  Callof Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a sensational game. The single-player experiencemight be short 
 but it is Infinity Ward's best work to date. The multiplayer should keep you granted in COD4 for 
 a very long time. This is a truly fantastic multiplayer offering that's as deep as any other online 
 game available.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardCore_G4M3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  "You cover the right flank!" says my partner through the microphone. "Roger!" I Replied.
  
  This game is a must have! Single player AND multiplayer is a five star entertaining game. This 
 game is very different to other first person shooters and has variously different types of options 
 and game types to choose from. Multiplayer is a must have to play! Here are some examples of game 
 types:
  
  Search And Destroy: Search and destroy is a game mode where there are two teams, one team is trying 
 to plant a bomb in one of two objectives and the other is trying to stop them.
  
  Headquarters: Headquarters is another team-based game type. The idea is to find a randomly selected 
 location in the map which is marked by radio equipment and attempt to hold that location while 
 setting up a headquarters. Once your headquarters has been setup then it must be defended for a 
 select period of time.
  
  Domination: The point of domination is to capture specific areas on a map that are marked by colored 
 flags.
  
  Sabotage: The idea behind sabotage is to run to the center of the map, grab up a bomb before the 
 other team get a hold of it and take it to the opposing teams base so it can be armed and detonated. 
 This may sound somewhat easy, but there are some twists to it. The player that picks up the bomb 
 will instantly light up on the radar and have the word KILL appear over their head. If the opposing 
 team manages to kill the bomb carrier they can pick up the bomb and start making their way towards 
 your base to detonate it.
  
  Free For All: This game type is pretty self explanatory. Its every man for themselves. No teammates 
 to back you up and certainly no time to rest.
  
  There are more than beats the eye.
  
  Weapons are the most biggest part of the game (Duh!) . The variety it gives you is unforgettable 
 from AK-47, M4 Carbine, G3, G36C to the snipers like, Barrett 50 cal and so on.
  
  Attachments: There are several weapon attachments you can unlock and one that will be available 
 for you right off the bat. Each one has its ups and downs, but in the end it all depends on your 
 style of play when trying to find which one works best for you!
  
  Perks: Is more or like a special ability the user has, You have to unlock all types of perks as 
 you level up. But can only select three when you play.
  
  Multi Kills: The online mode also has another nice little feature to entice you to compete at the 
 top of your game. If you manage to get three kills without dying then you can call on a UAV drone 
 to scan and reveal where your enemies are located on your mini-map. Get another two kills after 
 that without dying and you can call an air strike to sweep by and bombard an area of the map of 
 your choosing three times. And if you achieve two more kills after that, then you'll have a helicopter 
 lend you a hand with killing anyone who dares to defy you.
  
  Create a Class: As you level up you gain access to new guns, perks, attachments and so on. But 
 at a certain level you gain the "Create a Class" item. Where you create your own class for you 
 to choose from rather than selecting premade ones. 
  
  Well that's it for now but be sure to check by later!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffey85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound:9/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  So far this is the best call of duty that i have played although i havent played the new one that 
 is out yet, the modern twist is what has made it sell. 
  
  The storymode is quick but so much happens in that short period of time you remeber it all the 
 gameplay has stood out from other shooters i have played because it is smooth and guns aren't unrealistic 
 although the enemy AI could be improved. 
  
  Online: This is what has made everyone obsesed with the game. The perk, weapon, leveling up, challeneges 
 have all made this game stand out from others. The perks are 3 catagories which you pick what you 
 wont your character ability to be. The challenges are also something new which keep the gameplay 
 interesting. Weapons are unlocked and tuned which is awesome because you can tune your weapon and 
 perk to aid your style of play. One bad thing about online is Lag its a major issue which ruins 
 the game but it doesnt happen to offten and if you get leave the game because it will kill the 
 kill/death ratio. Also the severs time out and manage to do it always when your playing at your 
 best, but this doesnt happen to often. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonaterR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  If you like online multiplayer games, then Call of Duty 4 is the perfect game for you. You get 
 to create your own class, and choose perks and weapons. You can rank up to max level of 55, and 
 from there you can prestige. When you prestige you start over at level 1 again but you are in the 
 first prestige. There are 10 prestiges, and when you are the 10th you have a gold cross as your 
 icon rank. It took me 16 whole days to get to the highest prestige, which is equal to 384 total 
 hours on Cod4 mutliplayer alone. The multiplayer is the whole reason to buy Cod4 itself. The campaign 
 is mediocre. There is nothing new and it can be beat within a few hours. Call of Duty 4 is in a 
 modern setting of today with modern weapons unlike the WW2 setting of Call of Duty 3. Call of Duty 
 4 is probably one of the most addicting games I know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviexon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing that i don't even know where to start, from all of the games that i have 
 played this is the best game i have every played period. I have played tons of game but nothing 
 like this and you would die to find a shooter better then this i recommend this on the 360 more 
 because more challenging people online and the r trigger but those are just minor problems with 
 it but still just a plain master piece. The story mode is amazing and touching and the length really 
 doesn't really matter because you would be playing online like you get high from it. It is pure 
 amazing and you will never get off it period. When you play you will feel like your in the game 
 because of the graphics, gameplay, and first person perspective, The online is perfect you have 
 to be an idiot to get the game without online play. So you would die playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  ***This review is cut in to 9 different categories. In each category I will tell you about the 
 game. At the end of the review I will give you my final thoughts on the game. The overall score 
 is totaled up from the Graphics, Game-Play, Sound, Lifespan and my final Say marks. ***
  
  
  Inro - Game Information 
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, 
 the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: * * * * (Strong War Violence)
  Bad Language: * * * (Mild)
  Fear: * (None)
  Sex: * (None)
  Drugs: * (None)
  Discrimination: 
 * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
  
  Age Rating: 15 years and over
  
  Number of player: 1-4 Players
  Multiplayer: Yes / 2-18 Player 
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: No
 
  
  
  I - Quick Review
  
  The Good: 
   Visuals 
   Game-Play
   Intense Game-Play
   Sound Effects 
   On-Line Multiplayer
   AI System
  
  
  The 
 bad:
   Short Campaign 
   Enemy Dogs
  
  Call of Duty 4 is without a doubt one of the best and most anticipated 1st person shooters to come 
 out in 2008 but not only on the PS3, but also on the 360 and PC. The visual effects are stunning 
 and the intense game-play and brilliant in game voice acting make you feel like your in the middle 
 of a real battle. The music score was composed by Harry Gregson-Williams who has done a lot of 
 composing for films and games like The Rock and Metal Gear Solid. With the campaign mode being 
 rather short, Call of Duty 4 is still a must have for 1st person shooter fan. Despite the short 
 campaign mode, you will spend a lot of your time playing Call of Duty 4 online which is definitely 
 the strongest point in the game. 
  But with all this said, is Call of Duty 4 better than the previous Call of Duty's? 
  
  Read 
 on and find out what I fully thought. 
  
  
  II Plot Review  8/10
  
  The World War is a big history and the previous Call of Duty's are based on World War 2. Call of 
 Duty 4 as the name stats "Modern Warfare" is based on present time and is the first Call of Duty 
 that's not set in World War 2 time. 
  In Call of Duty 4 you will fight as a member of the U. S. Forces and British Spec Ops in Global 
 Hotspots to eliminate a well-armed, ruthless force of international separatists. Anything to do 
 with War I find interesting and Call of Duty 4 has an Interesting storyline.
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  10/10
  
  The graphics are with out a doubt outstanding 
 and definitely the best looking 1st person on the PlayStation 3 to date. Breathtaking sceneries 
 and an outstanding feel of realism on the battlefield. Everything from dust to smoke, from explosions 
 to background effect are just spot on. 
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  10/10
  
  The best thing about Call of Duty 4 is the game-play, truly amazing. You play as different members, 
 a U. S. Forces member and a British Spec Ops and both have deferent experiences on the battlefield. 
 The U. S. Forces member experiences most of the intense combat whereas the British Spec Ops experiences 
 most of the stealth combat. Both experiences are fantastic and amazing to play. I've always thought 
 that to experience a 1st person shooter better is to play it with a mouse and keyboard like you 
 would do on the PC. But playing Call of Duty 4 with a normal control is just as amazing. You get 
 a lot of different weapons to play around with. Some can shoot through wall that I thought was 
 very cool and very handy. The AI system is great. Your enemies really do can about their own lives. 
 They take cover, throw grenades, use melee attack when close and what I really like is that they 
 shoot at your teammates as well and not just at you like some other games. To really experience 
 Call of Duty 4 for all it is, you should really play the game on the hardest difficulty, which 
 will really make you feel more pleased with yourself when you complete a level. The game has to 
 do played to believe.
  The online multiplayer is with out a doubt, amazing. Online is nothing like the previous Call of 
 Duty's where you just look for a match, join and kill everyone. In Call of Duty 4 you have to win 
 experience points to upgrade your character to unlock dozens of customizable weapons and abilities 
 like calling in attack helicopters and fighter jets to dominate your opponents.
  There is a lot of game to play in multiplayer mode. Free-for-all, Team Deathmatch, Mercenary Team 
 Deathmatch, Domination, Ground War, Sabotage, Headquarters, Search and Destroy, Team Tactical, 
 Hardcore Team Deathmatch, Hardcore search and destroy, Old school Free-for-all and Cage Match, 
 each will different goal and objectives. Personally my favorite game modes are Team Deathmatch 
 and sometime Free-for-all. The more you play and the way you kill your opponents, will gain you 
 experience points that will allow you to achieve new weapons and abilities. Once you have achieved 
 the maximum level of your character you will then have to make an ultimate choice.
  
  
  V - Sound Review  10/10
  
  The sound effects are spot on and just what you should expect from 
 the makers of Call of Duty. Everything from the sound of your weapons when fired to bullets hitting 
 surfaces, from grenade explosions to bullets whizzing by your head is bloody amazing. Listening 
 to the voice acting's of your in game team mates in the middle of battle is outstanding and really 
 makes you feel like your in the middle of a real battle. The music is great as well which is composed 
 by Harry Gregson-Williams who has done a lot of composing for films and games like The Rock and 
 Metal Gear Solid.
  So it's true to say that Call of Duty 4 is definitely one of those game you will want to play with 
 full on surround sound.
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  8/10
  
  The campaign mode is indeed short but the game is still so worth playing. You will probably finish 
 Call of Duty 4 in a day, about 5 hours depending on you of course, but the game isn't over. You 
 will spend most of your time online, which is very addictive and could find yourself playing for 
 hours and hours and you probably want even realize, that it's the middle of the night and you forgot 
 to go to work. 
  
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  10/10
  
  Call of Duty 4 is definitely one of the best games of the year. The graphics are stunning and the 
 game-play and sound effects are just outstanding with an Online Multiplayer that you just cannot 
 let go. Is Call of Duty 4 better then the previous Call of Duty's? All I'll say is, it's better 
 than Call of Duty 3. 
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  9.5/10
  
  I give Call of Duty a 9.5/10 Amazing game and very additive.
  So if you love war games, 1st person 
 shooter game, and intense game-play, amazing online multiplayer mode or just liked the previous 
 games, then Call of Duty 4 is for you. 
  
  Simon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioBugatti
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a modern FPS (First Person Shooter) with amazing graphics and 
 gameplay. It has a short campaign, but extremely fun.
  It has four dificulty levels, Recruit, Regular, Hardened and Veteran. Recruit is too easy, you 
 will probably never die unless of a granade or of someone hitting you with the gun. Regular is 
 the dificulty you should play for the first time, it is balanced in every aspect and not so stressing. 
 Hardened is challenging at some levels, you get 2-4 hit killed. Veteran is the challenge. You will 
 get 1-2 hit killed in this mode, it is realistic. If you went to war, play it how you played war. 
 
  On-line community is pretty big, more maps, you have custom weapons, levels, challenges, boot camp, 
 and alot of modes like: Search and destroy, team death match, death match, cage mage, and much 
 more. 
  Split screen is also good, bring 3 buddies and have a fun time.
  
  A GAME YOU MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Usually if you played all the other call of duty games you would notice that it's not in world 
 war 2 anymore. It's mordern warfare which is a change but a good one. The campaign is really fun 
 and a joy to play while it lasts it is short.. sadly. But what makes up for it, is the online It's 
 AMAZING you can not stop playing the online in this game it has plenty of game modes and so many 
 people that play it. Plenty of ranks to level up and a cool feature which lets you make your own 
 guns which is fun. The online hardly has any lag which is great and maps are fun to play in. You 
 could also get an add on to recieve 4 more multiplayer maps. The graphics are great I mean you 
 should seriously look how detailed it is. Anyways soon a New call of duty is coming out so I reviewed 
 this game a little late but that's okay w'ell just have to wait and see for the new call of duty. 
 Oh and by the way it's back to World War 2 again. Well check out Call of duty 4 It's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxZiggyxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The single player story mode isn't that long but the multiplayer it's all 
 about it.
  If you have an online connection and love shooting games, then add this into your collection. It's 
 a must buy! You get to play upto 4 Players splitscreens with anyone beside you and online you get 
 to play with about 16 players. Team up with your friends and attack the other team or go free for 
 all and shoot whoever you want. There's all kind of weapons and match plays. Multiplayer is the 
 only reason that will keep you playing this game. It's really fun and you get easily addicted to 
 it. The fps are great, the engine runs smoothly. All you need is something fun to play with and 
 this game really worked it self out. I highly recommend this game if you're into that shooting 
 action. Make sure you check out for Call Of Duty 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pathaze
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has set the standard for all first person shooters. WE all look for great online, good 
 story, and easy control when looking for a fps, and Call of Duty 4 hits home in all those areas. 
 Although the story is over in a few missions, the attention to detail, graphics, story and gameplay 
 make it replayable for years to come. The onine is by far the best I have seen in any online game. 
 You can hook up all across the world to take on the best of the best and show off your skills as 
 you kick their asses. The action throughout the story mode and the online mode will keep you coming 
 back for more for years to come. I believe this game has set the standard for future first person 
 shooters, so if your not gonna bring it to this level dont bother making a game like this one!! 
 One of my top 5 games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fps_d0minat0r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  the single player campaign is really short but even if it didnt have it i would still rate this 
 game 10/10 simply for its online play.
  
  you can play lots of game modes online and has lots of customisations of weapons and perks. it 
 is more addictive when it comes to rankings and points because your always aiming to be ranked 
 high. at level 55 you can decide to do prestige mode which will put you back to level 1 and reset 
 all your unlocks. this can be frustrating but infact it is a really good idea to see if you still 
 have the skills using lower ranked weapons and perks. There are 10 prestige's which is why after 
 playing this game for ages i am still not bored of it.
  
  you can also have fun with your friends in a non-ranked private online game where you can select 
 all the rules and create a custom game.
  
  Its simply addictive and in my opinion the best game ever released till date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milesdavis11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to play. The campaign is well thought out and helps to introduce all of the 
 special skills you can earn in the online play. The storyline is creative and ends in an unexpected 
 way (I don't want to ruin it) . 
  
  Online play is for the most part seamless. As with all online games I've experienced the games 
 are ended by inexperienced hosts that exit before game play is over. The maps are well thought 
 out and provide both great places to battle from without making them invincible. The additional 
 maps are worth the extra money. 
  
  The weapons each have their unique attributes. I am disappointed that a hand-cannon (pistol or 
 small weapons) can kill someone the in real life would be out of range. The maps are a little small 
 to make sniping effective but the other weapons are great to use and each have their strengths 
 that become obvious in game play.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caprisun12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Im sure you have heard about this game. Im sure you have heard of its brilliance. And im sure most 
 of you have played it, and let me just back up a point that is already widely accepted, this is 
 the best first person shooter EVER, bar none.
  
  Lets start with the single player campaign, as this gets overlooked by many people. Its excellent, 
 it really is unbelievable, and this is for many reasons. For one it is really ememrsive, so basically 
 you find yourself connecting with the character, more so if you play through it quickly. And also 
 the shooting, its fantasitic. I have never played a game where the shooting mechanics for a FPS 
 work as well as they do here, it really is a wonder to behold. And the story is told amazingly, 
 and is something that many games strive for but so few achieve, its cinematic. It really is like 
 your in an action movie, and with the immensely atmospheric levels, this adds up to one hell of 
 a good storyline.
  
  But if you thought the story mode was good, you have seen nothing yet. The online multiplayer is 
 stunning, absolutily stunning, and is what really sets this game apart. It has a fantastic leveling 
 system with things called perks, which mean you can customise your classes and give them things 
 like faster shooting or more grenades. And this, combined with the brilliant gun mechanics and 
 simple but genius level designs, this makes for the best multiplayer that ive ever seen on a console, 
 that will keep you hooked for hours upon hours. Lets just hope that World at War will continue 
 and improve on this aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAKYON
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 it's a game that will make you have so much fun that you will never stop playing 
 it. ( until you have to go to the bathroom )
  
  Ok so here we go:
  
  Good 
  
  The graphics are amazing, almost as good as MGS4 but still good. Actually there is no much to say 
 in this area, its just perfect.
  
  The gameplay is well developed and make you play in all kinds of style, depending of which kind 
 of weapon you use. Every weapon have their specials feature and I can guarantee you that no matter 
 what kind of weapon you choose, all of them feels awesome.
  
  Sounds effect its ok but with some weapon the sound the same. In the middle of the game you will 
 watch a huge and devastating explosion that will make jump out of the sit. That part its actually 
 really cool and the sound it's just perfect 
  
  At this point you can notice that almost everything I wrote sayperfectand you will probably 
 think that I'm a CoD4 fan boy but I'm not. And all that about perfect I'm not kidding. This game 
 its actually pretty much perfect, maybe a few glitches but easy to forget and forgive.
  
  Even though I try to be a neutral guy with first person shooter game I admit that I'm a Resistance 
 fan boy including 1 and 2 so yeah.
  
  The online multiplayer is terrific !!!! Being able to level up , unlock perks, weapons and even 
 ask help calling a helicopter by killing other players make you take the game and every single 
 match in a serious way, but having fun at the same time.
  
  The only bad side is that there is not online or even local co-op campaign which is extremely lame.
 
  
  So yeah in general you will have a lot of fun with this game, and its a game that you must buy.
 
  
  So yeah my score is 10 ! Believe it or not 
  See ya on others review ! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I totally beat the single player game in 3 days but the online multi-player is where the game really 
 shines. I hope that Infinity Ward hooks us up with more maps for dl, but for free I am sick of 
 dl content you have to pay for. What a joke trying to squeeze us for more money. BASTARDS! 
  
  The game play is just outstanding and I wish Infinity Ward could give us a BattleField 2 style 
 game with this engine and being a modern day game I am sick of WWII games!
  
  COD4 needs some tanks, planes and helicopters for players who like BF2. And Bigger maps! Infinity 
 Ward knows how to make online battlefield type game and they should do more with this title instead 
 of doing another WWII game bland!! I want more modern warfare and less WWII garbage, shoot even 
 a better Vietnam war game would be awesome!
  
  Buy COD4 it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skunkynz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  well pplz what can be said about this beautiful and krisp looking game, the effect's in this game 
 are off the hook and i also love the cut scene's, thay are very cool and puts you right there in 
 the game. 
  The part i most enjoyed was 'death from above' this part of the game was really really enjoyable 
 protecting your men all the while blowing the enemy all to hell lol
  was very satisfied with that gunship the gatling and 30/50mm cannons were so massive that when 
 i clocked the game, that was the first thing i did as soon as the credits stoped rolling, went 
 back to do that mission again :)
  also after you clock the game its not over there, you can go into each stage and collect the enemy 
 intels, thier are 30 thoughout cod4 all on diffrent stages , compliting all 30 gives you some pretty 
 sweet moves such as :slow motion : infinte bullets :and some other really cool cheats :)
  well thats my review hope you enjoy the game as much as i do :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 333sam333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  COD4 is my game of the year. online is brilliant, best online shooter, no LAG, no vehicles, or weapons 
 that can kill u in one hit and no people cheating.. so it's a great game for all people. i know 
 a person who everyday he plays on COD4 for about 3 hours, it's that good he has to do that that 
 u should get it. This is the best call of duty game in the series by far and the new one coming 
 out is going to be just as good with flamethrowers and more single player missions with vehicles 
 in them. Call of Duty is a must buy and i don't know much people who haven't got it, so if u don't 
 have a ps3, xbox 360 get ot on the PC, it's just as good and online is even better. All the guns 
 are for assault: AK-47, M$ carbine, G36C, M4, and others i can't remember the best weapons in the 
 game are: P90, M4 carbine, Barret 50. cal, MP5 and the RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  COD4 totally came as a full package war game. Scenery, combat and weapons were amazing. Never played 
 COD but I got this. This is war at its finest. Your objectives is always to survive but do it in 
 style. Loved the realism of the fighting style. You can go hand to hand or sniper if you got the 
 skills. Test yourself and your combat strategy. See if you're cut out for the military or should 
 you just stand on the side and watch. Blowing up tanks and taking out infiltries was a blast. Breaching 
 doors was cool too until the enemy jumped out at you blasting. But you just blast back with better 
 persicion aim. I'm a combat person so this game fit me perfectly while I got to showcase my skills. 
 If there will be another one they have to keep up the standard. And the standard was set high here. 
 Go get your copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooters of all time. It has a great single player campaign that is short 
 but sweet. It never fails to deliver fast-paced action that doesn't cease til the end credits roll. 
 The online play is what makes this game standout from the rest of fps games. It is extremely addictive. 
 The game makes you want to rank up because of perks and weapons you obtain. Plus being a high prestige 
 gives you bragging rights. It also has keeps all of your stats such as kill death ratio's, accuarcy 
 and win ratio's which keeps you playing to improve. If you have online play capabilities do not 
 pass this game up. It will keep you playing for months. The difficulties for the campaign are very 
 good. If you are an average player you can easily beat the game on regular if you are new to shooters 
 then you can go to the next level down and easily beat it on recruit. But even for hardcore shooters 
 like me the game is challenging on hardcore. Maybe a little to challenging but hey i'm not complaining 
 because it was a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  In call of duty 4 modern warfare it better than the previous call of duty that came out because 
 in call of duty 4 modern warfare it has better graphics there career is more hard because of those 
 wild dogs that come out of no where and try to bite your neck and you have to stab the dogs quick 
 before you die. In one the missions they give you in call of duty you have to follow this guy all 
 the way to the other side and its so far. when you get to the middle part there plane that hits 
 him and you have carry him and there so many enemy's shooting you. when your getting to the end 
 you have to lay him down so he can call the helicopter then you have to shoot the people who trying 
 to kill him. In the last mission you have to kill all the tanks then when you come inside this tunnel 
 u have to follow 2 people and kill as many guards. then there gonna put you in a truck and your 
 gonna have to kill the enemy's trucks and plane. thenn there gonna make the plane hit your truck 
 and tehn your gonna have to jump over these cliffs to survive then there gonna make a plane hit 
 you and then your friend is gonna bring you to safety but all of your friends are gonna die except 
 the people in the helicopter. after they kill your friends ther gonna give you a pistol with a couple 
 of bullets and your gonna have to kill the last 3 people fast before they kill you because they 
 make you lye down on the floor and after you kill the last three people your helicopter and your 
 friends are gonna bring you to safety and then you beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motty123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first sat down on my mates bed to play COD4 for the first time, my mind was set on it being 
 just another heap of bearable gunplay. I huffed as he turned on the console and rolled my eyes 
 as the opening credits played. Then something happened. Something unexpected. I found myself gaping 
 at, well, a really good game.
  
  I simply could not believe my eyes. I watched as sand kicked up from rounds hammering into the 
 floor; cars incinerating flesh as they exploded; plaster, glass and concrete hurling through the 
 air as rockets and mortar fire blurred past as the battle raged on.
  
  To get the full effect of the game you really do need the PS3's HDMI capabilities. Its just not 
 the same as you see the gorgeous lighting and realistic sound effects make flames glisten in the 
 night, the gunfire sound all around you as you pop yet another terrorist. They started it. The 
 gameplay itself is like no other, full of intense, heartpounding moments and adreniline fuelled 
 firefights which are crammed into a fun but painfully short couple of hours. Ahh. Now this is where 
 we come to it. What is this games flaw? Well, it's just too SHORT. However, these shortcomings 
 are mostly shortlived as COD4's online mode give unlimited hours of mayhem and fun as you and your 
 friends battle it out over the cities of the Middle East. COD truly is something special.
  
  If youve played COD and are reading this then you will agree with me when I say we were all 
 expecting this to be the same as its predecessors. How wrong we were. COD4 is possibly one of the 
 best FPS out to date and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace69GC
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of shooters unless they were tactical and part of the Next-Gen Rainbow 
 six series. That was until I picked up COD:4 on a recommendation from a friend. I picked it up 
 and started the campaign, after a few hours and countless terrorists I was really into the game. 
 The story left something to be desired but the fluidity and environments allowed me to forget about 
 all of that. The levels although shallow were just challenging enough to keep me into it without 
 fears of boredom. 
  Once I had beaten the "story" I had a go on-line and fell in love with the game all over again. 
 The online community is AMAZING, very few server issues occur, and if they do happen it is usually 
 due to a bad connection from the host. In my opinion the graphics do not suffer at all online and 
 the game feels the same. There are some occasional hick ups that leave you scratching your head 
 thinking I shot him first, but it happens. 
  Customization on-line is another great aspect of the game. The developers make you earn everything 
 you get and just when you think you've gotten to the top, they give you a chance to prove your 
 merit by entering prestige mode and starting all over again (although prestige is only for pure 
 bragging rights) . The perks make the game a lot more interesting, and they give you a chance to 
 create a Class totally unique from your friends. 
  All and all this is one of the best games I have EVER played!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've played both the X360 + PS3 Version, both awesome! :D I'm going to review two aspects of the 
 game, the multiplayer and single player.
  
  Single Player
  The single player is fantastic and varies widely as to what type of warfare your doing, it can 
 vary from all out, all guns blazing war; to crawling through grass in a gillie suit. It's a brilliant 
 story player which doesn't get repetitive at any part. This game seriously does provide some realism, 
 i would sit here and give you the full story line of the game; but i'm guessing your reading this 
 review 'cause your interested in buying it, so i won't ruin it :) . The story mode on this game 
 really is very good. It just shows that it was not only made for online play. I'd recommend this 
 game to anybody whether you play online or offline.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  The multiplayer on this game is very good and also pretty addictive. It's great fun online and 
 again it appeals to any kind of player. You can sit back pick your shots with a normal gun; you 
 can also go all guns blazing in full on war and just get your quick sub machine gun and tear some 
 guts up xD. This is one of the best multiplayers around, especially on PS3!
  
  Overall:
  Graphics 9/10 - Brilliant graphics, just not quite as good as gears of war etc.
  Sound: 8/10 
 - Great, makes it a good atmosphere and helps gameplay.
  Story line - 8/10 - Great story line; but room for improvement
  
  Hope i helped
  
  
  
 - X
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was simply amazing when i bought it. The storyline is very interesting. Online mode is 
 so fun and i never ever get tired of it, especially when im playing with friends online. My only 
 problem with this game is the campaign it's very short. The graphics are just so good on this game. 
 This game would have to be in my top 5 favorite games. The only thing that is missing in this game 
 would be co-op campaign. Its very easy when you start out because they tell you how to play the 
 game. Inifinte ward and activision did a great job on this game, no wonder why this game sold so 
 many on all systems. I dont think that this game should have been put on the wii or ps2, because 
 people these days want a high tech amazing graphics game, and the wii and ps2 can't deliver this. 
 Its an overal amazing video game. If a shooting game is better than this one for the next 4 years 
 i will be shocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winecigarette
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  The single player mode is short (really short)
  Single player mode is short but is packed with many different aspects of military procedures (one 
 mission is amazing and is a sniper mission)
  Graphics is really good, game play is fast compared to socom.
  This game has it made in the online 
 portion of the game. Online the game is really amazing there is much you can do when it comes to 
 rising through the levels - the only part that I did not really like was that there is some what 
 of a disadvantage for new players because you get better weapons as you level up in the game. But 
 this little disadvantage can be forgotten thanks to the fast paced gameplay.
  The learning curve of this game is really easy if you are used to playing other shooter game.
 
  There are also many type of game modes in the game like sabotage, free for all, and etc. (but 
 the thing is that you must unlock this modes by rising through the level)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polymetalalloy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is a formidable entry into the elite of FPS on any system. This game is the sh#t!!! The single 
 player is fun and sastisfies for its short duration, but the multiplayer is a pure shot of adrenaline. 
 The player classes are exceptionally well balanced and the perks add a great new layer to the carnage. 
 Whether you want to scurry away abd hole up in a sniper position surrounded by claymore explosives, 
 charge headlong into the fray with a big automatic monster cannon or just run around like a headless 
 chicken with the UAV jammer on blowing people's faces off, there is never a dull moment.
  
  Thrilling core gameplay, razor sharp core physics and beyond-lush visuals. Only slight niggle is 
 the lack of downloadable maps and weapons, though the map pack that does exist is top-notch (except 
 maybe for Chinatown - which blows a bit!)
  
  
  Buy it, play it, then play online until your eyes bleed! Then hope and pray to the FPS Gods that 
 the follow-ups rock this hard. Endo story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca5hmon3y
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  My girlfriend does not like my PS3, she has even less love for "shooting games", but even she sat, 
 watched and enjoyed the first level of the single player campaign. This on a 40" 1080p LCD, she 
 said "looks like a film". 
  
  Sadly however, that single player "film" was over all too quickly. But unlike some games, i have 
 gone back and played certain levels over and over again.
  
  Anyway, its not the single player story mode as to why this game is so good... online multiplayer 
 is the name of this one.
  
  It is fantastic, and in my opinion, better on the PS3 than the PC. My brother got COD4 for the 
 PC and having watched some of the maps with 40+ people in, i prefer the low player cap on PSN.
 
  
  Its my belief that with the relatively low number of players allowed per map, the full, wide range 
 of tactics is really allowed to play out... rather than just spray, frag n pray.
  
  Snipers and silenced weapons for stealth, heavy machine guns, RPGs and mounted machine guns for 
 shear fire power, claymores and C4 to booby trap, smoke to cove and advance... then UAVs, air strikes 
 and choppers all add to an exciting combat mix. 
  
  In fact the balance is near perfect, each weapon and perk can be countered by another. 
  
  
 To add to this, all the different game modes, rank progression, unlocking of weapons, upgrades 
 and "perks" all mean that you will keep coming back to this game... and each time it WILL be different 
 and challenging.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Yuck! We still have that bad taste left in our mouth from Call of Duty 3 and you know what would 
 wash that out? A nice dollop of Call of Duty 4. There are many words describing this game ; Wow, 
 amazing, superb, astounding, unbelievabubble! Well maybe not that last one, but you know what I 
 mean.
  
  Every First-Person shooter out there is sniping me, riddling me with bullets and some throwing 
 grenades! But then comes out Call of Duty 4. Bazooka's at the ready, prepared to blow me sky high... and 
 so they did! Call of Duty 4 is an excellent mix of all out war and instant - accessible - action. 
 With many amazing, disturbing and often funny moments. This game is faultless! Except of course 
 for the really fun glitches! As well as this, the addition of a hardcore mode can satisfy any gamers 
 needs! You are unique in your class that you create, you feel like your a soldier in combat except 
 for the Dualshock in your hands and the microphone around your head and the fact that your about 
 to be served dinner in a couple of minutes this is as real as it gets!
  
  With the addition of clans, helicopters and air-strikes this is a one of a kind that will leave 
 me blown in mid-air for quite a while. 
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thx for reading! Please give me your opinion on it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon1182
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin lets see from its incredible short but sweet story to itrs incredible multiplayer 
 is simply the best. I find myself playing this game for hrs at a time. I dont even get tired of 
 playing i only stop cause i need sleep and water. Is going to be incredibly hard for any other 
 shooter to top this incredible experience. I cant even imagine what infinityWard has in store for 
 COD5 is almost scary to think about it. I have put 20 days of playing time in this game and i feel 
 like i can easily put double that in the future. sometimes i find myself just sitting there contemplating 
 how beautiful the graphics are and how realistic it feels. Its simple all other shooters have to 
 get there act together. I love this game is incredible. This game is beyond words. I would love 
 to know what new ideas infinityWard have in their minds for COD5 i cant wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Yes, i wouldnt recommend it if you dont have your ps3 online, but that doesnt mean i didnt like 
 it on story mode. THe story mode was amazing, just way to short and easy. THe story mode is clever 
 because at some points you can actually imagine being there in the mayhem, like the second level 
 when you are captured. It is a great storyline and uses all of the things that you have. For example, 
 the night vision comes into play like when you are trying to rescue nicoli. It was good because 
 you could really understand what and why you were doing something, it wasnt just "Yeah, lets shoot 
 some bad guys, then afew more, and again......." there is a very good story to it. And (SPOILER 
 WARNING) at the end when gaz died and you were unknown whether captain price dies or lived i really 
 felt like i just lost a friend. 
  
  
  If you have your ps3 online GET THIS GAME NOW. It is definetely one of the best online ps3 games, 
 and you could play it forever.... no seriously, you could. 
  It has many game modes (hardcore team deathmatch and hardcore search and destroy being my favourite) 
 and MANY different weapons which you can modify when you complete challenges (Includes camo and 
 scopes) . There are many different weapon types, being Assault, SMG, LMG, Shotguns and Snipers. 
 And to go with them alot of different perks you can use to help you like claymores or Stoping Powder. 
 To make things better you can make your own classes so you can adjust the weapons and perks to 
 suit the way you want to play. 
  It can go on forver because you first reach lvl 55 , then you go prestige and start again. You 
 can do this 10 times until you reach the very top rank, then you can just try and beat the leaderboards 
 trying to get to the very top. 
  NOTe-unless you are very very.. very good , there will always be someone better than you.
  
 
  GRAPHIC-10/10
  SOUND-10/10
  GAMEPLAY-8/10
  VALUE-10/10 (IF YOU HAVE YOUR PS3 ONLINE)
  ONLINE-10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDEATHCALIBUR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  In all of it's greatness it has a very ugly, dark underbelly that only a experienced gamer would 
 notice. Most people will play it, shoot some people and love it. By I look much more in depth into 
 games than that. If theres a flaw I'll most likely see it. And boy oh boy does this game have some 
 problems. Some people disagree and belive this game is the pinnacale of modern gaming. If you are 
 one of those people just turn away for you won't understand. And don't get me wrong, it's a fun 
 game, I've played it. Too much actualy. But the endless array of glitches and problem always show 
 there ugly face and will forever hinder this game. There are almost too many problems to list so 
 I will point out some of the major ones. I'll start with the online gaming. To begin with the entire 
 online setup is glitchy and flawed. The online ranking system is hacked. The top ranked player 
 in points is in the multi-millions. Which Game Informer magazine stated would take over 3 years 
 of playing 24 hours a day, and considering COD4 came out last year, this is a physical impossibility. 
 The accuracy rankings are in the negatives and that just makes no sense at all. When you take a 
 shot you either hit or miss your target and a tally goes into the hit or miss category. At no point 
 in time will it go into the negatives. Unless you have hacked the system. The challenges seem rushed 
 and just kind of thrown together. There are even type-os in the challenge descriptions. So now 
 onto gameplay. To start with once you start a online match if you are the S. A. S. you are told to 
 take no prisioners. Prisoners? What prisoners? It would be awesome if you could but instead you 
 just get pointless phrases that have nothing to do with the game. Every level in this game has 
 major glitches and development problems. People getting places the game did not intend for you 
 to get to. People running through mid air above the level. And getting shot at from places that 
 are not on the map. All of these things completely destroy the gameplay. 
  And the level desing is completely outlandish. Land formations you wouldn't find if you traveled 
 the world. Buildings that a architect would say couldn't be standing or would never be built that 
 way to begin with. And they just lack the feeling that these could possibly be real locations. 
 Weapons are probably the highlight of this game and even they are not accurate to there real life 
 counterparts. For example, the Barret 50. cal sniper rifle is one of the most advanced sniper rifles 
 to date. I have seen footage of one being fired and it ripped about a 3 foot hole in a 8 inch thick 
 cinderblock wall 300 yards away. But in COD4 you can take a shot to the body and live. Impossible! 
 The same with the M60. You can be shot 2-3 even 4 times with one and survive. Yeah, sure it's a 
 game but they are basing it on something real. And that warrants realistic affects. and in real 
 life if you take 3 shots to the upper body from any higher that 22. caliber bullets you are dead, 
 or you wish you were. Your definitly not going to be fighting as if nothing happend. And that is 
 not portrayed in this game. And now for player matching. Or lack there of. Considering it's called 
 player matching you think there would be a set theory and way it would match players but no. You 
 and 15 other guys just get thrown together with what seems like no thought put in to it. They should 
 match players with other player with similar connection speeds and this would cut down on all of 
 the horrible lagging from player to player. But they dont and in every match you will ever play 
 online there will be at least one guy that jumps around like the flash, making a damn near impossible 
 target to hit. And I have a very high connection speed so for me it was more like 3 out of every 
 5 players is lagging. And now I'll finish of with the prestige modes. If you are prestige you should 
 get something special for it. Not have all of your weapons taken away and challenges reset and 
 start from scratch. Oh yeah thats right you get a stupid little logo that has no meaning next to 
 your name. What a fantastic reward. Well I've divulged into more flaws than any one game should 
 have so I'll finish up with this. It's a fun game and had some cool aspects, but with so many apparent 
 problems it lost any realism it might have had. It's not a great game. And for those who think 
 it is. Look deeper than your next kill and actually observe this game and you just might see what 
 I'm talking about. If not, enjoy your game but don't belive it is the best game out there, for 
 it is not. And maybee just maybee when COD4 shuts down the online network for COD World at War 
 and all of your stats are gone, you will realize how much time you wasted and how little this game 
 matters. Your so called greatest game ever will soon be gone forever. Enjoy! This review has been 
 approved by DEATHCALIBUR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunlords
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  To sum it all up call of duty 4 is a must have for fps gamers in this day and age. This game has 
 so much to offer to a gamer. The story is quite short but its multiplayer makes up for alot of 
 the single player. The multiplayer never seems to get old in any kind of way. You might get tired 
 of playing because of obsessive over play but after about a day are two its back to the battlefield 
 as you collide with rpds, mini-uzi's, grenade launchers, and even airstrike call ins. This game 
 will go far is the world of first person shooters and its headed straight for greatest hits on 
 both Xbox and Playstation consoles alike. The game is also made by the great developers of infinity 
 ward. So stop waiting and go pick it up because it has all the ups of a good game longevity, action, 
 great controls, and that gamers edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aequitas31
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Everyone is talking about this games great online which competely sucks. This game has an amazing 
 one player campaign although it is really short, and it is the best part of the game. But the online 
 on the other hand, is the stupidest thing ive ever played. It is way to chaotic and the perk system 
 completely ruins the game. You are able to take a shot gun to the back of someones head and blow 
 it off, yet as you run away because you think theyre dead since you blew their f***ing head off, 
 they shoot you from behind with their pistol even though their head should be missing. If they 
 dont drop to the ground and shoot you after you blow their f***ing head off, they may just drop 
 a live grenade which doesnt make any sense because you cant pull the pin in a grenade once your 
 f***ing head is blown off by a shotgun. But it is definately worth playing the one player, the 
 one player campaign is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatslick911
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This is such a great game. The offline was good while it lasted but you can easily beat it in one 
 sitting. The multiplayer is what really makes this game. If you have a 360 or PS3 and you haven't 
 played this game then you are really missing something here. In my opinion I would say it is the 
 2nd best online game I've ever played. 
  But after about 6-8 months this game gets very boring. I know that sounds horrible to say. I didn't 
 play it all the time but if you do it'll get boring even quicker. To be honest I haven't played 
 the game in about 3 months so I'm sure I wouldn't be as bored.
  The point I'm trying to make is that this is not Socom. Its an unrealistic fun, run and gun type 
 or game that can get frustrating at times, especially with all the perks. The maps get repetitive 
 after awhile and the map packs, from what I've heard, are not worth the extra coin.
  
  Best FPS out right now which is something to say considering its almost a yr old.
  
  Graphics: 
 9.5/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Presentation: 9/10
  Replay Value: 9.5/10
  
  Overall: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't like this game, i prefer bad company.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  
  Flashy, but not all its cracked up to be on a HDTV.
  
  Gameplay (6/10)
  
  It's really a 
 typical first person shooter but no mindless destruction like bf: bc or the hilarity of killing 
 in halo 3. It's a typical shooter. at least bad company put a little comedy into war.
  
  Sound (7/10)
  
  Meh. Gun sounds, squad yells, helicopter whines, screams of pain, reloading 
 clips. a typical shooter.
  
  Replay Value (5/10)
  
  Once you beat story mode, all you do is play online. BORING!!!! I like to replay missions to look 
 for things (skulls, gold, hidden guns, hidden enemies, easter eggs)
  
  Online (6/10)
  
  As I've said before, a typical online shooter. No mindless destruction, no real "goals". I can 
 say its cool to create your weapons kit though. 
  
  Overall (32/50) 64% 6.5/10
  
  My recommedation. Bad Company. Buy it. Play it. Praise it. Edn.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider318
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Lemme ask you this, is COD4 like the other COD games? I thought not. Youre running off sinking 
 boats, your sniping from 3 miles away, your deactivating nuclear missiles , your grabbing a hostage 
 off a plane with a timed bomb on the plane, is COD 1 2 or 3 anyy thing like that no in long nooooooooo. the 
 difference is that the original games took place on the same old same old WW2 battlefield. the 
 pictures are the most realistic ive ever seen the ending is completely amazing. the multiplayer 
 is awesome. although the campaign is somewhat short, it easily makes up for in its multiplayer. 
 COD4 does nothing wrong and does everything right. it is easily the #1 game of the year I think 
 and you should think that too and if not youre stupid. and im still waiting for the game: Call 
 of Duty World at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stirling1972
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first FPS games I've really been able to dive in and enjoy (just haven't been 
 a fan of the genre up to now) . After playing this, Bad CO. and Resistance: FOM I'm hooked! The 
 single player campaign is a lot of fun... a few frustrating levels but overall nothing you can't 
 get through. Online game play is addictive - aside from the basic points for in game kills, the 
 extra tasks for points are a lot of fun. If you're wondering why someone is running around blasting 
 other players with an RPG, it's because they're trying to complete a bonus objective, not necessarily 
 because they're weird. Sometimes you'll get hit by a noob tube and feel extremely frustrated, other 
 times you can't help but laugh. One beef I have with the online is with the community itself - 
 TURN OFF YOUR HEADSETS. It's one thing to talk/strategize with teammates... it's another to have 
 the headset on, with nothing to say... except your baby is crying in the background. This is pretty 
 much run and gun all the way - even in the larger levels - there's always someone better than you 
 who has activated their radar and knows exactly where you are - so keep moving - and keep playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbon-Sniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Well to say this game is crap will be treason to the gaming community. (well the gaming community 
 on Cod4 online consists of 12 year old's who were somehow be able to buy the game, and Americans) but 
 more of that later.
  
  It's the first real take at modern warfare that's happening in the Middle-East now. Also a Tutorial 
 level that somehow doesn't feel like a tutorial. The first level see's you off to the Beiring Strait, 
 to infiltrate a Russian ship, (now on paper, if it was any other game then count me out, last game 
 i played were the first mission was a ship was SOCOM Navy Seals = () . But after getting used to 
 controls and finding cool new weapons, and realizing that you don't speak, we find our selves having 
 to exit the ship. And on the first level we experience things that have never happened in game 
 before. Drastic chase to 'da choppa', tilted cam action.
  
  The levels are amazing, and the story is very good. With an added combination of detailed load 
 screens of your mission.
  
  Now for the Multiplayer, offline it's a blast, but online is a new scenario. A whole system of 
 Xp, Perks and classes. Something never seen in an online game before. Prestige mode is also thrown 
 in to keep players wanting more. But as i pointed out earlier, Cod4 is getting a Halo fanbase moving 
 in. All the kids are there and pro players are developing. which doesn't make for fun gaming experience. 
 But occasionally you'll get on a team with some good people and you'll completely dominate.
  
  With that i find this game 3rd best game in my collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3man2893
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Greatest online of all time. Single player no big deal. But the online is flawless and never gets 
 boring I have been playing this game for a year now and have yet to get bored of it. It is the 
 most addictive game of all time hands down. Name one game that has better multilayer online. Gears 
 of War is good not as good as COD4 though. And quite frankly Halo sucks balls! Dont get why everyone 
 loves it so much. This is the first review i have written and i keep rambling on because it is 
 not enough letters. Doubt anyone will read this anyways. Now my review has too little of characters. 
 This is a lot of writing. Anyways COD4 is the best video game of all time and the Cubs are the 
 best baseball team ever. Also lacrosse is the best sport of all time, join a league close to you 
 and start the new sensation today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  with the new weapons c4/claymores going out of world war 2 its the best war game created yet with 
 a good single pplayer and an amazing and addicting multiplayer this has to be the best game ive 
 played in my life call of duty 4 is really fun and cool and the graphics are amazing i cant wait 
 until call of duty world at war if anyone is about to get their first war/fps game get call of 
 duty 4 youll learn fast and have lots of fun thinking your watching a real war. its really simple 
 on multiplayer at first but starts to get a little harder veteran is the hardest but its still 
 fun and with the online play where its like real life its the funnest it can be and dont pay attention 
 to the rating of m cause its only rated m for more blood than cod3 and they say a bad word such 
 as fucck every other thing they say basically so theres nothing wrong with it and its the best 
 WAR GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gribbo565
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  its perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GABRIELLE46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game did not in any way excited me. What i was used to playing I got. There are some things 
 that game developers do not understand. We as the supporters of gaming titles want to be intrigued 
 by new ideas. We are not lifeless Zombies that buy sequels. Every game is just an extension of 
 the previous game, but then you get developers that make a difference like Bethesda (Oblivion) 
 Rockstar (GTA) . Do we -the gamer community- look stupid?. Why do some developers drag us through 
 maps like we are bulls with nose rings? How many times do you see something outside "the map
 trying to go investigate and "Can't go here" pops up, or there is a wall or cliff. Going to war 
 with hand weapons is cool. Going to war with a arsenal of weaponry , vehicles, planes, boats etc. 
 that is REALISM. Oh yea! Most FPS games should be AKA RAMBO! Wake up people one man can never win 
 a war.
  The reason why it is overrated is simple. This is one of the better looking FPS games. Does it 
 need more ingredients - 4 sure!. When will we get a FPS game with the same map system that GTA 
 uses? One big map -all out war. Image ONLINE gaming. You are a naval officer doing precision bombing 
 by coordinates inland, coordinates by infantry soldiers (online friends) . You reply you cannot 
 bomb target (out of reach) Tanks reply also they are repairing. Infantry call in the air wing. 
 They Bomb the living s$&t out of the enemy. Medivac comes in for rescue missions. Commanders, generals 
 all ranks have their own jobs. You achieve medals and rank up. If you start the online game you 
 start as a junior . Rifle and pistol that's it! COD4 touched on the idea but only arcade style. 
 I do hope world at war is better . As i said in my previous review . The developers thrive on expectation, 
 this in it self is a SIN! Giving a little at a time to make a sequel successfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigErn500
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is an insanely awsome game! Once I beat the single player I started playing online and I couldn't 
 even begin to start thinking about stoping. If you bought this game to not play online return it 
 now because you just wasted your money. Dont get me wrong the single player was great. Short though 
 which was good only because I got right into the multiplayer couple hours after I got the game. 
 The storyline was epic too. The story line was almost tear droping but really got me into character 
 when I firt started playing online (I'm the roleplaying type when I'm high :P) .
  
  This game had to be truely made for the Online Multiplayer. I love the graphics (i just got my new 
 HD TV too) . I barley lagged which was comforting. All the Game Modes make this game impossible 
 to get boring. All the Guns and Perks just make you want to play more to rank an get new ones. 
 55 ranks then like 10 pristege's, I don't know how anyone can stop playing this game or even get 
 bored. 
  
  Only thing I didn't like was all the updates. Its like everytime I wanted to get on and play I 
 had to get a new update. Don't get me wrong here either makes the game even better, but updating 
 everyother day did get a little old. Straight up though one of my top favorite games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_FAN_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with singleplayer. It is short, and I actually like that because it lets me get into 
 multiplayer quicker. I prefer to have a singleplayer to get the story going and the controls, and 
 then the multiplayer rolls in and destroys everything the singeplayer had to offer, which, to me, 
 is a good thing.
  
  The singleplayer is epic and a great storyline, which actually made me ignore the top part of my 
 review, wanting MORE singleplayer, which is hard for a game to do to me. The story introduces the 
 characters so well, and makes you care for them, for example when Jackson dies, I was sad, but 
 when Gaz died, and possibly Price, I was really sad and moved by the story.
  
  The multiplayer is very fun, but at sometimes frustrating. But not frustrating in a glitchy way, 
 oh no. It gets frustrating when something stupid happens online and it makes you want to throw 
 your controller at the TV, as in most multiplayer games do to me.
  
  The perks and weapon unlocks is possibly the best idea ever, but when i unlock all, im craving 
 for more guns to use in action againt my opponents.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing, and I would actually rate it 9.7, if the rating system allowed me 
 to do so. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Setting:
  COD4 takes place in present day with a unit of British SAS and US Marines trying to stop a rogue 
 terroroist. Locales range from locations all over Eastern Europe to the Middle East.
  
  Gameplay:
  One of the more realistic shooters in recent memory. Your basic first person shooter 
 gameplay. Also the ability to shoot through walls. One of the best multiplayers in the business. 
 Custom classes and fully customizable weapons really make multiplayer that much better
  
  Graphics: Fairly standard for the PS3. They aren't spectacular but they aren't bad either.
  
 
  Story: The story involves a unit of Brtish SAS troops and US Marines trying to prevent a terrorist 
 from detonating a nuclear bomb. However soon they find it is much more complicated than just one 
 bomb. Pretty standard story involving modern warfare.
  
  Overall: A good a single player campaign and great online play make this a must buy. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is a FPS set in modern times. In the single player campaign, you play the role of Sgt. Paul 
 Jackson of the US Marines, and as Sgt. "Soap" MacTavish of the SAS. While the single player campaign 
 isn't very long, it's very immersive as well as fun. 
  
  The story features a variety of missions including a mission where you are in control of three 
 guns in an AC-130 gunship, and a flashback mission where you get to sneak through Chernobyl in 
 a ghillie suit. 
  
  The difficulties in CoD4 range from easy, to veteran. Veteran mode is one of the toughest, I think, 
 of any game I've ever played. I won't give any more detail on the story, but I will tell you what 
 you can expect during your time spent playing this game.
  
  Story 9/10 (too short, or it would be a 10 too)
  
  First, the graphics. Simply brilliant! If 
 you have a 1080p TV, you will be amazed once you see this game for the 1st time. The textures are 
 sharp and the enviroments are highly detailed. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Next, one of the best assets to this game. The framerate. Running at an almost unheard of 60 fps, 
 you won't be disappointed. With framerate like this, players can enjoy smooth, crisp gameplay. 
 While this isn't usually in the criteria for scoring videogames, not many games are able to say 
 the run at 60 fps like CoD4.
  
  Framerate 10/10
  
  The sound effects in CoD4 are incredible! Each sound you hear on the battlefield will make you 
 swear you're almost there. From grenades exploding, to bullets flying through walls and over your 
 head; every little sound effect will leave you amazed.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  The controls in CoD4, in my opinion, are the best for any FPS I've ever played. They are both simple 
 to learn, and very user friendly. Also, there are several different control schemes you can choose 
 from if the default layout doesn't suit you. Overall, the contols are perfect!
  
  Controls 10/10
  
  Finally, what this game is best known for. Multiplayer! Quite possibly one 
 of the best online shooters ever. It's highly addictive and even almost one year after release, 
 the online community is still very active. Multiplayer is what has defined this game as one of 
 the best out there, and a big reason for that is the the perk system. Perks are what players can 
 choose to upgrade their weapons, among other things. Anything from scopes, to C4, to being able 
 to sprint longer distances. The perks you can choose from are almost endless.
  
  Multiplayer 11/10 
  
  Overall, CoD is an excellent FPS. With an amazing, but short single player 
 campaign, to go along with an excellent multiplayer portion of the game. This game is nothing short 
 of amazing. If by some chance you haven't picked this game up yet, do yourself a favor and buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic brilliant graphics its one of the best first person shooter ever made. Ok 
 i will start of by talking about the single playe campaing, ok it's a bit short but the fighting 
 and shooting makes up for that great guns and all kind of different type of leves ect one muinit 
 you in a desert where they call it the bog and next your in a forest with a camouflague with a 
 sniper. I recon the best level is the 1 level on the oil boat it's awsome. Ok the best part about 
 call of duty 4 is the online multiplayer because you have so much badges so collect and to go up 
 to level 55 and prestige witch you can go up to level 55 10 times and it will atleast take you 
 up to about 20 days of play to get to the last prestige lot of wepons all kind of perks like fast 
 realoding and uav jam. Plus you can get different scopes for your guns like the first is red dot 
 and then you get a silenter and then after about 150 kills with every gun you get a scope not as 
 good as the sniper scope but still good plus you can get different camouflague and for every class 
 ect sniper you get all the colours for the snipers you unlock gold for one of the snipers and that 
 happens to all the different classes of guns. I reckomend you to get this game only if you can 
 play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer / Campaign Plot
  Setting - The game is set in the present time other then WW1 or WW2
  Intro - When you 1st play 
 you start as "Soap MacTravis" a British soldier who is completing a training / tutorial session. 
 After the tutorial you start the 1st mission which is too raid a cargo ship.
  Their are 2 characters in this game 1 is Soap MacTravis as you know, and an American soldier Sgt 
 Jackson.
  Story Outline - A Russian nationalist called "Imran Zakhaev" is trying to get back to his homeland 
 he does know that the USA wouldn't let such a thing happen (don't ask me why) . So he has his ally 
 Khaled Al-Asad, to draw the British and American attention away from him. Through the Americans 
 army (Sgt Jackson) point they are trying too kill / capture Al-Asad by any means necessary. The 
 Americans blinded by trying too get Al-Asad that they can't see the bigger picture that he is about 
 too set off a nuclear bomb in a town where the Americans think he is at and that's the last of 
 Sgt Jackson and alot of other American soldiers and enemy ground soldiers as well.
  After that you are playing from the British point (Soap Travis's point) trying the same as the 
 Americans did except without as much force like the Americans used from helicopters and tanks and 
 stuff. Eventually you capture Al-Asad and question him for where he got the nuclear bomb which 
 after you've found out you kill him.
  When you find out Imran Zakhaev is behind Al-Asad's plans you are too capture Zakhaevs son, Victor 
 Zakhaev for information. Though when you corner Victor he becomes suicidal and shots himself too 
 avoid capture.
  Imran furious with the death of his son takes a missle launch facility and launches missles and 
 majorly populated American cities and you have too retake the missle facility. After aborting the 
 missle launch you escape in Russian cars which you are being pursued by enemies, an enemy helicopter 
 soon comes too destroy a bridge you are about to drive over so you have too get out the car and 
 start shooting after a while which a tanker explodes and everyone is wounded. Imran comes to the 
 bridge too observe the wounded and executes the remainder wounded British and American soldier. 
 Just on the verge Soap being killed by Imran, Imran gets distracted long enough for Soap to pickup 
 a gun and kill Imran. Moments later you are picked up by Russian army medical teams and helicopters.
 
  
  Multiplayer - In multiplayer you have many different game modes too choose from which range from 
 Team Deathmatches to Free-For-All, CTF, Counter-Strike modes where you must plant bombs and stuff, 
 Last Man Standing, and many more.
  In multiplayer you can level up which in time you will unlock new weapons and grenades and special 
 abilities and challenges which will let you unlock weapon modifications like for example: silencers, 
 zooming scopes etc.
  You can reach a maximum of 55 levels and when you become level 55 you can enter prestige mode which 
 i don't really know what is though i believe it is where you level down too 1 and go back upto 
 lvl 55 unlocking all the weapons and stuff i s'pose.
  
  Gameplay - You have a wide range of different weapons too choose from which are many different 
 SMGs and Light Machine Guns and Assault Rifles, Snipers and Shotguns etc. Many which has modifications 
 in multiplayer which has different zooming scopes and aiming scopes etc.
  There is no "health" kinda thing in CoD, if you get shot quite a few times you will have red border 
 around which means you're in a critical state of health so you might wanna duck and cover till 
 the red border goes away. You can prone and crouch in bushes and long grass that it really camouflages 
 you in multi and single player. When you play this game it is so realistic it makes you feel like 
 you're on a real live battlefield
  
  Graphics / Sounds - The sound effects are so loud and realistic.
  The graphics are beautifully 
 designed which makes the camouflage feature (the duck in a bush and prone in long grass thing) 
 really useful which is a really rare feature in just about any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarine08
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  There is so much I can say about Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, but I will start off with its 
 single player or campaign. First the story is great, it talks about a man who takes over the Middle 
 East, and you have to liberate it with the British S. A. S. and the U. S. Marine Corps. The visuals 
 are great, the gameplay is revolutionary, and the action never stops. But the best part about this 
 game it that it never lags. It is the the smoothest running game I have ever seen. The only con 
 of the game in general is that the single player is very short with only about 10 to 20 missions, 
 but the multiplayer makes up for it. The multiplayer in this game it one of the best I have ever 
 seen. It barely ever lags, (depends on correction) you get to custom your weapons and perks, and 
 the online community is probably the greatest out of any games. If you do not own this game by 
 now, I strongly suggest you get it as soon as possible, because you are missing out. I would rate 
 this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Genre: Modern FPS
  
  Call of Duty has never been better than in Modern Warfare. The game puts you right in the middle 
 of present-day battlefields in the Middle East and Russia as soldiers and marines, which is a great 
 experience. Being out of the cliche WWII battle scene is a breath of fresh air, making this game 
 the best in the series. 
  
  During the campaign mode, you play as Soap MacTavish in the SAS and Sgt. Jackson in the US Marines 
 for most levels. The Americans, Brits and Russians are working together to stop a team of ultranationalists 
 from launching a nuclear attack on the world. It's really a thrilling story filled with uncanny 
 realism to modern wars today.
  
  The game looks simply beautiful, in a disatrous and wrecked kind of way. Here you'll be eyeing 
 some of the most impressive and photorealistic graphics of any game to date. The environments and 
 maps all look fantastic, whether it be a sunny and disaster-struck Middle Eastern warground or 
 a dark field with tall grass and shabby buildings surrounding it. Environmental objects look equally 
 good, from old cars to watermelons. Character models also feature extremely detailed faces and 
 animations. You'll be amazed by how good everything around you looks in the game.
  
  COD4 adds some appropriate modern background music to the soundtrack, as well as the traditional 
 veteran-type sound from the series. Amazing sound effects like bullets ricocheting off of dumpsters 
 and loud grenade explosions add even more intensity. 
  
  The fourth Call of Duty installment delivers all of the fast-paced and thrilling action from the 
 previous games and then takes it up a notch. Controls are tight and work fluidly together, delivering 
 a smooth warfare experience throughout. During the first level you learn combat basics like targeting, 
 knifing, sprinting and throwing grenades as usual through a small obstacle course. Targeting systems 
 have been much improved, you'll now find it an everyday necessity to aim from the shoulder with 
 L1 then fire. Since you automatically lock on to a nearby enemy like this, it's much more useful 
 than in previous games. With a simple click of the analog stick you can whip out your knife for 
 a quick close-quarters kill, which really works extremely well in situations. There are all types 
 of new features as well, like night vision and rapelling down walls.
  
  Levels are varied between on ground infantry combat, infiltrating enemy territory and operating 
 the guns on choppers and bombers. Unfortuneately, COD4 features no vehicle levels or sections besides 
 these few things, which is disappointing but understandable. You won't find yourself really missing 
 tank or jeep moments from other games. What the game lacks in vehicles it makes up for in thrilling 
 moments, such as fighting off attack dogs, sniping out terrorists from thousands of feet away, 
 taking down an ultranationalist and his body guards with a pistol while nearly dead on the ground, 
 and rescuing civilians from highjackers on a plane. 
  
  Thrilling and entertaining as it is, the story mode ends rather quickly, after three acts are completed. 
 You can of course go back and replay those acts, or up the ante with a higher difficulty level 
 though. The higher difficulties can get very challenging, so if you're looking for a run for your 
 money, here's the game to get. But what makes up nearly 100 percent of the replay value in COD4 
 is the famous multiplayer. 
  You can play entertaining matches with up to 4 friends in split-screen, and then take the fight 
 online. 
  
  There are lots of different matches to play. You've got your typical team deathmatch, deathmatch, 
 capture the flag (called Domination) and headquarters, but then there are the more interesting 
 matches like search and destroy or sabotage, in which you have to blow up enemy bases with bombs, 
 and vice versa. You can play all of these matches in different modes like Old School, in which 
 you don't choose a class. Instead, weapons are spread all over a map in different places. Then 
 there's Hardcore mode, for experienced players. Here you have minimal health where it only takes 
 a round or two to take you out. You can play matches any way you please.
  
  During the story mode you'll be using a lot of different types of guns and weapons, and those weapons 
 are all put into multiplayer sooner or later. The weapon selection, realistically modeled from 
 modern weapons in the military, is huge. From assault rifles, pistols, and submachine guns to shotguns, 
 snipers and light machine guns, you can always find weapons that suit your style of combat. This 
 also depends on the multiplayer maps, in small close-quarters, shotguns and grenades are key, but 
 in large and cover-plenty areas, snipers or machine guns are more suitable. During multiplayer, 
 depending on your weapon you usually have some type of side weapon or feature to use like claymores, 
 a grenade launcher, C4 or an RPG. With kill streaks, you can unlock radar, then attack helicopters 
 and air strikes. 
  
  When you first start out online, you only have around 5 uncustomized weapons to use (fortuneately, 
 these guns are powerful enough to give you a good start) .
  As you rank up, you unlock all types of new weapons. There are also challenges for each gun, where 
 you have to get a certain number of kills or something similar to unlock customizable weapon like 
 red dot sights, grenade launchers and ACOG scopes. The golden guns are unlocked when you complete 
 every challenge for a certain weapon. This challenge factor also applies to combat in general, 
 such as getting kills while crouched or a certain number of kill streaks. ALSO, you unlock different 
 class features like Juggernaut and Martydom which give you special features or abilities in combat. 
 This whole system is extremely rewarding and gives you something to shoot for.
  
  Not to mention the ranking up system. You start out as a level 0, then eventually progress up to 
 level 50 where you can do prestige modes or rank up to level 55, the max rank. It's not difficult 
 to rank up for around the first 15 levels, but your stats and kills need to be more persistent 
 to get higher and higher, or else it will be a very slow process. The ranking up is the main drive 
 behind consistently coming back to the game, besides the high entertainment of course. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is simply an amazing multiplayer experience that any fan of shooters or just fast-paced 
 entertainment should play. 
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing single player experience with great levels
  -The fps gameplay is fast and tight, with 
 a great weapon selection
  -Combat controls are excellent
  -The best FPS online play and multiplayer since Halo, with lots of replay value and unlockables
 
  -Story is an extremely interesting and realistic warfare experience that sets you in all types 
 of battlefields
  -Great soundtrack, voice acting and characters
  -Outstanding photo-realistic graphics, great techincal design, and beautifuly wrecked environments
 
  
  Cons:
  -Campaign mode is pretty short
  -Game can become VERY challenging on higher difficulty levels
  -Nearly all the levels end with 
 getting into a helicopter, which you might find repetitive, but probably not
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9.8
  Sound: 9.6
  Replay Value: 10
  Concept: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narjion
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a great game. great controls. great graphics. way to short of a single player game. 
 but multi player is so good that you can spend days on it. has a difficulty for every body. has 
 fun unlockables for single player. also has great unlockables for the online mode. able to achieve 
 different ranks online. this can truly just take someones life away. no should be able to complain 
 about this game except for the length. online modes play smoothly. great variety of online modes 
 such as team death match mercenary team death match cage match free for all head quarters team 
 tactical and many others. able to have your own clan tag compare your rank to everyone else. clan 
 wars are not as easy to set up compared to other games easily able to invite friends to games. 
 single player has a pretty good story. a game anyone could pick up and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrobisongamer20
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is overall better than battlefield: bad company!!! I'm not down talking batttlefield 
 but when it comes to the single player campaign and multiplay gameplay... call of duty 4 is nearly 
 bullet proof as a game. One thing battlefield does have is the ablity to blow up buildings and 
 pick others off with a .50 cal sniper rifle from insane distances. even with that I still can't 
 pick battlefield over call of duty 4. The call of duty single player campaign has a better plot 
 and gameplay. Battlefield feels at times sloppy and random. Although the game gives you a sense 
 of distict style and humor. all and all Both of these games should be played and owned. In the 
 end I would die by call of duty 4 and call this game an instant classic. 10 out of 10 Because of 
 the amazing graphics and sound even in the multiplayer there is amazing detail in every action. 
 I only hope world at war can match because it has a huge bar to overcome in my mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The games premise is this. You're 'soap', a SAS operative and sgt. jackson a marine who fight a 
 fictional war on terror.
  
  As the marines, you search for Al-Asad in a war thats gone public to stop a coup d'etat. 
  
 
  As S. A. S you're trying to stop Zachyeav, a communist whos fueling the coup d'etat to hide the 
 russian civil war. As S. A. S you fight with Loyalists in Russia against ultranationalists.
  
  The graphics look great, with one or two bad spots. The controls are responsive and the levels 
 are designed well.
  
  There are some fun scenes like 2 on the rails moments, one where you command a grenade launcher 
 and one where you command a gunship.
  
  The multiplayer is addictive. 55 levels to rank up, with weapons, perks or challenges unlocked with 
 each level up.
  
  This is just a great FPS that every ps3,360 and ps3 owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 03killzone
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best F. P. S shooter that Infinity Ward has developed. I like it better 
 than Call of Duty 5. Call od Duty world at War goes back to world war II which makes it a less 
 popular game. Call of Duty 4 has the best graphics that i have ever seen in a FPS game. I like 
 it for the PS3 because you can play it longer than on the xbox 360. What i mean is the Xbox 360 
 has the red rings of death so you cant play your games as long without wasting time to go and get 
 it fixed. The PS3 doesn't have any system glitches so it is considered better in my point of view. 
 The game is short but the graphics and quality of the Campaign is awesome. The online play is the 
 most favorite for all Call of Duty fans because it gives the player a wide range of variety and 
 fun. I personally think Call of Duty 4 is better than any FPS game ever made so far except one. 
 The other FPS game i think is just as good is Killzone 2 for the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 981Master
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  well i can say this game is easily the best in the entire series. Its singleplayer maybe short 
 but boost the difficulty settings up and its a real challenge. Multiplayer is the best iv played 
 on a console to date and its always a great challenge with the large community that gets bigger 
 each day. Theres alot of cool feaures and options so u can play big multiplayer fights are small 
 3 on 3 action. Both are very cool. 
  
  Graphics are immpresive and the lighting effects are great. Controls are tight and makes it easy 
 to pick up the functions of each button. Lasting appeal is high because the multiplayer is a blast 
 and singleplayer is fun to play through multiple times. Sound effects are also superb and its such 
 and music picks up in the intense moments. Highly recommended game for anyone wanting a good fps 
 game on their ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrito59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are a person that loves a multiplayer experience then this is the game for you. Because, 
 that is what this game is all about. There is a surplus of weapons to choose from and many ways 
 to customize each one. There are also things called perks, that you get to choose. They help to 
 steady your aim, give you extra ammo, health and many many more. Also, a plus to this multiplayer 
 is the fact that there are so many different games to play online. Most games that are multiplayer 
 based have 4 or 5 different game modes that you can play. However, not this game. There are close 
 to fifteen different game modes to play on. All are fun in there own way. There is a typical ranking 
 system in the online play. However, there is a nice twist to the ranking. You cannot simply max 
 out your rank and be done from there. Multiplayers get very boring when you reach this point. This 
 has a prestige level that when you reach the max level you can restart and continue to level up. 
 When you do reach that point of prestige everyone online can see that you have prestiged and how 
 many times you have done so. There are also hundreds of unlockables along the way that help you 
 in improving your rank. Also, there are hundreds of tasks to accomplish and unlock to help you 
 improve your rank. 
  
  For a Multiplayer this game is amazing. This is the first multiplayer that I have not gotten bored 
 playing in the matter of ten hours (I am not a big xbox fan never got into the great halo series) . 
 If you are goal oriented (have to have an objective to be entertained) or one of those people that 
 has to complete everything in a game to be satisfied. This is a game for you. I do hope you have 
 plenty of time to spend on it because it will take as much time as you have to give to it. 
  
  Graphics and sound in this game are spot on. The levels in the game are very diverse and allow 
 for many different types of gameplay. This game is a must have for the people that enjoy multiplayers 
 and fps. 
  
  Ok, I have told you all about the good parts of the game now to tell you about the bad. 
  
 
  If you enjoy a good indepth story mode and single player experience. This is definitely not the 
 game for you. Story mode takes 4 hours max if you are familiar with fps's. And to make that part 
 worse there really is not much of a story. 
  
  In my mind this game would have been a perfect game with the addition of a solid single player 
 with a co-op mode. This is my main reason for the 8.5 rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Comparing to the last Call of Duty game set in World War 2. Call of Duty 4 is completely different 
 from the last games and now set in the modern times we live in now. Overall story was about U. S 
 and British forces spec ops in Golbel hotspots to elimnate a well-armed, ruthless force of international 
 separatist.
  
  Gameplay= If you played other Call of Duty games the controls are just the same as they were, but 
 if your playing Campaign mode you can get the game done in 6 hours or more pending on how hard 
 you want the difficulty on. 
  You'll fight with any of 70 new weapons and pieces of kit, including assault rifles with laser 
 sites, claymore mines, .50 caliber sniper rifles, and M-249 SAW machine guns. Other fancy gadgets 
 include night-vision goggles where you can see through dark places. 
  
  Graphics and Sound= The graphics are really well done for a first-Person Shooter game with high 
 quality and making feel your in the battle zone with tons of expolsions and taking cover. Also 
 a few sneaking type missions where you have to use a sniper rilfe to shoot enimes with out them 
 knowing you or being spotted.
  Sounding and effects is really well done making you blow your mind way and great voicing. Comparing 
 to the graphics from the last game such as Call of Duty 3 it's completely different from the graphics 
 and sounding altogethor and makes it fun for people who are in to first-person shooters.
  
  Overall= There is so much to do after you beaten Campaign mode, once you beaten the game you can 
 play through the game againcalled Arcade mode your replaying the game but you only have two lives 
 and get a high score at each level but Arcade mode makes the game more challenging if your into 
 Arcade gaming.
  Multiplayer would be the best thing about the game ever since it came out last year people are 
 still playing Call of Duty 4 online. During multiplayer you can create your own classes, clans 
 and unlockables and perks coming out of experience points. But being on top of the leaderboard 
 you would have to play the game an awaful lot if you want to become the top player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickLovin22
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  this game is deffinetly one of the best war games of all time. the graphics are incredible and 
 the action never stops. they obviesly have modern weapons but they still suprise you. it is so 
 cool how you get to use all kinds of disguises and weapons in some of the most amazing places you 
 will ever see in a video game. the online play is definetly fun and exciting. but you can still 
 get most of the online play like this from a select few of other games. it is still awesome. many 
 suprises and twists and the options are almost limitless. so many different ways to kill and get 
 cover. you generely have back up and although they arent the best shots, they do hit sometimes 
 and draw attintion away from you. they also dont die easily. and they dont tend to want to follow 
 very closely to you . but that helps with finding your way around. and the map is okay but not 
 perfect. my only complant is that the story is not the best or easiest to follow and the game can 
 cause major frusteration easily. dont forget about the dogs in the game. any way it is a good game 
 and it is worth the money and time. especially if you play online. if you have any more questions 
 or comments just message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow., Just Wow.
  
  I've never really been a fan of first person shooters until i got my PS3. Call of Duty 4 was my 
 second one I've owned besides Call of Duty 2 on the PS2. My friends bought the game for me for 
 my birthday and i was pretty psyched for it, I started the story mode and finished it within about 
 4 days. Even after the story mode i was just getting started. The graphics look almost like real 
 life, the sounds and explosions are incredible and the maps are very well laid out. 
  The Online feature is simply amazing, And this is where i spend most of my time on COD4. I'd say 
 the story mode is more of a warmup for surviving online more than anything but everytime i replay 
 the story mode i think less and less of that statement. 
  There are massive amounts of guns for online play, lots of perks, lots of attachments and best 
 of all, unlike Halo 3 or Resistance, all of the guns are real. If you haven't already bought this 
 game, buy it. 
  
  Overall: Great Gameplay, Good Graphics, Amazing Online Play but slightly Short Story Mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Plus: Online Multiplayer is almost perfect with unlockables and different classes
  Minus: Story mode is only about 4 to 5 hours long
  Interesting: This game is the first in it's 
 series to not be set in the World War 2 era
  
  Call of Duty 4 was released in 2007 on the Playstation 3, XBOX 360 and PC, and was one of the most 
 popular games of the year. I am reviewing the Playstation 3 version. It's a first-person-shooter 
 game that was developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision, that was in development for 
 2 years. It was the top-selling video game for 2007, as of January 2008 it has sold over seven 
 million copies.
  
  The game starts of with this new recruit to the SAS (some army force) nicknamed Soap, with a few 
 other men such as 'Gaz' and 'Captain Price.' They are sent to a ship somewhere in the ocean, and 
 discover that there are bad guys wanting to do bad stuff it's somewhat confusing, but it's actually 
 easy to understand when you're playing through the game. Maybe to best way to describe the story 
 is to experience it yourself. The thing about it is, it's epic. By the ending you're like, "wow 
 that was awesome." Every plot hole has a twist in it, and every time you come to a conclusion 
 of a mission, something unexpected happens. It's like a Hollywood blockbuster movie, but interactive. 
 Words really can't explain the big, epic story that this game holds.
  
  You actually play a couple of characters, but the main one you take control of through Call of 
 Duty 4 is Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish. There is a mission where you play as your Captain, Price, 
 15 years ago. There is also another character from the USMC (another army force) but only for a 
 couple missions in the middle-east, while Soap is playable during most of the game, such as when 
 you're in Russia and other countries. While you're playing through the game you also meet a guy 
 called Griggs, who is actually pretty funny, and in the end when something happens, which I can't 
 reveal hence the word spoiler, it feels as though you've been through everything with them. I was 
 like "nooo!" when it happened, but then I was like, "what the heck was that," and realized it was 
 a video game. Very weird, I know, but the bond that's created is in some ways very, very strange. 
 Each character has their own personality and the developers made them very real, they act like 
 every-day humans, but with guns.
  
  The fact that it's an FPS game, would probably just give you the thought of 'not another shooter,' 
 but in this game, it's seriously really fun. You can fire your weapon from the hip, or fire it 
 more accurately by holding the L1 button. The gameplay isn't revolutionary, but it's the most fun 
 I've had in a Shooter since well forever. It's by all means great, but only a few changes from 
 the average shooter which doesn't make it ground-breaking. 
  
  So when you're immersed in the gameplay you wouldn't want to have terrible controls; but this game's 
 default controls are all in the right position. Shooting from the hip is done by holding down or 
 tapping R1, and aiming accurately or zooming is done by holding down L1. Special grenades, such 
 as flashbangs, are thrown by L2 and normal grenades are thrown by R2. X is jump, circle is crouch/lay 
 down, square is reload, etc. It's a good idea compared to other FPS games where you barely need 
 to move your fingers to play. 
  
  One of the really good features of Call of Duty 4 is that the visuals and graphics are technically 
 stunning on every platform. The lighting, the faces just every detail is very good. Occasionally 
 you can find a small clip where someone's gun is going through a wall, etc, but it doesn't spoil 
 from the technically proficient visuals. A great example of it is in the prologue of the game, 
 the first mission you play, and it's dark and raining, Captain Price is smoking a cigar and it 
 lights up and it just looks really good.
  
  The biggest thing in the game would most probably be the multiplayer. There is up to 4 player local 
 matches such as deathmatch, and then up to 16 player online but with much, much more options. The 
 best thing about the online options is that you will not be bored of it for a very, very long 
 time. When you start up the game you only get a few options but you gain exp in matches and eventually 
 level up. Each time you level up there is something you unlock, whether it be a gun, a power up, 
 etc. There are also different classes, with their own weapons and abilities, such as Assault, Sniper, 
 and so on. After you've gained a few levels you can create your own class, with your own guns, 
 own power ups, and own colours. This makes for a heap of replay value.
  
  Now in this game you don't really notice the music it just doesn't seem to be there when you think 
 of it but when you're there playing it, purposely trying to listen to it, it's not bad. It's war-type 
 music, if you know what I mean. It fits in well but I would nominate it for an award.
  
  I would say that the biggest weak part of Call of Duty 4 is the length of the single player campaign. 
 While it's awesome and epic, the average player can beat it from 4 to 6 hours. I think that the 
 main point of this game is the multiplayer, but the story is just too short. It would barely take 
 half a day to complete it. 
  
  As I mentioned before in the online multiplayer there is a lot of replay value, I played it non 
 stop for ages it was a great load of fun, but in the story mode there isn't as much replay value. 
 Some people who also have this game like to go through on harder difficulties and set their own 
 goals such as not dying or only using one weapon during a level etc. I guess that the only big 
 replay value is left to the imagination, but due to the incredibly short campaign it's easier to 
 set goals to complete it in one sitting and so on. While the story doesn't have much, it makes 
 up for it by having a lot of replay value for multiplayer.
  
  The bottom line would be if you don't have online play, as in you haven't got your Playstation 
 3 connected to the internet, then you should probably only hire this game because the story mode 
 is easily beaten in less than half a day. If you do have online play however it should be your 
 highest priority to get this game as it has fantastic multiplayer, great graphics, epic story, 
 and perfect controls. While the gameplay isn't revolutionary it's still fun. Essentially this could 
 be the next generation Counterstrike Source. 
  
  Story: 5/5
  Characters: 5/5
  Gameplay: 4/5
  Controls: 5/5
  Graphics: 5/5
  Multiplayer: 5/5
  Music: 4/5
  Length: 1/5
 
  Replay Value: 3/5
  Overall Rating:
  95/100 - Awesome
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game beats everything. MGS4, Rainbow Six Vegas. NOTHING can top it. NOTHING. The gameplay 
 is fun, you get to crawl not even a foot from your enemy. The game is amazing. They captured the 
 essence of Modern Warfare ( that is the best title ever, it actually explains the game) and the 
 graphics and sound quality is amazing. Story Mode is short, but what it lacks in quantity it makes 
 up for in Online Play. I registered my friend who also had Call of Duty, and we'd have private 
 matches for hours. Bad thing was, he totally beat my @$$. We'd have loads and loads of fun, and 
 then we started doing online. The online is exactly like the campaign, but with friends and the 
 create a class. Infinity Ward was a good choice for this game and Modern Warfare 2. There is nothing 
 else I can really say except that EVERYBODY MUST BUY THIS GAME. Now. No questions. Go do it so 
 that when I get it I can kill you, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf17393
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty Modern Warfare has to be one of the best shooter games ive ever played. Nothing can 
 compare to this game. Youve got to be mad not to like it. It has a solid story line that keeps 
 giving you more! Crawling on the floor in a camo suit right next to your ememey. its mad! The multiplayer 
 online gameplay in amazing. Perks, guns and maps really bring the game to life. Not to mention 
 the superb graphics. The ranking system online is great. Trying to get to the top rank to really 
 show your the best keeps you going for hours. Online unlockables such as gun camos, silencers, 
 sights grips and scopes lets you customised your weapons to your liking. Online by getting kill 
 streaks ( killing so many people without dieing ) gives you some extra options in game, 3 kill 
 streak UAV ( your ememy shows up on ur map ) , 5 kill streak air strike, 7 Kill streak time to call 
 in a helicopter!. While playing online you can chose from a long list what game type you want to 
 play from Team Deathmatch, Free for all, Search and destroy and many many more. If you havent got 
 this game you should get it now! I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an all-around wonderful game. You must be some kind of reject to not enjoy it. The missions 
 are cool, but more importantly and amazingly they're actually fun. The only flaw that I can see 
 with this game is the aiming system. One of my favorite missions was when you have the suit covered 
 in moss and grass and you are with Sargeant McMillan (the one with Scottish accent) and you have 
 the silenced snipers and have to move around stealthily, it got a little difficult at the end of 
 the mission but I beat it. A great touch is also those wolves that come out at you sometimes lol. 
 A great FPS along with Timeshift, Resistance, Mass Effect, Halo, etc. I highly recommend it to 
 anyone. I usually enjoy Sci-Fi FPS's more so this suprised me. Again, its a truly sensational production. 
 I don't know about other people but I love shooters with groups or allies at your side, I can't 
 stand being alone in shooters especially horror shooters. So if you agree with that this is the 
 game for you. I actually feel like I'm with them. Great Missions. Great Graphics. Nuff Said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niki456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest game to have ever been released. The single player is breath taking, 
 with missions such as all ghillied up where you crawl thorugh Pripyat in a camouflage suit and 
 a silenced sniper killing the enemy. This brilliance continues onto the multiplayer where the depth 
 and quality of the play is amazing. Perks, guns and maps have all been thoroughly thought through 
 in amazing detail. The amount of game types online will keep you playing for hours, as well as 
 all the challenges to complete and also by getting to 10th prestige to show your worth. The lobby 
 system also works well as you are able to see your enemies and the map before a game has started. 
 Other great faturs include, camos for your guns, silencers, red dot sights, acog scopes and grips. 
 The online multiplayer is astounding and is recommended to anyone. A game like this should be treasured 
 and everyone out there should get this game if u dont have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_originator
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first brought this game, the only other Call of Duty game I had was Call of Duty 3. Call 
 of Duty 3 was great, but i decided to buy this one too. First off, let me say that I love the single 
 player campaign more than any other game, except for probably Resident Evil 4. There's stuff you 
 don't expect to happen, that does happen! It's a little short, but that's ok. Because when you're 
 done with single player, off to multiplayer. Multiplayer is where things that getting better and 
 worse (if that makes sense) .
  
  The Good: You basically can design your weapons. Some people want more clips of ammo, while others 
 want RPG's or Claymores. Some might want extra health (noobs) , while others want more powerful 
 weapons (me :) . Some of the levels are really detailed and fun. Search and destroy really makes 
 it a suspenseful experience.
  
  The Bad: Some weapons are overpowered. I swear pretty much everyone uses an M16. The grenade launcher 
 is annoying too. Oh, I almost got a helicopter. One more kill. oh, Oh... sh1t, someone at the other 
 end of the level got me with a grenade launcher. Some of the levels are tediously designed. On 
 some levels, they basically say if you start over here, you can win. But if you start over here, 
 you might as well leave the game. The distance you can throw grenades stands out in this game. 
 Rather than a fair distance like in F. E. A. R. or Halo 3, you chuck a grenade over 50 feet, clear 
 across the level. That's tedious for you, if you work hard just to get a random toss. I also hated 
 the type of games they chose out. There's no capture the flag mode here (XC) . Instead you get Domination, 
 a really stupid game where you have capture a point-getter ( a flag) . And let me warn you, there 
 are more campers in this multiplayer than any other, even Halo 3. I hope InfinityWard fixes this 
 whole mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggsmoke420
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Combat is the best modern warfare game to date. Nothing can compare to it, 
 nothing at all. The storyline is amazing and challenging. Call of Duty took a step forward releasing 
 a modern warfare game, but is taking a step back by putting out ANOTHER World War 2 game. But hopefully 
 Call of Duty Worlds at War will convert us modern warfare junkies to World War 2 fans. It uses 
 the same engine as Call of Duty 4 so the game play should be solid. Now back to Call of Duty 4. 
 I have invested over 17 days of my life to this game and it is worth it. I am a gold cross so that 
 means you can't see me! 3 kill streak UAV, 5 kill streak air strike, 7 Kill streak time to call 
 in the HELICOPTER. Graphics are the best of any game in the history of gaming, the only game that 
 comes close is Uncharted Drake's Fortune. If you are playing COD4 for X-Box 360 then you are not 
 playing COD4. Call of Duty is only Call of Duty when it is on the PS3, amazing visuals!!! I have 
 been playing online games for YEARS. Back when you had to buy the network adapter that screwed 
 in to the back of your PS2, yeah I am old school at 21 years of age!! If you own a PS3 or X-Box 
 360 and you don't got Call of Duty stop smoking crack so you can afford to go out a pick you up 
 a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyrox2793
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  this game has amazing graphics, awesome campaign, and unreal multiplayer. the way they set it up 
 is just amazing. the prestige mode is a brilliant idea too. upgrading your weapons is also really 
 fun. this is my favorite online game right now. it is so extremely fun to play. sometimes it even 
 feels like you are in real war. i also like all the selections of games that there are. its one 
 of the best games i have ever played in my life. i hope cod5 can be as good. if not better. i didn't 
 like the idea of going back to world war two but i guess it will still be really amazing. this 
 game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this 
 game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. this 
 game is awesome. this game is awesome. this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dz99ls
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Overall Call of Duty 4 is a very fun game but the single player campaign is over way too quickly. 
 If you do not care much for multi player gaming then steer clear of purchase, but definitely rent 
 this one. The graphics are amazing not Metal Gear Solid good but still one of the best on Playstation 
 3 right now. The game is very challenging but not impossible the game is pretty realistic when 
 it comes to gun play one hit kills are possible. Overall I would give it a 9 out of 10. Game of 
 the Year Edition, only because the additional maps promised are not on the disc you are given a 
 download code. If you go through games quickly then re-sell it may de-value the game. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I have spent to much time playing cod4. Massive multiplayer community. Stuning graphix and gameplay. 
 The perks were a fun addition to leveling up. Reminds me alot of how counterstrike was accept for 
 console and no weapon buying. The multiplayer can be hard for new people because the gameplay is 
 all run and gun. So I suggest that if you haven't played it before try the single player on the 
 hard setting. The singleplayer has a few aspects of battle but not enough to empress. Like guard 
 the tank, shooting from a c130, and sneaky missions. A few things in multiplayer are glitchy. Like 
 dropped matches and games that suddenly freeze while loading. Sometimes party invite errors as 
 well. You may want to wait till they refine the game. I liked the modern setting of cod not that 
 I disliked the older settings but the modern is a nice change and adds something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unhollykilla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Yes, Call of Duty 4 is definitely amazing. It's a modern first person shooter that just shines 
 when you open it. As soon as I got the game, I put it into my ps3 and started playing multiplayer. 
 Of course like in any other game, it takes time getting used to the controls, but once you get 
 it the becomes a tremendous amount of fun. First of all there are many different maps that you 
 can play through and enjoy. Second of all you never have trouble finding a game no matter what 
 your looking for. Sometimes, but rarely, the multiplayer lags but im sure that happens in all games. 
 Unfortunately I have noticed that not alot of people have mics, so in some games there isn't alot 
 of communication. 
  The graphics are just great. Definitely a next generation game. The story mode is also very exciting 
 and addicting. It is short, but the multiplayer makes up for that because you can spend numerous 
 hours on just the multiplayer. Also you can repeat the story on a higher level which will take 
 about 8 hours. Of course it depends how good you are. 
  
  If your debating on whether or not to buy this game then I say buy it because there's nothing to 
 loose cuz this game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  First, I would like to say that a 9/10 does not mean "IT SUCKS DON'T BUY IT" it means that yes, 
 it's a very good game, but it's pretty far from perfect. Like COD4.
  
  The mechanics are amazing. Although there is nothing really new about them, that's okay, because 
 they just work so brilliantly, without any bugs or glitches or difficulty.
  
  Although the graphics are very good, they could be better. 
  
  Don't worry, the GAME has plenty 
 of difficulty. But the controls do not. Which is a good thing.
  
  The main problem with Call of Duty 4 is its incredibly short campaign. While most FPS games have 
 around 15 hours of campaign time (at least 10) COD4 took me no more than four hours. I wasn't really 
 inclined to replay it, because there was nothing innovative or new.
  
  The thing that gets this game all the way up to a 9.0 is the online. It is incredible. It is exhilarating. 
 It is addictive.
  
  Even though I am not really an FPS person (I prefer a good action adventure like MGS) I loved this 
 game. It is brilliant. But it is by NO means the best game on PS3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel13941
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game? Is the most amazing game out there now. The story is so exciting. 
 Online is Amazing!!!!! If you wanna play me my PSN is theariel08. Once you get this game, you will 
 be addicted to it on the first minute you play it. Call of duty 4 is the most amazing game out 
 there. The missions in story mode are just plain awesome. VERY VERY VERY realistic. Online is great!!!!!!! 
 You can create your own class. Assault, Sub machine, light machine, shotgun, and sniper guns. When 
 you complete certain challenges you get awarded experience points. Which help you level up. the 
 highest rank is commander. Level 55. To challenge yourself even more, you can do prestige mode. 
 Prestige mode starts you from level 1 again. To let people know you've done prestige mode you get 
 a new icon next to your name. You can only do prestige mode 10 times. When you do it 10 times you 
 get a golden god cross icon next to your name. What i like about online is the golden guns. When 
 you complete all the challenges for weapon class. You get awarded a golden gun. So in total you 
 can have 6 golden guns. AK-47, Mini-Uzi, M60E4, W1200, and Dragunov. The last one is a golden Desert 
 Eagle. That's the easiest gun because, you earn it by becoming a commander level 55. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javinho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  i didnt really play the story, but the online was the best thing about this game. I can honestly 
 say that this is one of the best games i had ever played. You could play as three teams, the marines, S. A. S 
 and the spentnaz. There are so many guns that you could use, some are fast or strong, slow or steady 
 and ones that are cool enough so when you kill some one you say '' B**ch get outta ma face!! ''. 
 There are different kinds of games that you could play online. There is team death match, when both 
 teams try to kill each other and up to 75 kills per game. free -for -all, basically self explanatory, 
 first to 25 kills wins. Also many other ones too . Now I know that I have not said much about this 
 game but if there is a PS3 FPS game that you want to get, this is the one you should buy. Nuf said!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midevilatheart
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is a great game, great multi-player, definitely worth the money. A game you can't play for 
 just an hour, very addictive!
  
  The graphics are amazing! The on-line community is great, with the exception of a few bad apples. 
 The weapon selection is good. The playing maps are great (especially the add-ons) with just enough 
 hiding places for great "sneak-ability". My recommendation is to play the single player mode first 
 to get more acclimated to your weapons and on mastering the art of slicing your opponent's throat. 
 =) If you like playing as a sniper, this game is right on! It is very close to the real thing! 
 (You have to hold your breath to shoot accurately!!) Great game for beginners because even though 
 you're learning, the game it is fun and the on-line community is great for pointers. Definitely 
 the best CoD so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twisted_sith
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Call of Duty game ever. And let me tell you... wow. I mean if the ridiculously 
 amazing single player campaign wasn't enough they had to go and take the next 6 months of my life 
 away from me on the multiplayer! Although I haven't quite reached gold-cross yet (halfway there!) ... (no 
 i don't suck) I still love every minute of it... except when someone is beating me... but anyway 
 my class and weapon of choice is
  Name: GOADENATOR
  Primary Weapon: MP5 w/RDS, Red Tiger Camo
  Secondary Weapon: Desert Eagle
  x1 Frag Grenade
  
 x1 Flash Grenade
  Perk 1: Bandolier
  Perk 2: Stopping Power
  Perk 3: Steady Aim
  
  Pretty good, eh? No? Well it keeps me alive while I kill you! This game is great but sadly all 
 great things must end and with Call of Duty 5 coming I fear it will be replaced. (personally I 
 don't think it's gonna be that great!) However, for me, Resistance 2 will be the new Online Game. 
 (yet another pleasure Xbox users cannot grasp!) Still it's a great game that is definitely worth 
 getting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  We'll I played it and... It was just TOO Addicting. I'll start off with pro's as usual
  ------------------------------------
  PROS
  Flashy graphics
  weapon add ons
  ADDICTING 
 MULTIPLAYER
  leveling system
  Good variety of maps
  Great campaign.
  definitely worth it's 60 dollar price
  Great story.
  ------------------------------------
 
  And what's a game without CONS
  Campaign is too short.
  Prestige mode is a waste.
  Cant have two add ons on the same weapon.
  Those idiots on multiplayer.
  ------------------------------------
 
  That's all I can say COD4 is a great game. and since worth the money. But expect to be late to 
 work the next day.
  ------------------------------------
  OTHER NOTES
  Buy it for 360 better FPS
  ------------------------------------
  Other other notes.
  Gamespots 
 character requirement is annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare arms gamers with an arsenal of advanced and powerful modern day 
 firepower and transports them to the most treacherous hotspots around the globe to take on a rogue 
 enemy group threatening the world. As both a U. S. Marine and British S. A. S. soldier fighting through 
 an unfolding story full of twists and turns, players use sophisticated technology, superior firepower 
 and coordinated land and air strikes on a battlefield where speed, accuracy and communication are 
 essential to victory. The epic title also delivers an added depth of multiplayer action providing 
 online fans an all-new community of persistent, addictive and customizable gameplay.
  
  A change is as good as a rest, so they say. In Infinity Ward's case, a change must have been absolutely 
 essential for its own collective sanity, having worked solidly on World War II shooters for longer 
 than can be strictly healthy. The fruit of this welcome shift in direction brings us bang up to 
 date with by far its most engrossing, varied and ambitious offering yet. Modern Warfare is the 
 product of a confident developer; one which knows what it's good at, but evidently giddy with the 
 chance to try out different things. In common with its previous efforts, it's a game that understands 
 the power of maximum cinematic intensity, but also knows when to turn the dial down and bring in 
 the kind of cloying on-the-edge tension more readily associated with Ghost Recon or even that lost 
 classic Hidden & Dangerous. As a consequence, it's by far the most well rounded Call of Duty game, 
 with an exciting yet coherent blend of gameplay styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMifsud
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games on PS3 and PC.
  The graphics are pinpoint precisly realistic and the sountrack shows a great job, and so did the 
 gameplay which is surely rewarding.
  
  This is a must buy game for everyone especially for its online feature which is currently the No.1 
 online game in the world since it was released.
  
  The shooting is very rewarding and the sniper rifles are all unique. Every weapon you ever heard 
 of will be in your hand to use, and you can even customize your weapons in the online feature.
 
  
  The online gameplay is very rewarding, even more than it's single player mode.
  
  Call Of Duty 4 :MODERN WARFARE is the best in its series and worth buyin right away.
  
  graphics 
 10/10
  
  soundtrack 9/10
  
  gameplay 10/10
  
  for more info contact me on monster. h@hotmail. co. uk
  or on my PS3 user britishcrusader2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sMeAgOl_VaDeR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  What do you want me to say? This game ROCKS! The graphics of this game are amazing and the amount 
 of action is intense! Although the story mode is quite short the game has a deep storyline and 
 a HELL OF A LOT OF ACTION! The storyline begins with Soap in training. Then throughout the game 
 you switch between the British and the Americans, who are both fighting for the same cause. I personally 
 don't think this game deserves an M-rating, because the language variety is small and the gore 
 happens in only one part of the game. Some parts of the game are pretty violent, like when you 
 snap a dog's neck off or kill an innocent wild dog. The worst part of the game is that there is 
 NO VEHICLES WHATSOEVER! You can't use a vehicle at any way, except by climbing onto one or using 
 the weapons, but never driving it!
  
  The best part of the game is the online/offline multiplayer. The offline multiplayer features the 
 same maps you played with in the story, but are much better since you can explore the whole area, 
 and not just your objective's area. The variety of weapons to choose are amazing (i personally 
 like the grenadier) .
  The online multiplayer (on the PS3) is the best. Smooth, flawless online connection and its free 
 (unlike the 360) . There are many modes to choose from online (TDM, CAGE, etc...) which are all 
 exciting and all depend on your rank. You upgrade your rank by killing more people online. When 
 you get to lvl. 4, you can create your own class, but your abilities also depend on your rank.
 
  
  In conclusion, if you are a hardcore player and own a PS3 and want an awesome multiplayer game 
 with a deep storyline, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cegaiga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I am not a big fun of shooting games, but this game is just amazing.
  
  I personally do not play the campaign much, I have completed and the story line is great. I personally 
 find it boring, since playing online is the best way to get the full thrill of the game. My rating 
 for campaign is 8/10, fun but online is much better :)
  
  Online is absolutely amazing, with different type of games to play. My favorite is search and destroy, 
 no re spawn and you have to be sly. The only bad points are joining games on the ps3, as there 
 arent as many players on the ps3 as the xbox 360. Games can be an issue also, by ending too early 
 because of host problems?
  
  Not only the games CoD provides you with, it is the challenges and the ranks. The higher rank, 
 new guns will be unlocked. When challenges are completed, add for guns will be unlocked. More hours 
 of fun :)
  
  However, you must get this game. Great fun and keeps you going for hours :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trojansuedehead
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4... it's amazing how this game has changed my perspective on how great a videogame 
 can be. I used to just pick up a game, play it, be bored and never play it again. Don't get me 
 wrong I love games, but this one has to be one of my all time favorites. When I think COD Franchise, 
 I think "Oh, great another WWII game". That's where I was wrong, this games depth of multiplayer 
 is amazing. No one has seen anything like it! Except for maybe the Battlefield games, but COD4 
 perfected it. This game is a must for anyone that has an internet connection to play online. The 
 single player campaign is short, if you're looking for a campaign experience I recommend Battlefield 
 Bad Company, good value there. But for online, nothing beats COD4, i'm still playing it and it's 
 been about a year or so now! The ranking system keeps bringing you back the replayability is great, 
 they are just recently testing new playlists for different modes online; which will even more extend 
 the life it already has. I just hope that COD5 (World at War) can live up to it's name, but I don't 
 think it'll be that close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fergocricket93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of any World War II shooter. I was so impressed with Call of duty 2: big red one, 
 and the often-criticised Call of duty 3. I was a tad sceptical of the whole modern warfare basis 
 of the game. I thought it would be an ordinary, boring "almost, but not quite" sort of game. HOW 
 WRONG I WAS! It was the first game I bought on Playstation3 and I was far from disappointed. In 
 fact I was in awe and neglected to play any of my other new games which included the likes of Assassins 
 Creed, Motorstorm and Splinter Cell 4. The single player is surprisingly short, but the brilliant, 
 realistic gameplay, exciting plot and interesting characters makes up for this. The multiplayer 
 is insanely addictive and is easy to enjoy. It works on a level-up system. To level-up, you must 
 kill other players and complete challenges like getting a certain amount of headshots or killing 
 someone in a certain way. As you level-up, you unlock better weapons and certain attachments like 
 silencers, red-dot scopes and varnishes, etc. After a player reaches level 55, they get to option 
 to go back to level 1, and enter prestige mode to unlock all the weapons again and when you do 
 this, you get a special insignia. There are so many different game-modes too. I highly recommend 
 this great game. The only drawback as i said is the short single-player. If the campaign had been 
 longer, no doubt this game would have gifted a 10/10 from many reviewers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  of one thing sheer addictiveness. I cant descibe how good this game is... i need to lie down. The 
 game combines a very addictive single player with replayabily written all over it with the best 
 multiplayer ever to give the edge over over every single game.
  The strengths of this game could go on forever so ill make it brief. The experience it creates is 
 unrivalled the momments wear you go oh crap am i gonna make it. The gameplay uses straegy with a 
 perfect balance of fun. The guns are great to from the humble MP5 to the deadly R700 sniper rifle. Lets 
 start with the single player it takes about 5-10 hours to complete and foccuses on a russian finatic 
 trying to blow the world up, the gameplay is very neat and whenever you die or cock up you no why 
 and you go back and do it again. Theres loads to be unlocked fom photos of griggs to new levels. The 
 good thing about this game is that youre always striving to be better from finding all the laptops 
 to not dying on a level.. thats why so many people play it.
  The multiplayer is basically split into different game modes from search and destoy to domination 
 there all fun but i seem to love search and destoy the most because it makes you much more foccussed 
 and therefore play better. The good thing is that there a lot of different maps so you have to constantly 
 adjust your strategy to survive which is very good if you want ot be the ONE OF THE BEST. Iam still 
 on first Prestige but the ranking up is quite good as well. Ill some it up the game is **** immenese 
 and anyone who doesnt have theis game is wierd ..... BEST GAME EVER...10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShowStopper102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Unbelievable. The multiplayer aspects of this game are through the roof. The best online play I've 
 seen on a game. The difficulty, in my opinion, is just right. Some people are easier to beat than 
 others, and some people give you a true run for your money. That's the great thing about online, 
 you never know how good some people are. It's different every game.
  
  Perks, presteiges, weapons, it's all there. This game is amazing. If you love long, in depth story 
 lines, and don't play online, then I would not recommend this game. But for those who simply can't 
 get enough of some intense, fun, online war; get this game right now.
  
  But just in case you're not sure, maybe look up some videos on YouTube, or rent it to see if it's 
 to your liking.
  
  One more note: at first, I did not like this game. I tried to get into it, but just couldn't. So 
 I kept playing anyways and now I love it! If you're like me, and you find at first you don't like 
 it, keep playing, you just might change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  After hearing from countless sources about COD4's unbelievably amazing multiplayer service, and 
 its equally unbelievably amazing single player story line, I decided it was time to give COD4 a 
 try and see why it was that most people believed it was great and all. After hours of trying out 
 the story mode on regular and hardened, and a large number of hours playing lots of intense matches 
 on COD4's multiplayer, I finally realize why it got as much praise as it did. Its just simply a 
 VERY solid product, that just delivers on basically every aspect of what an FPS is supposed to 
 deliver on. Stunning Graphics, Great Single player, and Intense Online Multiplayer; all that makes 
 a great game with a lot of replayability, that is COD4.
  
  Graphics wise, COD4 is just spectacularly stunning! I've only played the PS3 version, but I can 
 assure you, you cannot be disappointed by how well the world in COD4 looks; HDTV or not, it looks 
 good. Combined with a silky smooth frame rate, the COD4 world just looks very realistic and touchable. 
 The textures are very high Res, especially on the characters and guns. You just can't not stop 
 at some point in the game and admire the realistic look of the inhabitants of the world in the 
 game. There are times you'll notice a couple bad textures here and there, but really, who cares? 
 The good outweighs the bad. 
  
  There isn't much I can say ,story wise, about the single player in COD4. Its very well done. Although 
 short (around 5 hours depending on the difficulty and how well you play FPS's) the quality of the 
 campaign is very high. If you've played any other COD game before then you'd automatically know 
 how COD4 works. You basically just jump into a stage and clear out all your targets within the 
 first area, move on, clear out another area, and so on, until you reach the end of the stage. There 
 are four different types of difficulty in COD4. There is the easiest difficulty (which I haven't 
 tried out yet) , regular difficulty, hardened difficulty, and veteran difficulty. The easiest and 
 regular difficulty aren't much of a challenge, and are suited for those who haven't played an FPS 
 before, or just want to go ahead and progress through the story without having to worry to much 
 about the enemy AI. However, hardened and veteran difficulties shouldn't be taken lightly. Just 
 by my experience through the hardened difficulty I could feel the large bounce in AI intelligence 
 from the regular difficulty. Its challenging but very satisfying in my opinion and gives the game 
 lots of replayability. 
  
  COD4's multiplayer is another of the products highlights, and is probably the biggest reason why 
 COD4 has such a large amount of replayability. You basically start out at level zero and work your 
 way up the ladder gaining XP from every kill you get in a game. Eventually all that XP you earn 
 will reward you with a level gain, which will represent how good you are at the multiplayer. You 
 can unlock different weapon customization options and perks as you keep playing online, which you 
 can then strategically turn on what you want to make you have an advantage over the other players. 
 
  
  Overall, I believe COD4 is a solid game, with a LOT of replayability with its singleplayer and 
 multiplayer components. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the second installment in the explosive Call of Duty series for 
 the Playstation 3. For the first time in the series, COD takes you away from the World War 2 battlefield 
 and thrusts you into a modern battlefield. You play as a British S. A. S soldier as well as a U. S 
 Marine fighting in a forgotten war no one seems to care about. Armed with an enormous arsenal of 
 modern weapons and high tech supports including a Cobra AH-1 attack helicopter, and even a Spectre 
 C-130 Gunship you must fight a cunning and relentless force of Terrorists with a seemingly endless 
 supply of troops. This epic title delivers intense fast action combat that will keep you wondering 
 what behind the next corner. Not only is Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare a very intense game, it 
 also plays more like a movie with an in depth storyline that will totally immerse you in the dangerous 
 life of a combat soldier. With an immensely large battlefield, high tech weapons, a very smart 
 and cunning enemy and also a very addictive multiplayer mode, Call of Duty 4 is a must have for 
 any FPS fan. If you've ever heard the saying "war is hell", here's the proof.
  
  
  I have to admit, when I heard Infinity Ward were moving away from the WW2 battlefield, I was a 
 little skeptical if they could really deliver a modern war fighting experience. But as soon as 
 you put the disc in you feel the rush almost straight away. That's right, Infinity Ward have not 
 only hit a home run with this title, they've smashed the competition out of the ball park and sent 
 them home crying. The game delivers a very intense experience in all the right places. The first 
 thing you will notice when playing COD 4 is that the graphics are so amazing, you could almost 
 swear you were watching a movie. Everything looks extremely clean and crisp with beautiful effects 
 around every corner. This is about as close to real life combat most gamers will ever get, and 
 consider yourself lucky. I wouldn't want to fight in this war. This installment of the COD series 
 has had many things improved and added to give you an amazing wartime experience. You have the 
 ability to throw grenades back at the enemy as well as a very graphic melee attack, which sees 
 you actually thrust a knife through an enemy's body.
  
  
  The biggest improvement by far is the combat element. This game is extremely intense and is not 
 for the faint hearted. The main reason it is so intense is because of the sheer amount of enemies 
 in the game. Their AI have also been massively improved, although there are rare instances where 
 you'll wonder why you were able to walk up to a terrorist and stab him without him ever noticing 
 you. Luckily these occurrences are extremely rare and overall the terrorists prove themselves to 
 be resourceful and cunning enemy that kill without mercy. The game follows a linear storyline but 
 alternate side paths are available to allow you to flank the enemy, which was nice to see. Although 
 if you decide not to flank them, no doubt they will flank you. Also being a highly trained terrorist 
 force, your enemies are smart enough not to fight in the open. They will take cover, fire RPG's 
 at you and through a seemingly endless supply of grenades at you to try and flush you out from 
 the safety of a cover position, as since many cars and barrels in the game can explode, you'd better 
 be quick to reposition to a safer position. COD 4 also borrows a concept from the original Medal 
 of Honour on the PS1. Dogs. That's right there are killer dogs in the game that want nothing more 
 than to rip out your jugular and eat in front of you while you slowly bleed to death. It's a nice 
 image isn't it. If a dog does manage to pounce on you only have around 2 seconds to kill it before 
 you become its dinner.
  
  
  But fear not, the game does offer you support in the form of your squad mates. There are no squad 
 commands in COD4. That means your buddies with fire, take cover and reposition without you having 
 to lift a finger. They will actually kill all the enemies by themselves, although you might have 
 to wait for them to put 3000 rounds downrange before they actually hit something. They act like 
 a real well trained fighting force. Infinity Ward has also removed a very important safety element 
 for the enemies. If you ever hated waiting for an enemy to pop his head up so you can pop his head 
 off, your dilemma has now been fixed. Depending of the gun you have, you can spray the enemy with 
 lead even if they're behind a obstruction with an obvious reduction in stopping power of course.
 
  
  
  The single payer campaign has you follow an unfortunately short string of linear missions. But 
 the intense fighting and cinematic brilliance will have you wanting more. The missions can take 
 from 10 minutes or even up to around 40 minutes depending on your style of fighting. The game allows 
 you to play it safe or run rampant through the levels with your machine gun popping heads as you 
 go. Although that style is not always recommended. There are 2 very unique missions in the game. 
 One mission sees you take control of the gunner's position in a Spectre C130 gunship. You have 
 3 airborne weapons to choose from, which range from the small 25mm cannon, to an enormous 105mm 
 artillery piece. The mission sees you supporting a team of ground troops as they make their way 
 through a group of small towns. Obviously when your troops are within a few meters of the enemies 
 you should use the 25mm gun, but when they're in the open it's 105mm blasting time!!! The immense 
 explosion that follows will literally send the bodies of the terrorist flying through the air, 
 and when you're looking through a thermal imaging TV, it can look quite comical. The second mission 
 that will become a classic is called "All Ghillied up", and it has to be the most intense sniper 
 mission I have ever played. You have to sneak through Chernobyl to complete a assassination. Now 
 this is a very memorable moment, you slide across to take control of a .50 caliber anti material 
 sniper rifle. You then zoom your rifle in, spotting your target you take aim. Keeping wind variations 
 in mind you watch the little flag on the jeep. Slowly you wait for the right moment then. BOOM! 
 It's a fantastic moment in the game and will remain a classic for years to come. The gun is so 
 powerful it will literally tear a limb of your target. It's quite a beautiful thing in a kind of 
 sick and twisted way. My only complaint with the single player mode is that it doesn't support 
 a co-op mode that would have defiantly made the already amazing experience even better. The single 
 player campaign takes around 5-8 hours to complete, and yes that is short but this game is so amazing 
 that you'll come back time and time again.
  
  
  Now we move on to multiplayer. Probably one of the best things about COD4. There are the usual 
 game modes such as death match, team death match and a heap of other modes. COD4's multiplayer 
 supports up to 18 players, and although that's considerably less than RFOM it is actually a better 
 experience. New players will like it because the less players means a longer lifespan and the ability 
 to actually win a few games. The online lobby leaves something to be desired. The lobby is extremely 
 slow and unless you are invited to a game it's almost impossible to get a game started. That being 
 said the online play is so fun you'll be enticed to come back for a taste again and again. Also 
 keep in mind that Infinity Ward is fixing the online problems so in time I'm sure the online problems 
 will be completely removed. You also earn rank upgrades, which allow you to unlock scopes and other 
 weapons and "perks" such as more health, or more stopping power for your weapon.
  
  
  So basically to summarise, COD4 is the best FPS I have ever played in my entire life. With amazing 
 game play, graphics and multiplayer you'll keep coming back for a piece of hardcore fast paced 
 action. Even people who are not fans of FPS should be amazed at the level of detail and intense 
 action Infinity Ward have delivered. This is defiantly the best COD game in the series so far. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth instalment in the WW2 German slaughter-a-thon that had built up a 
 solid reputation before Treyarch did their very best to ruin that reputation with the average Call 
 of Duty 3. Thankfully Infinity Ward are back and apparently Gerry has taking enough of a beating, 
 so it's the turn of the Arabs and Russians.
  
  The story is a welcome change, if a tad predictable, it turns out an unnamed Middle Eastern country 
 (COUGH Iraq COUGH) has assassinated it's leader and the terrorist group responsible have taken 
 control. Of course their first action is to try and get hold of nuclear missiles and blow up the 
 West. Some Russians are more than eager to oblige and it's your job to stop them. So your introduced 
 to the British SAS recruit your controlling called 'Soap' MacTavish, I assume he got that nickname 
 from his antics in the shower with the other recruits, and your off to save the world.
  
  Strangely enough I actually found myself liking these characters, from the sarcastic comments from 
 Gaz, the wily old veteran Captain Price and the stereotypical black character Sergeant Griggs. 
 Some of the story moments are genuinely touching mainly the moment you take the final few steps 
 as a dying soldier, and after all the work you put into keeping him alive you feel genuine sorrow 
 during his final moments. Overall the story is great and will keep you interested from start to 
 finish.
  
  The gameplay is great as well, on the surface it's a standard FPS but there is an amount of hidden 
 depth to it. You will find your preferred weapons, ways of utilizing Flash Bangs and Grenades, 
 also you have to make the decision to gun your way through or take it more stealthy moving from 
 cover to cover. Your team mates AI is relatively good as well taking down their fair share of enemies 
 and finding good cover. Unfortunately they do have a habit of getting your way and believe me when 
 I tell you nothing is more infuriating then getting to the end of a level on Veteran difficulty 
 only to have a team mate get in the way of your bullets. Obviously the enemy AI has perfect accuracy 
 from miles away but they flank and grenade you cleverly which is a good bit of development. The 
 single player mode is quite short, I managed to finish it in 12 hours on Veteran difficulty, but 
 it never gets boring as Infinity Ward really made it varied with you infiltrating a base one minute 
 to going all stealthy in a ghilly suit the next. Although I expect on a lower difficulty it would 
 only take you about 7-8 hours to complete.
  
  The game is extremely good looking with great lighting effects, detailed environments and character 
 animations which come together to make it one of the pretty games on the console. The sound is 
 top notch as well with the music accompanying the action on screen well and the voice acting is 
 superb as well, if a little corny.
  
  Right on to the big seller of the game and that's its multiplayer mode, now there is no denying 
 that the online multiplayer is great there are tons of different maps to play on, lots of different 
 modes and a great feature where you level up your rank as you keep playing and getting kills, this 
 provides a great reason to keep playing and makes up for the short single player mode. This game 
 is one of the most popular games on Xbox Live and unfortunately that means that are plenty of 12 
 years just waiting to call you a newb, saying how you 'phail at life' and waiting at spawn sites 
 with a sniper rifle. Still these people can't be helped and shouldn't detract you from a well put 
 together multiplayer mode.
  
  There isn't much to do after you finish the game there is an arcade mode with an online leader 
 boards to try and get on (although lets be honest you'll never beat the obsessed freak from Austria 
 who's memorised every enemy placement) , there is a cheat mode where you can. well you know cheat 
 and of course for all you achievement whores you can earn lots of points if you play through on 
 veteran difficulty. 
  
  So that's Call of Duty 4 by far one of the best shooters on the console, with a better multiplayer 
 mode than Halo 3 and great story to play through. What more could you possibly want?
  
  What you want Treyarch to develop Call of Duty 5 and send us back to WW2. No chance mate Activision 
 wouldn't be that stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I used to own a 360 before it died so I went and purchased a new PS3. For the first few months 
 I was playing all the PS3 exclusives but in time I really stated to miss the COD4 online game. 
 SO, I re-purchased this game for my PS3 and boy am I glad that I did. It brought back the same 
 feelings as before. The online gameplay is simply unmatched. There isn't another game that brings 
 me such enjoyment from playing online then COD4. Now my review is based on online play only since 
 I have no interest in playing the single player campaign which is rare because that is what I usually 
 enjoy but this games online play is such fun it is all I wanna do. By far if you like shooters 
 and are able to go online with your PS3 then this game should be in your collection. The matches 
 are fair and have no lag what so ever. The perks system if perfect and is also fair and balanced. 
 The way you rank up is awesome and makes you wanna play one more game over and over again! This 
 is the only game that I was re-purchased since buying my PS3 and that alone tells you something. 
 It was worth paying another $60. YES it is that FUN ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CONMAN999PS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth installment in the Call of Duty Series (obviously!) and the first 
 one to approach war besides WWII. This being Modern Warfare. This game offers a single player and 
 multiplayer online, and even a versus mode. The single player is very short and can be completed 
 in a few hours on easy. if you go for a harder mode (there are four different ones) it will take 
 longer. The single player does have an interesting storyline and though short still fun. Let's 
 move on to the multiplayer online since that is where the game publisher's mainly focused. There 
 is a wide array of guns (21 actually) including assault rifles, submachine guns, LMG's, shotguns, 
 and sniper rifles. You can customize the weapons by their aimer (including a Red Dot sight, ACOG, 
 or silencer) and their camo. You unlock camo and aimer's as you get kill's and headshots with each 
 gun. There are many game types including Team Deathmatch, Free-for-all, and my favorite, Search 
 and Destroy. Also you can rank by getting experience. You can get experience by killing enemies, 
 finishing matches, and completing "Challenges". There are 55 ranks you can achieve unlocking guns 
 and challenges along the way. When you finish rank 55 you can go into "Prestige". This is where 
 you start over again at the first rank but have a special emblem next to your name. You can go 
 into "Prestige" a total of 10 times, each on having its own special emblem. The online is fantastic 
 making the game a must have. I'd have to rate the game a 9. GameSpot itself rated the game a 9 
 and gave it an "Editor's Choice".
  
  There are plans set to make Call of Duty 5: War at Worlds. This will go back to being a WWII game.
 
  
  If you liked this review reply or send me a message. It's my first one but if you guys like it 
 i will post more.
  
  [UPDATE] : There is one add-on in the PS Store for COD4. It is a map pack that gives you 4 additional 
 maps to play with in the online. I would actually not recommend buying this, cause I personally 
 hated the new maps, but some people said they loved them so it's up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an awesome game. I had always enjoyed the Call of Duty Series, but this game 
 blew me away. Call of Duty 4 has what it takes to be an awesome First Person Shooter, great Online 
 Multiplayer and great game play. Here I will state The Good and The Bad of the game.
  
  The Good:
  -Very fun Multiplayer with up to 18 players is very fast paced and very entertaining 
 to play.
  -Beautiful graphics with realistic environments, detailed characters and buildings.
  -Story mode 
 has some breathtaking moments
  -Different maps make the multiplayer more interesting
  -Cool Weapons -In-Game cheats make the Story mode a little more interesting to play
  -Plenty 
 of enemies to shoot at The Bad:
  -Story mode is relatively short
  -Enemy AI can be very frustrating at higher difficulty levels.
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Story mode 
 is really short
  -Enemy AI can be very frustrating at times. Especially at higher difficulty levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  It is too SHORT!!!!!
  
  
  
  The 
 game begins with Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish, Captain Price, "Gaz," and a small group of other SAS 
 members infiltrating a cargo ship with Estonian registration numbers in the Bering Sea. After eliminating 
 the crew and confirming the presence of a nuclear device onboard, the vessel comes under attack 
 from hostile MiGs. The team manages to evacuate the sinking ship with the cargo manifest, which 
 provides evidence of ties between a Russian ultranationalists group and a rebel faction in the 
 Middle East.
  
  Meanwhile, Russian ultranationalist Imran Zakhaev is set on returning his homeland to the times 
 of the Soviet Union by revolting against the government and seizing a nuclear weapons stockpile. 
 In order to draw international attention away from his plans in Russia, Zakhaev funds a coup d'tat 
 in an unnamed Middle Eastern oil-producing nation, organized by local rebel leader named Khaled 
 Al-Asad. It begins with the televised execution of President Yasir Al-Fulani. The British and American 
 governments discover the plot while monitoring Zakhaev's recent activities, and initiate a police 
 action to stop the uprisings in both regions. After President Al-Fulani is executed, SAS is deployed 
 to rescue their informant within the Russian ultranationalist group who has been compromised and 
 held in ultranationalist territory in the Caucasus Mountains, with help from a force of Russian 
 military led by Sergeant Kamarov. Following the rescue of the informant the SAS team intends to 
 fly him to safety in Hamburg, Germany, but on the way their helicopter is shot down over Central 
 Russia. An AC-130 gunship is dispatched to provide fire support for the team until they safely 
 manage to evacuate from ultranationalist territory.
  
  Soon after Al-Asad's coup, the United States invades the Middle Eastern country, using Marine Corps 
 air cavalry to secure a local harbour. A platoon from the USMC 1st Force Recon led by Lieutenant 
 Vasquez searches the city for Al-Asad, securing the television station broadcasting rebel propaganda, 
 but failing to find the revolutionary leader. During the night, while the main USMC forces push 
 Al-Asad's forces back to the capital city, Vasquez's men secure a disabled M1A2 Abrams main battle 
 tank and escort it back to a highway. They are then airlifted to take part in what appears to be 
 the final stages of the conflict, when United States Central Command is notified by the SAS of 
 a Russian nuclear weapon nearby, and sends a team to disarm it. With Command ordering the evacuation 
 of U. S. forces as a precaution, Vasquez's platoon helps to extricate an advance team pinned by 
 enemy fire. The nuclear device nevertheless detonates, leveling large parts of the city and killing 
 U. S. forces in the area. Vasquez and his squad were delayed from escaping the blast radius due 
 to a last-minute rescue of a downed AH-1 SuperCobra pilot, and are aboard one of the helicopters 
 caught in the blast radius. Jackson survives the crash of the CH-46 Sea Knight helicopter but dies 
 soon thereafter.
  
  Al-Asad is revealed to have fled the country before the United States-led invasion. However, with 
 the help of Nikolai, who the SAS rescued earlier from Russian ultranationalists, the SAS is led 
 to one of Al-Asad's safe houses in Azerbaijan. After interrogating Al-Asad and learning Zakhaev 
 had supplied the nuclear bomb, Captain Price executes him.
  
  Prypiat, Ukraine Price then has a flashback of his mission to eliminate Zakhaev in Prypiat, Ukraine, 
 15 years ago. In the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster and the collapse of the Soviet Union, 
 Zakhaev took advantage of the turmoil to profit from nuclear proliferation and used his new wealth 
 to lure soldiers from the Soviet Army and form his Ultranationalist breakaway faction. Price, who 
 was a lieutenant with the SAS, was paired with Captain MacMillan to carry out the black op assassination 
 on the British government's orders. While Zakhaev was engaged in an arms deal, the SAS commandos 
 used the opportunity to target him with a sniper rifle. Zakhaev survived, however, but lost his 
 left arm. The Ultranationalist forces tracked the shot and pursued the snipers across the Zone 
 of Alienation. During the chase, MacMillan was injured by a crashing helicopter they shot down, 
 and Price was forced to carry him to the evacuation zone, narrowly escaping the enemy.
  
  Returning to the present, the ultranationalists launch a counterattack against the SAS. From the 
 village where the safehouse is, Captain Price's men briefly hold out against the assault with the 
 aid of close air support from Marine AV-8B Harrier IIs before they are extracted by American forces, 
 led by Staff Sergeant Griggs, who recently served alongside Sergeant Jackson in the USMC campaign 
 in the Middle East. A joint operation, comprising of an SAS Regiment under the command of Captain 
 Price, a USMC Force Recon unit led by Staff Sergeant Griggs, and forces from the Russian military 
 led by Sgt. Kamarov, is undertaken to stop Zakhaev. They attempt to capture his son Victor to learn 
 of his whereabouts, but the mission ends in failure when Zakhaev's son commits suicide after being 
 cornered.
  
  Zakhaev becomes enraged, blaming Western forces for the death of his son, and plans to retaliate 
 by launching a series of SS-27 Topol M ballistic missiles with MIRV warheads at the East Coast 
 of the United States from a missile base held by the ultranationalist forces. The ultranationalists 
 are well-entrenched in the missile launch center, having earlier eliminated a group of Spetsnaz 
 from the Russian military trying to retake the facility. The SAS/USMC operatives launch yet another 
 joint mission to retake the facility, and starts off with the rescue of Griggs, who parachuted 
 too far from the landing zone and were captured by enemy troops. They then disable the power to 
 the facility, allowing a squad of USMC to breach an electrified fence. The squads meet up, but 
 are shocked when Imran Zakhaev successfully launches two missiles (which would kill over forty 
 million people) . The operatives fight their way through the main gates, destroys a few BMP's, and 
 enter the underground missile facility through a few air vents. The player now follows Cpt. Price 
 to retake the missile control center, while the rest are told to capture the security center, which 
 allowed Cpt. Price and his squad through a big reinforced blast door. The squad successfully deactivates 
 the missiles before they reach their targets. Zakhaev's reinforcements, however, surrounds the 
 missile silos and the joint force commandeers jeeps to make its escape.
  
  During the escape, an enemy Mi-24D Hind gunship destroys a bridge the soldiers are attempting to 
 cross, leaving them trapped. Zakhaev's troops arrive soon after, and begin engaging the remaining 
 members of the strike force. A wrecked gas tanker on the bridge explodes, incapacitating everyone 
 except Griggs. Griggs is then shot while trying to pull Soap to safety. Zakhaev himself arrives 
 on the scene accompanied by two soldiers. Gaz and many other surviving members of the strike force 
 are executed by Zakhaev and his men, and Zakhaev is on the verge of killing Soap too, but is distracted 
 by the destruction of the Mi-24 Hind followed by the arrival of a Russian military Mi-28 helicopter. 
 At this moment, a heavily wounded Captain Price slides his M1911 pistol to Soap, who then shoots 
 and kills Zakhaev and his guards. Russian military forces arrive on the scene shortly afterwards. 
 As MacTavish is medevac airlifted from the battleground on a Mi-8 helicopter, a Russian medic is 
 seen desperately attempting to resuscitate Price.
  
  After these events, news reports mention "nuclear missile tests" in Central Russia, "leadership 
 struggles" arising in the ultranationalist party, and the attempt to locate a cargo ship lost in 
 the Bering Strait has been called off, implying that the recent police actions in Russia were conducted 
 in secret, and were not public knowledge.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Finally, a Call of Duty game not set in WWII. Now that that is out of the way, it is a pirst-person 
 shooter, but a great one at that! The addition of modern weapons, a stable online mode, a super-fun 
 multiplayer, what more could you ask for! That being said, all of those don't have the power to 
 make this game's gameplay perfect because we are living in the age of first-person shooters.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game looks heavenly. It is one of the best looking games that I have ever seen. The only things 
 that do not look perfect are the people's shadows when they are standing close to a wall. So yea, 
 on of the best looking games to date.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  Again we have to bring up how many first person shooters that are pretty much the same, but when 
 it comes to overall control, this one by far sets the bar high above the rest.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Well, the game sounds great. Gunshots, explosions footsteps, etc. sound perfect, but what really 
 annoys, and you will see this in almost all of my reviews, I hate it when it is so obvious that 
 their mouths aren't moving with the words that are coming out. Now that that is behind us, it is 
 safe to say the the game sounds great.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  This is one of the best game on the PS3 to date, and you must get it if you like first-person shooters, 
 and the Call of Duty series. If you are worried about it coming into modern times, it is safe to 
 say that it makes the transition quite well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is one of the best shooters out there, HOWEVER! The PS3 version, as the title already said, 
 can be described with only one word: lag. HUGE lag. Lag so bad, that it's virtually impossible 
 to play at times. You'll be shooting someone and your shots won't even register. The person with 
 the biggest lag, though, is at an advantage, while the person with the lower lag is at disadvantage. 
 The reason for this is "lag compensation": you'll thing that you got hidden behind an obstacle, 
 and next thing you know - you teleport back to open space, dead.
  
  One good thing about online gameplay on PS3 is the speed, with which you get connected to a game: 
 it's nearly instantaneous. On Xbox 360 you have to wait sometimes up to 30 seconds to just get 
 connected to a game.
  
  Another weird thing about online CoD4 on PS3 is that if you leave a game and then select "Find 
 Game" again - you'll most likely join exactly the same game you have just left. I've had that happened 
 up to 6 times in row! And then you'd join a game basically at the very end, when scores are being 
 shown.
  
  One more thing: I think in just one day (about 4-5 hours) of playing CoD4 on PS3 I've got more 
 "Host ended game", "Server time out" and "Lobby no longer available" messages than on XBL for the 
 past 4 months. I don't know why this is happening so often, but boy, this is annoying : (
  
  If you're willing to put up with all these things, or are only interested in single gameplay - 
 PS3 version works great otherwise. If you have a choice - I'd recommend either XBOX360 or PC version. 
 The PC version also has significantly better graphics, if your computer is up to speed with the 
 latest and the greatest achievements in the area of PC gaming hardware :)
  
  Rating 6 only just because it's so effing hard to play online with such horrendous lag.
  
  
 P. S. I have Verizon FIOS, 20 mbps down / 20 mbps up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is like no other fps I've ever played. This one has it all.
  Perfect gameplay, amazing graphics, amazing story.
  
  The gameplay is simply amazing. Intense 
 action, great weapons... i don't know what else to say. It's just really really good.
  
  The graphics are..... hmm... ill leave it at amazing. It's so realistic, that you feel like you're 
 doing bad things to people.
  
  The story is also amazing, keeps you pulled in from start to finish. Things end off even worse 
 than they start. It has a short story plot, which some people don't like, but I do.
  
  I'd say that the best thing in the game is the online. The online is simply amazing. Plenty of 
 modes to choose from, and thanks to it's ranking system, it should keep you playing for a long 
 long time. 
  
  The only reason i didn't give the game a perfect 10 is because there is no co-op mode at all, AND 
 because you can't add computer to offline split-screen. It's not that much fun if you and one friend 
 is playing split-screen. It needs more people.
  
  
  
  Overall, i'd recommend this game to all fps fans.
  Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say, interesting in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters.
  
  
  While the game may feel short, it covers a lot of ground.
  
  The only real catch is that the 
 single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping up with this style of game, you'll 
 probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. While you can raise the difficulty 
 to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does is make the enemies frustratingly 
 deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun.
  
  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water.
  
  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take.
  
  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things.
  
  
  The campaign takes you to multiple locales, but they're all full of guys who are begging to be 
 shot in the face.
  
  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEGAMARIO600
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Review (PS3)
  
  
  Details
  Developed By: Infinity Ward
  Published By: Activision
  Genre: FPS
  Number of Player: 1-18
 
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  Starting Comment
  I recently purchased the latest installment of the Call of Duty series, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. 
 After finishing it and currently playing its online multiplayer, I say this is certainly a game 
 you'd want to have for your PS3.
  
  Story
  The story of Call of Duty 4 (CoD4) is based on modern times, straying from the WWII based CoD predecessors. 
 The story follows two soldiers, one from the US Marines and the other a British SAS operative, 
 as they fight Russian terrorists bent on destroying the US east coast with nuclear warheads. It's 
 a unique and compelling story that will have you blown away once you reach the end. If you are 
 looking for a war game where everything is perfect once you reach the end, this game will certainly 
 shock you.
  
  Gameplay
  Call of Duty 4 has extremely intense gameplay throughout. During the campaign, you'll regularly 
 find yourself hiding behind crates to avoid being peppered with bullets. The enemy will try to 
 group up and flank you, thanks to smart AI, although sometimes you'll see an enemy soldier just 
 standing there waiting to be shot. The controls are relatively easy, R1 being the fire button, 
 R2 to throw grenades, and the analog stick to walk. That's really all you'll need to know. The 
 online multiplayer can hold up to 18 players, and in those matches, it's just complete chaos, especially 
 on small fields with grenades, air strikes, helicopters and gunfire all flying by.
  
  
  
  Graphics
  Modern Warfare has some of the best graphics you'll find on a PS3. Every part of 
 the game looks superb, from the blasted wall after being hit with a grenade to the crate you were 
 hiding behind that's full of bullet holes. Some of the cut scenes during the campaign are tearfully 
 beautiful. Everything is incredibly realistic and you'll never encounter any framerate problems.
 
  
  Audio
  CoD4 also has great sound. There will always be sounds of gunfire, so you'll never feel comfortable; 
 you will be startled by explosives; the voices are fine, although when shooting people from a plane, 
 it gets weird when your pilot says things like "Hot Damn!" There's even a bonus song at the end 
 of the game that properly fits the phrase "Go deep and hard". All in all, the audio in this game 
 is primarily meant to have you uncomfortably hanging on the edge of your seat.
  
  Replay Value
  The single-player mode of Call of Duty 4 is surprisingly short, almost 5 hours 
 or maybe 7-8 if your raise the difficulty. They make up for that with quality and the fact that 
 it has an incredibly fun online multiplayer that will keep you entertained for hours (in my case 
 so far, 60 hours) . Those who weren't satisfied with one run through the campaign will get a chance 
 to go through it again, whether through select missions or the entire story, arcade style, kills 
 earning you points.
  
  Final Words
  Call of Duty 4 is a top-notch FPS game that currently owns the throne of best war game so far in 
 my opinion. Really, a masterpiece created by Infinity Ward.
  
  
  
  Scores
  Story: 9.5/10
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  Audio: 9.5/10
  Replay Value: 9.0/10
 
  Overall Score: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I have not played any other shooter game like this, it's simply brilliant! i heard about it from 
 my friend and amazon. co. uk and thought "why not give it a try!?". I have not got any other Call 
 of Duty games but this game does not link to them (i think) which is good because from what i hear, 
 this is the best anyway.
  
  The story is all about a man named 'Soap' MacTavish and he has just been recruited by the S. A. S 
 (and you play as him, obviously) . He then goes on missions with Gaz and Captain Price, retrieving 
 codes, rescuing people etc. (trust me, it's way way way better than it sounds!!!) . Meanwhile, Sgt. 
 Paul Jackson (who you also play as) is in deep trouble, fighting for his life along side the U. S. M. C 
 as they urge forward to find Al-Asad, the man who killed the president of Azerbaijian. later on, 
 the two teams team up and the real fun begins when you fight the Russians!
  
  The multiplayer and online is brilliant! i've met most of my friends on it, and even made new ones. 
 You can also rank up and get new features and weapons as you rank up, the highest level is 55. 
 You can even equip your guy with the weapons you earn in Create-a-class! You can do special tasks 
 in the barracks, from falling to your death to blowing the enemy up, it's just plain fun! there 
 are very minor glitches and there is always someone better than you in online mode, i've been sniped 
 a billion times already! but besides those bad bits, i recommend this to any shooter lover, COD 
 fanatic, or warfare maniac (couldn't think of another word) !!
  
  GOOD:
  Fantastic multiplayer, almost real graphics (makes you feel you're actually there) , great sound, 
 best shooter for years to come!!!
  
  BAD:
  Online can be frustrating, campaign too short, few minor glitches (e. g, crawling over another body) .
 
  
  Thank you for reading and i hope it helps you =-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badger_mk2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  When people say to me Call of Duty i think of some crappy WW game where i can only go down a single 
 route and all the weapons are some rejects from a museum. However i was convinced by my friend 
 that this wouldbe different, AND IT SO IS!!
  It is set in the present day for once. So when you start the game you are thrown into the boots 
 of 'Soap' MacTavish, you start in a British training camp. You are tested in the shooting range 
 then do a small course, this is timed and whatever your time is, the game will choose a recommended 
 difficulty for you, so that it is just right for you.
  The game is set out the form of a film, with all the titles and names at the start. Right from 
 the start the graphics in the game are shown off, when played in HD it looks very realistic.
  There are many missions to complete with an amazing story line. Instead of being shown a route 
 and shoved down it you can take side alleys, work your way round the backs of buildings and see 
 if you can find the best place for you.
  The missions can be replayed and still be great fun, however...
  ... Story mode is VERY short, 
 it will end just as it gets really exciting, it is possible to easily complete within a day.
  
  But the fun doesnt stop with the story mode! The best bit of game is of course the online multiplayer. 
 You can play on a number of maps with a range of different game modes, including:
  -Team Deathmatch
  -Free for All
  -Search and Destroy
  -and so many more
  
  Online you 
 gain experience from matches, this experience will level you up, the higher your level the more 
 stuff you can unlock. You can unlock new game modes, new weapons and new perks. You can even customize 
 your weapons!! Getting kills and headshots with a weapon will unlock camouflage and add-ons (sight, 
 scope and silencer) . There are also many challenges to complete which can be very fun to try and 
 complete.
  
  You can also start private matches for just your friends, and see once and for all who is the best 
 shot!
  
  This is a game you MUST play, this is one of the best FPS ive ever played.
  
  9.0 - Needs better offline, too short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jqh97116
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, don't get me wrong, but you'll be done with the story in a few days, depending 
 on how much you play it. The online experience is the best (except for Metal Gear Online) and the 
 game has some replay value with the story. You play as Soap, a british soldier, and Sargent Jackson, 
 a U. S. marine, the game has a awesome controller scheme and the graphics are good too, but i wish 
 the story was slightly longer, maybe one or two more acts. The game is definitly worth the 60 bucks 
 you'll probably have to pay. I would recommend playing the story than online, don't go straight 
 into online or you'll get your butt handed to you. i would rather buy MGS4 or GTA4 than this though, 
 but its whatever you like. if you like fps's you'll love this game like me!
  
  Thanks for Reading my review :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhray
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I haven't even started the main storyline yet, i said f#@k the story line and went right into online 
 play. This is were i got addicted and had to purchase a headset. This game is alot of fun and the 
 weapons are very in depth as far as customization and options go. Although there are only a few 
 maps they are all pretty big and there are alot of sniping/shooting spots to find. You can make 
 your own clan making for difficult team situations. I found myself spending alot of time figuring 
 out all the best sniping spots. It doesn't take long to get really good at this game, as long as 
 you know that there is always someone better than u out there. I average around 20 kills a game, 
 but sometime i have off days were i cant kill a single person. My favorite game is sabotouge cause 
 im really sneaky ahah. its the best game i own until i buy MGS4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The bad: the story and atmosphere feel like they were ripped right out of a CNN news report, linear 
 in its progression, some levels are boring and feel scripted, characters arent very interesting.
 
  
  ok lets see if the good can bring this game back up..
  
  The Good: Some levels are incredibly well put together, ai is very responsive, large array of weapons 
 at your disposal lets you tackle situations in different ways, weapons all have the right feel, 
 the controls are tight, the graphics are good, story has good ending, multiplayer is fantastic 
 and player rank ups and skills are well put together, multiplayer maps are fun to work with.
  
  well the bottomline is this although the story and setting are pretty generic the action is 
 still fun and eventful even if the game takes you out of the drivers seat more times then it should. 
 i recommend it to anyone who is a fan of fps's or action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disposableheroV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  its a good game, from its short single player (although wasnt that short when played on veteran 
 because its hella hard) to its intense multiplayer. the single player is short but is a little 
 replayable with a little story connectin too. not bad, but the multiplayer is the main part. its 
 good all around but there are some minor problems i have with it. 
  
  1. there are some really annoying, overpowering guns and perks.
  2. lagggggg and servers disconnect 
 alot
  3. major bullet lag
  4. grenade whores everywhere
  
  and my main problem is that there is no teamwork involved. right when the game starts, everyone 
 sprints and starts chucking grenades and shooting everywhere. people die really fast because of 
 the games "realism". but i cant really ever seeing any kind of teamwork being used in this game 
 at all. 
  
  but you should still try it out, and if you like it, you wont put it down for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis018
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  What else can I say?! It is simply the best game of the series and one of the best PS3 games that 
 I have ever played. If you don't have it, go out and buy it now!
  This game is a good example of what we can expect from the next generation First Person Shooters: 
 Good graphics, great gameplay, an amazing multi-player and a very addictive online. If Call of 
 Duty 5: World at War keeps the qualities of this one, I will be satisfied... Just can't wait for 
 it!
  The only particular annoying problem is the lobbies! At least twice a week there is a problem where 
 people can't connect to each other. This is bad for clan wars, for example. Some clan wars must 
 be cancelled some times, because people can't connect to the lobby and even after changing the 
 host the problem remains. However, Infinity Ward still deserves all the praises they can get, because 
 this game was the best experience in my life, as a gamer.
  Wait, are you still there?! What are you waiting for? Let's go to play the best FPS ever, let's 
 go to play Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare!
  
  In other words, my review is:
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Sound  9.5/10
  Longevity - 10/10
  
  --
  Thank 
 you for reading,
  Luis018 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty 2 and Call of Duty 3, I'd wished they'd get rid of WW2 and put the call 
 of duty series in a new and exciting direction. Was that wish granted? I think yes!
  
  Story -- most shooters don't usually have great stories, but this one does. Imran Zakeav and Al Asad 
 are trying to take over the West. Like today, they're terrorists that want to harm the U. S. You 
 play as two different characters through the game. Mostly you play as Soap McTavish, a new recruitment 
 for the SAS. He has two teamates -- Gaz and Cpt. Price -- who you'll get attached to throughout the 
 campaign. The other character being a U. S. marine named Paul Jackson, though you only play no more 
 than a handful on missions as him, and you'll find out why. For a shooter, the story is very well 
 done, along with the great ending.
  
  Graphics -- the graphics in this game are nothing short of superb. Everything from character models, 
 to the guns, to the buildings, to tanks, to helicopters, look excellent. The only problem I have 
 with the graphics are the faces, especially those of the marines, and dumpsters/trash cans. The 
 marine's faces look weird, and there isn't much enemy variety. Also, trash cans and dumpsters look 
 bad when standing right next to them. Some people may not notice them, but when seen, it is noticeable. 
 Other than that, there's nothing to complain about.
  
  Gameplay -- The controls are practically the same as the other Call of Duty games. There are some 
 new moves, like being able to knife someone when clicking RS, and being able to sprint with LS. 
 Besides those new control editions, there are new guns, as it is modern-day. Unlike the other Call 
 of Duty games, some guns have scopes on them, and to do that you hold down LT, which makes your 
 shots more accurate. You can also fire from the hip, but it is somewhat less accurate, though some 
 guns have great accuracy with that. The locations of the battles are Middle-Eastern countries and 
 in Russia. The environments are fun to have wars going on throughout, as there is heavy fire going 
 on while playing as the marine. There is no cover system like Gears of War or Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 so instead you'll use the "duck and cover" Call of Duty system. The AI is generally good, especially 
 on veteran difficulty when enemies chuck grenades back at you. For your teammates, their AI isn't 
 as good, since they don't really help that much. The campaign will take you around 5 hours or so 
 to beat, which is disappointing, as that length is about half of what a normal shooter's is. Boost 
 up the difficulty, and it'll take 10-15 hours because you die in about 3 hits. Not much has changed 
 with the controls and feel, but the changes are for the better.
  
  Multiplayer -- Like Halo 3, the multiplayer is class-based, meaning you're building up your character 
 as you go along. The first time you start multiplayer, you'll have default classes until you level 
 up, with a different icon next to your gamertag each time. There are 55 levels, and the XP requirements 
 go up the higher you rank. Once you get to 55, you can go to prestige mode, meaning start from 
 level 1 with a different icon through level 55 again, until the tenth prestige. As you level up, 
 you'll gain the ability to create a class, which you can have five of. You'll gain weapons and 
 "perks" as you level up. There are five different weapon categories -- sniper, assault, light machine 
 guns, sub machine guns and shotguns. Getting 25, 75, and 150 kills with a weapon will unlock a 
 silencer, red dot sight, and an acog scope. It's a bit different with light machine guns and shotguns. 
 You can also have a special grenade, such as a flash bang, stun grenade and a smoke grenade. There 
 are three classes of perks. Perk 1 is more for explosives, like more ammo, having RPGs, having 
 more grenades, claymores and C4. Perk 2 is increased weapon damage, more health, invisible on enemy 
 radar, and so on. Perk 3 is all around, like Perk 2. I wish they'd added weapons from the campaign, 
 and I wish the maps were a bit better, since i don't like 85% of them. There are challenges you 
 unlock, like shooting a helicopter down with an RPG, gaining you extra XP points. If you kill 3 
 enemies in a row without dying, you will see your enemies on radar for 30 seconds. Five kills is 
 an airstrike, which are fighter jets that drop bombs on where it's called in. And seven kills is 
 a helicopter, which goes around the map for a couple of minutes. There aren't any achievements 
 for online, which may disappoint some people. The multiplayer is excellent despite the maps and 
 they could've added some weapons, but the game sometimes lags and you sometimes do get disconnected.
 
  Story: 9.2/10 -- a great story for a shooter, some surprises and the end was brilliant
  Graphics: 9.6/10 -- there are minor glitches, trash cans and dumpsters look bad, and so do some marines' 
 faces, and there isn't much enemy variety, but the models, buildings, car explosions, guns and 
 so on look excellent.
  Gameplay: 9.8/10 -- the controls are great with lots of heavy fighting throughout the short but terrific 
 campaign.
  Multiplayer: 9.7/10 -- most levels I don't like, and they could've added some more weapons, no achievements, 
 but it is really fun, providing 100+ hours of just multiplayer.
  Final Thoughts: If you like shooters or heavy action games, get this game! If you liked the previous 
 Call of Duty games, you'll probably love this one. Is this game inappropriate for younger teens? 
 I don't think so. There's minor blood and language, but that's all that separates this from the 
 other Call of Duty games in terms of rating. This game does have some issues like a short campaign, 
 minor graphical issues, bad multiplayer maps and the could've added more weapons, not much variety 
 in enemies, the multiplayer lags sometimes, and some of the faces (especially the marines) look 
 bad. Despite this, this game is truly great and is an absolute must play. It is worth $60, but 
 they lowered the price, making it an even better deal. Even with the short campaign, the multiplayer 
 and single player combined will give you AT LEAST 150 hours of gameplay if you go to the tenth 
 prestige. Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter and game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckafro
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is flawless as a shooter. All weapons are not overpowering, all classes are balanced respectively, 
 and the story is played out like an action movie (no joke) . The controls are easy to get the hang 
 of. With helicopters and airstrikes in multiplayer, you know you will have an exhilerating time 
 playing whether you're calling them or being under attack by them. The multiplayer also have many 
 achievments in the game so replay value is incredibly high. The story is incredible. Every mission 
 has an amazing level to play and affects the story by alot! How the game builds up the climax is 
 just breath taking and thier are always a reason to replay the missions. The multiplayer maps don't 
 look new due to the fact that they are extracted from the story missions. The only exceptions would 
 b the new maps that are downloadable. I wish i could tell you about them but i havn't got them 
 myself and i have no intentions to get them either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the most well known FPS franchises because of the popular World War II titles 
 it has previously released, but this time around Infinity Ward decided to set the game in a modern 
 war setting, and thank God they did. The game is awesome, the single player campaign may be short 
 but it's very deep and involving, you play as an american and british soldiers who have their lives 
 changed by war. Their goal is to take down two terrorist leaders who will stop at nothing to destroy 
 the U. S. in an act of revenge. The graphics in this game are incredible and the character animation 
 is truly sublime, the characters' movement, facial expression and voice all seem so real that you 
 truly feel as though you are thrust into a battlefield, it may sound corny but you really feel 
 like a part of the game.
  
  Once the single player campaign is finished, which shouldn't take longer than about 6 hours, you 
 can fully appreciate the multiplayer, which is definitely the best part of the game. You start 
 off as a Private and quickly move up through the military ranks as you collect Exp. which is gained 
 by getting kills, completing challenges and by just playing the game. There is a wide variety of 
 game modes to choose from including the classic Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch and you're bound 
 to find a mode that is right for you. Also, the ability to customize your soldier with different 
 weapons and abilities adds to the fun and realism of this game.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an excellent FPS for anyone looking for a rich, extremely fun multiplayer experience 
 and a dramatic and emotional campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM1LER7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is by far the best fps Ive played in along time. Its is a great change from the past games, 
 whos enemies were Nazis, Nazis and more nazis. First the Good. One word multiplayer. COD4 has the 
 best multiplayer, arguably better than Halo3. Its solid controls coupled with a nice array of weapons 
 and customization options. The maps are also diverse, and with the new map pack they get better. 
 Although there are problems with camping, certain perks and such it is definetly good (dont get 
 me started on martyrdom) . Now the Bad. Not much is bad but the single player was not as good as 
 the multiplayer. It has the same basic controls and feel as previous installments (which is good) 
 with a more modern feel. My problem with it is the infinite spawning enemies at some points which 
 force you to lose all strategies like cover or at least thinning their ranks before charging, some 
 spots where you are forced to face fire from every direction with no cover, and that enemies seem 
 to always be able to soot you first when coming around a corner, forcing your aim way up and spelling 
 death. Or a combination of the three. My biggest pev is definetly the enemies reaction times. and 
 no its not because i suck, Im pretty good with a 2.13 k/d ratio online. Lastly The gray area. The 
 story is the big gray area. It was pretty good, an improvement over the last couple games, the 
 basic plot of the story was good if not overused, but some of the things were stupid. The stealing 
 of Russian icbms while not impossible is not a likely scenario and some of the characters like 
 Captain price and Griggs were stereotypical. Dont get me started on the rap during the credits. 
 And it was short, like most good games these days. Overall, COD4 was as good as Id hoped it would 
 be although the single player could have been a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is one of the best FPS games I have ever played. It has a great graphics engine, and it is 
 also very photo-realistic. The single player campaign, while it is extremely short, is sweet. You 
 travel a variety of places, however most of the game takes place in the Middle East and Russia. 
 
  
  The weapons are diverse and fun to shoot, with various power factors, reload times, accuracy, etc. 
 The enemy AI in the game is pretty good, too, however when you're on the hardest difficulty setting 
 the AI doesn't get too much better, if it does at all. The enemies have a few different outfits, 
 but most of them are repeated excessively throughout the game's campaign. Some campaign levels 
 can be frustrating or brutally difficult at times, for example when a guard dog attacks you and 
 pins you down, you have to hit R3 within a laser-precise amount of time, or you die. 
  
  Technically, COD4 is pretty solid. The graphics engine runs smoothly, and the frame rate generally 
 stays the same. However, in extremely intense moments, the game will occasionally freeze for about 
 1/2 a second, but this is extremely uncommon.
  
  The multiplayer is the best component of the game. As you gain experience points, you unlock new 
 game modes, weapons, and "perks," or factors that make your soldier perform better in battle. For 
 example, one perk may have you drop a live grenade when you die, and one may give you a steadier 
 sniping hand. The maps are diverse, with advantages to each one, one may be better for sniping, 
 one better for close quarters, etc.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a great game, worth every last penny of your money. 
 Get the game and you'll see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow.. At first I thought this was just another over-rated game but something in my gut was telling 
 me to get it, so I gave it a try. This is an amazing game the single player is great and the multiplayer 
 is near perfect. I recommend everyone to get this game because your eyes will be glued to the TV 
 until they start bleeding. Great Graphics great gameplay great multiplayer and amazing game overall. 
 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdood333
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  first is the story, the story will make your heart pound and it keeps pounding. And then you get 
 to see the modern abrams shoot a tank and blow it to smithereens. besides blowing the whole story 
 ill tell a little bit about the ending. the ending is satisfying and sad.
  
  the best graphics! When you have a sniper rifle look at the lens of the scope the mirror image 
 is phenamenal.
  
  the multiplayer is the best sence befor it came out. blood spatering granade throwing, camoflage 
 and knifing someone. the multiplayer has ranks, and after you reack your final rank you have the 
 choice to give it all up and enter prasteage mode to become evan more powerful, 
  DONT BOTHER! unless you want to go through it all again!
  
  IN OTHER PEOPLES OPINIONS IT DOESNT 
 SUCK!!!!
  
  actiually no call of duty game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  COD4 is definatly the best fps out at the moment and probably one of the all time greats that will 
 go down in gaming history. With an epic single player campaign that can be enjoyed by all although 
 you could complete it in one day. But all that is made up by the incredible online multiplayer 
 that will have your eyes glued to the screen for hours on end. If you decide to rent this game 
 rather than buy it then you can go and stick your head down the kitchen sink because you'll be 
 missing out on all the great multiplayer action that cannot be missed just because your renting 
 it. So i definelty reccommend buying it and NOT renting it, if you dont have online but have this 
 game then i suggest you find a way to get online becuase you can't not like the online multiplayer. 
 IF you start of doing rubbish and get frustrated it's normal but once you get used to it you won't 
 want to go on another game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH-mixerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is not only aesthetically pleasing to the eye, but it's also a worthy 
 next-generation war game that delivers a great single-player campaign experience that is well worth 
 your money. It is relatively short though. I beat it in one day. You might be asking right now, 
 "If it's that short, then why should I pay $60 for it when I could simple rent it for about $3?" 
 I'm glad you asked. A quick and easy answer to your question would be the online multi-player. 
 I have never spent more hours with a game online than I have with COD4. It's extremely addicting. 
 A healthy amount of maps and weapons coupled with challenges (in-game achievements) , and an efficient 
 leveling system, makes the online very satisfying and rewarding. There's not much more to say than 
 what has already been said. Do yourself a favor: If you haven't already bought this game, buy it. 
 You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, you play as S. A. S operative "Soap" MacTavish, and U. S. M. C combatant 
 Paul Jackson in the midst of a war in an unknown middle eastern country that has been taken over, 
 and has the potential to cause a nuclear disaster.
  
  This game is an amazing technical accomplishment, with guns that sound like they were ripped right 
 off the battlefield and voice acting that is Hollywood worthy. The game has great setpoints and 
 environments, and amazing AI that can give you a run for it's money. The story is also very exceptional 
 and grounded in reality making you feel as if this could very well happen today.
  
  Of course, the game also takes a few turns outside of its origins, with an arcade mode for those 
 that have beat the game, as well as online play that is superior to any of the CoD games before 
 it. You can level up and unlock new weapons and "perks", as well as attachments to your weapons.
 
  
  The game does make a few sacrifices along the way though. The levels are completely straightforward, 
 and the enemies tend to repeat certain patterns. The game can be beaten in six hours and is scripted 
 almost the whole way through. Some parts also tend to get a bit frustrating on the higher difficulties 
 that will leave you swearing and throwing your controller. As good as online is, there are still 
 some problems that arise (although they are few and far between) . They ability to level up again 
 under a different insignia is also good for hardcore veterans, but unfortunately means you have 
 to lose all prior accomplishments for a bit of "prestige".
  
  In all, this game is amazing and should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 offers so much more than its predecessors: a fantastic, intriguing, entertaining, 
 dynamic, and exciting single-player storyline... and moreso, an even BETTER online multiplayer. 
 
  
  I'll leave out my review of the storyline so you guys can experience that. To sum that up, it's 
 awesome. :) Though it IS pretty short, the missions and storyline make up for it.
  
  This is the part where I intended to spend the majority of my time on this review: the online multiplayer. 
 It never gets old. I've played dozens of online multiplayer games (ie Halo games, GTA, Battlefield, 
 Counter-Strike, etc) and I can tell you straight up, Call of Duty 4 is the best I've played. Up 
 to 18 players can play in a single match online, with around 18 maps to play on. The progression/ranking 
 system they give you will keep you playing and interested to say the least. The video and audio 
 presentation, even in multiplayer, is outstanding (play it on a 60" Sony Bravia HDTV and you'll 
 know what I mean) . As you progress through the rankings, you gain perks, which can be used to aid 
 you in matches. Perks such as increased bullet stopping power, UAV radar jammer to make you indetectable, 
 Iron Lungs to help you hold you breath longer for sniper shots, and the infamous Juggernaut which 
 will give you longer life.
  
  All in all, CoD4 is one of the best multiplayer games around (at least in my honest opinion) and 
 will keep you playing till newer and even better games come out. It's a must get for all PS3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Modern Warfare, a big step for the Call Of Duty team. Bringing the COD franchise to the modern 
 day was a very big risk, but i think they pulled it off amazingly!
  
  COD4 is possibly the best war game i have ever played on. You play as agent Soap, a new recriut 
 to the army. You play in modern day for a while, then you get taken back to the past, where you 
 first started with a scottish sargent, infiltrating a enemy base, to assasin the leader of the 
 enemy army. The only downfall with this part, is the textures. As you face the ground the grass 
 and soil seems falkey and unrealistic, while some of the buildings have the same effect. And also, 
 the lengh of time the levels are is to short, and they could of pushed further!
  
  The missions are very challenging, and fun to play. And the online mode makes it even better, with 
 tons of people joining in the fun! Sometimes, in the levels the sound effects are low and the gun 
 play isn't effective enough. It seems like your holdng a lorry, as the guns seem horrible to play 
 with. The voice acting of some enemy rivals are also bad, but funny to listen to while there having 
 a conversation!
  
  The gameplay is extremely short, and only took about 6 hours in total to complete it! If i was 
 you, i would only rent this game, although it is good to keep in your collection, as well as playing 
 the online mode with it! I give it 8.5 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiCe1ner
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  this is my favorite game of all time so far. it is so addicting and i try to play this game almost 
 everyday. online play is incredibly fun and it just pulls you in like a magnet. MORE ADDICTING 
 THAN DRUGS lol. if you put me in a room with a television, playstation 3 a controller WiFi connectivity 
 a headset and this game, i can be there ALL DAY just playing call of duty 4. its so fun and you 
 feel proud being first online. The only thing i personally didnt like about the story is that you 
 play as 2 different people and id rather have that 1 person and you get to create a character and 
 name him and etc. The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters 
 long. The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The 
 minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The minimum 
 allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The minimum allowed 
 size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The minimum allowed size 
 for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The minimum allowed size for 
 a review is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. The minimum allowed size for a review 
 is 800 characters. Your review is 607 characters long. LOL I DIDNT KNOW WHAT ELSE TO WRITE SORRY 
 GUYS =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Foxtrot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  With immersive gunfights on multiplayer and stunning visuals this one of those true gems that has 
 everyone singing its praises.
  
  The Single player campaign may be short but with plenty of extras to find and a truly brilliant 
 multiplayer ,on-line or off, you will get a long use out of this.
  
  Mixing old school FPS shootouts with air strikes and helicopter assistance making an awesome multiplayer 
 experience. The kill cam works quite wll but if it annoys you you can turn it off.
  
  This game is brilliant fom sniping a guy's arm off in Chernoble to stopping a missile launch in 
 Russia the campaign mode is brilliant. The experience is awesome. The voice acting is very well 
 done and the characters are well animated. The range of guns is amazing. From SMGs to shotguns 
 every type of FPS gamer is catered for. 
  
  
  
  You have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a very gooooooood game for people who love shooting and playing with your friends. 
 I Luuuuuuuuuv. You will not be disappointed if you get this game. The only thing is that the story 
 is short. But it is still a very good game and it was rated one of the best games on the ps3. This 
 is the only game i play on the ps3 so get it for the ps3. I think it is better for the ps3 than 
 any other system with this game. And this game is verrrrrrrrrrrrry! addicting to me. Even though 
 this is an old game people still play with it online and it is one of the very best of the very 
 best of the series. lI think this is the best shooting game for the ps3 other than metal gear solid 
 4. ets hope the sequel of the game will be good cause i will be waiting for it and will get it. 
 And can one of you join my clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roberton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Having the chance to play the game I am quite surprised on how great this game turned out to be. First 
 heard about this game a year before it's release and I honestly thought it was going to be another 
 WWII shooter (not saying that their bad) . When I found out that this game took place in a modern 
 day setting I just had to check it out. I went to a friends house and had the chance to play it 
 and I was surprised on how stunning the graphics are. Like every other Call Of Duty game you'll 
 be in the shoes of different soldiers including a soldier from the British SAS and a soldier from 
 the USMC. The game gives you different objectives and neither one will feel the same. In one mission 
 you play as a soldier from the SAS that has to rescue a Sgt. from the USMC. Each mission feels fresh 
 but the campaign is a little on the short side but the spectacular multiplayer mode will keep that 
 disc spinning in your PS3 for a long time. I'll go into that later. The campaign will even put you 
 in the shoes of an SAS captain 15 years earlier when he was a "Leftenant". There's a little bit 
 of everything in the campaign mode. I wont spoil it for you so I'll talk about the multiplayer online 
 mode which really makes COD 4 shine. There is a ton of maps and many different modes and special 
 perks you could give to your soldier that can for example increase damage of your bullets which 
 is called "Stomping Power". There is so much I can't explain in detail but all I got to say is that 
 if your into FPS's then go and check out this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawelS_99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a modern- based first person shooter from Infinity Ward and it 
 is an amazing game because of the in-depth campaign mode and the highly addictive multiplayer modes. 
 Everything in this game make COD4 truly something awesome.
  
  The Campaign Mode in COD4 is the best storyline in any of the COD games because everything happens, 
 from practising in training camp, to sniping in old farms in Russia, to battling in desert towns, 
 to escaping on a truck and everything in between. Even though the actual campaign itself is really 
 short ( completion between 5-6 hours ) , alot happens in it, which gives you a really solid experience.
 
  
  The weapons in COD4 are all pretty sick, ranging from assault rifles, to sub machine guns, to light 
 machine guns, to shotguns, and to snipers. Some of the assault rifles are M16's, M4 Carbine's, 
 AK-47's, G3's, M14's, you get the point there are alot of weapons in this game. Some sub machine 
 guns included are MP5's, Mini Uzi's, and P90's. Light machine guns are M249 SAW's, RPD's, and M60E4's. 
 Shotguns include W1200's, and M1014's. And finally some snipers are Dragunov's, R700's, and Barret 
 50. cal's. A cool feature in this game is to unlock attachments to your weapons like Red Dot Sight, 
 Silencer, and ACOG Scope. Another cool feature is to add camouflage to your weapons like the Forest, 
 Desert, Digital, Blue Tiger, Red Tiger, and Gold camouflages.
  
  All these weapons, attachments, and camouflages can be used to your liking in the Create-A-Class 
 feature. You pick what ever weapon you want that you have unlocked ( weapons are unlocked as you 
 progress through the online portion of the game and level up, up to 55 at which point prestige 
 is unlocked where you can show your worth by getting a new icon every prestige up to ten times 
 ) , get 25 kills with it to unlock the first attachment, Red Dot Sight, and get 150 XP ( Experience 
 Points ) . Do the same thing but this time get 75 kills to unlock the Silencer, and get 500 XP. 
 Then finally the same thing, but this time 150 kills to get ACOG Scope, plus 1000 XP. Then get 
 25 headshots to unlock Digital camouflage, plus more XP ( you already begin with Forest, and Desert 
 camouflage ) , then 75 headshots to unlock Blue Tiger camouflage, plus even more XP, then finally 
 150 headshots to unlock Red Tiger camouflage plus even more XP. And if your feel crazy, then do 
 all of these challenges for all of the weapons in any class to pick a weapon to get Gold camouflage 
 for.
  
  All the challenges are mainly kill and headshot challenges but some of them are to get kills with 
 your knife, grenades, destroy enemy C4 and Claymore, kill with C4 and Claymore, run 26 miles and 
 a whole lot more that make the online experience the best part of the game.
  
  So, all the words I typed must've meant something to readers, so here is everything in a short 
 sentence: Get COD4 no matter who you are , how old are you, or how you look, beacause the is the 
 best single player and multiplayer experience you can buy anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 delivers fabulous multiplayer that takes fun to the next level. With different type 
 of game modes this FPS game lives up to the hype and makes up for the previous version COD3. This 
 game has amazing and simple controls which make it effective for any player to advance there kills. 
 The prestige mode challenges players to regain challenges and points and losing all attachment 
 just for a higher rank. Though people have mixed feelings about this mode. Prestige mode is very 
 interesting and many prefer to go through with it. Call of Duty 4 is the best game in 2007 hands 
 down. With new Variety maps this game continues to evolve rapidly. This game is the number 1 game 
 played on both consoles 360 and PS3. And Second on PC. The PS3 CONTROL itself is perfect R3 to 
 knife L2 and R2 for grenades and the main crouch and etc controls. This game has limited strategy 
 besides the perk setup which can influence your performance in different maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_stomp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are great. But as i started to plaay online some of the games bugs and glitches 
 were just a little too much. But the game is good. Sometimes when you shoot an enemy online the target 
 doesnt appear even tough you know your hitting him but its just not registering. The Gun custimization 
 is limited to one add-on and the camo of the guns arent that great. The marines and mercenaries 
 use the same gun which i feel is dumb but hey its whatever. but overall CoD 4 is a decent game. There 
 is quite alot of different online modes but the maps are limited to a few unless you download the 
 new maps off of the psn network. But i expected more from the"GAME OF THE YEAR" i feel that it doesnt 
 deserve that title but watever. But the games decent and is fun for the first couple of hours until 
 it starts to get boring and the repetetive play of no teamwork or tacticalism online just kills 
 the game online and really hurts it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banjo_kazooie33
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I cannot put my SIXAXIS controller down!
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warefare is highly addictive and pure exellence! It is my absolute favourite 
 game up to date. You play the game as a soldier named Soap. Basically it is just like every other 
 shooting game. You throw grenades, shoot people, knife people, nothing special. So why is it my 
 favourite game? Why is it rated 10?
  
  Well. It's the online aspect that is incredible. There are 20 modes that you can play online, some 
 of them being Free-For-All, Team Deathmatch, Hardcore Team Deathmatch and Old School Deathmatch. 
 As you pile up kills, you gain experience which unlocks new perks and weopens. You unlock such 
 perks as Last Stand (before you die you pull out your pistol and kill the assaulter) , x3 x3 (you 
 recieve 6 extra grenades) , and Grenade Kill (dropping a grenade as you die) . Once you reach a high 
 enough level, you can join clans (join the clan 'WaR') . There are also objectives online and if 
 you complete them you gain experience. The only fault I can think of in Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is that you cannot play online locally. Meaning you cannot have a friend over and play 
 online with them. Which does feel like a slight letdown.
  
  But it is an exellent multiplayer game even if it's 1 on 1. Any PlayStation 3 owner should give 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a try and get ready to be pulled in to this realistic game of warfare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  It took some time to make the game and finally launch to the hungry war gamers. The game's timeline 
 is in 1940's as you all now in the time the world war two was at its best. But dont expect detailed 
 storyline its over in a blink of and eye. Lets see its goods and bads.
  
  Good: Story is very thrilling and you get very excited. A well made multiplayer that the game is 
 really based on the great multiplayer than the other features. A very entaintaining presatations.
 
  
  Bad. Campaign is very short than other war games like battkefied and medal of honor.
  
  The only fault is the short story line and then you jump to multiplayer to play some real shotter. 
 I cant really tell what you will need on your playstation 3to see those amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:   
 perfects the shooter genre with a singleplayer experience like no other it is visually beautiful 
 with impressive AI and great replayabitily value with an adictive arcade mode although a little 
 on the short side the multiplayer makes up for it . the muliplayer is really incredible , theres 
 a ton of game modes and maps with a perk system wich rewards you for gaining experience for killing 
 youll allways keep coming back for more a great community especially on psn IMO , i must warn you 
 not to be suprised if you waste a good couple of years on this game trying to become prestige 10, 
 YES the multiplayer is that addictive. buy the game if you allready havent .wich i hope you have 
 cuz its really incredible . in summary BUY not rent BUY this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallinTears
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Too good. Call of Duty 4 is too good. Whether its Sniping back in the corner or going all out with 
 the M16 or M4 Call of Duty relates to all playing styles with perks to match your needs such as 
 grenades and extra ammo. Great Game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  This is just to fill the 100 words :
  
  Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
 Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game Great Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazpen90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The single player game is way to short but good ....... it a bit disappointing really 
 because i loved the old call of duty but i expected more from a blue ray disc a lot more level 
 and a lot more action and some sneaking mission would be great aswell so i hope there will be a 
 lot more levels in the next call of duty.
  
  Graphics: The graphics is amazing guns looks really great like reality and the characters looks 
 brilliant. Nice desert and forestry looks really great it feels like your in the game but i bet 
 you wouldn't like to be in the actuall war lol.
  
  Sound: Brilliant firing sounds and brilliant explosives sounds you couldn't ask for better sound 
 in a war game.
  
  Online: This game is the best on line shooter ever its brilliant and good ranking and all kind 
 of different game types.
  
  for the people who likes 3rd person shoter get this game straight away but if you have not got 
 online dont bother the single playr is to short to spend 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustap949
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is the best FPS I have played since Quake 3 Arena The only thing that sucks (and the reason 
 it doesnt get a 10.0) is that you cant play local multiplayer online. So in other words you and 
 your buddies cant go online and all play online together like halo. Although I think there are 
 only like 3 games in existance that allow you to do that which is really stupid. The graphics are 
 unbelievable, and the level design is sick. Especially on multiplyer. The scoring system on mulitplayer 
 is cool too because you score points with kills and injuries so you arent completely focused on 
 the number of kills only. It also shows you how you were killed from your opponents view which 
 makes deaths undeniable because you can see how you were killed. Bottom line... if you own a PS3 
 you should own this game. Just buy it. It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_man0299
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  For call of duty, which has always been known as a great ww2 game, they do even better with modern 
 warfare.
  
  *graphics- the graphics are great i have found no mistakes in them, but i can't call them perfect. 
 the enviroments really stand out with these kind of graphics. the near perfect graphics are from 
 the time infinity ward spent on this game. by the time they were shipping call of duty 2, they 
 had already started working on this excellent game.
  
  *gameplay- call of duty 4 plays very smoothly, no lagging or glitches while gunning down russian 
 terrorists. the controls feel so right, like as if they were meant to be that way. i love that 
 they added a sprint feature unlike some other first person shooters i've played.
  
  *sound- the audio in this game is epic. the explosions sound big and awesome compared to just a 
 bang or something like that. thats all i have to say about the audio.
  
  *multiplayer- the multiplayer is excellent and addicting. customization of guns though, is ok. 
 unlike mgs4, you get one weapon attachment and camoflauge pattern. i love the camo patterns in 
 this game. the challenges are fun and rewarding, like getting a gold ak or getting 250 xp for falling 
 30 feet and dying. thats all i have to say about multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When you play the call of duty games, you find yourself playing in ww2, and it gets kind of old, 
 in many ways. But this time the Call of Duty franchise reaches a new level, and steps away from 
 ww2.
  The gameplay is incredible, whenever you play this game with its controls you end up playing it 
 over and over again. I wanted to get this game for the 360, but instead I got this game as a present 
 for the ps3. The gameplay is just as good on the ps3, as it is on the 360.
  The graphics are outstanding, it makes it look like you are actually in a fire fight. The audio 
 presintation is also incredible when you release some ammo.
  The campaign beats any other call of duty campaign, let alone any other game campaign this year. 
 You will find yourself playing it over and over again, probably because you can get the campaign 
 done within an afternoon, which I hate when games are that short.
  Now the multiplayer is worth the price the game has, it will keep you playing way into the night, 
 just to rank up, its amazing online and offline, which makes the game.
  The only problem with the game is the short campaign, but it is worth it, go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waferlawrence
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I know there's no shortage of shooters out there, and the wave of them keeps coming. But this game 
 has managed to shoulder itself above the rest, probably because of the absolutely OUTSTANDING online 
 play. I get owned constantly and still can't quit playing it.
  
  The campaign is no joke either, but it does give me my one complaint about the game, it's a bit 
 short. But after you beat the short campaign, you do get the option to go back through and play 
 for score. That made me immediately pick it up and keep playing.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5
  It's really good with outstanding variety of what you do. You'll be escorting tanks, blowing anti-aircraft 
 guns, providing ait support, manning the minigun, abort missile launches.... well you get my point.
 
  
  Graphics - 10
  Top of the line right now. There's nothing to complain about. Really. They're great. 
  
  Sound 
 - 8.5 
  No real music, but this could be a 10 if they'd patch it with the new Firmware update to allow 
 you to play your own tracks. The "pwfft... splat" of someone getting sniped is always awesome.
 
  
  Value - 10
  You're going to play it alot. More than 60 dollars worth. Chances are, if you're reading this now, 
 you can get it cheaper than that.
  
  Tilt - 10
  Yes sir. 10 for tilt. Unlock weapons, challenges, classes, and perks in online, get ranks and prestige 
 and you'll agree. Other wise, you just hate video games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scianix-Black
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, bottom line: If you don't have PSN or don't plan to play this online, then it's definitely 
 a rental. 
  
  Reason being is because whether you beat it on Easy, Medium, Hard, or Very Hard modes, you still 
 get the same experience out of the single player.
  
  The only reason one would go back after beating would be to collect the hidden Intelligence in 
 each level in order to unlock certain cheats that you can activate at your whim in-game. 
  
  So if you're not planning to play this online at all, then do not buy it. Rent it.
  
  Now, 
 for the online FPS lovers.
  
  BUY THIS. Definitely not a waste of your money. The online aspect has everything you want from 
 an online FPS, and then some. There are customizable classes where you can pick your own set up 
 of guns and side arms, as well as perks.
  
  Perks are little "mods," so to speak, that really alter the way you play and the experience.
 
  
  For example, you may have a choice of a UAV Jammer, which makes you invisible on the enemy's radar, 
 or Stopping Power, which heightens the damage your bullets do.
  
  If you choose the UAV Jammer, you're invisible. But your gun will also do noticeably less damage 
 than it would do, had you chosen Stopping Power.
  
  It's choices like these that really add a strategic element to the game, forcing the player to 
 think ahead.
  
  Along with the customizable class is a ranking system. As you level up with experience that you 
 gain from killing people in matches and unlock more guns to use, you get closer and closer to that 
 last level in each rank: level 55.
  
  It's at this point where you're faced with the decision of starting over from scratch in order 
 to gain a rank, or to just stay where you are. Starting over and entering into the next rank is 
 called Prestige Mode, and it's brilliant.
  
  You can do this 10 times before you reach the last rank, which favors the hardcore players.
  
 
  But don't forget, online is fun. You don't have to do Prestige Mode, you can just get up to 55 
 and just have fun from there.
  
  It's all up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_t1012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  To start, you must buy this game. If you don't have one already, go out and pick up a copy right 
 now. And get a cheeseburger or something too. You'll never stop playing this one so you might get 
 a bit hungry. OK, OK, heaping piles of hyperbole aside, Call of Duty 4 is truly an amazing game. 
 An intense, in-your-face single player campaign alone is worth the price of admission, but throw 
 in some of the most addictive multi player on this side of the century, you really have a winner. 
 First off, even though the single player mode is short, it's packed full of intense game play and 
 amazing set-pieces. The enemy AI is smart and will duck behind cover like you, and your squad mates 
 can actually pick off some enemies when you're in a bit of trouble. Otherwise you're pretty much 
 a one man army, but thats fine when the game play is so finely balanced. The guys at Infinity Ward 
 are masterminds at pacing, with a few missions of intense Russian shooting slowed down by a helicopter 
 mission with you manning the guns, capped off by an adrenaline-pumping stealth mission tasking 
 you with sneaking past legions of enemy soldiers. Really my only gripe with the single player mode 
 is its length. It's just too dang short. On the other side of the game, is the robust online multi-player. 
 It's amazingly addictive and will keep you hooked months after you first play. At its core is a 
 perk system, which lets you customize your character to whatever your play style is. The online 
 game play is varied with many different game modes to play, although my favorite is still the standard 
 team death match. All the guns feel suitably meaty and satisfying, with no gun being over-powered 
 and "cheap". Re spawn times are quick too, so you never feel out of the action for long. The technical 
 specs COD4 is packing are quite impressive too. If your playing in HD, the environments, character 
 models and guns look amazing. Lighting, particle effects and textures look good too but explosions 
 could use some extra oomph. Sound-wise, its all standard action-movie music but the guns sound 
 great. There's nothing better than hearing the "boom" of a shotgun followed by your foe collapsing 
 in a heap. Overall, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is a treat to play. Balanced game play in single 
 and multi player modes make this old franchise worth more than another look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an incredible game. The story made is somewhat short, but astounding as well. 
 There so many moments were i just thought to myself "I cant believe that just happened!". Other 
 times I would yell out "Holy $#@!, or DAMN!". The game's multiplayer modes are very fun as well 
 as the campaign. When you have your friends over, this is the game to play. Also, the best part 
 about this game is it's online mode. It is extremely addictive. You just keep on playing because 
 you want to grow ranks and acquire new weapons and perks. 
  
  The only downside to this game is that you cannot wall hug, which is a disappointment, and due 
 to this, you cannot blind fire, either. So, basically, it is a great game. Anyone with 60 bucks 
 should definitely go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one to own, this game has been done very well, first thing it is no longer a WWII shooter. 
 It is Modern Warfare. Call of Duty 4 has everthing going for it and then some. It has the best 
 graphics I have seen in a game, not to mention about everything else. The story in C. o. D. 4 is 
 sensational, its is easy to follow and it has a lot of action, which is better than Halo. Now Halo 
 3 was a good game that had a great story and was fun to finish but thats about the only thing that 
 really grabed me. I did like the online campaign co-op, however C. o. D. 4 is so much better than 
 Halo 3 in every way. I am glad Infinity Ward did this game and got out of WWII. They did an excellent 
 job with this and they should be proud. If you like war first person shooter games this is the 
 one, and should not be missed for any reason. Through my experience first person shooters feel 
 better on 360 due to controls and how the game plays, but the PS3 feels just as good. Go out and 
 buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Moving away from all the world war 2 crap and moving into modern war, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 creates one of the best shooter games ever created. The story is set out in numerous places. You 
 are trying to find Al Aasad, a terrorist who gives nuclear bombs to Imran Zakaev, who plans to 
 destroy the world. yoYou are to locate these criminals and destory the bombs before it's to late.
 
  
  negetive: There is only one things that i can really say that i hate about his game. It's too short. 
 But, being too short, it covers a lot of storytelling and gives a thorough plan on what's happeneing.
 
  
  Positive: This game was meant to be made. It has great visual and audio effects. The storyline 
 of the story is solid and can be sad at the end of the game. The game gives you a great feeling 
 from being away from the WWII stuff and brings you into modern things, with great guns and explosions. 
 Not dumb AK-47's and lame explosions.
  
  This game brings joy to the world and was 2007 game of the year by the people choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I generally don't like war games, or even first-person shooters very much. But something about 
 this title gripped me from the beginning. I think it must have been the way it made my heart pound 
 as I worked through the campaign, sweating every time I threw an enemy grenade back and wondering 
 if I had enough time on the fuse. Or being severely outnumbered with just myself and a wounded 
 sniper, feeling doomed yet somehow making it through. This is one of the few games which takes 
 me out of myself (the way a really great movie does) and throws me into the shoes of an SAS soldier 
 or Marine, and has me wondering if I'll make it to the end.
  
  I'm not a game reviewer, but these are some things that have earned Infinity Ward high marks in 
 my book with this title: Graphics - As of today (December '07) , these are the best visuals a game 
 has to offer, and sometimes I find myself just walking around an area admiring the detail that 
 went into it. The frame rate (at least on the 360) remains pretty consistent, and the fluidity 
 of movement is silky smooth from start to finish.
  
  Pacing - Not once was I bored during the campaign. It's fast paced, but not in an unrealistic way 
 - you're on the edge of your seat because there's "hostiles" all around you, and you can't afford 
 the luxury of being bored.
  
  Difficulty - I'm glad to see that a higher difficulty here does NOT mean an enemy who takes more 
 shots, but rather one with faster reflexes, sturdier aim, and more strategic grenade-lobbing.
 
  
  Sound effects - I don't know how many people look for good sound effects in a game, but for me, 
 they tend to be a major factor, and I appreciate the satisfyingly diverse sounds of each weapon, 
 or the "ping" grenades make as they bounce towards you, and yes, even the "thup" of hitting your 
 target.
  
  Story - About the highest compliment I could give this game is that it plays like a superbly made 
 war drama. It's one part story driven, and one part simulator. The overall story and character 
 involvement make it feel like something much more epic than just a first-person shooter, though 
 if all you happen to care about is shooting, the story doesn't get in the way of that, either. 
 The campaign ends with a dramatic conclusion, and I frankly hope there are never talks of making 
 this franchise into a movie, because Call of Duty 4 goes beyond the limits of what films are capable 
 of.
  
  (also, the music is commendable, simply because I generally don't think I'd want much of a soundtrack 
 for realism's sake, but Stephen Barton's work here is beautifully sublime, and sets the mood well) 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, all previous Call of Duty games stink except for some love for COD2. Call of Duty 
 for seams to go beyond what a normal shooter brings and then some. Only to be doomed by a difficult 
 and short single player.
  
  Single player pros
  
  Great woven story, keeps things interesting at all moments, graphics are insanely real at times 
 for a console game, amount of things going on really add to the games atmosphere, interesting enemies.
 
  
  Single player cons
  
  Short beating a shooter should not take less then 6 hours flying through it, difficulty in parts 
 seamed retarded past fustration. For instance the scene were your partner is injured by the amusement 
 park while you gun people down till help arrives. This scene as well as the finaly scene after 
 the credits was a bit TOO difficult. 
  
  Multiplayer pros
  
  RPG like leveling system, realistic deaths, lots of mp types, 
  
  Multiplayer cons
  
  Lack 
 of room making similar to Socom 1 and 2. Sorry its just the best setup I've seen. Getting a kill 
 streak to be able to get air support can be retarded and hard. respawn setup is a bit wack, p2p 
 gaming on the ps3 is a no no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhonen84
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the COD franchise since it started. I enjoyed all the previous WW2 version 
 and was excited to hear a Modern Warfare version coming out for the PS3. 
  
  The campaign mode is great, you play the role as different soldiers either from the U. S. M. C. or 
 S. A. S. Even though the paths are different they affect eachother in the overall chain of events. 
 Intense combat, great visual effects and stunning graphics. COD4 did not let down in the campaign, 
 like previous COD`s it had that classic feel to the controls but with new environments and weapons, 
 it gave it a refreshing feel.
  
  Besides from Campaign mode, there is the online multiplayer. Personally this is my favourite part 
 of the game, the online aspect is perfect. The combat is intense and the maps are great. WIth the 
 ability of calling in airstrikes and helicopter support it adds a whole new aspect to online playablility. 
 Also the ability to gain ranks which in return give access to newer weapons, attachements and perks. 
 
  COD4 is great all around and a must have for any PS3 owner. 
  
  Check it out for the story mode stay for the online slaughter.
  
  See you all online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstation4lyf
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the only area of the game that needs improvement. the single player campaign mode. 
 Don't get me wrong, the graphics are amazing, the sound is just how you want it, but, its short. 
 i thought the story ended satisfactorily, but the campaign was too short for me. The online mode 
 is arguably the best online mode in a first person shooter game. its addicting. you level up from 
 1 to 55, and then you can stop. or not. there is a new mode called prestige, where you reset to 
 1, but you get a new symbol to display you badassness. there are around 10 to 15 prestige modes, 
 each with its own symbol. eventually, you can get to ultimate prestige and you have a gold cross 
 to show your godly skill. the game automatically keeps track of your shots, hits, kills, deaths, 
 wins, losses, games played, and time played. as you play, there are challenges to complete, in 
 their own difficulty levels. there are 5 levels of difficulty. Boot Camp (very easy) , Operation 
 (easy) , Killer (medium) , Humiliation (hard) , Elite (damn near impossible) . some of the challenges 
 really are almost impossible, such as shooting an enemy claymore, through a wall, killing someone 
 on the OTHER team. all in all, COD4 is the best of the series so far. and a game that you definitely 
 want to get if you like fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  This is defenitly my favorite game in the whole Call Of Duty series... acually this is my favoite 
 war game of all time! This game is very accurate warfare that is happening right now (except for 
 the nuke) . The graphics are just amazing they are so realilistic the first thign that you will be 
 saying is WOW! The gameplay is one of the best I have ever expericed it's so intese that it makes 
 me feel like im there again helping my troops and me survive! The sound is very real with all the 
 guns people and explosions it has to be good! This is by far the BEST game I have played in a while 
 this is defenitly better then MGS4 AND GTA4 I could just be in my living room and play this for 
 hours online becasue the online is the best online i have ever played before. You can do team deathmatch, free 
 for all, sabatoge, ground war and many different other games that you can play with other and its 
 just countless fun.
  
  I reconmend this game to any PS3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NC_Hitman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The single player campaign and the multiplayer maps are spot on in almost 
 every aspect. While playing the single player game i was constanly supprised at how smart the a. i. 
 was and how the enemys worked together. The amount of detail that went into the small arms weapons 
 and the vehicle mounted heavyweapons was immpresive. My job requires me to work with alot of these 
 weapons and their ingame counterparts are identical in looks and operation of the weapon. That 
 alone is reason enough to check this game out. The way that the game shows the relationship between 
 the marines and british SAS is a accurate description of how JSOC forces work in real life. I would 
 love to see this taken even further in the future of Infinity Ward's modern style shooters. The 
 multiplayer is ridiculously addictive i havent played split screen this much since Halo 2. The 
 online multiplayer speaks for itself. Play it once and your addictied. If you enjoy FPS even a 
 little buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the best FPS games I have ever played. When playing this game you could tell that everything 
 has been thought through clearly resulting in a great product worthy of being called next-gen. 
 Quality of graphics are outstanding! Story line isnt that great but I doubt that there are memorable 
 story lines from previous COD games or even Medal of Honor for that matter. Its a full scale war 
 game and thats what counts. At least for me. A kind of stealth operation in the middle of the game 
 is something everybody should try. I don't think I could look at any other FPS war game the same 
 after playing this. In fact I have not played any other since. I only hope that the next Call of 
 Duty would be of the same standards as this. I personally felt like it was a bit short. But maybe 
 thats only because I enjoyed it and finished it in only two days. To sum up the game in one sentence: 
 It's an amazing game, one that everyone will and should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  This is my first COD game and its by far the best shooter ive ever played. The graphics are stunning 
 and game play makes everything so much more intense. COD4 really delivers the next gen punch and 
 some more. It revolutionized the whole game industry, this game re sharped shooters out there. 
 This game has become the top of all action FPS out there, the great AI of enemies, graphics and 
 incredible, incredible sound of explosions make the game the most realistic shooter out there up 
 to date.
  
  In my opinion there will never be a modern, realistic shooter like this ever, not even COD: World 
 at War will deliver such and impressive and deep level of gameplay.
  This game will become the iconic figure of Devs, gamers, and people for gens to come.
  
  Please 
 buy this game and a mic for online parties you will need it. Dont do prestige mode unless you go 
 all the way to become a Gold Cross, other wise just stay with your 5 stars. Oh and dont camp online, 
 its the worst thing to do, even for No0bS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a rare breed, for many people i know was not overly keen on previous titles in 
 the series but strongly advised to play this game, it is the FPS of the moment and puts all others 
 (including over-hyped Halo 3) to complete and utter shame with simple things that work really well.
 
  
  What makes this game work well is that once you finish the quality but very short single player 
 mode, the fun has only just begun, because the online mode is by far the best out there and offers 
 so much customization of weapons and perks for your character that you cant help but play on until 
 you go up to the next level, it is just so much fun.
  
  For first person shooter fans, this is an essential buy no matter what you think of the previous 
 titles in the series, for everyone else i strongly advise you to give this game a go as it is that 
 much fun online and off line as well. A truly deserved 9.5 rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CVM_123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game you will ever see it has short story but is the best of all the story of 
 the call of duty games not to say that it has awesome graphics a great gameplay the story its that 
 you have to find a guy named imran zakaev well i think that name but its like to find bin laden 
 or a super terrorist is just an amazing story plagued with action and a lot of replay value even 
 when you finish the game you just go back and go for more, the multiplayer of call of duty 4 is 
 amazing i enjoyed playing with friend it has alot of modes like deathmatch etc. when you kill people 
 in multiplayer you gain points that let unlock arms, new bomb etc. nevermind this is just one for 
 not to say the best call of duty game ever it will gave a lot of gameplay, replay value and an amazing 
 multiplayer that you will enjoy with your friend and a lot of people. if youre a fan of fps you 
 really need to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfHunter04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  COD4 was the 1st game in the series I ever played and i was in HD heaven! This game practically... no... does 
 have everything you could possibly want in any FPS game! It has a thrillin' campaign but just like 
 most ppl say it's very very short! But the multiplayer online is totally worth gettin this game 
 by any means! The only problems i can see is that sometimes the multiplayer mode lags and sometimes 
 you wonder if the players/teams are unequal but other than that you have got to get this game if 
 you love FPS's or military games or the military in general! Oorah!
  
  Good:
  ~Multiplayer Online is Awesome 
  ~Graphics Go "To Infinity... and Beyond!"
  ~Campaign Mode Is 
 Actiony and Fast Paced
  ~Gameplay is smooth. You'll be hooked from the 1st pull of the trigger.
  ~Lots of Weapons to 
 choose from + Unlockable Perks
  
  Bad:
  ~Occasional Lag in Online Multiplayer
  ~Campaign Mode is too short
  ~Online sometimes spawns you in a hot zone
  ~You'll probably forget 
 you have other FPS games
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, that god needs to create a new word of such uberness... ok thats a little 
 geeky, but ya, its an awesome game! Ok, so first, you will probably start with the story mode/ 
 campaign w/e you like to call it, and wow, will you get addicted. The only thing that throws some 
 people off is that this is the PS3 version, and there aren't any achievements, but if thats how 
 you're then you shouldn't be playing this, playing for achievements is stupid, and your not a gamer 
 then. Anyways, the campaign isn't very long, and is moderately easy, but really fun. Always play 
 the campaign first, so you know how to play... Then, once you finish campaign, well then there 
 is the reason why this game is godly... MULTIPLAYER! Omg! Multiplayer is AWESOME in COD4! Seriously, 
 you lvl as you get through it, and as you lvl, you get new weapons, new perks, new enhancements 
 for your weps, and 50 lvls or 55 lvls, srry mindblock : (, but once u hit 50 or 55, you go to a 
 whole next prestige! Theres TEN yes 10 prestiges with 50-55 lvls in each! Ya, PURE AWESOMENESS! 
 With online it is so quick to find a game, easy and extremely fun to play, lots of challenges to 
 help you lvl, omg this game is awesome... if you dont have it GET IT! P. S.: When you hit lvl 40 
 in multiplayer, use the P90, its like an awesome wep, trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvetteman712
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have played so far. This game leaves me searching for a game as good as 
 it. This game has the greatest online multiplayer I have ever seen. The online is very addicting 
 because the ranks are set up great and you just want to keep playing and leveling up and advancing 
 your world rank. The prestige feature is also great. You can choose to level up to 55 and stop 
 and keep every thing unlocked or prestige and loose everything to gain prestige and world rank. 
 I also think that the story mode is great even though GameSpot says it's too short. I think that 
 story mode is just the right length and the difficulties for it are just right. This game is so 
 great it makes me disappointed with other great games like Rainbow Six Vegas and Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 because nothing I have ever played compares to this. This game is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This was nearly first title i bought for my Ps3 - and i still play it. Call Of Duty 4 is dividing 
 into two games - single and online. 
  Single. Mindblasting, shocking, adrenaline. But it's too short. You will not find more action-packed 
 game in whole world. Graphics is cutting-edge, sound is great. Game have it's own style. It is 
 so packed by juicy content so it looking like it will explode. Sneaking, ambushes, air support, 
 hidden items... And all this have the best cheats ever. 
  Multiplayer. If you pressed this button - you a lost one. The best action multiplayer in the whole 
 game world. RPG-style by the way. In this one rewards are everywhere. And we all know what rewards 
 are cool. Weapons piece, weapons attachments, weapons camo... Levels, perks... We have Burnout, 
 GTA4, MGS4 - and still playing this. Maybe Bad Company will change it. And don't forget - teamwork 
 is critical! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I am going to cut to the chase. The online in this game is the best out there of any game. You 
 have to get 10 prestige levels that contain 55 levels each. That means you have to beat more than 
 550 levels online. The story itself was a little short for my likeing but it was fun and you can 
 do it again and again and again on different difficulty levels. You play as 2 people in the story, 
 Sgt. Jackson and "Soap". One of them dies in the end but as you all likely know you win in the end. 
 If you don't already know some of your friends die in the last level (I'm not saying who.) I still 
 can't get over the online part of the game. There is between 15-30 guns that you can get in the 
 game by unlocking levels. COD4 won the best game of the year award and I can see why. The difficulty 
 is just right for the story but depending on your skill level online might be a bit harder. Since 
 there is over 1,000,000 people that have accounts online in is a bit hard to get your name known 
 unless you are a level 55 cross (the last prestige.) I'm level 28 on the 2nd prestige ( I'm Favre4Out) 
 and my brother is Thunderbolt1113.
  
  Verdict: Get this game if you have online (you will be playing for days) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DQManiac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of Call of Duty games but this one takes the cake. It has a short campaign but 
 it's awesome while it lasts and multiplayer is unreal!!!
  
  Campaign:
  As I said it's short but sweet. You take on the roles of Soap Mac Tavish of the S. A. S and Paul 
 Jackson of the U. S. M. C. The S. A. S team travel through Russia to find Zakhaev while U. S. M. C. travel 
 through the Middle East to find Al-Asad, but in the end they work together to stop Zakhaev. I finished 
 the campaign in a day but i've replayed it many times its that good.
  
  Graphics:
  They are remarkable. Extremely realistic facial movements and brilliantly presented levels. 
  
 
  Multiplayer:
  This is brilliant!!! You start at lvl.1 and finish at lvl.55. You get XP by winning, getting kills 
 and completing challenges. There is so much variety in it I don't think you'll ever get sick of 
 it.
  
  Buy this game or i'll fight you!!! It is a gaming experience not to be missed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Great Weapons Great Storyline Great Acting But Bad Game Length 
  I love The Modern warheads, tanks and weapons and my favorite gun of all time the M4 the acting 
 was good i felt like that i was their brothers the storyline i kinda good if you include the length 
 of the game i hate that its too short kinda disappointing if you ask me but that don't mean its 
 a bad game the missions are good but some to simple like way after the simple bits is you must 
 go to this dude stuck in a chopper then bring him back. i think the reason its short is they ran 
 out off things to make up and thats it i have a bad thing for making up city names but this isn't 
 the time for that its a good game but beware that its short Mutiplayer on my opinion is hard so 
 don't take my word for it take yourself for that ok bye thumbs up and you be tracked lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has made a name for itself as the premier WWII shooter series, but original developer 
 Infinity Ward wanted to do something different this time, leaving WWII in the past. Their third 
 game, the fourth game in the CoD series, takes the combat into the modern era and features an entirely 
 original storyline that hasn't come from the pages of history books. It's a bold move and one that 
 ultimately has paid off. They went in deep and hard and pulled if off.
  
  Previous games in the series have struggled to tell a story to match the intense action, and sadly 
 the same is true of CoD4. While it's totally fictional this time around and involves numerous nuclear 
 weapons, it's not storytelling at its best. You play as Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish (and switch 
 to other characters at various points) , a new recruit thrown in at the deep end. Along with Captain 
 Price and numerous other soldiers, it's up to you to stop a major international disaster of unprecedented 
 scale. It's easy enough to piece together what's going on, but don't expect Hollywood style cinematics 
 or Oscar-worthy writing. CoD4 is like an 80s action movie given the budget of a modern blockbuster.
 
  
  While a fully cohesive plot would have been great, it's not the be all and end all of a video game, 
 especially one that sees you wielding numerous high-powered rifles, RPGs, grenades, tank-busting 
 missiles, air-strike signallers and more. The weaponry on offer here exceeds that seen in previous 
 games in the series by some way, although it might take some time to adjust to if you're used to 
 WWII-era guns.
  
  Your opening mission sets the tone for the rest of the game. Set at night, you board a tanker with 
 the rest of the Spec Ops team and go about silently taking down the crew members. It's incredibly 
 slick, with your team-mates doing a lot of the work for you, but soon things go wrong and you're 
 forced to evacuate as quickly as possible. From then on your team-mates aren't quite so helpful 
 and you have to put your own gun-skills to the test in a six-hour thrill ride.
  
  Hmm, six hours? Sadly that's just about the most you'll get out of the single-player campaign when 
 played through on Normal difficulty. More skilful players will be able to attempt Hardened difficulty 
 to get a few more hours out of the experience, and the real masochists out there can opt for the 
 'breathe near an enemy and die' fun that is Veteran. I won't pretend that I'm a gaming god and 
 have finished the game on Veteran, as I haven't, but it's damn hard and gives you something to 
 aim for once you've run through the campaign for the first time.
  
  And what a campaign it is. It's hard to say exactly where it fits into the series, but it's certainly 
 more enjoyable and dramatic than CoD3 (although less chaotic) . Picking this or CoD2 as the series' 
 high-point is tricky and will most likely come down to which era of fighting you prefer. CoD4 has 
 all the terrorist activity you'd want, evil leaders, dramatic encounters and plenty of stunning 
 scripted moments that will make your jaw hit the floor. The ability to shoot through walls also 
 deserves a mention, as it really adds an extra level of authenticity to proceedings and makes you 
 think carefully about your position and that of your enemies.
  
  The Call of Duty series has always relied on intelligent scripted sequences to add danger and excitement 
 to the games, and CoD4 is no different. It certainly isn't without its problems - enemies that 
 will keep spawning until you cross an invisible barrier - but as long as you don't want it to be 
 what it's not, you'll have a whale of a time. This isn't an open-ended shooter, not even to the 
 extent that Halo 3 offers numerous large areas to tackle as you see fit. It's a linear experience 
 that carries you along for the ride.
  
  Enemy AI isn't the best, failing to come close to the brilliance we've seen in many other first-person 
 shooters, often relying on high numbers of enemies rather than intellect. It works though, often 
 creating the sense that you're pinned down, desperate for support and potentially seconds from 
 death. These moments are certainly frustrating at points, but oh so rewarding when you complete 
 them, if you ever do - I'm looking at you Veteran mode.
  
  As well as the standard on-foot sections you'll board a Gunship, mowing down enemies at night in 
 what can only be described as one of the most surreal but realistic moments I've ever played in 
 a video game. It brought the sheer power of the arsenal the military has at its disposal into a 
 new light and captured the look and feel of the situation perfectly. Other moments, like the stunning 
 title sequence, high-five movie-like finale and sneaky extra mission after the credits (after a 
 brilliant CoD song) will leave you breathless.
  
  Sadly, it is over far too soon, but there's more on offer after the credits. The Arcade mode lets 
 you play through the entire game or jump into specific levels and attempt to earn a new high-score. 
 It's a little crude, turning a terrorist situation (albeit fictional) into a game of multipliers 
 and bonuses, but it's good fun and comes complete with internet high-score tables for the more 
 competitive amongst you.
  
  The biggest mode of all though is undoubtedly the online multiplayer. While four-player split-screen 
 offline is supported on consoles, it's the solo online mode that will have you clocking up the 
 hours. Anyone who played in the online Xbox 360 Beta will know what to expect, and just how addictive 
 it can be. Using a combination of simple levelling up and a perks system that rewards good players 
 with better equipment, the game has an almost unhealthy amount of stickability. Much like the best 
 MMOs, the desire to get those extra Experience points in order to gain another level is often too 
 much, and once you're past the point of no return (which is really no more than a few ranks in) 
 you'll want to keep plugging away.
  
  Match types are varied and feature the usual bunch of team and solo dethmatches, plus objective-based 
 modes. Five classes are on offer from the off, although you'll soon be able to customise your weapon 
 loadout as you see fit. With up to 18 players running around on cosoles and 32 on PC, calling in 
 air-strikes, placing charges and sniping you from behind (only me then?) it's frenetic stuff and 
 is sure to become one of the most popular online games on all three systems.
  
  What of the differences between the PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 versions? Thankfully there's little to 
 choose between them, which is almost unheard of in this latest generation of consoles. The visual 
 and control edge (if you're a keyboard and mouse fan) goes to the PC version, although you will 
 need a fairly decent system to get the game running like it does on the consoles. Picking between 
 the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions is near impossible, although with the benefit of rumble in the controller, 
 Achievement points and a system wide online system, the 360 game is the console version to opt 
 for.
  
  No matter which you choose, you're in for a stunningly presented FPS experience. The amount of 
 stuff that's going on and the level of detail in the environments put lesser shooters to shame, 
 and the musical score is superb, matching the authenticity of the weapons and the chatter from 
 your team-mates. Frame rate counters out there needn't worry either, as both the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 versions run remarkably well, only slowing down briefly during the most intense moments and never 
 to the detriment of the gameplay.
  
  Call of Duty fans worried by the series' move to the modern age of combat can breathe a sigh of 
 relief. Although a new setting, Call of Duty 4 is everything we've come to love about the series 
 and continues its tradition of stunning visuals and thrilling gameplay. The single-player is short 
 but the Arcade game mode and brilliant online multiplayer combine to create one of the games of 
 the year. It's more of the same, but every bit as polished as we hoped it would be.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 9
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Stunning visuals.
 
  - Superb audio.
  - Thrilling gameplay.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Spawning enemies can annoy.
  - Dogs help is a nice touch but not in a war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazgul9910
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitely a must-buy. The campaign mode is fairly short but still pretty entertaining; 
 you go on a very wide variety of missions so there is no feel of repetition. There is also tons 
 of weapons at your disposal, some of them aren't in multiplayer, such as the silenced M21 sniper 
 rifle or the Stinger guided rocket launcher. 
  Now the multiplayer mode is the main reason for getting this game. It has so many weapons in 5 
 different classes: Assault rifle, Sub-Machine guns, Sniper rifles, Shotguns, and Full Auto Machine 
 guns. My personal favorite is the Barrett .50 cal Sniper, kills most people in 1 hit unless you 
 get them really far away and in the leg or something. The maps are also very fresh and entertaining, 
 plus they offer a wide variety of strategic options for the military savvy to the flat out stupid. 
 I
  I didn't give this game a 10 out of 10 for nothing, but if you don't have internet for the online 
 mode it may be better just to rent it for the campaign until you get the option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Some game manufacturers tend to release games worse then there predecesors. However, Activision 
 and Infinity Ward have done it again. From the instant classic of the World War II based saga to 
 a sixty year jump in time, FPS players around the world have a lot to say about this game.
  
  Despite the terribly short campaign mode, the real action, gameplay, enviromental effects, 
 scripts, and sound have truely made Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare one of the best FPS games on 
 the market. This is an action packed campaign that will keep your heart pounding from the near 
 death experiance that the very beginning of the game. Fellow and opponent AI and weapons give COD4 
 a gameplay like none other. A look-down-the-sight based shooter gives a real feeling of what kind 
 of weapons deal what sort of damage. These damages don't go unnoticed both on the flesh and unanimated 
 objects. Enviromental effects of this game during battle seem surreal. The ability to shoot through 
 thin walls or even thick ones (with the use of some perks in multiplayer) furthers the usage of 
 enviromental effects to the gameplay. I was suprised about how the developers were able to pull 
 of a game based on a very sensitive war. This is "Modern Warfare" indeed. The game feels like as 
 though it were actually happening somewhere in the world. News broadcasting and satilite view helps 
 develope a true to life story. Furthermore, the blatant assualt on religion is not shown. This 
 is not a religious warfare which some media or parents would describe it. You get the feeling during 
 the game that you are killing bad people with badass guns. AK-47's are quite satisfactory. Also, 
 the sounds that the guns make are actually real. That is right. The developers recorded the actual 
 sounds of guns such as the G3, M14, .50 Calliber Barret's Sniper Rifle, and MP5. Then they implemented 
 the sounds onto the game. So it actually feels like you are doing bad things to other people. Ever 
 here a M60 shreading through a wall to headshot another man?
  
  The massive paragraph that most would readers will skip is just some of the appreciation for the 
 single player campaign. If I were to compliment the multiplayer we would have to go through another 
 page of typing. 
  
  I have bought this game both for my PC and my PS3, and I have yet to get the feeling that I have 
 wasted my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorkNUt
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The story takes u through many different battles where u will use different weaps and different 
 tatics. It might come up on the short end, but is fully jam packed making u wanna play it more 
 than once. I spend most of my time on multiplayer thoa where ive played 100 hours alone on! it 
 is very addictive, and the different guns, customizations and game types will keep u playing for 
 along time without losing intrest. maps dont get boring and the ranking style makes u wanna keep 
 playing until ur the top rank, since theres 10 different prestiges u can go through, but if u wanna 
 stop, u can always finish off challengesand get golden guns and Xp. SO GET URSEELF A COPY OF COD4 
 RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i need more words so im writing this m=for no reason.... moo fa toesy 
 snap moo crap noone even knows............... resistance is amazing too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I never believed this game was so good until I bought it for my PS3.
  I'm pretty much a great fan of old-school games and not a very great fan of FPS. but this game 
 actually just surprised me how good it is.. I really can't explain what's so good about it, but 
 the controls are very good and the first time I played this game I was very good at it. and I've 
 never been good at FPS.
  The singleplayer mode is not that fun, I haven't played it much and haven't won it yet.. so my 
 review is about this game as a online game.
  playing this game with friends on 2-4 player isn't that great, you don't have the full screen to 
 see what you're doing and that's pretty much like playing Goldeneye back in the day. those experience 
 get old.
  But I really enjoy the online mode, there's a ranking system and things like that in this game, 
 it would work better on the 360 which would get your gaming score on your profile better or something. 
 but remember, the PS3 version is better than the 360 version because we all know the 360 controller 
 sucks!
  anyway, I haven't played the older COD games a lot. I used to play COD on my PC with my bro playing 
 some Lord Of The Rings mod, I've seen COD2 and don't know anything how COD3 is like.. but the 4th 
 one is not about the second world war and for me that's "yay!!" because world war 2 games are getting 
 so old and there's already tons of them. COD4's guns are also new and more fun then the guns from 
 the older COD games.
  but this is a good FPS, even if you don't like FPS and don't like Activision for making so many 
 bad games. go and buy this game now because it's.. good. I can't explain it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theempire30
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll get down to the point, Im a huge FPS fan, have been since I've first played Goldeneye for 
 my old Nintendo 64. Since that day I've had many games, but none that I've enjoyed more and interacted 
 more with then Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Every battle is different, even if its on single 
 player, each bullet acts so real, each charecter has a purpose and a will, each scene feels so 
 alive. Everything on it is perfect. But to just make it better hop in to multiplayer if you want 
 a real treat. There's so much going on online that you have to step back for a second and just 
 take in the real beauty of this amazing edition to the Call of Duty series. I recommend this to 
 anyone wanting to get into FPS games or to someone who has lost their faith in FPS's. Surly this 
 game with no doubt make a video game player out of anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiey
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The Best Game in the Series It had Great Graphics and lots of fun levels. It Was the Best in It's 
 Series it Had a Huge launch but the game deserved to have a bigger Launch. When Infinity Ward Came 
 Back to the Series It Made the Best Detailed Game On the PS3 Up to Date But I haven't tried MGS4 
 yet so it may look Better........... Buy this Game and have Fun! If the company makes more maps 
 for this game the series would make Halo get stopped in Production! They have some many Gamerz 
 playing this game that Infinity Ward's going to have to make a huge COD6, Since COD5 is being made 
 by Treyarch. If they combine this & Halo (Series) They'd have the Perfect Game. They should make 
 Story Mode a little bit Longer it took me 2 or 3 hours to beat. Multiplayer though is a different 
 Story It Is pure Awesomeness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  -----------
  
  COD4 is an outstanding game, great story line, excellent online play, and all around fun; only 
 thing I wish they added was the ability to play online with a friend at your place.
  
  Story: 9 / 10
  The only reason COD4 gets a nine here is cause the story was a little to short, 
 I know it would have been hard to drag it out but meh. Anyway, the story centers around two soldiers 
 for the British S. A. S. and the U. S. M. C. as they go on their missions to save the world from a nuclear 
 bomb threat. But it isn't like the usual FPS games where you run in alone and destroy entire armies, 
 in COD4 you are constantly followed by a squad to assist you.
  
  Music / Sounds: 9 / 10
  I had to add sounds into this category because the only music I hear is after a match online. The 
 music isn't all that bad, but it gets repetitive so I usually have my own music in the background. 
 But the sound effects are awesome, hell you can hear bullets flying by your head, and flying off 
 objects.
  
  Gameplay: 10+ / 10
  COD4 is one of the most entertaining FPS I have ever played, and it's online play is almost second 
 to none. The controls are well placed, easy to remember, and don't feel awkward. All of the different 
 stuff you can unlock and all the challenges in the game add for long play times trying to get them 
 all done. The different game modes in online are also fun to play with about 15 different modes 
 to pick from.
  
  Overall: 9.5 / 10
  The game is defiantly one that should be on the list of any person that is a fan of FPS or War 
 games as you will not be disappointed or run out of things to do in COD4 for a long long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmiillee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 (CoD4) is a brilliant game! It has great graphics, gameplay and online. 
  
  When playing everything is so believable. The guns feel just right and when you jump it's not like 
 Halo where you beat the world high jump reord every time. 
  
  Although the single player is still really good and it's still pretty fun to go back and repeat 
 levels on harder difficulties. The thing that really sets this game apart from the rest is its 
 online play.
  
  I am yet to see a game with such good online play. In every game mode there is always an objective, 
 whether it be to get the highest score, capture flags or blow something up! And you're not going 
 to believe this, but the system counts every shot you fire and whether they hit an enemy or not!
 
  
  If you don't already have this game, then you must buy it. It'll be worth every dollor you spend, 
 and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  COD:4, in my view, is the multiplayer beast out there now. Most people would now agree it beats 
 out halo 3. All of the aspects of the game are solid, especially in the multiplayer and graphics 
 departments.
  
  Gameplay- sadly, the singleplayer of the game is mostly overlooked for the multiplayer. It has 
 a great campaign that has a good story with multiplayer players you control. The AI gets the job 
 done and the weapons give you a sense of power. The locals are gorgeous and they will definitely 
 keep you playing through it. After you beat, there are still tons of unlocks you can get like ragtime, 
 and 4 grenades in one. The Multiplayer on the other hand is simply the best that shooters offer. 
 It is incredibly deep with soo many levels of depth. You can customize weapons, progress through 
 the rankings 10 times over, and do so many other things. I've played for around 100 hours and i'm 
 only in the third prestige mode. The action is soo intense and it shines beyond all games. This 
 isn't the type of game you will stop playing after you get another game. The classes are all different 
 and it's worth being a sniper to just simply have the sweet gillie suit. The levels are in no short 
 supply and they are all very well laid out, with pressure points and so forth. You won't find a 
 better multiplayer game on the market, especially on the PS3. 
  
  Graphics- Beautiful, to put it simple. Not only are they rich in texture and color, they are displayed 
 in full 1080p, and with 60 frames per second. NOT only that, but the frames never dip for a second. 
 
  
  Sound-The musical score is pretty simple but it fits the game. Even the guitar solo when you advance 
 in rank is well put in. The guns sound incredibly good and the ambience noises are nice as well. 
 It isn't the best sound ever, but it's pretty high up there.
  
  Value- I've played for more than 100 hours and i still pop it in everyonce in a while even after 
 getting 2 more games, not including metal gear solid 4, which I just got today. Buy this game people!
 
  
  Call of duty scored on my list as the best game of 2007 and i'm proud it's on the PS3! buy it today! 
 along with MGS4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: No developer has had more success in recreating the tension and terror of a battlefield 
 than Infinity Ward. Its founding members helped define the World War II genre with the groundbreaking 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault while the first title developed under the Infinity Ward label, Call 
 of Duty. Set in modern times, the title breaks the mold of previous CoD titles in other ways as 
 well. Instead of facing down Nazi Germany or Imperial Japan, terrorists are the order of the day. 
 The game avoids any uncomfortably weighty questions of nationality by placing the conflict in fictionalized 
 nations, but the themes will be familiar to anyone who has read the newspaper lately. What makes 
 these confrontations even more meaningful is that, like in previous Infinity titles, we get to 
 see the conflict from multiple angles. In this case, by swapping between British and American troops 
 as they work to quell the epic conflict boiling on the edge of the Middle East and former USSR. 
 Finally you are not only using WW2 weapons but finally get to use more current weapons such as 
 the G3 rifle. I felt the characters were better developed in CoD 2, you'll find yourself appreciating 
 recognizable voices and names over the course of the game. There is a multiplayer part of course. 
 It's very addictive to play and you get to play all the maps that were in the single player game. 
 Of course there is the usuall deathmatch, team deathmach and so on. But most intriguing is its 
 online 'character' development system, which takes some of the great ideas used in Battlefield 
 2 to the next level and the multiplayer portion rivals that of Halo 3.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are top notch in this game. Everything is well detailed and colored that it 
 is just eye candy to watch. What eles is there to say about the graphics? Well also the cut scenes 
 are nicely done too. Like one of thoughs modern war flick movies.
  
  Sound: The sound is really well done in this game, The gun fire, explotions, soundtrack and everything 
 in between are very well done in Call of Duty 4.
  
  
  Value: All in all this game has a high replay value in both the single and multiplayer parts of 
 the game and It's very addictlive. I would highly recommend this game for first person shooter 
 fans. I give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Now when gamers think first person shooter multiplayer, they usually think of generic death match, 
 team death match, and the occasional CTF game modes. However, in this case, Call of Duty 4 breaks 
 outside the box and goes leaps and bounds to offer one of the most in-depth online modes available. 
 With a total of 12 different match types, over 16 multiplayer maps, hundreds of unlockable objectives, 
 and the ability to create custom gear packages, Call of Duty 4 could easily be named the best online 
 game of the year. The only let down however, was at the time of this writing, Infinity Ward was 
 having problems with their servers and being disconnected from games happened quite often. 
  
  All together, Call of Duty 4 succeeds in nearly every department, making it a must own for 
 PlayStation 3 gamers. If you are looking for a title that not only offers a great single player 
 experience but one that will have you playing online for years to come, your home is Call of Duty 
 4. 
  Combining an intense single-player campaign with addicting online multiplayer, Call of Duty 4 is 
 one of the first must buy titles of the holiday season.
  Pros
  + Immersive Singe Player Storyline with great replay value 
  + Stunning Visuals running at a 
 solid 60fps
  + Great Multiplayer 
  Cons
  - Ally A. I. in early missions is a bit overpowering 
  - PS3 version has a few problems with online 
 servers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: B-)
  Story: Russian ultranationalists have started a civil war in Russia, and are threatening to stage 
 an uprising against other nations as well. You will take the role of a U. S. marine and a member 
 of the British SAS, as you help your fellow comrades stop this uprising and eliminate the threat. 
 Call of Duty 4 does a good job in depicting the aspects of war, and what could possibly happen 
 in the near future. The story overall is not that in-depth though, you get a basic understanding 
 of what is going on and what you're doing, but there isn't much other than that. The story can 
 sometimes be complex and hard to follow if you're not really into military based plots.
  
  (Letter Grade: A-)
  Gameplay: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a shooter, so most of the time 
 you will be SHOOTING stuff. This game is very fast-paced. You must always be in high alert, and 
 aware of your surroundings. If not then lets just say you will be reading a lot of in-game quotes, 
 you will come to understand eventually. There are a large variety of weapons you can choose from, 
 most of them are usually just an upgraded version of the original weapon. Sadly there is no co-op 
 to be found within the game. Shooting down terrorists in the game is fun, but it won't last long 
 for the single player campaign lasts as long as an ice cream cone on a hot summer's day. So if 
 you're more focused into single player campaigns, Call of Duty 4 may not be for you. Where this 
 game really shines though is its online multiplayer. Online matches load very quickly and efficiently. 
 There are a vast variety of game modes you can select, each with their own distinct feel and strategy. 
 You can create your own class, and set the types of weapons, perks (special abilities) , and camouflage 
 that best suits you. The ranking system is wonderful as well; it is easy to use and easy to understand. 
 The more people you kill, the more experience you get. After getting enough experience you level 
 up and unlock new modes, challenges, and new customizable options. Call of Duty 4 doesn't stand 
 alone well with just its single player campaign, but if you add the superb online multiplayer then 
 it is able to fulfill its duty. 
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Graphics: Oh My FREAKIN uhh.. crap? The graphics in Call of Duty 4 is AMAZING. Everything is detailed 
 to the last pixel on your television. This is easily one the greatest looking piece of eye candy 
 to grace a console so far. It looks ridiculously good, to good to be true in fact. My words just 
 can't describe it, you'll just need to look at it for yourself.
  
  (Letter Grade: A-)
  Sound: From the sound of a grenade exploding right next to you, to the cries of your comrades, 
 the sound quality is top notch. There is a bit of voice acting within the game, I can't say that 
 it is REALLY good, but it does its part at a reasonable level. The sounds of gun shots, to artillery 
 fire, it just sounds astonishing.
  
  (Report Card: A-)
  Overall: Call of Duty 4 is a high-quality game that deserves a lot of recognition. It changes my 
 view of the shooter genre, and just makes me give more respect to it. In the future to come, when 
 people mention a shooter game, Call of Duty 4 will come into mind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyblade42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my PS3 because my friend wanted me to play online with him but he told me 
 to play the campaign first. So I got it and after playing the first level my eyes were glued to 
 the screen. The sound in this game is unbeliveable. From every gun shot and exploding grenade to 
 the sound of a chopper or soldiers around you, it makes you feel like you're on the battlefield. 
 The gameplay is also great. The lock on system works natural and feels good. Personally I like 
 the fact that your melee is a knife instead of beating your enemy over the head with your gun. 
 I also like that in every level you have at least one ally with you. The online gameplay feels 
 different because it's actual people you're playing with but pretty much the same. During online 
 you gain expierence for kill, assists, wins, and completing challenges as you work up the ranks. 
 If you get 3 kills in a row without dying you'll obtain radar for your team that you'll activate 
 at your will. If you get 5 kills in a row you'll get to call in an airstrike which pretty much 
 levels the area you call it on. If you get 7 kills you get a helicopter that flies around and shoots 
 at enemy players. And remember, SHOOT BALLS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4.
  
  COD4 is pretty much the best multiplayer game for PS3 that is currently out right now. Not that 
 that could change later on. But anyway, on to the review. For starts, the graphics, are freaking 
 AMAZING. Yes, the graphics are probably the best that are out right now. Keyword being right now. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 will surpass these graphics coming this thursday, trust me. But anyway, multiplayer 
 is pretty much amazing. It's very realistic and the feel for the controls in mulitplayer pretty 
 much work out. Campaign is really much, infact most people get this game so that they can just 
 the multiplayer, that's how good it is. As you grow levels in multiplayer, you unlock new gameplay 
 modes for multiplayer besides team battle and all that good stuff. But overall, all you PS3 owners 
 need this game, NOW.
  
  Until next time, Nama out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (COD4) is a truley amazing FPS is every way! A good place to start 
 is the online multiplayer. In COD4 there are a veriety of levels which you can compete with other 
 players in online. Each online level has a unique landscape. Some are better for snipers, some 
 are better for people who like close combat, others are better for camping out and waiting for 
 the perfect moment to strike. The level designs are not the only thing that make COD4 an amazing 
 FPS though. There are also a veriety of "perks" that you can gain from leveling up in the online 
 rankings. Some include "last stand" where your player will pull out a pistol before dying for one 
 final stand, increased bullet damage, and increased health. There are also perks that you can obtain 
 by simply getting kill streaks. Some of these include radar for you and your team, an airstrike 
 to obliderate an area of the map, and a helicopter to simply dominante everyone from the opposing 
 team. In addition to online play there is also a split-screen mode in which you and 3 other people 
 can compete against each other. Even though not all the maps that are avaliable online are avaliable 
 for split-screen it still supplies many hours of entertainment with the many different modes of 
 play. The campaign of COD4 is a very compelling one. Most criticts say that the story is a bit 
 short, however I do not see that at all. It is a story with high-stakes and it has one of the best 
 endings I have EVER seen in any game. The only downside to this game is that it "does" get stale 
 after a while. There is only so much you can do with a set of weapons and some perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 brings us the latest weapns, graphics and gameplay. And unlike the first three and 
 fifth, it is not based on WW2. The latest enemy is Ukraine. I have to admit it though, I completed 
 the story in less than a day. I'll be honest, without online features, this game is kind of crap. 
 The main game is good but very short. Now, if you go to the multi-player section, at the bottom 
 it sais 'Game experience may be changed during online play' and it's true. There are 550 ranks 
 to go through to reach the top. This means you'll probably be at it for at least a year if you 
 play it all the time which you probably will. As you reach level 55, you will be given the option 
 of prestege which means you start again. There are 10 presteges so it's like 550 level's. You also 
 have challenges such as 'Kill someone by blowing up a car'. You aso unlock new guns, perks e. g 
 claymores and UAV jamers, and sights (for the gun) . 
  
  By Hoojher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Wow, where do i start... the single player story is just completely amazing. The graphics in this 
 game are the best in the year. The weapons are very numerous, and there are plenty of add ons for 
 the weapons. Over 5,000 people play this game every day, and when you start playing, you'll see 
 why. Once u beat the story mode it lets you do arcade mode, and thats when you replay through the 
 levels, and try to score as high as possible with only 2 lives. This game also has cheats which 
 allow you to have: Infinite Bullets. Slow-mo, When you shoot them they blow up into tires, and much 
 more! If you really want a short review of the game then its simply this.... THIS GAME IS AWSOME, 
 AND ITS THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY GAME EVER!!, AND IF YOU DONT THINK SO, THEN WELL I GUESS U JUST 
 DONT THINK SO THEN! But the bottem line for this game is that it honestly deserves a 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballa4life
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is probably the best and deepest shooting game I have ever played. The campaign 
 is great, but once you finish you have to start playing online the online COD4 is amazing, Incredible, 
 and just plain great. You wander through the country aimlessly hopeing that someone will be on 
 your side but noone is but its every man for them selves and plus you get the best wepons and the 
 best radar tracker. You should defintly play this game!
  
  jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj kkkkkkkkkkkk lllll nnnn jjjjjjjj hhhhhhhhh fffffff 
 sssssss dddddddddd ggggggg eeu eeeeee tttttttt yyyyyyy uuuuuu gggggggggggg dddddddd ssssssssss 
 fffffffffffff ggggggg hhhhhhhh jjjjjjjjjj cccccccccc dddddddddd ssssssss gggggggg hhhhhhh jjjjjjjj 
 kkkkkkkkkk dddddddd ffffffffff vvvvvvvvvvvvvv bvbbbbbbbbn i did this because i couldnt finish the 
 review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godslim
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 was a sequel that no one saw coming..... turns out its one of the best games ever 
 made....... both single player and multiplayer are immense. 
  The singlepayer will leave u breathless with thing happening in it that you never saw coming..... falling 
 in love with the SAS characters happens to most people aswell. The game has brilliant gameplay 
 runs smoothly and has visuals that will make u cry!! The multiplayer is also one of the best mutiplayer 
 games ever... it leaves you wanting more and more and with the new map packs out it gives your more 
 the only is soooo smooth with out lag (unless u get a pants host) and is well balanced unlike some 
 games!
  
  Graphics: 10 - damn good!
  
  Sound: 10 - brilliant sounds and acting with a stand up eastenders cast for the SAS!
  
  Gamplay: 
 10 - very intense gameplay!
  
  Lasting appeal: 10 - online u can have days of gameplay lol i have 8 dayslol sum people have 40!!! 
 the singleplayer is a good 10 hours aswell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrie0463
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Since it came out I haven't heard a thing about Halo or Gears of War (which had the worst multi-player 
 of all time) . But why haven't we heard these games names, because people realize that they are 
 just getting hyped up to have a better game come along, not that CoD 4 wasn't hyped up, or won't 
 be replaced by another. But, I still talk with people who think the first Halo is the best, I call 
 them idiots, but I never really cared enough to keep saying it. Anyway, this is about CoD 4. Here's 
 a quick rundown of how a rate games.
  
  Gameplay - Does the game hold up to it's specified genre, and how well.
  Graphics - How does 
 the game look? Detail, detail, detail...
  Sound - Dialogue, sound effects, and music score.
  Value - Originality, storyline, and worth 
 is it worth the cost?
  Tilt - Compared to other games before it... how does it stand up?
  
  Gameplay - 9.5 - Cod 4 is a FPS and it plays like a... that right, a FPS. Weird right? Not 
 really. Actually, it plays so much like a FPS that the only way it could be better is if your health 
 didn't regenerate... and the first bullet took you out. But then how fun would it actually be... 
 I mean, this isn't Rainbow Six. But basically you run around and kill people... even shoot off 
 the occasional arm. But yeah, sniping is fun, the assult rifles are F-U-N, and even the pistols 
 and knife kills are good. Did I mention your hands... like when a couple dogs come a running?
 
  
  Graphics - 9.5 - Honestly at this point it is hard... hard to get anything that looks as stellar 
 as this game does. However, I hate giving out perfect scores anywhere because all things can be 
 improved. But now, when you can go and hide in the grass and it is impossible to distinguish you 
 from it... I call that good graphics, and very realistic. The lighting in the game is really what 
 amazes me. Everything from cigars to indoor bonfires and the sun outside is beautifully done and 
 looks great. Expression on faces are amazing, but the best part about it all, is that aside from 
 6 inches away, everything looks real... yeah, that's right, real.
  
  Sound - 9.0 - Good sound, good music, good dialogue... hmmm, so far seems like a pretty good game. 
 Well the sound definately helps it's case. Music gets dramatic at the right times and the main 
 characters don't spoil the game with monotone voices. Though it is short of amazing, nothing really 
 stands out as far as sound goes, probably due to all the other amazing things the game is offering 
 at the same time... and who needs to use their ears anyway, they are so overrated. But honestly, 
 I do love hearing that grenade land next to me and guys yelling... then screaming. But only because 
 it's that cool and seems about as real as I'll ever know it.
  
  Value - 7.0 - Not exactly the first FPS to take place in the modern era, but it is a completely 
 original storyline which helped save it... I mean hurt it because it was short and crappy. I don't 
 think it's good when a game's multi-player completely overshadows the main game... I know this 
 because my friend didn't even know there was a main game until last week. I would compare it to 
 Halo again... but everybody from PSP users to my dog knows that Halo's popularity comes from playing 
 as a bad ass who goes around knocking tiny little aliens in the head with his rifle butt (by the 
 way, I hate Halo but it's really fun) . But it's definately worth the cost for it's single-player... 
 wait no, I mean multi-player. Yes, the multi-player is worth it, not the single-player. Don't buy 
 the game expecting a good single-player. The single-player is not good, it is crappy (outside of 
 a couple cools levels, if you played it you know which levels I'm talking about) . But yes, the 
 single-player sucks.
  
  Tilt - 7.5 - I'm fairly sure that I played this game in the last couple CoD games. Not sure, but 
 I do know that you start off as a nobody and end as a somebody... killing hundreds, wait... thousands 
 along the way. I think that sounds good. Though it is no longer a WWII game, but a WWIII games 
 more or less, it still seems a little weak as far as a storyline... and short, wow how it is short. 
 You won't be expecting it, but you'll finish it at about noon, and you'll be like, but I just bought 
 it an hour ago... well it's about that short. I don't think it's going to be talked about in 10 
 years... like GoldenEye is today, because when my buddies and me see an N64 we think GoldenEye. 
 Plus it doesn't have those cool little cheats that games used to have, they were so fun too.
  
  ------SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER ------
  Ok, all I have to say is what 
 the **** are they doing killing off the American soldier? Everyone that plays it doesn't want to 
 see our boy get blown the **** up by a nuke... especially after spending the last couple missions 
 saving the people who are going to die anyway. I say forget the Brit, and let the good ole' US 
 soldier do what he does best... kill things and not die. And what is up with that epilogue, that's 
 just dumb.
  ------SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER ------
  
  Alright, well sorry for my venting but maybe some of you were thinking the same thing. Anyway, 
 the multi-player is spectacular, the single-player is short, graphics are amazing, and the game 
 is sure to be the most popular FPS... until the next one comes out anyway. So go out and buy it 
 then criticize me and what I've wrote, because I know you're itching too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasbani
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  To preface this, I'd like to say that I've been playing FPS games since I was seven, so ten years 
 ago, and this absolutely trumps all other FPS games by a factor of five at least.
  
  With a kick ass storyline that mimics some of the stuff going down right now, a la Iraq, COD4 pulls 
 off an amazing FPS with second to none playability and excellent guns, combined with near perfection 
 graphics and a truly addicting online game to boot. The in game cutscenes are also some of the 
 best video game cinematics to date, with interactions like a dying teamate passing you a pistol 
 so that you can continue the fight.
  
  COD4 takes you on a wild ride from the deserts of the middle east to the mountains of Europe, leaving 
 you with a sense of true accomplishment. The characters in the game really make you care about 
 them too, it's not one of those games where you're cursing at the allied AI, they are simply spectacular.
 
  
  COD4 honestly could not be improved. Even after playing the campaign well over ten times, it still 
 contains excellent gameplay that simply doesn't get old and keeps you on the edge of your seat.
 
  
  If you were thinking about this game, do youself a favor go out and buy the game that has taken 
 the world by storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Des431
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is an extremely good 1st person shooter. The story line is good but hard to follow 
 occasionally as the game is split between the 2 characters you play as. The game play is brilliant 
 with realistic movement (especially when you shoot a terrorist and he falls to the ground firing 
 randomly into the air) . The weapons are also great. You have a gun and pistol at the beginning 
 of a mission and can pick up different ones that enemies drop. But these are mostly AK47's as you're 
 battling terrorists. Which is a great feature in it's own. All the other Call Of Duty's have been 
 in WWII and this makes a pleasant change. Being in the 21st century, middle east shooting up balaclava 
 wearing, AK47 wielding maniacs. A cool feature I like is that when using a Sniper Rifle you can 
 hold you breath to steady your aim.
  
  But as you've probably heard the games largest floor is that the single player game is very short. 
 I think I managed to finish it in a week or so of playing a few hours a day. But the game makes 
 up for that by the best multiplayer that I've ever played. in multiplayer your character sadly 
 cannot be customized but that isn't too bad. You progress levels easily and quickly but they get 
 harder as you go on. I managed to level up after my first kill but now it takes me days to level 
 up. As you gain levels you unlock weapons and special abilities. There is a wide variety of weapons 
 and you can also equip abilities ranging from higher health to an RPG or C4's. There are lots of 
 people playing online so you're never short of a game, but beware it may take a while to find one 
 at first.
  
  So in all an excellent game, defiantly worth buying. A short story is the only major problem with 
 the game. But thanks to multiplayer you don't feel robbed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock4563
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The only real catch is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping 
 up with this style of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. 
 While you can raise the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does 
 is make the enemies frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun. 
  
  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water. 
  
  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take. 
  
  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACE-414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is a brilliant game, the graphics are good and the game play is good.
  So overall I think this game is 9.5 out of 10. But if I had to choose which one is the best between 
 RESISTANCE: Fall of Man and Call of Duty 4 I would have to say they're both as good as each other 
 because they both have there different advantages and some disadvantages.
  
  Call of Duty
  Good points-
  
  -Good Graphics.
  
  -Good Game play.
  
  -The variety 
 of different game modes you can play in it e. g. Search and Destroy.
  
  -The Melee attack (you can stab your opponent ) .
  
  -You can upgrade your weapons by unlocking 
 add-ons .
  
  -You can camouflage your weapon. 
  
  -You can vote to skip a arena you do not like.
  
  Disadvantages-
  -You can't see if you're 
 friends are in a match or in the lobby.
  
  -Any body over a certain level can join your clan weaver you like it or not.
  
  -You can't 
 message your friends who are playing COD4 or not, while in the game.
  
  -You can't customize what your character looks like. 
  
  -Some might not care but when you 
 want to play a game, 5 out of 10 times it. puts you in a game that has already started so you get 
 put on a team that are getting their arses kicked.
  
  - (Offline) the story mode is too short.
  
  -Only 18 players MAX can be in one game.
  
  
 -The server is too small so some might have problems getting online, down to 'traffic' problems.
 
  
  
  RESISTANCE: Fall of Man
  Good points-
  -Good Graphics.
  
  -Good Game play.
  
  -Loads of different game modes e. g. Meltdown.
  
  -You can unlock items of clothing for 
 your character (which includes rucksacks and head wear as well as the normal clothing and camouflages 
 you would see a soldier wearing) as you rank up.
  
  
  -You CAN message your friends while in the game.
  
  -You CAN see if your friends are in a game 
 or in a lobby or staging a game (getting into a game)
  
  -If you are the leader of a clan, only you can choose who gets in by inviting them to your clan. 
 (This also means you have the power to kick people out of your clan if they're slacking) .
  
  -40 players MAX online in a one match. (But only team games, so there is 20 players against 
 20 players. In a death match there would be 15-20 players all against each other) .
  
  -If you want to play a game it will always put you in a game that hasn't started yet.
  
  - (Offline) 
 story mode is very good. It is not too short or too long.
  -It's good how your player's animated mouth goes in sync with what you have to say on ur head set.
 
  
  -The weapons in RESISTANCE are more hi-tech and can do more things that the weapons in COD 4 can.
 
  Disadvantages
  -You can't upgrade your weapons at all.
      that's it really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDawg7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  People complain that the single-player is too short, however those 5 hours of play-time are action-packed. 
 There are many "Wow" moments. For example the ending, you now what, buy the game and find out for 
 yourself what I am talking about. The multiplayer is simply flawless. There are a perfect amount 
 of maps (with 4 more available as DLC) that allow for some strategy. You cannot just go running 
 into a building filled with enemy players and expect not to get pwned, unless you are extremely 
 skilled and on your 10th prestige. The graphics are out of this world. There is such detail in 
 everything that is made. There is perfect shading. For example you can see your shadow on the wall 
 if you pass by a light in a relatively dark room. If you get a bluetooth (as I have) the experience 
 only increases as you talk to other people from around the world on how to attack a certain area, 
 or where the snipers are. I could not suggest this game enough, and the extras that make this supurb 
 game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maplecomics
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Welcome to FlameDraco Second Review.
  Today we will be looking at the Game of the Year (2007)
  Yes, This is my favourite game to date, 
 Call of Duty 4.
  ________________________
  Pros
  
  The campaign is short but it is addictive.
  The range of weapons is crazy and it's realistic.
 
  Online Multiplayer is off the hook
  Audio is nice and wont be irritating
  Perks are unique.
  Create a class is simply awesome
  Online is addictive and you can keep playing 
 and playing
  They also have ranks when you level up you get weapons and challenges.
  Some challenges are easy but some other are tough. (eg.) Kill 2 opponent while you are in mid air.)
 
  ========================
  What can i say, this is my favourite game.
  However
  .....................
  Cons
  Unable to host a game online
  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  That's 
 pretty much it.
  This game has a perfect 10, take that halo fanboys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  
  I always love a good online shooter, just as I did with resistance and halo as they lasted. But 
 it seems this one is going to go on for another year or two at this rate. I think moving on to 
 modern warfare was a great move, and a smart one, as no other ww2 shooter from the past has gotten 
 this much praise. call of duty is known for it's graphics. although I didn't like call of duty 
 as much as medal of honor back then I think other wise now. let's start off with the campaign, 
 it's great while it lasts. I would have given this game a 10. if it had been a few hours longer. 
 but instead it turns out to be a halo 3 game. the campaign itself is only 6 hours at most. they 
 could have at least put some split screen in, like halo did. I have never seen any split screen 
 in any call of duty games. I would love to fight my bother for bragging rights. But then again 
 call of duty always backs these things up with fantastic online play, and the very best graphics 
 for any shooter (besides gears of war) . Even if shooting through walls was copied off by ghost 
 recon. The guns are great feeling, and theres lots of them. The maps are very detailed, and being 
 able to shoot through the tire of a truck is sweet. This is as realistic as war gets. minus the 
 blood and gore that is only in Iraq. The only game that will be even more realistic than this is 
 socom confrontations. This game would have been so much better if it had split screen, or even 
 a longer campaign? Over my score is:
  Value: 8/10: minus the campaign.
  Graphics:10/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  story:8/10
  and just to add: realism:10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroitpistons0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  First off, I must say that this game has the most realistic graphics I have ever seen, in all honesty. 
 There are Chernobyl (Pripyat, to be exact) levels in this game, and compared to their actual photos 
 in real life, you find little difference, and you might not even tell the difference between the 
 two. That is only the half of it. Game-play wise, you will find another thing to keep you hooked 
 for a pretty good amount of time. I will break this game down into some different categories and 
 judge how it plays out in each of them.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Like I have said twice by now, you won't find more photo-realistic graphics in any game so far, 
 in my opinion. I already talked about the Chernobyl levels in campaign (there is also one map in 
 multi-player that is based off of it) being such. but if you look at the graphics of the weapons, 
 helicopters, tanks, Harrier-Jets, and more, you'll find little difference between that and their 
 real-life counterparts.
  There are little or no flaws in lighting and shadowing in this department, either. Those, too, 
 are immensely realistic and only add to the realistic graphics that Call of Duty 4 almost invariably 
 offers. The guys at Infinity Ward obviously spent a ton of time detailing their graphics to the 
 max. The vehicles, weapons, people, and buildings in this game show it.
  
  GAME-PLAY:
  Like pretty much any other game, there are some flaws, but Call of Duty 4 tries its best to exterminate 
 such.
  I am going to start with single-player campaign. Campaign offers a very good story. You get to 
 play as the SAS, as Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish, straight out of selection into the 22nd Regiment 
 of the SAS. The SAS is a special-ops tactical force for Britain that relies on stealth to complete 
 objectives. You also get to play as the US Marines for a little bit of the game, too, where they 
 mostly rely on straight-forward large-scale assaults to complete their missions in this game. As 
 the Marines, you play as Sgt. Paul Jackson of the First Batallion. I don't think he is new, as 
 judging from the dialogue I have heard of him, he has probably been with them ever since he enlisted. 
 I will try not to give any spoilers, so I will just say this: Khaled Al-Asad has killed President 
 Al-Fulani of an unnamed Middle Eastern country. The SAS and Marines attempt to stop him, until 
 things take a huge turn about midway through. That is all I will say about campaign. Like I said, 
 the campaign will not disappoint you. It is relatively short, but it is worth every second of it. 
 Not to mention that trying to beat it all on Veteran difficulty may lead to some less hair by the 
 end of the day, if you know what I mean. Unfortunately, though, there is no co-op of any kind.
 
  In Online Multi-player, you will, of course, find some aspects unbalanced. There are Rifle-Mounted 
 Grenade Launchers that you may find overpowered when overused. But then again, there isn't much 
 they can do about that without taking away the realism of Grenade Launchers. Like pretty much any 
 other First Person Shooter online multi-player, there will be guys who you consider to be "noobs" 
 here and there taking advantage of things, being cowards, and whatnot, but there isn't much Infinity 
 Ward can do about that, either. Another negative is that you cannot have LAN parties, but that 
 is relatively minor, depending on your preference.
  Game-play in Call of Duty 4 is VERY realistic in most aspects. Online, you may complain about a 
 couple of unrealistic aspects, though, and that takes a slight hit to the game. There is a perk 
 called "Martyrdom" that lets you SOMEHOW drop a cooked grenade as you die, no matter the circumstances 
 of the death, as if you were Allah and saw it coming, so decided to pull the pin 2.5 seconds beforehand. 
 There are a couple of other such minor aspects, but other than that, game-play runs very smooth, 
 and weapons just feel right. Infinity Ward did a very good job at balancing out online multi-player 
 to satisfy you in many ways. There are a couple flaws that I have mentioned, though, but are relatively 
 minor and petty.
  
  SOUND:
  I know that this is starting to sound like an overused word, but I must say again: "realistic". 
 Sound is very realistic. Helicopters sound like how they should, dialogue is great and only adds 
 to gameplay, and the music adds to the feel very nicely during campaign. Guns also sound like how 
 they should sound in real life. Must I go on?
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If you couldn't infer it from what I have been saying, GET THIS GAME ALREADY, if you have been 
 considering it. There is little reason to rent this at all first, as it will only shed a little 
 extra money and waste a little of your time. You will not be one bit disappointed with this game 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukestar1997
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is spectacular it contains amazing weapons and brill online play. As soon as i heard 
 about this game I could hardly wait to purchase it and with the graphics and gameplay i would have 
 payed double the price. The online play is amazing You start out as a level 1 and as you go through 
 the ranks you earn different weapons and perks. Once you've got through level 55 you can go into 
 prestige mode and start again but with a badge diffrent from starters of the game and a higher 
 reputation. The game itself is good but some levels would be quite hard for younger children. I 
 recommend this as a definite buy. You buy this and you'll be blown away with the whole game. The 
 game swears a little but not loads like game's such as Gta and Driver 76 (psp) . Online play lets 
 you meet other gamers like yourself but they may have an ear piece that allows you to communicate 
 with online friends however they may use bad language so beware and never give out your personal 
 details to strangers. Overall this is a spectacle of a game and is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiwak
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to wait for the price of the game to drop before I would buy it. Well I have been missing 
 out on some awesome gameplay. You start of as a guy named Soap and needless to say a lot of the 
 conversations are towards you the game player which is great. There are few other games out there 
 that will actually do this to you. This game has so much to offer and so many things going for 
 it.
  First lets start with the gameplay. The controls feel very good and it takes about 5 minutes to 
 learn the buttons.
  Second the in game details. You have to play this game several times in order for you to see everything 
 that is happening in the game. The level of detail of everything going on in the background is 
 just tremendous. Having been in the military and hearing all the jargon (military talk) brought 
 tears of joy!
  Third is the way the story is presented. I've only played a handful of games that have actually 
 told a good story and made you feel part of it. I like the way the game knows it's a game, makes 
 fun of me and tells a wonderful story.
  
  Then there's the online portion of the game. This is where the game truly comes to life. Everything 
 happens so fast. Even though I really suck at this game the online portion gets my heart pumping 
 with adrenaline!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Kowaski
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  I don't actually own this game, and i'm a a bit of an outsider in PS3 terms, but my cousin owns 
 it (he also owns the Xbox 360, a PS3, a HD 50" T. V, a mini fridge, and he's thinking about getting 
 the Wii, and he's only 12, bit spoilt i guess!) but i was in his mansion one day and we decided 
 to play COD4, I was sceptical at first- i thought it was just another FPS shooter, you know, all 
 the same. I started playing, and straight away i knew there something special about the game, i 
 wasn't playing online i was playing split-screen (and losing- to an 12 year old; i wasn't not used 
 to the analog sticks, i told him i was letting him win!)
  
  The good thing about it is that its realistic but not annoyingly realistic like in rainbow six 
 or something, COD4 is realistic in a fun way, and theres a nice selection of weapons, and varied 
 maps, the graphics are brilliant to, after a while i got used to the controls and i was able to 
 beat a twelve year old!
  
  I'm not really sure what makes it so good, but i am sure this game will remain a classic for years 
 to come, its the type of game that would almost make me consider thinking about maybe getting a 
 PS3, but thats probably never going to happen, i cant think of anything bad about it, apart from 
 the fact i dont own it.
  
  overall, its deadly 
  
  get it, or play it with your rich cousin.
  
  -M. A. D. X. W
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was released on November 5, 2007. It is a first person shooter set 
 in modern time hence the title Modern Warfare. The previous installments of the Call of Duty franchise 
 were set in WWII and it was good but there were so many WWII shooters out there that it was just 
 getting old but Activision and Infinity Ward jumped out of WWII into the present.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Excellent! The main gameplay aspects of COD 4: Modern Warfare are still the 
 same but as many say if it ain't broken, don't fix it and it is especially true for COD 4: Modern 
 Warfare. There are a few changes such as the ability to throw back grenades that are near to you 
 and they took away the melee attack with the gun and added a knife which works extremely well especially 
 in the online portion of this game. The also added a sprint button which is a welcome addition 
 to the franchise as in the previous Call of Duty games you could not run or sprint. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  The graphics is COD 4: Modern Warfare are great! Definetly the best graphics 
 for a first person shooter except for Crysis. Textures and character models look extremely good 
 and the enviourments are so life like. The graphics do get toned down on the online but you can 
 barely notice it since you will be playing in an intense online match.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  The multiplayer of COD 4: Modern Warefare in my opinion is the best part 
 of this game. You have up to 18 players online and up to 4 on splitscreen. Splitscreen is a very 
 welcome addition to the Call of Duty franchise as it was not avaible in the previous games. The 
 online is excellent! One very good thing about it is the level system and the create a class. You 
 start off at level 1 and can go all the way up to 55 by killing people, getting assits, and doing 
 challenges. When you get to level 55 you can go to back to level 1 by doing prestige mode. It is 
 a good way of showing people how good you are. The create a class is very interesting as you get 
 to put which primary weapon you want and what type of pistol you want. You then can put stuff like 
 desert camoflage on the gun or woodland and more. And the perks are really awesome. You get up 
 to 3 which you use and they do certain things such as increased health, deeper bullet penetration, 
 or dropping a live grenade when you die. 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  The sound is awesome! The battle sounds and the explosions sound amazing! The music is also pretty 
 good and the voices of the characters are extremely well done.
  
  Overall one of the best games of 2007 and one of the best multiplayer online games out there right 
 now. Buy this game now!!!!!!
  
  True Score: 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickncompany
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is just euphoric.
  You'll be grinning most of the time after you scored a kill.
  Firing a weapon may not ... WILL 
 NOT be more fun than firing it here.
  There is an array of weapons to choose from .
  All of them has pros and cons .
  Like the rate of fire etc but they can be extremely deadly in 
 the hands of the people capable in using it.
  TOTALLY.
  it has large maps for multiplayer , tight claustraphobic corridors for people who prefer games 
 like F. E. A. R and even more.
  The graphics are plain superb while the AI are definately better that HAZE; S.
  The storyline 
 is good , however it falls far too short to entertain anyone who doesnt have internet connection. (As 
 if theres anyone who doesnt play online)
  God bless games like these.
  They rule.
  Whilst the game might seem perfect , it does have some flaws such as glitches in several map that 
 can imbalance the advantage of one person overanother but they probably fixed it once it appears.
 
  COD4 is a great success ill be looking forward to COD5 if theres one.
  
  =DDD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoppsy1234
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Even if there wasn't an amazing campaign on this game I would say buy it. I've played about halfway 
 through the campaign, and seriously, the majority of your time will be spent online.
  
  Don't worry if you're not great at FPS games, the matching system on this game is one of the best 
 I've used, you never feel out of your depth because the game puts you in games with people of simular 
 skill.
  
  Also, if you're a PC gamer and are worried about not being able to use a keyboard and a mouse, 
 don't worry. Infinity Ward have created an AMAZING console shooter here, the aiming mechanics are 
 almost perfect, and true a mouse is more precise, this isn't far behind. As a huge fan of CoD2 
 on the PC, I can honestly say that I feel as though I am better on CoD4 for the PS3, using the 
 pad.
  
  I don't care wat anybody says but this game is the best game to date and in my opinion by quite 
 some distance too. The graphics are incredible (although "grip" will give it a run for its money) , 
 you are guranteed for days of obsessed gaming especially online which grips you in but it is so 
 enjoyable. Great game! 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastofeast1416
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I will say that this is the best call of duty easily. The multiplayer is addictive and fun. This 
 is the only game i consistently play online. If you own a PS3 you have to buy this game. Great 
 graphics as well. It is the best looking game on the market. The only problem I have with this 
 game is that the campaign is very short. But, the bulk of the game is multiplayer so you still 
 get your 60 dollars worth. The only way I would tell you to not buy this game is if you don't have 
 online hooked up. The campaign is fun but you can rent it and beat it in a couple of days. If you 
 don't want to buy it just because you have many other shooters in your collection, buy it anyway. 
 It isn't revolutionary, but it is almost a perfect shooter. Believe the hype and buy the game you 
 will be addicted immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  When I got COD4 today I took it home and played it for like 3 hours straight and I simply could 
 not stop its one of those games which gets better the more you play it. In COD4 you play as a British 
 SAS and a US Marine sent to locations around the globe to deal with hostile threats in the middle 
 east and Russia. There are over 70 weapons to find and as usual you get the accurate shots by looking 
 down the scope. Call of Duty 4 is probably the best looking game I have ever played. The action 
 and explosions look incredible and you really feel like a real soldier as bullets fly in all directions 
 as you make your way to the objective. There are some spectacular moments such as raining down 
 fire from a gunship and using a huge mortar to take out enemy tanks. But unfortunatly the single 
 player is powerful but short. All these tactics go into the amazing multiplayer that even dethrows 
 Halo 3's. You level up and unlock an whole ton of tools and weapons. You can even make your own 
 class and choose their perks ( special abilities ) as you level up by playing on 13 game modes 
 and 16 maps. The multiplayer is hard but its so addictive that you'll be playing it for years to 
 come. COD4 is a hell of a thrill ride that should not be missed by anyone who calls them self a 
 gamer. Think you've seen it all? Get COD4 and you will be blown away wondering why you never respected 
 Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcaliber26
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooter I have played in years. Everything about this game is perfect and I dont 
 see how I can rate this anything lower than a 10/10. I still play this game on my PS3 all the time 
 and I will be still playing it til the PS4 comes out.
  
  COD4's graphics are the most impressive out of the FPS's on the PS3, While there are some textures 
 that are kinda blurry at times but you have to be very nitpick to notice it. 
  
  Gameplay is very addicting and you can make your own classes which consist of you configuring which 
 weapon you wanna use with perks you wanna use. It can be kinda confusing at first for some of you 
 but it is very nice to be able to customize like that. 
  
  When you shoot a gun you actually feel like you are shooting the gun. Very realistic recoil on 
 the weapons and the sound effects are amazing. 
  
  Single player is not that long but it is fun until the end. After beating it I really never found 
 a reason to go back. I spend most of my time playing this online because the online is very addicting. 
 
  
  I'm not going into every detail in this review because you owe it to yourself to go pick up this 
 masterpiece. You will not be dissapointed!! 
  
  Overall this game is the best shooter that I have played since Goldeneye 007. That's no easy task 
 either I have played alot of FPS's since Goldeneye 007 but nothing has been as addicting and fun 
 as COD4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodwin24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  In the mist of all the current mediocre games available on the market this game stands out a mile. 
 It is everything the consumer expected when eagerly anticipating the launch of the next gen console. 
 Unfortunately it has taken this long for the market to produce such a title. However, hopefully 
 this will set the benchmark for future games.
  Few games thus far have come close to produce the quality offered in COD4. Graphically a masterpiece, 
 and game play that is a cut above the bread & butter FPS on offer. 
  This is my first taste of the COD franchise and after playing it I ask myself why ? Set in a modern 
 war zone you play the role of a British SAS solider and an American Marine. The game sees you pitted 
 against an intelligent AI in a wide variety of environments (sifting through the forests and war 
 torn cities is knock out) . There is a wide arsenal available at your disposal all of which are 
 an absolute blast to fire. 
  The online multiplayer is the most in-depth of its kind. Offering the usual modes such as death 
 matches and others such as headquarters. The ranking system is superb too, as it entices the gamer 
 to continue playing after completing the single player campaign. Multiplayer is super addictive 
 and offers hours of gaming.
  The one shortcoming of this game is the length of the single player campaign. However, this is 
 more than made up for with the games superb multiplayer modes. 
  This review is a little late on now but the creators of COD4 are working on the new 007 game and 
 reports so far suggest that 007 will use the same engine used in COD4. This is something to look 
 forward to. Furthermore, COD5 has been confirmed as a working title. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is 
 too fun this game is too fun this game is too funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this 
 game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too 
 funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game 
 is too fun this game is too fun this game is too funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this 
 game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too 
 funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game 
 is too fun this game is too fun this game is too funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this 
 game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too 
 funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game 
 is too fun this game is too fun this game is too funthis game is too fun this game is too fun this 
 game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too fun this game is too 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_of_Games23
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a tremendous, fast paced, highly addictive game. The single player is one of the best stories 
 I have ever experienced even though it is extremely short, considering it took me only 6 1/2 hours 
 to complete. Even though the the single player is short, the game makes up for it in multiplayer. 
 It is compacted with rankings. It includes 10 prestige modes, but to get to the first prestige 
 mode you must first complete the first 55 levels. You do the math 55*11= 605!!!! There are 605 
 levels on this game which makes you want to increase your rank. Each of the first 55 levels has 
 individual badges you can earn, but after that each prestige mode has only one badge for every 
 55 levels after that. The only problem with prestige mode is that it you must give up all your 
 weapons, challenges, and perks you have earned along the way. Overall this game is incredible, 
 in my opinion it is better than Grand Theft Auto IV. Call of Duty 4 makes for one tremendous experience. 
 In my opinion the only reason it doesn't achieve a perfect 10 is because of the short single player 
 and the fact that as you progress through multiplayer you hardly ever unlock anything new after 
 the first fifty-five levels. This is a must have for any true gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Modern Warfare! The characters are great are dont particularly like the americans but I have really 
 grown to like the british SAS heroes sgt. Price Gaz and Soap. The enemies are a great foe. The russians. 
 
  In the campaign your objective is to take down Imrad Zakhaev and his partners.
  The campaign is over extremely quick but is also extremely brilliant.
  The soundtrack accompanies 
 the games high intensity fighting style and action packed story telling.
  The multiplayer is everything you could ask for. It keeps drawing you back with xp points you can 
 obtain by completing challenges or killing other players across the globe.
  You can talk to players using a wireless bluetooth headset if you have one. It involves you alot 
 more in team games allowing you to speak with your comrades.
  Its a great experience to battle with your mates online and I totally reccomend the purchase if 
 you haven't already got it.
  
  A Step Above Most Titles.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAXPAINE_1989
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 performed a well-put tactic in the settings and backdrops of COD 4 it initiated 
 the revolution of the "warfare games" history into modern times.
  
  Anyway this game as my rating says is a big disappointment for me because i played COD 3 and this 
 one (4) was'nt as impressive at all its like the total opposite of the whole game.
  
  COD 3 was solid rigid and slow-paced which is a good thing in realistic warfare games while call 
 of duty: 4 is so light fast and short and the one most important thing to me, the blood effect 
 is a failure in this part omg i mean you use an M16 on someone and all that comes out is a maximum 
 of .5 ML blood out of the enemy's body and the bullets also does'nt plant to the corpse like its 
 transparent i tell you thats a bugger to me.
  
  when i bought the game the 1st second i wanted to return in i swear but i'll mention the one thing 
 and only one thing that gripped me not to return; Arabic language quotation or adaptation and voice 
 over
  
  though the voice over should've been more complicated and common [vulgar] for Arab speakers, to 
 say the truth this is the first game to to fully adapt the Arabic language in its true form with 
 no BS if you have noticed there's this infinity ward sign constantly written on shop signs in arabic 
 
    ] .
  which 
 bugs a lil bit when you just keep seeing it in different positions in battlefield speaking about 
 ame everytime during a battlefield shootout i just get distracted "WTH man whats the deal this 
 $h1t s everywhere what? the company likes itself too much damn".
  
  overall i wonder why all the fuss was made about it the best game of the year commotion and editor's 
 choice its really not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is outstanding & with awesome Graphics. They definately kicked it up a notch with COD 
 4 on PS3. I Love it so much that I bought a 2nd copy for my 2nd PS3. My Boys and I play Online 
 together and can Strategize as though we are in the woodsz playing Paintball.
  
  I have never played On-Line game play before mainly because of the addictive behavior that usually 
 results, but am now into it because of this game & the fact that it is pretty easy to turn off 
 considering each match is timed and has a 750 point limit in Team Deathmatch.. 
  
  The Play and graphics are so Realistic!!! You actually die quickly if not cautious, but this is 
 how war really is. However, if you have an on-line team & Headsets then you can far really well 
 unless your up against a similar yet supeior team.
  
  This game can be addictive, but its not hard to time yourself and shut it down. I can't see myself 
 ever getting bored with this game. You even go thru a career and achieve perks as you finish challanges. 
 
  
  level, realness, story, leveling system, accuracy, fast, and multiplayer is awesome! This is probably 
 the best or close to the best FPS ever. The story is thrown in modern warfare and made it seem like 
 you were there from the assaination to the sniper mission to the nuclear blast, two words Real 
 Fun! The Xbox version has a little better graphics like on multiplayer you can see the rain rolling 
 off the Crates and on the ps3 you cant but the graphics on the ps3 are still very nice. This is 
 a must have on Pc,360, or PS3 I have played all three versions and they are all basically the same 
 all A++++ I have played all of the Call of Duty games and have to say this is the best of the franchise! 
 I give this game a perfect 10 Infinity Ward knows what they are doing thats for sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumedh7
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter to come out on any console. Its a groundbreaking game which 
 scrapes over GRAW, Vegas, Halo, Bioshock, and all other shooters. The guns feel just right. The 
 precision aiming is put to good use by automatically aiming at targets. The second thing is the 
 graphics. They are mind blowing. Oblivion, Resistance, Gears of War are nothing compared to this. 
 The single player campaign may be somewhat short at 5-6 hrs but the quality and replayabilty of 
 it make it one of the best around. The vast amount of locales and firefights ranging from tense 
 battles between around 50-60 men to stealth game play, it has everything. The multi player cannot 
 be described by words. It has to be played to believe that multi player could be this good. Its 
 a gritty, action packed, mind numbing game that any PC, 360 or PS3 player should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curry316
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  absolutely  
 
  amazing online and it stays fresh with the ten prestiges. ive been playing online for over 100 
 hour and dont plan on stoping any time soon. the campaign
  is very short but amazing while it lasts with an amazing story and an epic ending. cant wait for 
 call of duty 5. amazing online and it stays fresh with the ten prestiges. ive been playing online 
 for over 100 hour and dont plan on stoping any time soon. the campaign
  is very short but amazing while it lasts with an amazing story and an epic ending. cant wait for 
 call of duty 5. amazing online and it stays fresh with the ten prestiges. ive been playing online 
 for over 100 hour and dont plan on stoping any time soon. the campaign
  is very short but amazing while it lasts with an amazing story and an epic ending. cant wait for 
 call of duty 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is by far the best first person shooter I have played. The variety of weapons are 
 very accuratelly placed as in power and range. It has a well placed story with the SAS and the 
 marines. The controls arent clunky and fit with the game smoothly. The campaign is far too short 
 for a first person shooter. The campaign takes you to many different places with rich environments 
 and great graphics. Even though the campaign is short the multiplayer makes up well for it in adding 
 much more to the game itself. You can create a class with various different weapons and perks and 
 you unlock more the higher your class is. There are also many different challenges with each weapon 
 that add more to the gameplay. Also you will get rewarded in multiplayer for getting so many kills 
 in a row. First starting off with UAV, air strike and then a helicopter which all the players hate 
 including me hate to be on the opposite side of. The single player is short but if you have an 
 online connection you will be set and I would recommend this game to anyone who likes a good first 
 person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Tidus
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is really fun to shoot people. The multiplay online gameing is really a good way to 
 enhance your skills. With the ranking experience thing, it makes it more fun to play and more worth 
 it to get. Like all of the other Call of Duty games, its just a first person shooter, but it is 
 still fun to play. I suggest getting this game, since there are new maps are out now which enhance 
 multiplayer to be more exciting then ever.
  
  Story mode:
  The story to this game was alright, you get to learn the basics and new thing in COD4. The only 
 bad side to this is the short campaign it gives you. The only thing that game makes it worth while 
 is the multiplayer.
  
  Overall:
  You should really get this if you like the series and first person shooters. One of the best first 
 person shooter games on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is one of the best games I've ever played the graphics are beautiful, gameplay and 
 runs very nicely on the PS3, the weapons beautiful, the story of the game is great, it's short 
 but it's like watching a 2 hr movie type of short and not like some really long british movie. 
 The weapon system is great, multiplayer is where this game shines, although just playing you and 
 your buddy is fun, it just does not compare to playing online where you can customize your weapons, 
 with a silencer, scope, grenade launcher just to name a few. 
  You can create your own class with whatever weapons you want. The only down side is that you can't 
 create a customizable class just playing local multiplayer, which is rather a bore. The other great 
 things about this game is the fact that you can call Air Support and if you survive long enough 
 you can get a Chopper. Now with the question how can you playing on and on is due to the fact that 
 there is a level system which goes up based on how many bad guys you've killed and achievements 
 from simple to extremely hard. The ranking is based on military style each time you level up you 
 go up another rank and unlock something new from challenges to new camos for weapons to actually 
 new weapons.
  Lastly the best part is that you can do different types of game online and on local play from search 
 and destroy to death matches. The weapons that are used are well rather Modern from MP44 to an 
 MP16 to a couple of great sniper rifles. This is definetely a game worth getting if theres one 
 problem is that the online games can end up taking to long or you just get kicked out for no reason. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Well Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best FPS's in 2007. 
  
  Good: well i has one of the best and smoothest gameplays in a long, long time. it looks great. 
 it IS great. Story is great. Multiplayer is debatable but i think its good. wide viarty of wepons 
 makes the game seem like theres never enough wepons. Smart enemy AI. Great singleplayer from start 
 to (very quick) finish. Game looks great from low end computers to the greats.
  
  Bad: the singleplayer ends, quick. some weapons are pretty useless. rocket launcher is basically 
 useless. Ally AI is laughable. The multiplayer system is not amazing. Enemy AI gets tough on the 
 last 2 difficulty modes. first 2 difficulty modes are too easy.
  
  All up its a solid game but a bit more time would have made it a 9.5 or maybe a 10. It is a great 
 trun in the call of duty games. coming out of the WWII makes it seem fresh and new in the call 
 of duty franchises, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorillamo
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything. The campaign (although a little short) is great and it has a good (and 
 emotional) story line. After you complete the campaign, you can go back and re-play any of the 
 missions in arcade mode and try maximize your score by finishing the game as quickly as possible.
 
  Multiplayer for this game is amazing. You can play up to 4-player splitscreen, play on a LAN, 
 or play online. Playing online with this game is highly addicting. There are a lot of different 
 game-modes and the servers support up to 18 players per game. Create-A-Class is cool, you can customize 
 your character with whatever weapons and perks you want (and none of the weapons seem like they're 
 too cheap, not even an RPG or a Grenade Launcher) . As you level up, you unlock more weapons that 
 you can use. There are also challenges that you can complete to gain extra points and level up 
 your character and to customize your weapons. The challenges range from getting 150 headshots with 
 your sniper, to sprinting 26 miles, to shooting through a wall to kill and kill an enemy with his 
 own claymore. Once you get up to level 55, you can choose to go into prestige mode (there are 10 
 of them) . This allows you to go back to level one and work up to the top again.
  The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen in a game, and it supports up to 1080p High-Def 
 resolution.
  
  Pros: Everything. I can't think of anything wrong with this game.
  Cons: None
  
  I got this game for Christmas back in December. Now its almost June and I'm still 
 playing it about every day. This is well worth $60. Get this game, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  What can i say? I haven't even tried the single player version yet, why should i? Call Of Duty 
 4 was known from the start for it's online and it held up to it's fame. After playing a couple 
 of hours, you don't want to do anything else anymore. The different maps that you encounter during 
 the online mode are very realistic, best online graphics to date. You get a long range of weapons 
 that you can tweak and upgrade as you climb the COD-ladder. Once you reach your max level you get 
 to make a difficult choice. Try to get to a higher level but loose alll your weapons stay where 
 you are and keep your weapon arsenal. Personally i think staying where you are is for amateurs.
 
  
  There's a lof of different game types ranging from 1-on-1 to 24 online players. I mostly stick 
 to team deathmatch. Very realistic and honest team-2-team games, best team wins.
  
  COD4 will make it very difficult for Battlefield Bad Company to do better, we'll see what happens. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy9Beans
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Although I have never really enjoyed first person shooters on consoles, preferring to use a keyboard 
 and mouse control setup, this game has really drawn me in. The passable single player missions 
 are topped with a huge array of multiplayer modes and a challenge system which will always leave 
 you wanting just one more match...
  
  The single player missions switch through several story lines covering both British SAS and US 
 Marine Corps operations. These two forces use different weapons and tactics (which I won't discuss 
 publicly as I will only end up drawing parallels with current, real-life conflicts) which allows 
 people to use gung-ho tactics as well as camping/stealth. The missions are not really exceptional 
 and most people I have spoken to have given up completing it as they prefer multiplayer (except 
 for egg-boxers who need their gamerpoints lol)
  
  The multiplayer is where the fun begins! There are loads of different game modes, mainly for team-based 
 combat although there is a free-for-all mode for those sick of numpty team-mates. There is a private 
 match facility for those too scared to rate themselves against the rest of the world or for those 
 wanting to familiarise themselves with levels without being sniped every few seconds, but these 
 private matches do not allow the player to accrue vital XP.
  
  XP is what the multiplayer game is all about. You can earn XP through various different actions 
 in the game; personal kills, team kills, winning matches and completing challenges. Collecting 
 XP allows you to progress through the ranks from Private, each rank attained gives another piece 
 of equipment or perk to then use in subsequent matches. The callenges vary, from total kills and 
 headshots with each weapon to awards for inventive kills and protecting key players such as bomb-carriers. 
 Each challenge gives bonus XP as well as giving a new piece of equipment or perk. The equipment 
 is varied and well balanced, except that short-range weapons suffer as the levels tend to be open 
 and sprawling. The perks are quite handy for noobs, especially Juggernaut, as these can help to 
 level the playing field when faced with 24-7 prestige players.
  
  My only quibble about the multiplayer is that there is no facility to fairly match players. This 
 is a feature of other games, where players are matched by rank to ensure that you have a fair chance 
 of being able to compete. In a game based primarily on rank this is quite an oversight. Maybe Infinity 
 Ward will look at this closer, now that the less die-hard players have switched to GTA4 and the 
 remaining COD4 players are fragmented into the top notch players and those trying the game for 
 the first time. If not, I can't see COD4 regaining a fair share in the online market in the face 
 of releases such as Haze, MGS4 and Killzone 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkjfk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. The game is nearly perfect. The variety of multiplayer 
 games is alot of fun and never gets old. If you dont like war fighting games I would still get 
 it because it is that good. The graphics are amazing, the storyline is interesting, the cut scenes 
 are fun to watch, and the campaign is perfectly animated for realistic battle action! Every mission 
 is very unique in its own way and the graphics just keep on amazing you every step of the way. 
 Also the ending is cinematic!!!!!!!!!! The only thing that I dont like is that the length of the 
 campaign is super short. Before you know it the only thing you will be playing is multiplayer (which 
 is still loads of fun) !! I can not wait for Call of Duty 5 to come out because they will probably 
 still find ways to make the game even better. If you have not gotten this game you need to get 
 it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I not usually as much of a fan of first-person shooters, but this one had such high ratings that 
 I figured I had to try it. Well, it did not disappoint! The game really throws you into a realistic 
 military experience, and it has moments of pure adrenaline-pumping action. Though generally weak 
 on storyline, there was enough excellent action and exhilarating sensory input to overlook the 
 slim story. 
  
  The graphics are excellent, and the tactical capabilities allowed by the control scheme are great. 
 So much attention was paid to the graphical details, especially with the environments around you, 
 that it was hard not to enjoy playing. Also compelling was the use of enemy AI, who very realistically 
 reacted to you by ducking for cover when you lobbied a hail of bullets at them, or who came at 
 you gangbusters after overhearing you when you made too much nose while trying to sneak around. 
 Some of the scenes were truly heart-pounding, and I really felt as if I were part of the action.
 
  
  I also really enjoyed some of the unlockable cheats after you first complete the game, especially 
 the Ragtime option. Totally hilarious.
  
  I suppose my biggest criticism of the game is that the single-player campaign is pretty short. 
 I'm one of those people who isn't too keen on multiplayer stuff, so I really like a long single-player 
 storyline. However, the rest of the game was so fantastic that I am totally willing to overlook 
 that shortcoming.
  
  Overall, a great game that I highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  First I think it is fair to say I have never been a big fan of FP Shooters. I hate the movement 
 style... looking up/down/left/right.... jumping, climbing etc., always feels a bit too artificial 
 and unrealistic to me. So I prefer the 3rd person instead.
  
  That said, this is one kick-ass game. Great graphics and a great story line (that is unfortunately 
 way too short) , help propel this game from start to finish.
  
  I didn't get into online play too much because, well, I just plain sucked. After getting killed 
 at least 20 times in the first 15 minutes (all headshots it seemed) . I decided online play wouldnt 
 be for me. However, the gameplay online seem to work every bit as well as offline, with no glitches 
 or hangups of any kind. 
  
  This is a game that any fan of a FPS will enjoy immensely, whether online or offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  This is something new. As I said in the deck, it is one-of-a-kind. It isn't everyday that you find 
 something as immersive and deep as this. Stimulation is its middle name. Truly unbelievable.
  
  Campaign mode:
  
  To start off, the campaign is too good to be true. Fast paced action 
 that you don't get everyday. Small details that will greatly impress you. A. I. is really intelligent. 
 Yet, as I said, "too good to be true." I mean this in every sense. Its too good. Yet you get too 
 involved in it till you find out that you have it finished in the blink of an eye. If you don't 
 play online at all, only get this game if you have some leftover $50 that you want to spend on 
 something new. Otherwise, save it.
  
  Online:
  
  Hard to describe. This is anything but superficial. Spectacular ought to be the right word. 55 
 levels to keep you busy with the utmost intensity. Considering PS3, and the 360, you have come 
 to the right place my friend. Reach level 55, restart all over and you get a free insignia for 
 the campaign. There are ten insignias in total, leaving you with a ladder of 605 levels in total. 
 (Hope I didn't embarras myself with my math) If you play online, this game is worth every penny 
 in your wallet. 
  
  Visuals:
  
  Veeery impressive. Truly new. Yet, there are some really noticeable blemishes that will ruin your 
 enjoyment of it. Yet again, on the surface, it is beautiful.
  
  Sounds:
  
  This game has some hypnotic voice acting never-seen-before. Sound effects are truly unmistakably 
 perfect. Sound-a-holics are definately going to drool over this game. 
  ---------------------------------------------------
  GameSpot rating: 9.0 --Editor's Choice --
 
  My rating: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  OMG I love playing this game to death. Firstly, the graphics are STUNNING. Epecially when it rains, 
 it looks really nice like that. Also, of course, the multiplayer is one of the best, if not the 
 best. There are lots of sweet maps and there are usually lots of players online. Lots of people 
 don't have headsets though :/. I love the new map Chinatown... freaking sweet and lots of good sniping 
 spots. I love the weapons too. I'm especially good at using AKs. There are plenty of ways to gain 
 points on multiplayer. Like, there are challenges. One of them is plunging 30 feet to your death 
 :P. I've done that xD. Also, vandalism. Destroy like lots of cares and you'll complete challenges. 
 There are challenges for each weapon. Marksman AK-47 etc.
  Well anyways, if you have a PS3 buy this game now. Seriously. It's like almost better than anything. 
 Except GTA IV. Haha.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  After years and years of World War II games, the Call of Duty franchise finally decided that they 
 would take a bold move and go modern. Thank God. Not to say that some of the past games were bad, 
 but there isn't a whole lot of new things that can be added to WWII games. With COD 3 being such 
 a disappointing game, there seemed to be both excitement and caution from gamers when it was announced 
 that the franchise was going modern. There was certainly no need to worry. COD 4 is easily the 
 best FPS to come out in a very long time and it is also one of the best looking games to be released 
 for both the 360 and PS3 to date. The combat is great and the story is very engaging as well, but 
 the game has almost limitless replay value with the online play. This is certainly not a run and 
 gun type of game, as it really makes you plan out your strategy and makes you work with your fellow 
 soldiers-especially on the harder difficulties. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is by far one of the best games to have come out in recent years and surely will 
 satisfy all kinds of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  i think call of duty has finally got a game right!!!!!!
  personally i love everything on and offline!!
  i have been playing this game since it came out 
 and i still are not bored!!!
  i completed the offline in 2days very easy but very fun, then i was thinking of selling it but then 
 i got my ps3 online and a whole new cod4 world opened up, you can play online between 2-18 players 
 doing many game free for all , team deathmatch buy my favourite search and destroy their are lot 
 more, i love all the maps , and the new ones has made this game even better,
  on online you have to get to rank 55 which should take no more than to days you complete weapons 
 unlock attachments and skins for them , also do challenge's like kill 30 people whilst lying down 
 you get the idea,
  when reached 55 which most people have you can do something call prestige mode which means you 
 get a new badge and do it all over again great if you have reached 55 and done it all, personally 
 you may ask wont this get boring no it doesnt there always a new gun or something you want to unlock, also 
 you can personmalise a class, choose a weapon a pistol and 3 perks, perks are like increase bullet 
 damage, c4 packs , rpg, martydom and lot more i love this game,
  if you have completed it offline go and set up onlinea ehole new world"
  thanks for reading 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwest423
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has the best graphics I have seen and even greater gameplay. Its 
 campaign might be short, but it is awesome with intelligent A. I. and physics. The controls for 
 this game are awesome for a first person shooter. This really is a first person shooter game unlike 
 Halo 3, which I think could be awesome 3rd person, but they want to stay with what they made for 
 first person shooters. But anyways COD 4's multiplayer online is the most addictive and fun. The 
 prestige has to be the smartest thing a game developer could put in. This game is just awesome 
 and fun. 
  
  Now I have no idea what to say what I have said already is what it is, and this review should not 
 be more than 800 more like 500 would be nice. But still COD 4 is completely awesome and a must 
 have for any gamer. Another game that has a four in it is GTA 4 now that game is f*cking sweet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_bruschy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise reaches a new stand in the gaming industry.
  Sure CoD and CoD 2 (CoD 3 doesnt count imo) were great but Modern Warfare is just fantastic in 
 almost every aspect.
  
  Lets start by talking about the singplayer mode...
  As mentioned before most will notice how short the singleplayer campaign runs. In fact, if you 
 play in the lowest difficulties or are just that good you will probly be able to finish the story 
 in less than one day.
  Call of Duty however, isnt fun in the lowest difficulties. You'll just have to play in Hardened 
 or Veteran if you wan't to take the most out of the campaign.
  If you decide so, you'll soon realise that it will take you a little longuer to complete the game.
 
  Plus most missions are just so good that you will find yourself repeating them evey now and then 
 just for the heck of it.
  
  The only thing that could be added is a co-op mode and maybe a few more missions.
  
  
  Now 
 lets pass to the main part feature of Modern Warfare... The online mode.
  Sure shooting a terrorist in the campaign mode in the leg and watching him crawl is fun... But 
 sniping a friend of yours from 150 meters right between the eyes and watch the blood spatter all 
 over the wall is just damn satisfying.
  Being good in the game won't only be usefull during the 10 minutes or so of each round this time.
 
  For evey kill, assist (helping to killing an oponent) or match objetcives you complete (such as 
 capturing flags, defusing bombs etc...) you will be awarded with a certain amount of XP. As you 
 gain XP you will start to level up your soldier. Leveling up will unlock lots of interesting stuff 
 such as weapons, perks (these give your character some special atributes such as increased damage, 
 more health etc...) and weapon add-ons.
  All this costumization makes the game much more interesting and incentivates you to play it A LOT 
 in order to unlock that "uber weapon" that you've wanted for all that time.
  
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best games that money can buy and definitly the best 
 online shooter in the past years.
  A must buy for the genre lovers... And even if you don't like FPS games you should atleast give 
 this one a try.
  
  
  Graphics- 9/10 Great scenarios deeply detailed that look so good to the eye.
  Sound- 9/10 Can't 
 exactly espect a tracklist like in GTA but the sound effects are very well achieved
  Controls- 10/10 It doesn't get much better than this.
  Multiplayer- 10/10 Best out on a console
 
  Extras- 6/10 The arcade mode is fun to brag about your scores but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  And we begin as you take control of an expert soldier called "Soap" as you try to stop an evil 
 organization with thousands of terrorists trying to launch rockets with nuclear warheads to take 
 over the world. Your job is to prevent this kind of destruction at all cost. Captain Price comes 
 back with his patriot style and promise to kick {more than before} ass. However how can a small 
 group of soldiers stop the unstoppable?! The answer is simple: with their strong faith and their 
 will to survive they can stop even the most powerful armies in the world......... Now than ever 
 before you can use lots of different weapons which some of them need some skill to handle e. g G3. 
 The graphics are just wonderful and it is sure that they will impress you better than the other 
 3 Now its in your hands to save planet earth from mass destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DX_HBK_HHH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Some say Call Of Duty 4 is an action-packed fast paced, gun blazing first person shooter!!- and 
 they would be right.
  Yes Call Of Duty 4 is the next installment of the popular series Call Of Duty, except this times 
 there is a twist MODERN WARFARE. Long overdue some may feel but Infinity Ward have ditched the historic 
 past and brought you back to the future and IW have thrown you in the thick of it with the world 
 ready to be saved by you. No pressure then.
  The player (you Duh) plays as 2 guys Soap Macintosh a new S. A. S recruit and Paul Jackson an experienced 
 U. S. M. C soldier. You will soon fly around most of Eastern Europe with your squad behind you and 
 MP5 in hand ready to take on those evil bad dudes one of those bastards is a man named Alead Al-Asad 
 and the other Imran Zakhaev (I hope i spelt their names right)
  I won't give much of the story away for those of you who are yet to buy this game (shame on you) . However 
 sadly like most FPS this Gen the single player is rather short in fact very short with a complete 
 run time of around 5-7 hours on hard and around 7-9 on the deadly veteran.
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS ---
  
  Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is in my opinion the best FPS of 2007 
 forget about RSV2 (review at a later date) and Turning point fall of Liberty (lol) this is the best 
 by a long way. The short single player combined with a highly addictive multiplayer will keep you 
 in your basement for a long time to come. Regardless of what system you have (PS3, X360, PC) it runs 
 great on all and a must buy if you love FPS.
  
  YEAH!
  PSN ID: Nightkiller93 Add Me Or I'll Kill You And Your Cat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keffin69
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an outstanding game. The detail they've put into the single player mission is 
 fantastic and the multiplayer runs smoothly. People will still be playing this game in 10 years 
 time. Now that the new maps have come out, even more people will be playing this game. There's 
 so many ranks to build up on and every weapon has a unique style so not all the weapons are the 
 same. All the multiplayer game modes are perfect. Couldn't ask for more. The story is a little 
 short though. Most people will complete this game in a day or two but each and every one of those 
 missions are well designed and very realistic. The graphics are outstanding and the sound is mind-blowing. 
 Every first-person shooter fan should buy this game. Easily a contender for game of the year. Obviously 
 the designers have put a lot of work into this game so it's well worth any price really. I would 
 rate this game 10/10 if the story wasn't so short but an amazing game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh, COD4, a sure way to get themselves back in action, instead of getting more cheap and unpopular 
 as they go along like the Medal of Honor series, Infinity Ward comes back with an epic BANG!. It's 
 clear that Call of Duty will be around for a long time, Although being a bit arcadish in terms 
 of realism, the gameplay is still fast-paced and the story is a lot like an epic and tragic action 
 movie. It's story is VERY in-depth and is highly addictive, the characters are very realistic and 
 believable but pretty much all killed in the story, which makes for a much more memorable experience. 
 The graphics are something to behold, they aren't overly done, but is surly the best graphics in 
 the series. The frame rates are fantastic, everything is silky smooth and the controls are just 
 right, not too sluggish, but not too sharp. The levels are VERY rich in detail and accuracy, especially 
 the Chernobyl Mission, it's almost a photocopy of the real thing! The story ranges from the elite 
 British S. A. S working in northern Russia, to the fearsome United States Marine Corps fighting in 
 the Middle-East against terrorists. The weapons are fantastic all around and have just the right 
 combination of accuracy and power, for a video game that is. The Epic Multiplayer is where the 
 real show lays, It is by far THE MOST INTENSE MULTIPLAYER EXPERIENCE EVER. It features weapon upgrades 
 for all weapons, intense fast-paced combat on a wide array of levels, some, straight out of the 
 Story, the servers are always full and have dozens of players waiting for a solid match anytime. 
 I recommend this game to every Call of Duty fanatic and every fan of shooters. It's one of the 
 best action shooters ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noob616
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great package with a fun single player campaign, that is quite short, but offers 
 some great plot twists, and some people have been known to cry over the ending. You start off as 
 a new recruit in the British SAS named Sgt. John "Soap" Mactavish and are under the command of 
 Captain Price and Gaz (whose rank is never given) . Your SAS missions intertwine with the US Marine 
 missions where you play Sgt. Paul Jackson. 
  The plot is a fairly plausible one with a group of Russian "Ultranationalists" rebel against the 
 government trying to return Russia to Communism, throw nuclear missiles into the mix, and its a 
 pretty scary idea. The USMC missions revolve about a middle eastern rebellion under Khaled Al-Asad 
 are trying to "distract" the USMC to help his ultranationalist allies to power.
  All in all it's a fairly good plot, with some surprising moments.
  
  
  Now where Call of 
 Duty 4 really shines is the nearly flawless online multiplayer where the only flaw is not having 
 a capture the flag mode. all of the maps have a connection to the single player campaign. when 
 you begin a game, you can choose between the 5 pre-generated classes or make your own. its great 
 to play. 
  
  
  GET IT NOW! (unless you can't access online play. then just rent it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 breaks the tradition of war games nearly all are set in the past but this one is 
 set nowadays. This is a really good things and it made me enjoy the game more. Unfortunatly Call 
 Of Duty 5 will not be like this.
  
  story mode in call of duty 4 is short but sweet. you will not just be shooting and shooting you 
 have to be more stealthy on this one. However even if it was just non-stop shooting it would still 
 be very fun.
  
  Online mode is what makes this game stand out from the crowd. There is plenty modes of matches 
 for you to play. From domination (where you have to dominate flags) to your regular team death 
 match there has to be at least 18 different game modes. 
  There is plenty variety on how you want your gun to be like. Also you can set your camoflauge. 
 You can add perks such as making you run faster or extra health.
  Also there are challenges which you have to get for example 75 headshots with a certain sniper 
 to get an extra camoflauge. However you have to do all your challenges again if you want to do 
 prestige. This basically is geting a better badge and it just tells other players how much you 
 have played and how good you are. Other then that it is pointless.
  
  Overall this game is very fun but i would only recommend this game if you have online. (My time 
 spent playing is based on story mode)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exeed_Orbit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you jump into this game, you will get the feeling of immersion and realism. That feeling 
 is further amplified when you encounter your first tango.
  
  The first thing you notice about this game (both on Ps3 and Xbox 360) is that it is a gorgeous 
 games. While it has its graphical flaws, they're easily forgiven for the lush, detailed environments 
 which you'll shoot, duck for cover, chuck grenades, and call in choppers in. Although the graphical 
 differences are minimal between the two alternatives, one thing that caught my eye for the ps3, 
 was its lack of AA. This doesn't dramatically alter the experience for the ps3 users, since the 
 game still looks beautiful and lush.
  
  The sense of realism that is portrayed in this game is achieved by having relatively smart friendly, 
 and enemy AI. Your buddies won't go down too easily, but beware, neither does the enemy (and this 
 becomes increasingly difficult in the harder difficulties, more on that later) While this provides 
 a challenge, it is never really impossible, although sometimes it might seem that way (again, jack 
 up the difficulty, and you'll see what I'm referring to)
  
  The single player missions offer a fairly large variety of mission types, ranging from reckon, 
 search and destroy, escort, even some sniping missions. The drawback to the single player mode 
 is that it's quite short, a skilled player could work his or her way through the single player 
 mode in as little as 6 hours. This is especially so because most missions are fairly straightforward, 
 since your compass (situated at the bottom right of your screen) always shows you where your next 
 objective is. Although getting to that objective isn't always as easy as just walking from A to 
 B. You'll have to shoot your way through plenty of ambushes and surprises, which can sometimes 
 get a little frustrating at higher difficulties.
  
  Speaking of higher difficulties, as you progress to harder and harder settings, you'll be able 
 to take less damage without dying. The easier settings allow you to get hit quite a few times before 
 finally biting the dust. But on settings such as veteran, take one or two hits, and it's already 
 time to take your dirt nap.
  
  But the lack of single player content is certainly compensated for by the multi player experience, 
 which will probably keep you engaged in the game for quite some time. 
  
  Although the multi player ranking system may take some getting used to, once you're at the appropriate 
 rank, you'll thoroughly enjoy the benefits that accompany it. 
  
  You start at rank 1, and you're only able to choose from the most basic of weapons. These weapons 
 are broken down into 4 groups, assault, sub machine guns, heavy weapons, and snipers. And you must 
 choose a side-arm, which initially are handguns. You are also able to choose the perks that suit 
 you and your playing style best. Perks such as more health, do more damage, shoot through walls, 
 and dropping a grenade at the time of your expiration are only a few (although the last one mentioned 
 won't be available until you gain higher ranks)
  
  And that's what usually keeps you coming back, as you gain ranks, you gain more and better weapons 
 to add to your arsenal. Some might argue that this makes it even harder for rookies to keep up 
 to more experienced players in the field, which I can't really argue with, since I had a hard time 
 keeping up with the others with those first weapons.
  
  And there are also quite a few game modes to choose from. Free-for-all, team death match, search 
 and destroy are the main ones. Free-for-all speaks for itself, as does team death match. Search 
 and destroy pits you up against the opposing force, where you have to either defend, or destroy 
 objectives. Where this differs from other game modes, is that if you die, there is no re-spawn 
 until your team has achieved its objective, or failed to complete it. 
  
  The game supports voice on both systems, which allows for some coordination between team members. 
 On paper, none of this seems very compelling, but this game is definitely a complete package, although 
 the SP missions could've been a bit more abundant, the terrific MP experience more than makes up 
 for it (if you're into that sort of thing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muller39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  What can I say about COD4 it is probably one of the best games out on the market still today after 
 being released in 2007. Even though the campaign could have been longer people go to buy this game 
 because of its online capabilities. WIth so many options online it keeps gamers including me still 
 playing it. You have so many options online that it makes it hard not to stop playing it. With 
 games such as search and destory, free for all, team deathmatch, cage match (one on one) , and hardcore 
 mode it is hard for the best of gamers to put in another game. Weapns in this game are amazing 
 where online you gain XP points which unlock different weapons, perks, and side arms. Also with 
 five custom classes you can pick and choose what weapon you want, what perk you want, and what 
 side arm you want as well which is great thinking. With over nine million copies sold this is going 
 to be just the begining I think for the COD franchise with COD 5 and 6 already being made as we 
 speak. So look for more good things to come from COD, I know I can't wait! Also with new online 
 mulitplayer maps coming out on April 24th I won't be playing another came for a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliDiamond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was praised by many to be one of the greatest shooters ever released. Unfortunately, 
 I disagree. I'll make a short list of the things that I think about the game.
  
  Graphics: Photo realistic at 60 fps. Bravo Infinity Ward.
  10/10
  
  Sound: The voice acting 
 is relatively average while the score is phenomenal. Now, I know that some people might say that 
 the voice acting is brilliant, but you have to remember that all it's doing is saying the same 
 three lines during combat, thus pressuring me to turn off the sound. The gun effects, however, 
 are some of the most realistic ones to date.
  
  8/10
  
  Story: Unfortunately, this is the major point where the game does not deliver. The storytelling 
 techniques are brilliant, but the story is anything but. And it ends on the most abrupt note ever.
 
  6/10
  
  Gameplay: Virtually unchanged from COD2. Sure they have a sniping mission and an aircraft mission, 
 but the same mechanics are used in this game as the previous 2 (note: in my opinion: Cod3 was not 
 part of the franchise) . I will however, give them credit for letting you shoot through doors and 
 walls.
  
  7/10
  
  Multiplayer/Extras: This reviewer absolutely hated arcade mode. The multiplayer was some of the 
 best done ever.
  
  8/10
  
  Overall: Overall, the game is great, but the few huge setbacks (being short, and not changing much) 
 prevent it from becoming the classic it should have been.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardog118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has to have the best online multiplayer to date. The way that you can create your 
 own class is a big step-up compared to the other Call of Duty games online, same goes for the fact 
 that you can add special 'perks' to your character. There's even a class for every player. You 
 can add a silencer to your MP5 or P90 and go ninja, or just spray your SAW or RPD with the perk 
 'Stopping Power' to REALLY cause some damage.
  
  The online gaming is also very detailed; even to the small cracks on the floor. I also like the 
 fact that the online gaming is fast paced, and really gets your adrenaline pumping. Plus the fact 
 that there's a ranking system, and 10 levels of Prestige will take you 10 days of straight playing 
 to accomplish!!
  
  Now on to the Single Player. the single player is one word - Amazing. All the detail that's put 
 in to the game, and how it's based on the modern war happening over in Iraq makes this game really 
 step-up from its World War setting. The only bad thing however, was that the Campaign Mode was 
 very short.
  
  Therefore in conclusion, Call of Duty 4 has to be one of if not the best first person shooter I've 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil80
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is not what is hyped to be. I expected an insanely good game with flawless story and 
 game play. Thats not what this game is. The graphics are good, but not great. Gameplay is smooth 
 with only a couple of slowdowns. They added only 1 new thing to this game that was not in it before, 
 the ability to throw back a grenade. Other than that its a modern COD3. I wouldnt go so far as 
 to call it a bad game, since i really enjoyed it. I did however expect alot more from it. The online 
 was nothing like was described to me. Id rather play RFOM online or Warhawk. If they would have 
 made the story a little more like STALKER, then it would have been much better. I did like the 
 ending though, very intense. Good shooter though, id recommend it. The weapons were more of the 
 same old same old, nothing very modern except the names, although the Javelin missiles were cool. 
 The dialogue was satisfactory for the games tone. I actually almost felt bad for the team at the 
 end... almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OcelotSnake
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me clear something up... Call Of Duty 4's campaign is pretty short. Somewhere between 
 5 to 8 hours in lenght, the campaign is no Dragon Quest, but what it lacks in lenght, it makes 
 up for in it's awesome, perfectly balanced action and the fantastic story. 
  Basically, you play as two people, the first character is Soap McTavish, a young British soldier 
 who's greenness shines through early on in the game, and you also play an American soldier.
  Your objective? Assassinate a group of dictators and stop the revival of the USSR. The story takes 
 you by suprise because the stories in previous COD games have all been based on real events. So 
 when a fictional story like this comes out, that has twists, character flashbacks etc. It takes 
 the average COD player by suprise. And rest assured, the story is really, really good
  
  Graphically, the game is fantastic. The soldiers trod along through the Middle Easter town, allys, 
 the Russian forests, with their shadows, movement and actions all looking realistic. 
  The range of weapons in Modern Warefare isn't massive, but is quite big. And during campaign, each 
 new weapon you find can potentioly be an absolute gem. So pretty much every second weapon or so 
 you find will deliver a "wow" moment the first time you use it. Like the first time you shoot down 
 a helicopter with a rocket launcher, or the first time you use the awesome mini gun to annialate 
 dozens of emenies in a single round
  The music in COD sets the game's dramatic tone brilliantly, while the voice acting is pretty much 
 flawless and is very engaging
  
  When you're finished your treck through the story, you can play arcade mode, where you play through 
 the games action packed bits, sans the story and cut scenes, with high scores to keep you busy. 
 Plus you're probably going to play the campaign, or at least your favourite sections, through again.
 
  But the real reason that your copy of Call Of Duty 4 is going to be a regular in your disc tray 
 is due to the awesome online play, which is easily the best on the console, and, hell, probably 
 the best online shooter ever, and is unbelievably addictive.
  You start off on rank 1, but build your way through all the different ranks with exp. points until 
 you reach the highest rank. But the reason that the online play is so addictive is due to the rewards. 
 By going up ranks and completing tasks (such as get 25 headshots with an AK-47) , you recieve rewards 
 like new guns and perks, and unlock even more challenges. This keeps it interesting and gives you 
 something to work towards, and there are weapons, perks and tasks a-plenty, and because the gameplay 
 is so amazing, and the weapons are so good and are perfectly balanced, you're going to keep playing 
 online even when you've done everything the game has to offer.
  
  My final words to you, the gamer, is that this should be at the top of your gaming list. And if 
 you don't own it, you should buy it as soon as you can. This is one of the best, if not the best, 
 FPS game of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacorb
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  This game is way too adictive. some poeple say addiction is a plus point for a game and it is, 
 to a certain degree. however, i don't remember smoking addiction to be good. 
  
  The only difference between this and smoking is that gaming doesnt hurt anyone else. Think about 
 it. You get more unfit the more you play it and its incredibly addictive.
  
  Also, i bet you that anyone playing call of duty on there own, online, has a blank face with no 
 signs of fun or enthuisasm. You cannot tell me that is fun.
  
  If u have played this for more than 2 days then you have completely finished this game. I played 
 for just under that and i got to prestige mode and won most of my games. i had also seen all of 
 what it had to offer on the maps and done the same thing many times. 
  
  People say its fun when really they are just soooo addicted they cant even stop.
  
  Another 
 thing is that as an fps it has already been done a million times and is a fairly boiing genre. 
 ive been shooting terrorrists and badies for a long time. You may be saying oh but it has perks 
 and an immersive online. So what. Thats not fundamentally changing the game. 
  
  You may also be thinking the campain was original and great. And it was farily good. But it was 
 too short and these "original" ideas are ALL copied.
  For instance, the shooting through walls is from ghost recon and every bit of the campaign is copied 
 from a film or a game.
  
  I find this very sad and i hope i stop someone from this addictive, time consuming, un-fun, annoying 
 game.
  
  If u want a fun game online warhwak is leagues ahead. Its semi-comical graphics and split-screen 
 online makes it one of the most fun games ive played in an age. Its not rank orientated (though 
 it does have them) , its a laugh with a tonne of fun things you can do (especially splitscreen) , 
 i was laughing from start to finish with a friend and its not too addictive (its just the right 
 amount) . I personaly would have warhawk instead of cod4 for an abudance of other reasons
  
  i would like to add that i do think its a great game for a while.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbmxjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that surpassed my expectations for itself and first person shooters as 
 a whole. The level of realism and the accuracy of detail put this game on its own playing field. 
 I never imagined I would play this game for over 300 hours and still be left wanting more! 
  
  The single player is action packed and incredibly immersive. You FEEL like you are there. The 
 missions are well designed, relevant, and intense! Although the single player is somewhat short, 
 it makes up for the length with detail in the content. 
  
  At first the multiplayer maps seemed to be less plentiful than I would have desired, but with time 
 I learned the depth of the effort at Infinity ward was substantial. There are numerous games modes 
 in multiplayer that just seem to work perfectly for domination, and search and destroy, and team 
 deathmatch. That is a tall task considering the diversity of those game types and the different 
 strategy involved. If theres something that looks like you can shoot through it (drywall, thin 
 sheet metal) in COD4 you can!
  
  There is a large number of different guns to use all with a large range of pros and cons. The multiplayer 
 also uses a perk system to provide small skill boosts for different loadout options. Having a set 
 loadout also makes for a better pace, no more scrambling to the spot in the map where the rocket 
 launcher is. So with a ranking system to unlock different guns and perks for your specific loadout 
 there's alot of incentive to keep playing to earn more. 
  
  These are just a few reasons why Call of Duty 4 is a 10 and has set the bar for FPS shooters games 
 just that much higher. I could go on forever about how perfect this game is but you should be out 
 buying it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3yondstupidity
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  After all these gaming reviews of the game I decided to pick it up and this is what I have to say:
 
  
  The whole game gets a 10/10 no doubt. Sound effects are great, which really helps when enemies 
 are around. The story line is pretty good overall. You are a man called Soap which I know is a 
 pretty crappy name for a guy. You usally get help at time with your team in story so it is quite 
 good although sometimes it can confuse you that you might kill your own team mate.
  The online is just fantasic! A range of matchese to choose from for example Team Death Match to 
 Old School Free For All! 
  Online is headset compatible so you can talk with other gamers along.
  You level up online the 
 max I belive is level 55 or you can be a prestige.
  There are challanges to do which take some time to do but if you do it then you more levell up 
 points.
  Controls are hard at the start but they get easier.
  Call Of Duty 4 is the best in a long and storied franchise.
  
  Hope this review made up your 
 mind.
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humilde_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  That's right, i always choose the options below before writing the review, but this time, i didn't 
 knew which classification pick, i mean, its Amazing, Best in Series, Grows on You, Highly Addictive, 
 Instant Classic, Masterpiece and Great Multiplayer.
  I guess ive chosen the last one because , all the classifications appear because the online gaming.
 
  Ive played it more than other game in my PS3. Its addictive
  First, ive played the story mode, i knew when i bought it that it was excellent online, so i didnt 
 wanted to hook up online before playing the story, besides, i could get used to the controller, 
 (i have to say that every fps that i played before was on pc, i hate the controller, but i get 
 used to) . So, great story mode, i love the "sniper mission" when you kill the bad guy and walk 
 trough the grass and that.
  Then, i tried multiplayer,.. man, it wasted my life, i go to bed 3 hs before going to work since 
 that and i spent more time with the cod4 than in the skateboard.
  Ive just realised that im a nerd, and i don't have any "real" social life (just my cod4 clan ARG) 
 since ive got this game. It sucks i think, ill try to go out at night... at night... now im going 
 to play this awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsmith105
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I have played different online multiplayer shooters and most get pretty boring in a hurry. They 
 do not have enough reward to keep you wanting to play. This game has a structure of rewarding your 
 acheivements with various unlockable weapons and abilities that keeps you interested, or should 
 I more honestly say addicted, long after you would shut off similar games. 
  
  As an example I am at the modest multiplayer level of 33. Therefore I can only carry one primary 
 weapon and a pistol. So I am avoiding using the sniper rifle as in close range situations I will 
 not be up to the challenge. But I know that when I reach level 38 I can carry 2 primary weapons. 
 So I could then carry a sniper rifle and say something handy like a sub machine gun. Now that is 
 worth working up the ranks for! What other game keeps you that motivated. I would like to know!
 
  
  PS. Can't wait for the new Map package to be released!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitely, one of the best shooters in Campaign Mode, and THE best shooter online.
 
  
  Gameplay: FPS (first person shooter) With major focus on the realistic take. The story goes around 
 you saving America from 2 major terrorist leaders. But this won't be your normal "hero" game, you 
 go around playing as different soldiers, in the designated areas. There's a pretty big arsenal 
 you get to choose from in Campaign, and they work, and sound, like the real guns. Campaign is really 
 short (from 6-8 hours) but you will have an amazing experience in that short lapse. Now, COD4 is 
 not known for it's amazing Campaign, but for it's amazing Online. COD4's online mode, squashes 
 Halo 3's. I'll start off by saying there is a ranking system, you level up according to the points 
 of kills you've made, or special achievements. By completing special achievements, you get more 
 XP than normally, which is good. By leveling up, you unlock prizes such as new powerful weapons, 
 perks, and camouflage. Online modes range from your normal Team Deathmatch, to Sabotage missions, 
 to Cage Matches (also known as Mano a Mano fights) COD4's online WILL make you reach maximum level 
 (55) and keep on playing. 
  
  Visuals: Best visuals I've seen in a shooter (excluding Crysis) On a normal SD tv you'll think 
 it's pretty realistic, and on a HD TV, you'll think you're actually there. From the guns, to the 
 backgrounds, to the cars, everything is graphically amazing.
  
  Sound: Great. The voice acting, music, and sound effects, are all really well made. They all fit 
 the game, it's tempo, and specific scene.
  
  Controls: You get to configure your control preference, so I can't really say anything else here. 
 Though I'll say I recommend using Tactical instead of Default.
  
  Overral: Call of Duty 4 is one of the best, if not the best FPS out there. Its campaign is amazing, 
 written and graphically. Even though it's fairly short, it's still a fantastic ride. Its Online 
 Mode is definitely the best FPS online out there. Fun, amazing, and just plain bad ass, COD4 WILL 
 deliver.
  
  What are you waiting for? Go get your wallet, turn on the car, and go to the nearest retailer and 
 buy your copy of COD4 now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nowak94
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is set in the modern era where new guns and equipment take over. Even though the 
 story mode is short it will have you playing it a while and once your done with that you still 
 have arcade mode to try out. But nothing tops the good old multi-player online which will have 
 you playing for months non-stop. This is the perfect game to get first on your new console. In 
 online there are many different customizations to make your weapons suit your liking. They are 
 known as perks. You also have different camos and attachments for your weapons. There are many 
 game modes and challenges to rank up your character to a max of 55 and then you can go into Prestige 
 mode up to 10 times. I myself am still only on the 3rd Prestige mode. I highly recommend this game 
 to everyone, but beware it just sucks you in like no other game before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craftieman05
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is supposed to be a great game. I didn't really see that greatness in it. The single player 
 in the game is kinda boring and not that great. I don't know I didn't get much out of it. I thought 
 it was very generic and something I could play on my old 64.
  
  The graphics in the game were beautiful. I don't have a HD tv but it still was amazing. I don't 
 think there are to many better looking games out right now, except for maybe Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune. 
  
  The multiplayer in game, especially the online mutliplayer, is where this game shines. If the rest 
 of the game was half as good as the multiplayer, the game would be a classic. I think the reason 
 why the online multiplayer is the best thing in the game is becuase of the rpg elements in it. 
 You get to level up your profile in the game by playing games and completing the challenges, which 
 include different challenges with different guns and modes that you can play. which unlocks more 
 weapons, scopes, camo stuffs, and perks. That is what kept making me come back for more.
  
  In conclusion, the game was lackluster. It is not horrible though, just more time was spent of 
 the multiplayer. If they could have spent more time on the single player I think it would have 
 been a better all around game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemaps3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  CAMPAIGN = Call of duty used to be like other war games which was based on WWII. I think after 
 alot of those games which in some way were cool but looked like every other games, Cod team moved 
 to modern shooter. I think the idea of this from the beginnig was great. After getting the game 
 itself I didnt know how 2 decribe it. It was jus plain fun. Going to iraq and shooting terrosist 
 was fun. Although I would have liked to see some cover actions. The story is basic but nice. It 
 isnt really complicated so players wont feel like a noob. I also think that the campaign mode sshould 
 have been longer but the online makes it up for it. The guns are all neat and the gameplay itself 
 is easy. But there r no veichles in it. There r 4 levels of difficulty to suite u.
  
  ONLINE = This is what made call of duty 4 a good game. The online mode is what made this game a 
 big hit. You can play with freinds for a long time and you wouldn't even know that time has passed. 
 People around the globe comes to play and some with mega skills. The online has a rank mode in 
 which it goes higher the more point you get. You get points by killing people, completing challenges 
 and etc. This makes the gamers more engaged and feel their doing isn't going to waste. The highest 
 rank you get is 55 and after you reach that level you start prestige mode in which you start from 
 level 1 again but get diffferent medal. Also the higher youget better weapons you get such as desert 
 eagle, mp55 etc. Buit no veichles and if you r the gamer who needs cars and plane than I m sorry, 
 there isn't any.
  
  I would also like 2 say that this is highly addictive so be careful!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Different to other CODs, instead of the game being set in WWII the producers have decided to go 
 a step further into the future. Most hardcore COD gamers may feel uncomfortable for the first 5 
 mins of the game but aafter that I garuntee it will become absolutely addictive. The campaign is 
 rather short but it is still good on its own merits.
  
  Multiplayer
  What can i say, absolutely fantastic, this would be the main reason to get this game, improved 
 features from the previous CODs is that you get various rewards for getting a killing streak, such 
 as an air strike, this may seem unfair and really easy to get kills but you will find that the 
 levels on which you will play multiplayer will have lots of spaces to hide when you are being hit, 
 such as bunkers and houses. I would reccomend this game to anyone even if it just had multiplayer 
 since it is free on the PS3. 
  
  Graphics
  Stunning detail in characters and landscapes, also water visuals are exceptional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paper_heart1215
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out there was so much hype to it that I wasn't sure if it would live up to 
 the expectations. And it did, and more. Its got great graphics and amazing sound effects; even 
 if you aren't playing it on an HDTV. 
  
  The campaign mode isn't the best that I've played but it covers everything you need to know about 
 the game and how to work everything including weapons air-strikes and helicopters. It's very user 
 friendly and it is great game to start with if you're just getting into first person shooter games. 
 
  
  The online play is a totally different story. It's the best quality of online game I've played 
 on my PS3 so far. I can hook up my headset, join a game and feel like I'm right there, in the battlefield, 
 playing right along with my friends. The sound effects are quality and the narrating voice sounds 
 almost perfect. He does get annoying after a while but thats the only thing wrong with online. 
 Their class system is a great way to keep you wanting to play. The challenges and different game 
 modes make the game so much more enjoyable and entertaining even if you aren't playing all the 
 time. 
  
  The thing that I've found with some shooter games is that they don't have a huge assortment of 
 weapons but COD4 isn't like that at all. As you move up in class rank you unlock so many different 
 weapons and new challenges that you never get bored even after playing for days and days.
  
  Overall, COD4 is one of the best quality PS3 games out there right now and I think it is a 
 must have for a gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simulateddave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is one of the best next gen shooters out there on both the 360 and PS3.
  This is a great game for returning veterans and newbies to first-person shooters. The story offers 
 lifelike military situations which compliment the campaign so well. The multiplayer has something 
 for everybody. Any gun class you can think of. I recommend this game to anyone. The multiplayer 
 has private matches and ranking matches. Anyone that buys this game for the 360 and has private 
 matches isn't getting there money's worth. While the PS3 offers everything you need. The max level 
 is 55 for your rank. But you can raise it to 55 again if you choose to. The only things you might 
 want to watch out for is the killcam. Its cool and all but it doesn't offer an acceptable appearance. 
 If you are a sniper and have the ultimate hiding spot the victim can come back and locate your 
 position, this doesn't offer a great experience. This could also tick some people off. There isn't 
 a lasting appeal in the campaign though. Some of you won't even start or finish the campaign mode 
 because of the great multiplayer. It is more addicting than the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianboy92
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  best online ive ever played in my life im serious this game is sooo good and exceeded my expectations 
 holy **** i remember the first time i played the beta i kknew this game was gonna be successful 
 and now look at it everybody loves ittt. this one was wayyyyyyyy better then call of duty 3, the 
 online for call of duty 3 was absoulutely horrible but this game was just right. i play it everyday 
 and to anybody that dosent have it get it, i highly recommend u getting this game. the campaign 
 was also really good, it was kinda short i guess you can say but i still loved it and im sure everybody 
 else did but the multiplyer really brings it to the top. if you dont have it please get it everybody 
 i know has this game because we all know its the best out there, at least until grand theft auto 
 4 comes out in my opinion the ultiplayer is alsog gonna be crazy. i love how cod4's online is so 
 like well structured like with the customization and the skill levels its so highly detailed and 
 u can tell they took time into making the multiplayer absoultuely amazing which we know they all 
 did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  For a very indepth and detailed story, it was relatively short but yet seemed to include so much. 
 Gameplay is really unbeatable by any other current modern-day war FPS. Their are multiple types 
 of multiplayer modes which really offers anything you could want or expect from an online FPS. 
 Great selection of guns in both single and multiplayer mode. Single player is quite fun but for 
 this one mutliplayer is where all of the action and fun is at. With ranking and unlockable weapons, 
 feats, and add-ons this makes the multiplayer extremely fun and addicting. Weapons are evenly made 
 and all have their benefits and their flaws. Only straigt flaw that I have found is with the ACOG 
 scope, its not quite as good at the red-dot sight.
  
  Environment:
  Environments are probably some of the most detailed and eye-candy rich that I've yet to see. Both 
 single player and multiplayer maps are of fantastic quality. All multiplayer maps are pulled from 
 single player. With the graphics, gameplay, and realistic physics and action, this game is probably 
 one of the most immersive FPS games to date.
  
  Graphics:
  I'll be honest, I was more visually stunned and excited while playing this game for the first time 
 than I was with Crysis. I would have to say physics-wise, my favorite part is the material factor. 
 By this I mean you can shoot through certain materials, depending on what gun, and other materials 
 you can't. I really couldn't of asked for much more other than fully collapsable enviornment, but 
 with that multiplayer would fail to even be entertaining or challanging. Textures, Shadowing and 
 lighting are all visually stunning and more than meeted my expectations. RPG rockets maybe a total 
 let down, but the smoke trail that it leaves behind is the most realistic I've ever seen.
  
  Sound:
  The voices in single player add quite a lot of humor, expecially the british leader. 
 Explosions and gun shots are very realistic. Can't complain about any sound that I've heard in 
 this game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance:
  The only reason this part didn't get a 10 is because of Punk Buster. Yes, Punk Buster is necessary 
 but it is the only reason that I've ever had any crashes or disconnection. Punk Buster needs some 
 fine tuning in the debugging department.
  
  FAQS:
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?
  - Oh most definitely. 
 Before this game was released I kept hearing people say that they weren't expecting much out of 
 it or that they figured it would be a total let down and of course I disagreed. Lets just say I 
 told you so.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?
  - Anyone who likes FPS and especially those who like Modern Day FPS. Heck if you have never played 
 a FPS style game, this is a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper_arries
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Though most people know the Call of Duty series as a world war 2 shooter recently ruined by Call 
 Of Duty 3, get ready for the new breath taking call of duty 4, this time its in the not so distant 
 future ...
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a first person shooter set in the near future where well armed Russian and Asian 
 terrorists are a threat to national security. You play as either a US Marine or British SAS soldier 
 taking part in many stunning missions around the world, Locations include Ukraine, Russia and even 
 on a ship transporting a nuclear device.
  
  In story mode you could be transported to russia to be a stealthy sniper on a assination mission, 
 Capture a rising terrorist leader and stop total distruction of america by aborting a nuclear missile 
 launch !!!
  
  The story mode is fantastic but the online mode is by far the best. Starting off as a Privatefirst 
 class you increase in rank by gaining kills, defusing and planting bombs and completing challenges. 
 When you rank up you unlock new weapons, abilities and more challenges. When you reach maximum 
 rank you can choose to go back to Private first class and start again.
  
  The graphics make the game more like an interactive work of art and can draw you in to the Call 
 of Duty 4 world almost instantly ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antcxxxvi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Go ahead and call me crazy! There are only two first-person shooters I have ever liked and ever 
 played. One of them was Golden Eye for the Nintendo 64 and the other is Call Of Duty 4 for the 
 Playstation 3. I'm usually never a big fan or player of these types of games, in fact I could care 
 less about them, but COD4 has revitalized my gaming experience. Being able to go online and play 
 against users from all across the globe was something that intimidated me at first, but I took 
 it like a fish to water and now I'm on par with some of the best gamers in the world! A score of 
 10 does not do this game any justice. Hopefully it's sequel will surpass it in every other way 
 imaginable. For the time being though, this game is an excellent addition to any gaming library 
 and a must own for any of the next-generation systems. I'm no expert in the field of first-person 
 shooters, but this game has to be the best one since Goldeneye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staysick666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Since I played the first Call Of Duty, I have been a great fan of the series. I liked playing WW2, 
 but I also wished something new. Finally, COD 4 arrived in my life, and there's only 1 thing I 
 can say about this game..... AWESOME!!!
  Well, I'll start talking about the campaign. It's VERY short, but it's very, very fun. Every mission 
 is breathtaking, and very satisfying. And the story is very good too. You play as an SAS sgt. called 
 Soap MacTavish, and an U. S. marine, sgt. Paul Jackson. There are also some missions where you are 
 an unnamed character.
  Now, for the multiplayer: this is something that you'll play until you're 60 years old :P. Seriously, 
 the multiplayer is an incredible experience, very very addictive, and very well done. You can give 
 yourself some type perks, and you can upgrade and customize your weapons.
  So, if you like FPS or war games, even if you like them a bit, you have to buy COD 4 because you 
 won't regret it.
  
  STAY SICK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeedsUTDDLUFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the next addition to the series but unlike other games in the series this isnt 
 set in WWII this FPS is set in eastern countries hence the name Modern warfare as it is set in 
 modern environments.
  
  While call of duty has two main game modes [STORY and Multiplayer] there is only one game mode 
 you should be playing if im being brutally honist it is ONLINE, this game is based all around Online 
 thats why the story is so short, although the story is short it is packed with alot of action and 
 you wont miss out, but if you dont have access to the internet on your console you will honistly 
 feel left out of the growing COD4 community, the online mode has a great ranking system which gives 
 you something to aim at and the graphics are quite breathtaking.
  
  Although COD4's story is short this game is a must buy and arguably the best FPS to date. 
  
 
  If you dont have internet access then you wont get the best out of this game.
  
  Im scoring this 9.5 out of 10 only because alot of people dont have internet access and cant fully 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dairyboy3065
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Good 
  Killing Multi-Player, Great but short single player, easy to master controls, perks and customize 
 your own weapons, Killer Graphics.
  
  Bad
  Short Single player campaign
  
  O. K
  
  This game is the best in the series. Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare says it all!
  Modern Warfare. 
 No Nazis, no Hitler, no WW2 background!!!
  Now-Russians, Dogs, Eastern Asians, nuclear weapens, and further more gore then ever. 
  Now when 
 you get this game, don't expect any "long" or "decent" single player campaign. Why???
  Cause it only is about 12 levels, with each causing only 30 mins per missions.
  
  Let's talk 
 about the kicking multi-player. The maps are awsome, the game modes are from Deathmatch to something 
 called "sabotage" witch is kinda like CTF but with only one flag and the flag needs to go to the 
 enemy's base instead of yours. There is also something called "Domination" it's something like 
 CTF, but there are 3 flags on the map. With each flag you get a score and the first team to reach 
 200 wins the match. but there is a twist. Each team has the "right" to got to ur base and capture 
 ur flag and use it for there own good. 
  
  Now the graphics....
  No one can beat COD4!!!!!!
  The ps3 and xbox are almost alike except that the ps3 has a little 
 more better visuals. and also the xbox360 has a little frame rate problem. But the multi-player 
 is better for the xbox360....
  
  Single Player campaign is not that long, but it gives you a decentd story witch all FPS has to, 
 and the campaign is not to hard if you don't raise up the difficulty. And at the end of the game 
 there is one random mission witch is actually "hard"!~
  
  Over all including the single player campagin witch is really satisfying, i give it a 10/10
  
 Including the Multi-Player you would play it for a long time!!!~
  
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Visuals-10/10
  Multi-Player-10/10
  Single Player Campaign-9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killmaster3811
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty rises above and beyond all of the other games in the fps genre. It has an amazing (if 
 short) campaign mode with a great story to back it up. The garphics are astounding, and there is 
 a great variety of guns to use. But what realy sets Call of Duty 4 above the rest is the online 
 play, there are 55 ranks that you can achieve and with those ranks come new weapons and "perks". 
 You can customize your weapon with a variety of different camo and attachments such as a grenade 
 launcher, a prip, a silencer, or a scope. There are a variety of game types such as capture the 
 flag, headquarters (basically king of the hill) , 1 on 1 deathmatch, search and destroy, sabotage, 
 and the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. If you need a new video game to play for hours 
 and hours on end then this is definently the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 9.5/10
  - For a very indepth and detailed story, it was relatively short but yet seemed to include so much. 
 Gameplay is really unbeatable by any other current modern-day war FPS. Their are multiple types 
 of multiplayer modes which really offers anything you could want or expect from an online FPS. 
 Great selection of guns in both single and multiplayer mode. Single player is quite fun but for 
 this one mutliplayer is where all of the action and fun is at. With ranking and unlockable weapons, 
 feats, and add-ons this makes the multiplayer extremely fun and addicting. Weapons are evenly made 
 and all have their benefits and their flaws. Only straigt flaw that I have found is with the ACOG 
 scope, its not quite as good at the red-dot sight. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 9.5/10
  - Environments are probably some of the most detailed and eye-candy rich that I've yet to see. 
 Both single player and multiplayer maps are of fantastic quality. All multiplayer maps are pulled 
 from single player. With the graphics, gameplay, and realistic physics and action, this game is 
 probably one of the most immersive FPS games to date. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 10/10
  - I'll be honest, I was more visually stunned and excited while playing this game for the first 
 time than I was with Crysis. I would have to say physics-wise, my favorite part is the material 
 factor. By this I mean you can shoot through certain materials, depending on what gun, and other 
 materials you can't. I really couldn't of asked for much more other than fully collapsable enviornment, 
 but with that multiplayer would fail to even be entertaining or challanging. Textures, Shadowing 
 and lighting are all visually stunning and more than meeted my expectations. RPG rockets maybe 
 a total let down, but the smoke trail that it leaves behind is the most realistic I've ever seen.
 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - The voices in single player add quite a lot of humor, expecially the british leader. Explosions 
 and gun shots are very realistic. Can't complain about any sound that I've heard in this game.
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - The only reason this part didn't get a 10 is because of Punk Buster. Yes, Punk Buster is necessary 
 but it is the only reason that I've ever had any crashes or disconnection. Punk Buster needs some 
 fine tuning in the debugging department.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  - I bought this game when It came out, I've yet to uninstall it and I don't think I will for a 
 very long time. I've played through single player twice and I just can't get enough of online play. 
 This game is also great for lan parties.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - I honestly would have probably paid more for it.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school 
 gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Oh most definately. Before this game was released I kept hearing people say that they weren't 
 expecting much out of it or that they figured it would be a total let down and of course I disagreed. 
 Lets just say I told you so. 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who likes FPS and expecially those who like Modern Day FPS. Heck if you have never played 
 a FPS style game, this is a good place to start.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9.5 - What can't I say about this 
 game. Both visual and online play are stunningly addictive and fun! If you haven't played this 
 game, you really ought to try it out. Don't bother downloading this one, the developers deserve 
 your money for making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_High_Lux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Upon approaching the game stall, furiously trying to dry my sweaty palms of excitement, I picked 
 up my copy from a local games retailer. Now I don't usually buy games from the shops because for 
 49.99 I began to doubt my decision on if I really wanted this game. Thankfully as I slid the disc 
 in and the opening movie started, my doubts vanished. 
  
  I am a big fan of the COD series and for the first time I bought it on PS3, due to my playstation 
 actually having a better machine spec than my PC! It's hard to get your head round using two joysticks, 
 but once you have got the knack it just works. Well, for the first time COD have gone all modern 
 on us and what a great change it has made, real life locations, mock up situations that could happen 
 today in the 'chemical warfare' world and lastly, the guns.
  
  From the word go you are dropped on to a cargo ship of some sort with a team of three sas members. 
 You take position of support and it's not long until you're firing off blindly in panic, because 
 you think you saw a 'shadow' or a grenade being thrown. There are plenty more moments in this game 
 where panic takes hold of your fingers and you spray your magazine madly in circles trying to fight 
 off enemies. A great storyline behind the single player missions and yes, the single player is 
 fairly short, but with the intensive play and and clever tactics used within the missions, it's 
 definitely not a waste of money. There is great voice acting, strangely the main voice over bloke 
 sounds similar to the gangster from eastenders (for all the brits) . 
  
  What I love about COD is that the game sucks you in and time tends to fly by without you noticing 
 that three days have passed and it's Monday morning.
  
  Now that may be a slightly brief review on single player, but this game is all about the online 
 play. I was never a massive fan of multiplayer until recently playing COD2 on pc revived a keen 
 interest I thought I never had; plus the fact that I have no life really helps with improving my 
 skills online! But multiplayer plays great on COD4 and is very annoyingly addictive. Infinity ward 
 have created a score based game, where you are rewarded for completing tasks such as killing a 
 certain number of people with a specific gun, shooting down an enemy helicopter or shooting through 
 objects. You gain experience by completing these tasks and are rewarded with a bigger range of 
 guns... Did I mention that you can shoot people through wooden walls, throw back live grenades 
 and call in air strikes? This game has everything; I haven't found any faults with it at all. Right, 
 I'm cutting this review short and I'm off to play COD4 again and again and again and again...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerillaKZ2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  ONCE AGAIN, I DO NOT FEEL LIKE WRITING A REVIEW, BUT HERE IT IS... AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! 
 AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! AWSOME 
 GAME!!! AWSOME GAME!!! JUST BUY THE GAME.. YOU WILL BE PLEASED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frase9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a great game! The multiplayer mode has so much to offer with 
 all the guns, players and a variety of maps! I have just finished the campaign mode for a second 
 time and thought it was brilliant. it has a fantastic storyline. on some levels you are the sas 
 and others you play as the marines, this is the same with online modes. Although the story is quite 
 short it still keeps you playing. The multiplayer maps come from different stages of the story 
 mode levels which makes it very exciting! I reccomend this game to everyone who enjoys playing 
 First Person Shooters and people who dont, this could change their views!
  
  Overall this is a great game by infinity ward and i can't w8 for Cod:5 to come out. I am also looking 
 forward to the new multiplayer maps!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakBrown
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game is very spectacular unlike its brothers call of duty 1-3 this game is not set in world 
 war ii it is set in somewhere in this year. In the campaign mode you are two soldiers each have 
 their own missions. The one you play the most is Sgt. "Soap" McTavish of the British SAS and the 
 other soldier is Sgt. Paul Jackson of the United States Marine Corp and he dies in the first ACT. 
 A act is the divider of missions. In a lot of these missions you'll see epic scenes such as a sinking 
 ship, an exploding plane and two missiles heading for the east coast of USA but don't let this 
 fool you the campaign is short but planted with four difficulties you'll have lots of fun. Now the 
 multiplayer is split screen versus and online play which is a master piece. On online you progress 
 through ranks by killing planting and defusing bombs or capturing a flag or computer or completing 
 challenges. And once you become commander you get to reset your rank\challenges\weapons for a symbol 
 of how hardcore you are or if you just the symbol for how it looks. Overall the game has earned 
 the award many sites gave it "Game of the YEAR 2007". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iornman420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS JUST PLAIN FUN IF YOU HAVE IT THEN YOUR COOL ANOUGH FOR ME. I DONT KNOW ABOUT YOU BUT 
 THIS ONE OF THE BEST GAMES I HAVE EVER PLAYED ON PLAYSTATION3. I LOVE THIS GAME IT IS PERFECTION 
 THROUT THE WHOLE GAME, I PAYED $50 FOR THIS GAME AND I SAID I HAD BETTER LIKE THIS VIDEO GAME OR 
 IM GONING TO THROW IT IN MY FIRE PLACE AND HOPE THAT IT GOES TO HELL AND ROTS FOR 500,000,000,000,000,000,000, 
 YEARS. BUT ANY WAY THE GAME IS SUPURB AND PLAYING ONLINE WITH OTHER COMPEDITERS IS AWSOME. I LOVE 
 GETING HIGHER RANKS AND COSTOMIZEING MY OWN WEAPON SET FOR COMBAT. I HATE WHEN SOMEONE STARTS TO 
 CURSE YOU WHEN YOUR TALKING ON BLUETOOTH IT MAKES ME SO MAD WHEN SOMEONE DOSE THAT.
  BUT I LOVE THIS GAME NO ONE PERSON CAN CHANGE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  WOW. When I first saw this game, it was after I finished playing the glitched-out versions of COD3 
 and Ghost Recon, and I was excited but skeptical. I got the game home and pealed open the cover 
 and popped it in the PS and bam I finished the main mission mode (na just kidding) . The main mission 
 was very intense and well worth it being so short. I was smooth and but tighter very well. Even 
 better was the difficulty explanations and increments. If you play the main mission on easy, you 
 could breeze through it in a madder of hours. However, if you played on normal or higher, you need 
 to spend some time thinking about your objective before you attempt them or you will be thinking 
 about them wile the level reloaded. I did think that it was a little unrealistic to have so much 
 amo to dispatch your foe, but what the hell it's a game, lets have some fun.
  
  The online game play is absolutely one of the best ever to hit the seen. For the first time an 
 online shooter gives you a real choice of guns that you can start a game out with and the way it 
 was executed can only be summed up as flawless. Then to add to the gun setup that you are offered, 
 you get to choose perks that will give you more life, or take more life. All of this adds up to 
 a great start of the online experience. To take it even farther, the maps are all setup of extreme 
 close combat witch makes for every fast paced and exciting game play. 
  
  Though every few, there are always bad things to point out in any game. I don't want to knock the 
 PSN ( I think it's great that you don't have to pay for a service twice [ internet, then gaming] ) , 
 but you get what you pay for. On the PSN the game connection is some times slow and times out often. 
 It's a real pane in the neck when you're having a good game, then you booted out because of a server 
 failure or a server time out. One other thing to mention, when the host leaves a public game, the 
 game ends and the room is closed. That has got to be my biggest beef with COD4.
  
  This game has go to be one of the best games that I have played in a long time. I don't play one 
 game for more than a month or so. I gust get through them and move on (mostly because I get bored 
 with them after a month) , but I have been playing this game since November and still play almost 
 every night. At its hart COD4 is a fun game to play, it was executed very well and redefined the 
 online FPS experience. COD4 will be seen as the new standard in online play for FPS and is well 
 deserving of that spot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBGUN06
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The game Call of Duty 4, is by far the best game ever. If there were a war game that focused on 
 something other than WW2, then it would be great. But when COD did it, i was speechless. Before 
 the game came out, i thought the game was going to be "decent". I was tottaly wrong. There has 
 never been a game that imerses you into the game more than anything else. If I had to choose beetween 
 this or mario, this tottally whups it. I have played the one player campaign 10 times and it never 
 gets old. I have played online for more than 6 days. The new maps that come out for PS# soon; will 
 make the game even better, if it is even possible. i beleive that this game deserves every award 
 ever made. And when COD5 comes out, i will still be playing this game. If you ask me, even though 
 COD5 is going back to its roots (WW2; which is going to suck) i still think that there will be 
 people playing this game longer than Halo 2, or any other game that comes out. i think that if 
 devolpers in the war FPS genre, they should drop WW2 and replace it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zuul971
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game brought new life back into my PS3. If you're an owner of a PS3 and can't fight a good 
 game and you have oline, this is the game for you.
  
  Call of Duty 4 leaves its familiar WWII setting and goes to a modern setting which is a very nice 
 change of pace seeing as they couldn't do anything else really different on the WWII setting.
 
  
  Single Player Campaign: The single player campaign is fun, but too short. You switch between two 
 characters; "Soap" MacTavish & Paul Jackson. Even though the single player campaign is very short, 
 it is still very enjoyable in that short time span. You'll find yourself doing different things, 
 using different weapons, and accomplishing new objectives almost every mission. But seeing as how 
 short it is, that ruins the experience. There are also "enemy intelligence" scattered throught 
 each level. If you can find all of them you unlock cheat codes. You can also replay missions in 
 arcade move where you are timed and get points. 
  
  Online: Online is what makes this game amazing. Before I get started take note of this, in my opinion, 
 if you can't get online for this game it isn't worth it. Anyways, you start out at rank 1 as a 
 private and you'll work your way up to level 54 and then you can unlock prestiege mode where you 
 start completely over, but get medals this time. What makes online great is that the ranks actually 
 have an effect on you besides showing who's new and who's a hardcore veteran. As you go up ranks 
 you unlock new things such as, game modes, challenges, (I'll get to that in a little bit) and things 
 for Create-A-Class (I'll get to that next.) All the game modes are different and pretty sweet, 
 so there's something for everyone. Also, there are many maps in the game, so again, there's something 
 for everyone and they're even making new maps every now and then. What I don't like is that you 
 can't select what guy you want to be. I'd like to be able to customize the guy I'm playing as, 
 not have him be automatically selected.
  
  Create-A-Class: It allows you to create your own class besides the one that you already can select. 
 You get to choose a primary weapon, your sidearm, your special grenades, and your perks. Perks 
 are things that give you advantages in the game such as, Martydom; you drop a grendade when you 
 die, Iron Lungs; you can hold your breath longer when using a scoped weapon. These are just a few, 
 but there are many more. This is only for online. 
  
  Challenges: These are things you can accomplish online and you get rewarded for it. Some challenges 
 just give experience which help you move up the ranks, some will give some "accesories" to your 
 weapon that can make it more accurate, longer ranged, etc. And you can also unlock camoflauges 
 for the weapon you used if you get enough headshots, but for some weapons, if you complete all 
 the weapon challenges you can get a gold camoflauge. Camoflauges don't make your weapon any better, 
 but they make it look nicer. It shows how good you are with whatever weapon you're using. All this 
 should keep you busy for a long time. 
  
  Sound: The sound for this game is amazing. You'll almost feel as if you're actually in the battle. 
 All the sounds sound real. Not much to say for this one except, TURN THE VOLUME DOWN.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are simply spectacular. If you have a sniper rifle by he hip, you can look 
 at the scope and you can see the landscape behind you which is awesome. I'm not sure if you can 
 see enemies though. The weapons look superb, the character models, and the landscape is beautiful.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game is nice and smooth. You can hold one primary weapons and one 
 sidearm. You can pick up other weapons if you find them. You also get some frag grenades and some 
 special grenades such as; smoke, stun, flash grendades. You can also have something like a claymore 
 and a C4. You can fire from the hip, or you can go into aim mode as I'll call it. This doesn't 
 let you move as fast, but you're a LOT more accurate. In online they also brought some stealth 
 into the game. If you're a sniper you can wear a guille suit and hide in bushes or something depending 
 on the map. I found that that was completely awesome. 
  
  Controls: Not much to say except the controls are very easy. Good job Infinity Ward!
  
  Conclusion: 
 This game is amazing if you have online. Single player campaign was fun, but was too short. If 
 you have online for this game, you MUST GET IT! It is truly (in my opinion) the best Call of Duty 
 game in the series.
  
  Side Note: I know where it says time spent playing to date I only put 10 to 20 hours. I plan to 
 play it a LOT longer, trust me. That's just what I've played so far. Also, my PS3 Username is Zulu671. 
 Please tell me what you think of this review and any other reviews I have. Thank you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best one in the series. The graphics are fantastic, the weapons 
 are brilliant. Playing on line is also a great highlight to the game because you have to fight 
 battles to get your rank from recruit to the highest you can possibly get it by choosing from an 
 assault rifle, sub machine gun, light machine gun or a sniper and helping your team win the battle 
 by killing as many men as possible. It is worth paying for but the main story doesn't take very 
 long to finish on recruit so i would suggest medium difficulty instead of easy. It is by far the 
 best first-person shooter game i have ever played. The aim of the game is to kill Zakhaev and to 
 do this you have to fight on a wide range of maps playing as either Soap MacTavish or Paul Jackson 
 and using a wide range of weapons for knives to rocket launchers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I never really liked Call of Duty 1-3, but a friend told me that COD 4 was so insanely good, I 
 bought it on an impulse buy. Wow, what a game. The single player is very short, but you can play 
 endless hours on the multiplayer and still have a blast.
  
  Gameplay- The single player is pretty short, but its one of the most intense single player campaigns 
 Ive played in a while. Its very chaotic, lets just say that. The multiplayer is the meat of the 
 game. There are many modes, so many people playing, and very intense mode of play, and lots of 
 weapon customization. You get weapon upgrades by getting headshots, kills with explosives, kill 
 streaks etc. There are also many challenges that give you big XP boosts for things like shooting 
 down helicopters with your guns, killing multiple enemies with one claymore, etc. The multiplayer 
 is fast, intense, and awesome, period.
  
  Graphics/Sound-The graphics are some of the best Ive seen on next gen systems. The shading is very 
 well done, character models are smooth and realistic too. The sound is great as well. The guns 
 have a great feel of realism in the sound.
  
  Value/Fun-The single player is over quick, but the multiplayer will last you for a very long time. 
 It is very addicting and easy to pick up, but difficult to master. If you want a fast paced shooter 
 with tons of replayibility, Call of Duty 4 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortbob
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 has no downfall I was just joking, it is br far one of the best games you can have for any 
 system. Its takes you through many different maps, different fighting styles and forces you to 
 use your brain. It is the type of game where you start playing online and you can't put the controller 
 down. For these reasons I give CoD4 its deserved 10/10. Conclusion: Must have, must play. Best 
 CoD game that has been released. There are many ways to play online, sneaky, PEW PEW and kind of 
 both. CoD4 has led the way for games and others will have a hard time following such a masterpiece. 
 
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are like none before it (besides all PS3 exclusives) the game 
 beat out Halo 3 by just being plain better and without "halo Kidz."
  Sound: The guns have an amazing sound and when you hear a shot you can almost always know what 
 kind of gun it was that shot it. The 50 cal. has by far the best sound of any of the guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkotun
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  well gamespot said that the story mode is really short , i actually disagree if you rush through 
 the game of cours you'll finish it quick and say its short it was like a 7 to 8 hours for me because 
 i actually looked at the visuals and graphichs and enviroment (level design...) 
  
  after you finish the story mode you immediately wanna jump on the online mode which you gain experience 
 point as you do something (kill, dominate etc.) and unlock some goods dont try to be like the number 
 on in the leader board because almost 2 million people plays online and when you start you are 
 the 2 millionth and it takes big time to go up.
  
  i found the sound and graphics insanely super awesome, oh and after you finish the game you unlock 
 an arcade mode (in this mode you can play every level again, gain some points but you have lives 
 and a time )
  
  you have to get this game if you own a PS3 or a XBOX 360 ,its definitely worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cravinmild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I was playing crysis (very high dx10) befor this but this game just sucks u in and doesn't let 
 u go. So perfect in every way ( have to agree with some issues wwith matching in MP) . I can't go 
 back to my pc gaming since i bought this. I can't wait till gta4 comes out cause i can't stop playing 
 this game and that is the only thing that i think will be able to pry me away. The best game for 
 ps3 hands down, end of story, thanks for coming. Would requemend this game befor all others. This 
 game still makes me go WOW as i see my guy go raydoll after exploding. So So So close to real life 
 and the most well done game overall EVER. IMO 
  Crap have to use up another 100 words befor i can post. Motion blur is awsome. Depth of field is 
 amazing. Lots of color. Paticence with the sniper it pays off big time. Less shots = more points.... if 
 stats make a diff to u. Headquaters is where u want to be to level up huge points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobble_head17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  cod4 is an outstanding game its graphics are amazing and game play is very very good too. The story 
 is very fun even though its short. If you are an expirenced gamer it should only take five hours 
 to beat. Not only is the games story is great it finishes off with a good but sad ending. This 
 game would not be complete if it werent for its amazing online play. The graphics are just as good 
 as in single player and its also very addicting. If you dont have playstation network or xbox live 
 you should still get the game. I think that this game is just plain amazing but it has some bas 
 sides to it.
  
  
  
  If you have or played gears of war or rainbow six vegas they have a feater that you can get right 
 up agains a wall or desk, etc for perfect cover. unfortunanetly you can not do that in call of 
 duty four. I dont know if thats a bad thing to the reader but i missed out on it.
  
  I think is time to stop talking about the bad stuff about cod4 and get back to the good now you 
 can buy new maps for cod4 splitscreen. I have all ready got one and its in china town and it  
 Best map for cod4. If you do not have call of duty four modern warfare make it ypur next  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchSagexXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I bough CoD 4 not expecting so much from it but when I began playing it... it 
 was like BAM IN YOUR FACE! It has a good story although short and the graphics are amazing. A nice 
 selection of guns to use except that it could have had more guns. The multiplayer is awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Whenever I can play my PS3, I always make sure I play CoD 4 no matter what. If you die in multiplayer, 
 there's not really a respawn time, instead it's instant spawn which is awesome because you get 
 back into the action instantly! Although, the instant spawn thing sometimes isn't good because 
 you get spawn-killed sometimes. 
  This game is really great. The Call of Duty franchise really made a step up in this game. It's 
 a must-have for most PS3 owners out there.
  Graphics-wise, this is awesome. The graphics looks stunning. Way better than the other Call of 
 Duty games. The story as I said was awesome but it was sort of short but still, it was awesome 
 and enough to satisfy anyone. The game play rocks. Fast-paced, excellent action packed into an 
 awesome game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPA-SNAKE-FAN
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  This has to be the most addictive game for months!! Even after completing i carried on playing 
 over and over, sometimes to find more intel-points and other times to just kill in slow motion 
 ;D Either way this was a great game!! Very much worth the 75 (RIPPED OFF) The only down side was 
 i don't have my PS3 online yet so i can't fully enjoy the games multiplayer features. Still an 
 epic game, very well written, i felt like i was really inside the game sometimes... The only down 
 fall is the constant switch between characters!! Some parts did seem very pointless and boring 
 and i have to admit there is a certain cutscene near the begining i wished could be skipped... 
 Using the american was almost pointless, why bother if he dies?! It wasn't a very well done death 
 either!!... Still 100% Best in series!! If you haven't played before... I'm so sorry for you LoL
 
  AdDiCtIvE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam01625
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  An awesome game, you've heard all the hype and to be honest it's perfectly correct. Can play this 
 game for days on end - and is great, even for the casual gamer. If you haven't got this game ask 
 yourself why not and then go buy it, quickly. The online mode is awesome, and the campaign mode 
 is nearly as enjoyable. The ranking and rewards systems are ingenious and provide a constant and 
 annoying desire to improve and inevitably keep playing. Everybody can play this and even my elederly 
 uncle enjoys a regular thrashing online from your's truly. As I said before just buy the damn game 
 and keep yourself happy for a couple of months. I think that everone I know to have played has 
 immensely enjoyed it. Even if you were to buy it purely for the online mode it would be understandable 
 because it is sheer gaming brilliance. Although playing online is initially difficult if you stick 
 at it, it becomes a phenomenal and rewarding gamng experience. Have I mentione the awesome graphics 
 - they'e great to. I realise that I have probably overused the word 'awesome' but that is the best 
 way to describe this game, awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty goes back into the hands of infinity ward and out of the hands of Hitler
  
  Short story: Its worth buying or a rent. There is a great, but short campaign mode. The online 
 is good but the match making system makes it hardly seem worth it.
  
  I've just written two other reviews and I'm getting lazy. So it goes like this Some Soviet ultra-nationalists 
 are causing problems so what do we do well shoot them of course the campaign is great the story 
 is deep.
  online has cool stuff like perks which you learn over time and whatnot. its great but some times 
 its simply not worth messing with the match making. It really is terrible you join a game then 
 shortly afterwards the host ends the game its ridicules come on man just make it like resistance. 
 
  
  Pros: cinematic story mode, Perks, Great controls, the best of FPS game play
  
  Cons: Crap match making, short story mode
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game along with its awesome graphics, gameplay, and sound, is just one of the greatest first 
 person shooters out their. Its even better than Halo 3 and Resistance. The game is awesome. The 
 online is really fun. You can play against like 6-8 people and its just so fun to shoot the crap 
 out of people. I'm mostly a camper with the sharp shooter, but I'll get out their with the P-90 
 if I have to. Anyway the sound of the people and the guns is so real. The modern war fare thing 
 is right on too because we really do have all of those things these days.
  
  The for me is better on the PS3 than X Box 360 because you don't have to pay to go online for the 
 PS3. Unlike X Box Live witch makes you pay. To me is BS and it shows that all X Box wants is money 
 because Bill Gates doesn't want to waste his cash on useless Microsoft. Thats beside the point. 
 But overall its a definate 9.5. The only bad thing is that when you online and you keep getting 
 poned by guys who like pro, it gets really, really, frustrating that you can't stay alive for more 
 than 30 sec without being shot in the ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  After three stellar games set in World Wars, people were unsure if COD would work well in a modern 
 setting. The answer was yes, it would, in fact brilliantly. Firstly the gameplay, which as you 
 could expect is as smooth and realistic as ever, but in COD4 it feels exceptionally good. The visuals 
 are also a treat. Detail is amazingly accurate and weapons and characters really show the quality 
 of the game. The story is gripping and environments are great and really this game is flawless in 
 nearly every aspect. Online play is great fun and with many different options and achievements, 
 making COD4 very replayable. Sadly there is one negative point which stops COD4 getting the perfect 
 score, and that is the story. It is very interesting and very fun, while it lasts, but sadly it 
 doesn't last very long, around 4-5 hours to be exact. Although that is easily made up for with 
 the superb online play, it is still an issue which reflects on the game. However, overall the game 
 basically gets everything right, gameplay, graphics, story, etc, with only a small point which 
 stops COD4 from getting the prefect score - 9.5
  
  + Excellent graphics and gameplay
  + Unbeatable online
  + Superb weapons and environments
  + Great story
  - ... While it lasts 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dem0ncleaner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Thanks to Infinity Ward for this gem..... what a great game!! It took me a while to finish the campaign 
 mode because the multi-player mode is so much fun. I went back and played Resistance (which I loved 
 at the time) multi-player to compare and was sad to say it does not hold up. Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 is pretty good as well but in a slower more tactical way. Neither of these compare to the thrill 
 ride that COD4 offers. There are a few minor adjustments that could be made, for example: the shot 
 sensors are far from perfect, more multi-player maps are on the way but we are still waiting. I 
 would also like to keep some of the other players quiet, I don't need to hear your racist rants 
 or crappy music while I play. But it does help motivate me to hunt them down. That's about that. 
 Good night now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visible_ninja69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Well with Infinity Ward back and developing, they made CoD3 look like crap
  
  GOOD: Amazing visuals and sound
  Great storyline and an intense single player
  Fantastic weapon 
 choice
  Lots of weapons, maps, game modes and perks 
  Challenges and perks are a fantastic idea
  
  BAD: Campaign is short
  Some perks are cheap 
 and lame (*cough* martydrom *cough*)
  Tons of spam grenades
  
  Call of Duty 4 captures modern warfare perfectly. The single player is short but it is amazing. 
 From action packed firefights, to intense sneaking around in a ghillie suit, you will find yourself 
 on the edge of your seat loving every moment. So with an amazing single player, does it capture 
 the standards of multiplayer?!?!!?
  
  Well the multiplayer somehow tops the singleplayer. Endless hours of fun will occur with 16 maps, 
 13 game modes (I think) , 22 guns, 24 perks, over 100 challenges and 550 levels to go through you 
 will be hooked for a very long time. But, keep in mind, you will hate some things like when you 
 kill someone in a small room and you die from martydrom, and the M16 w/ stopping power noobs. But 
 those are minor. Definately add this to your library if you like first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is among the best action fps war games i have ever played. Its very intense and face paced. 
 
  Graphics are very good, i'm not going to say very photo-realistic but its extremely detaied and 
 looks fantastic- the draw back was that there is very little destructible environments, and for 
 a game with so much havoc and mayhem, its a huge reminder face reminding you that its not very 
 realistic. i would have liked to see much more destruction. (the only way the make up for this 
 is by making powerful weapons able to shoot through certain walls, which is great for online)
 
  sound is some of the best around. if you have a decent surround sound set up, you'd be a fool 
 not to put it to excellent use using this game. at no point is there absolute silence, you'll always 
 here wind blowing, birds chirping, and f course, highly satisfying explosions, dialogue (even though 
 cartoonish at times, buts cool that way) and gun sounds- all working with ss perfectly. 
  the story in the game is extremely far fetched, very short, but very done. the mission breifings 
 occur durng load times which is excellent, and the stories and cutscenes are done with in-game 
 graphics and make you feel very immersed (especiall in the games best moment, which i believe was 
 the sniper mission, which was perfectly paced and contained some very cool nail biting moments)
 
  online is where its at. it is definitely the place the devolopers spent the most time on and it 
 certainly paid off. with tons of customizing and the ability to move up in ranks and get all kinds 
 of accomplishments, and many different great game types, it keeps you coming back for more and 
 more. its fun either split screen or by yourself online, very competive and the best part is that 
 it is very easy to do good in online matches once you've played for about a couple of hours, things 
 start clicking you will easily get the hang of things and constantly learn and you'll be winning 
 or at least coming in the top 3 in no time! this is fun to play hours on end and is easy to pick 
 up and for a quick match or two.
  everyone should own this game, the online will have it lasting for years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Amazing. Very smooth frame rates. Loading times are filled with story and videos. Graphics 
 are the best to date.
  
  Positives: Great story mode. Absolutely stunning graphics, maybe even photo-realistic. Intel is 
 a nice reason to play through the game a 2nd time. The online acheivements keep the game fun and 
 fresh. Mics work and are used alot. Easy to set up party's and play with your friends. Plenty of 
 online game modes to keep you interested.
  
  Negatives: "Server Timed Out" "Host Ended Game" "Game Lobby Closed" just a few of the dreaded messages 
 you'll see while playing online
  
  Final Thoughts: Definitely a must have. The story mode is worth playing at least twice. The online 
 will keep you occupied for months. This game is a must have for anyone plays video games. I have 
 a hard time saying this game is better then Resistance but you know what... it is.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  BUY IT...2X lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockya13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 (CoD4) is truly awesome. 
  
  It was my first game on the PS3 and I still play it like its new. The story mode may be short, 
 but the online is pretty much limitless. I always go online and do team death match or whatever 
 with my friends. 
  
  The game is pretty much just another first perosn shooter but it offers so much more. The wide 
 range of weaponary, with attachments and perks. Along with all the crazy challenges you have to 
 do. This is probably the most popular game out and it has full reason to be. Everything looks ans 
 sounds so very real. The modern theme is great and most of the maps are sick battlezones. 
  
  A downside is the repetativness of prestige mode. Even though its optional, everybody wants 
 to keep playing and without changes other than a different symbol as you level up, it becomes boring 
 and predictable. Some people may dislike the short story mode but it did'nt bother me.
  
  This is without a dought a game that everyone should own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YungWarri0r
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I truly believe that Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best 1st-Person Shooter game out to 
 date. Although campaign mode is a short 5 hour story to finish, it is Online play that will make 
 this game one that would not be forgotten. The online multiplayer game mode is a great experience, 
 and includes some very intense and challenging game play. Competetion online is both very strong 
 as well as very fun to play. The addicting game will entertain you for many hours as you would 
 probably get hooked on going at other players looking for kills. The various game types featured 
 also is a great addition, as the repetition starts to kick in. The feeling of just wanting to get 
 better and learn to rack up more kills per game, is one that'll hook you to the game and its long 
 lasting fun. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is definitely a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashspike1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  The Best CoD eva made due to the online gaming system it enables you to play against all over the 
 world challenging yourself to the MAX!!!!! You increase level by getting winning streaks and scoring 
 differnet types of shot (e. g. Crouch Shot, Prone Shot ... etc.) No way to be improved at all!
 
  
  The Best CoD eva made due to the online gaming system it enables you to play against all over the 
 world challenging yourself to the MAX!!!!! You increase level by getting winning streaks and scoring 
 differnet types of shot (e. g. Crouch Shot, Prone Shot ... etc.) No way to be improved at all!
 
  
  
  Incredible  
 hear the 'UGHHH' as a bullet hits the 
  The best game I have on the 
 
  Highly Recommended for anyone who prefers the one man shooter species of  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawn7017
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a awsome game with beautiful graphics, amazing gameplay, and a great story line 
 the but I fell that the campaign mode
  could of been longer. The missions are exiting and full of suspense
  because you don't know what 
 is going to attack and from what position
  they are going to attack from. COD 4 has an freaking fun multiplayer plus
  it has a fair amount 
 of extras and cheats. The arcade mode is based on
  how many points you can get on a level. Call of Duty4 has tons of weapons like the m16, ak47, and 
 a RPD that are highly detailed it looks like you are actually in a war. the missions are in difrent 
 locations you are over seas in iraq in russia and air bourne. Overall Call of Duty 4 is a masterpiece. If 
 you he a PS3 or an Xbox 360 I recommend you ge this game as soon as possible even if you dont like 
 shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  STORY: The story is there's a war in the middle-east and you have to stop these terrorists: Khaled 
 Al- Asad, Zakhaev, Zakhaev's son and they all die. The game starts you off with the S. A. S. and 
 you do a mission on a cargo ship, after that, that's where it gets intense. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is probably the smoothest gameplay i have ever seen in my life! Graphics are amazing, 
 guns sound devestating and voice acting is great.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: THE BEST ONLINE GAME PERIOD!!!!! In online, you earn experience points and customize 
 your weapons with camo, red dot sight, grip, acog scope and an M203 grenade launcher. You can earn 
 promotions and you also have these challenges like, for example: 150 Headshots, you earn Red Tiger 
 Camo. The perks are awesome too. They're these power ups you can get like: Drop a grenade when 
 you die, stuff like that.
  
  CAMPAIGN: Campaign is really short (21missions, should take you 30-50 minutes to finish. It's a 
 really powerful campaign that will keep you addicted. So yea BEST COD EVER!!!!!!! GOOD JOB INFINITY! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Although the score I have given it may not reflect its holyness Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 is probably the God of FPS's. This game isn't one for formalities exactly. It just pushes you in 
 at the deep end putting you into the heat of the action, after a small training mission of course, 
 but still a nice little action training mission.
  
  Ok lets start with the single player campaign, and to emphasise the size of the campaign i'm goin 
 to write in similar size sentences to the games length for the rest of this paragraph. You mostly 
 play man named Soap. He British. You also play man named Jackson. He American. Soap's team goes 
 in stealthily. Jackson's goes in guns blazing. Storyline involves bad guys v good guys. Pretty 
 decent. Guns are good. Graphics are great. Boing boing. Lot's of action. Bang Bang. Splat. Everyone 
 dead. Credits. Rap rap. Yo dawg. More banging. End
  
  Ok, now in addition to the campaign once you get through it you unlock an 'Arcade Mode' which is 
 pretty much the campaign again, but this time it keeps a score for you, gives you a time limit 
 and you also have lives. Here you can play each mission individual and try and beat your best score 
 on that mission or you can play through the entire game completely and build up an overall score. 
 Problem. When I say play through the entire game completely I mean in one go. No saves. Nothing. 
 So if you lose all of your lives, run out of time, or get bored you end up having to start again 
 the next time you play arcade mode. And I mean right from the beginning. I doubt anyone will actually 
 get through the arcade version because even though the game is short I doubt people will want to 
 take a full 5-7 hours of there day just to do that. But I'm sure someone will now.
  
  Ok now the good stuff. The multiplayer. Although you can't customise your character's looks you 
 can customise his abilities. This can range from having extra health to dropping a grenade after 
 you are killed. Great! But half of these abilities are pretty dam useless. Most people just equip 
 the last stand or martyrdom abilities, which pretty much allow you to kill people after you die, 
 in addition to extra health and strength abilities.
  Once again you don't have a health bar. You just heal over time by not being hit. But to be honest 
 you don't need a health bar since even with the extra health ability if you get hit 2 or 3 times 
 your dead anyway.
  You can also customise what guns you have, what they look like and what additions they have on 
 them like silencers and sights. Most of these guns you can find in the game, but they are fun to 
 play with hehehe.
  The game modes are your usual death match and team death match along with other classic games that 
 have been renamed for pure stubbornness of being unique.
  The set up of the game is pretty similar to Rainbow Six Vegas where you can either create a party 
 and play with your friends online or jump straight into a game where you just choose the game mode 
 and it sets it up for you. Only in RS Vegas you can actually choose the map you want to play as 
 well. Now I haven't played many online multiplayers but ever since the good old days of the ps3 
 where games like Resistance: FOM were roaming the earth game designers seemed to have ditched the 
 'choose your own room' option. I don't know why that is but now I sometimes find it quite difficult 
 to find a match that I like, because it sometimes put you in a game that is just about to finish 
 10 seconds after joining, which you can pretty much guarantee you'll lose, or a game that is about 
 to be closed after its finished. I mean what was wrong with the classic choose your own game room 
 on consoles? Now it's as if the consol says "Here's your match so tough, and if you don't like 
 it well haha you're just gonna have to wait for this one to load up, then quit, take a loss in 
 your overall stats, and load up a new one and hope you like that one better." But COD4 has decided 
 to make an attempt in curing this by, not giving the ability to choose your own rooms, but to vote 
 to skip the map before you start a game. Which still means your screwed if your placed in a game 
 that has already started. But a room needs half the players in it to 'vote to skip' and only one 
 map is allowed to be skipped per match anyway, so you could end up skipping a map that you don't 
 like for a map that you hate with a passion anyway.
  There's also the ranking system, which allows you to 'level up' and unlock your abilities and weapons 
 the more you play and win. This is cleverly thought out by giving you a rank title, such as lieutenant 
 or major colonel corporal captain lieutenant first class toaster marshmallow chief, and a pretty 
 symbol to go with it, as well as your rank number i. e. level. But to be fair unless you're an army 
 geek noone really needs the symbols and rank titles because there are that many ranks that when 
 it comes to comparing yourself to other players you have no idea what symbol means what title and 
 you end up using the level number anyway. But hey, now i'm nitpicking. The multiplayer is actually 
 fantastic and is definitely the selling point to the game. Which of course leaves the problem that 
 if you don't like FPS multiplayers or you aren't online with your ps3 then renting this game may 
 be the better option.
  As far as price goes it isn't really worth 40 ($80) , but honestly what game is?
  
  Overall 
 I like COD 4 and even though I only gave it a score of 7.5 I definitely would recommend it to any 
 FPS fans that are into multiplayers but it sadly loses points because of the length of it's single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoJaMcco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I admit that when I first got this game, I really wasn't that crazy about it. I figured it was 
 just another military shooter. The campaign was top of the line, but not the best I've played.
 
  
  Then later, I started multiplayer, and I was blown away. The depth and complexity of it is excellent. 
 The gameplay is not only incredibly entertaining, but rewarding. Fighting to stay alive gives you 
 airstrikes and helicopters, and hardcore time spent gives you new weapons and upgrades that both 
 assist you in combat and look good.
  
  Of course, I must talk about Perks. These are what stand out the most and add the most fun to gameplay. 
 you can do anything from carry two primary weapons, pull out your pistol before your assailant 
 finishes you off, or drop a grenade upon death. Despit these powers, everything seems evenly balanced 
 and fair.
  
  This and BioShock show that RPG elements are more than welcome in the FPS genre and may even spawn 
 their own genre. An amazing campaign, unique rewards system, and some of the best multiplayer on 
 the market today make this a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer156
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  oke, first of all. If you still haven't bought this game, you may be retarded, serieusly, this 
 game kicks ass !
  
  the singleplayer mode is cool, good graphics and maybe one of the best. It is short tough, but 
 that's not the point. One thing i personally love about the singleplayer mode, is the storyline. 
 So like this Russian dude wants to dominate the whole world or something. But then this arab dude 
 also comes along and starts to assassinate the president. Then they work together to rule the world, 
 but the arab dude dies. The Russian dude is left then, but the thing is, you are the one who is 
 going to stop him with your gang. 1337 if you ask me ! So you like start to work and watch out 
 for some Russian to shoot at, but then, BAM ! The Russian dude starts a nuke attack on America. 
 Great storyline for a shooter. 
  
  One thing everyone has realised right now, is that the game isn't played in WW2 stile, that's cool 
 if you ask me, but the best thing about it is, they have kept the whole Iron Sight idea..... dude 
 that is soo cool ! 
  
  Playing it online is also cool, you can play alot of games, the most populair game are Search and 
 Destroy, and Headquarters. You also have the ranking system, you rank by earning XP points, this 
 is actuelly easy to earn. You can earn XP in differeant ways, chalanges, in which you have to do 
 submissions while playing online, and you also get points kill after kill. there is, also, another 
 way ofcourse, bonus points ! these are earned when you play well and win the match. This will be 
 easy because of the noobs out there. When ranking, you earn the right to choose better weapons, 
 which you can put in your custom class, the custom class idea gives you the option to put your 
 favorite gun, favorite perk and etc. in one class. Weapons can also get upgraded, you have alot 
 of upgrades, like camouflages, sights, grenade launchers and etc. cool, right ?
  
  but there is also a dark side on the whole idea. the game laggs and there are to many noobs on 
 team matches. Serieusly ! Frustrating, but not that big of a problem since you can chat with your 
 friends, you can chat with a bluetooth headset, which is, 1337.
  
  but oh well, i've been playing this game for a few months and i really love it, gamedesigners such 
 as these don't think about the money they get, but about the joy they give to other games, such 
 as me, i'm a hardcore gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl0009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  COD4, hands down, it the best FPS I have played so far. I mean it, I have played Crysis, Halo, 
 Bioshock; but all of these all though good, can't really surpass the fast pace and high rush adrenaline 
 moments in C0D4 IMO.
  
  Single player wise, COD4 is short, around 5-7 hours, but oh boy, those are some thrilling, action 
 packed 5-7 hours, It a very good storyline, which reaches so far in so little time. You actually 
 feel your one soldier against a huge war; you can just go forward shooting like a mad man, because 
 you will end up dead in 3.45 sec. The AI in the game is quite impressive, very smart soldiers and 
 allies as well.
  
  Multi player/Online wise, OMG, it's just freaking awesome. I mean, you can customize your soldier, 
 by adding improvements to his stats and guns as well. There are several challenges to defeat, and 
 several classes you can be promoted to. SO, in other words, you will be playing online most of 
 your time with COD4.
  
  Simply, I was stunned by the intense multiplayer, it just makes those 60$ worth every cent and 
 more.
  
  COD4 is a game that will last you a while, because of its extremely good FPS engine, to its intense 
 Online; even if you're not in to FPS, you should try a get a COD4 a chance, because you simply 
 can't go wrong with COD4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artix0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the newest installment in the Call of Duty series and the first 
 one to break away from the World War II setting. I'm going to go ahead and rate this game in 6 
 categories: Single Player, Multiplayer, Graphics, Sound, Playability, and Entertainment. (Note 
 that this is the PS3 version)
  
  The Single Player campaign In Call of Duty 4 is short, but packed full of action. You play from 
 the perspective of United States Force Recon Marines and British SAS. Russia and a fictional country 
 in the Middle East are being attacked and destroyed by rebels and terrorists. The Marines (of course) 
 are staged in the Middle East and the SAS in Russia. There are 21 total missions to play, but like 
 I said, these are very short, but far form boring. You be doing anything from rescuing an informant 
 to clearing a war-torn district of insurgents. Like I said though, the only down side is that this 
 will take the average Call of Duty fan around 4-6 hours to complete. Luckily they have little bits 
 of Intel hidden around the maps that will unlock cheats like Ragtime Warfare, Cluster Bombs, and 
 Infinite Ammo. It also has 4 difficulty settings: Recruit, Regular, Hardened, and Veteran. In addition, 
 once you beat the game once you unlock Arcade Mode which lets you play the levels again, only with 
 getting points every kill.
  
  But the Online Multiplayer is where the real fun is in Call of Duty 4. You can play 13 different 
 types of games ranging from Team Deathmatch to Search and Destroy. Also, as you get kills you get 
 points, which help you rank up from Private to Commander, unlocking weapons, attachments, game 
 types, and perks along the way. Perks are something that you can add 3 of to your class that give 
 you special abilities like extra bullet damage, C4s, RPGs, more ammo, etc. Luckily none of this 
 ever feels unbalanced or like your cheating and destroying new players. Once you hit level 55 (Commander) 
 you can rank up one more time and go Prestige, which starts you all over again, except for your 
 Clan and game types and gives you a special rank symbol next to your name, you can do this a total 
 of 10 times. Not only does this make you look good to other players, but it helps to add a lot 
 of replay value.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are pretty impressive, they're not the best I've ever seen, but 
 they are exceptionally good. Grass will sway in the wind, character animations are great, lighting 
 is good, but the best thing is it runs pretty much at 60 FPS throughout.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 4 is wonderful. The weapons sound realistic, the voices are great, and 
 overall it sounds very believable and real. 
  
  The game's controls are very well mapped, making for easy weapon and character movement. Not to 
 mention that you have 5 other button layouts to choose from as well as 3 other stick layouts.
 
  
  Lastly, Entertainment. The game will most likely keep you playing for months and months after you 
 buy it, especially the online portion.
  
  So in conclusion, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare has a few small issues which keep me from giving 
 it a perfect 10, but it is a wonderful addition for any FPS gamer out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: santificado
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is the 4th installment of the call of duty series, and every person will say it 
 is the best. The graphics are the best I have seen on the ps3 so far. And the campaign is fun and 
 ends in a sad but good ending. Plus the online is really fun. Being able to rank up and show off 
 your skills is the best part. And if your like me either if your playing online or doing the campaign 
 you will really get into and think your actually in the real war. Also the sound of the people 
 talking, explosions, and gun shots sound so real you'll want to hide. You might be a little bummed 
 because you spent 60.00 dollars but once you start playing you'll forget all about that money. 
 And that was my review for call of duty 4 I hope you liked it and I hope you will agree with me 
 and become one of my friends. SEE YA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is currently my favorite game on the PS3. It's just amazing, every 
 aspect of it. Alright I'll start off on campaign, the campaign is superb, all the levels are put 
 together well, and great sound, graphics, and weapon selection. It'll keep you busy for a while. 
 But once you beat campaign and don't feel like playing it again you can play online which can keep 
 you busy for countless hours!! kk this game is truly amazing and every ps3 owner should just go 
 out and buy  
 ok I haven't used enough words so im doing this to take up  
 peace 
  ---------steve-og 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell-Fire21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it doesn't revolutionize the way first-person shooters are supposed to be played, but nonetheless 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is perhaps the best representation of what modern-day shooters are 
 supposed to be; "Point and Shoot" is the name of the game, but with tight controls, outstanding 
 visuals, a frame-rate that hardly breaks no matter how much chaos is going on screen, a gripping 
 and intuitive story-line, this shooter certainly stands out. 
  
  I personally haven't played the online mode, but only because I've been busy going over the single 
 player campaign -- that ALTHOUGH may be short (depending on what difficulty you play on) , it just 
 never seems to get old each time you play through it, or even selecting an individual mission. 
 Don't be surprised to open the manual and find that it's probably the thinnest you've seen in a 
 while amongst nex-gen games, however there's really not much to learn here -- the controls are as 
 mentioned easy to pick up, and to play the game (especially if you've already played most shooters) , 
 getting into the action shouldn't take much time. 
  
  Gameplay is fast-paced shooting and you'll realize there's hardly a dull moment in any level you 
 play (unless you camp in a corner away from the action... but watch for the grenades) . Objectives 
 are some-what linear, but accomplishing them is what takes the "Kingdom Hearts 2" effect away from 
 it. You can also search around levels to find enemy intel, which sometimes takes some thinking 
 and sometimes not -- adds to replayability and not to mention unlock cheats. 
  
  Graphics are more than impressive. Just looking at the weapons almost makes you feel like you're 
 holding one. Levels are well designed with a natural feel as if things should be where they are. 
 Frame rate seems to be a good 30-40 frame per second, and handles extremely well when there's stuff 
 blasting, bullets chasing through the air and hitting objects (that will ricochet and injure you 
 too) . 
  
  Sound is just sick. You gotta hear this game. Every battle is believable (from far away or nearby) , 
 every gun fired sounds like it would do some serious damage. 
  
  Story line is a brilliant depictation of warfare, and I respect it for being realistic (although 
 in a ficticious backing) and that's one reason why I hold such a high bar for playing this game. 
 There are some levels I just don't want to play due to the story as a matter of fact, but regardless 
 the story is brilliantly written.
  
  The game is much larger when you incorporate the Multiplayer into it, but as I've said I haven't 
 played it and I'm not sure when I will. However, I'm sure there are other reviews that capitalize 
 on it. Overall, Call of Duty 4 is a very impressive game that rightfully deserves it's place as 
 one of the greatest games ever made. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 takes the first person shooter to a whole new level with Advanced Warfare. I have 
 been a fan of the Call of Duty franchise, and the World War III shooter was always a favorite genre 
 of mine. It wasnt until COD4 that i realized the potential in the series as well as the next gen 
 graphics. It is seriously the most photorealistic game in existence, besides the up and coming 
 Gran Turismo 5. You are a fool if you think that this game is anything less than perfection, and 
 the reward of Game of the Year is an honor this game is most deserving of. The single player is 
 short and sweet, but the way in which this game really stands out is the multiplayer online capabilities. 
 Hosting up to 16 players a game in over 10 different modes of multiplayer takes this shooter to 
 a whole new level of sweetness. Along with the fact that the multiplayer is more addicting than 
 crack, you will be glad to hear that there is a new map pack coming along with the GOTY edition 
 coming out this summer. This map pack will extend the life of the online multiplayer fan base all 
 the way until the release of the next Call of Duty game, which im sure you all are eagerly waiting 
 for as much as I am. I will say this one more time, if you do not own Call of Duty 4 do yourself 
 and the online community a favor and get this game. You will never regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandemonium876
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has now finally come to the Modern age. And let me tell you Infinity Ward did an excellent 
 job with it. This game is great on so many levels its really hard to even review.
  
  First if you have a HDTV then the visuals in this game are purely amazing. Call of Duty 4 in 1080p 
 is jaw-dropping. The weapons, environments, character models are amazing. Detail is in almost everything. 
 The colors, texture and lighting is pretty good too.
  
  The gameplay is really fun. Although the pretty much the same as in other shooters, point and shoot, 
 just watching someone getting hit with a bullet is rewarding. Blood spurts everywhere, splatting 
 walls and the ground. The game will take you many places, from a ship in the middle of a storm 
 to the desert to woods in Europe. There is also this one scene where your chopper crashed because 
 of a nuke going off and your in the eyes of a marine looking at the devastation the nuke caused. 
 I believe Infinity Ward really portrayed this extremely well. The nuke cloud, the sounds, all the 
 devastation is simply skull-rattling. Another thing the sounds are really well done. The guns and 
 explosions sound amazing. You can probably finish it in under 5 hours on normal difficulty setting. 
 Not extremely long but the story can pack a big punch of excitement. 
  
  Now, the multi-player is where it all is. It offers a multitude of game modes including Team Deathmatch, 
 Free for All, Domination (capturing flags) , Sabotage, and others. 18 players can be in a game at 
 once. Ground War is really fun if you like many people to fight against, and hence will probably 
 never be out of a firefight. The amount of weapons you can get is really cool. From Assault Rifles 
 to LMGs, SMGs, Shotguns, and Sniper Rifles. Assault Rifles include everything to the M-16 to AK-47. 
 SMGs include the MP5 and my personal favorite, the Mini-Uzi and many more. LMGs category includes 
 the SAW , RPD and M-60. Sniper Rifles include an array of long-range rilfes and of course including 
 the Barret .50cal. To my huge disappointment the .50cal doesn't have a one-shot kill. I can see 
 why they didn't have that but still, in real-life the .50cal and blow off legs... Customization 
 for you weapons is also fun. You can get different camouflage for your weapon by unlocking them. 
 Also include different scopes and weapon attachments.
  You level up by getting experience points for kills and winning games and other things. There are 
 challenges that you complete and unlock to get experience points and even more harder to complete 
 challenges. 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare provides an exciting experience for players off line 
 for the single-player and Online with your friends. Call of Duty 4 should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_bisturi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin complementing this astounding game, let me clarify one thing: nowadays, the game 
 developers are forgetting about the essence of the videogames; in other words, their only concern 
 is about selling games with good graphics and forgetting about the "engine" that glues people when 
 playing whatever game they like. With the technological evolution that we are assisting, we start 
 to become more demanding when talking about acquiring a certain game.
  
  What I'm trying to say is that there are games that are being purchased as we speak and they aren't 
 worth the price that they are being sold, which I believe most videogames addicts concur. This 
 game is an exception to that fact.
  
  After what I played so far is that Call Of Duty 4 is a game that exceeded my expectations what 
 concerns both graphics and gameplay. The campaign mode is quite fun, although it is kind of short, 
 but, in my opinion, the good thing about it is that we get in touch with lots of weapons, situations 
 and gameplay useful to start the online mode, which I believe it's as complete as it could be: 
 lots of different modes to play, tons of secundary missions to accomplish (I mean the ones at the 
 "barracks" option) and endless slaughter and killing until your heart's content.
  
  Before I end my review, I want to say one last thing: what decides between the 9.5 I gave to the 
 game and 10 is the fact that the game isn't prepared to play with a mouse and a keyboard. If that 
 happens, I will change the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  After Call of Duty 2, Infinity Ward handed Call of Duty 3 over to a different publisher Treyarch 
 which did a decent job. After awhile, they announced they are ditching the World War 2 story and 
 going Modern and what a great choice. Now Infinity Ward has released there next game Call of Duty 
 4 and may have been the best game of 2007. 
  
  Throughout Call of Duty 4's story you will go through many exciting battles. Sometimes you will 
 be with a squad of soldiers and sometimes just one other teammate. The game will change things 
 up in about every mission. Some missions rely on stealth and sniping. Some others involve you in 
 a plane shooting enemies below to help your men. The game has many different missions and give's 
 you more option's then the previous games.
  
  The Campaign mostly has you saving the world from a nuclear war. You will fight and stop the missile 
 and more to save the world. The interaction with you and your squad is amazing and the allies of 
 your have very good AI and aren't stupid and know what to do. They will even warn you to duck and 
 they will help you take down a target or take the target down themselves. The Downside to the Campaign 
 is that it end's. The story of this game is super short and can be beaten in less than 5 hours. 
 
  
  
  
  The Story has very great gunplay but the game has very cinematic and movie like cutscenes. The 
 game feel's like a superb movie basically with real great gameplay.
  
  The Weapons have improved greatly from the last games in the series. You Have Assault Rifles, LMG's, 
 Sniper's, Shotgun's, and many more. You can man a turrent to knock out the enemies ever faster. 
 You can play some Claymores and C4's to take your enemies down without a approach. 
  
  After beating the game, you may ask, now what? Well now you can play COD4's amazingly great online 
 multiplayer mode. The best thing may be in this game you rank up by getting XP which is experience 
 points. This is a great thing for a online game, you feel like you actully play the game and earn 
 stuff. You feel like you never wasted your time. The Online Multiplayer may be the greatest thing 
 in this game.
  
  You earn XP by killing an enemy and unlocking and doing challenges. You can rank up to level 55 
 which is Commander. You may think'sIt's all over there, well it's not, You can go onto Prestige 
 and earn yourself a nice shiny badge. You can go on Prestige for a total of 10 times and this is 
 a way to keep you hooked to the superb multiplayer this game hold's in store for you.
  
  There's many game modes for you to chose from. I'll List a Few to show you what I mean.
  
  
 Team Deathmatch: Eliminate the other team.
  Domination: Capture Flag's A, B, and C and Defend them from enemies.
  Sabotage: Fight the other 
 team for the bomb to plant it.
  Search and Destroy: Plant the Bomb and Defending the bomb and eliminate enemy players. (No Respawn's) 
 
  Ground War: Huge Team's, Mixture of game types.
  Team Tactical: Random Game Type. Kill Other Team.
  Old School Free For All: Pick up your weapons, 
 no custom classes and kill everyone.
  Free For All: Kill Everyone
  
  As you see, In Call of Duty 4 you alway's have a wide and big choice on what to do. In all these 
 mode's, making it suck a great online game.
  
  Overall, this game is very much the best game in the series. It's rewarding and fun and will keep 
 you coming back. Infinity Ward has done a amazing job at making this game and you can see all the 
 effort. Making one of the best games of 2007. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  After receiving a lackluster sequel to Call of Duty 2 from Treyarch, Infinity Ward tore away from 
 World War 2 and gave us a modernized shooter that puts many other games in the genre to shame. 
 The move from 1944 to present day combat was a smart move from IW, seeing as how WW2 shooters are 
 a dime a dozen nowadays.
  
  The Campaign mode has definitely been improved this time around. The Campaign is much more action-packed 
 then the CoD3, as well as making you feel more immersed in the battle. Storyline is above-average 
 for a shooter but it could have been polished a little more. The main problem with the campaign 
 is it's short length. Clocking in at a mere 5-6 hours, many can finish it off over the weekend. 
 Also lack of co-op play whatsoever hurts it a little as well. But the real Meat and Potatoes of 
 this title is it's robust multiplayer.
  
  To those who do not have online access of some kind whatsoever, pass up on Call of Duty 4. Cause 
 it's in the multiplayer where this FPS shines. A total of 18-players can duke it out in different 
 modes from the basic Deathmatch to new styles of play such as oldschool, hardcore, and headquarters. 
 At the moment, their are tons of players, so finding a game will be a cinch. My only gripe is the 
 lack of being able to pick from a list of games to join, but in this title, it won't be that much 
 of a problem cause anyone can connect withing 15 seconds (or less) .
  
  to keep things fresh, IW added ranks and leader boards to give those competitive players incentive 
 to master the game. As well as many weapons to choose from and unlockable weapons by rank, the 
 game should keep players busy. Clans also be made, as well as create-a-party options, so you and 
 your friends never feel left out online and can play together, are welcomed add-ons. Last but not 
 least Call of Duty 4 allows you to create your own custom class, where you assign a main weapon, 
 side arm, and three perks, which allows for your own play style. A total of Five custom classes 
 can be made, which is a huge plus. Perks are attributes you can give your class to give that edge 
 you need on the battlefield. They range from having a last stand before you die, to being undetectable 
 on enemy radar. There are over a dozen to choose from, and many combinations therein.
  
  All-in-all Call of Duty 4 is one hell of a first Person Shooter for the PS3. A solid Campaign mode 
 and an awesome online component. those looking for a great title to hold them over until Haze, 
 MGS4, or Killzone 2, look not far. Call of Duty 4 is stellar title that shines, many other FPS's 
 will have trouble keeping up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-ManAFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Since Christmas of 2006 I had been playing clan-matches with friends and cousins on Call of Duty 
 2 (sometimes on a regular basis) and severely enjoyed it, if not feeling occassionally intimidated 
 by the difficulty of its multiplayer. Regarding the single player campiagn though, I had virtually 
 no complaints whatsoever. It was atmospheric, cinematic, frenzied and extremely well executed in 
 a vast number of ways (particularly the storyline) .
  
  It wasn't long after that I began to hear of Call of Duty 4 but at the time I had thought that 
 it was basically another WW2 shooter but once I heard that the Call of Duty series was making a 
 transition from the battlefields of WW2 and going into the modern warfare setting, it was then 
 that the excitement began to really set in. 
  
  By Spring/Summer I had seen the trailers and already got the gut feeling that this was going to 
 be a stunner and on November 9th, I wasn't disappointed; well I actually was severely disappointed 
 at one thing but it was completely unrelated to the game itself (I had purchased it for the PC 
 and it turned out that my PC wasn't powerful enough to the run the game at an appropirately fast 
 speed and i wasn't able to play it properly) . That however had an upside to it (I'm doing Computer 
 Games Development at my local college and work in a room with Dell XPS 720's so I was able to install 
 it on those and play some LAN games with friends when they had decided to take a break from whoring 
 Counter-Strike) . As far as playing by myself at home was concerned there was still an extra upside 
 to my PC problem (A PS3 was sitting in my loft waiting to be opened at Christmas so I had decided 
 to purchase the game for it upon a recommendation from a friend who bought it for his PS3) .
  
  At the time I was worried that I would be atrocious at the game as I hadn't played any console 
 games for over a year and would be extremely rusty with the Playstation controller but that worry 
 had been eased almost instantly (I had originally intended to set up the PS3 after waking up on 
 Christmas Morning but at around 2AM received a phonecall from my best friend Niall who was unsurprisingly 
 drunken out of his tree and forced me to set it up and play him at a 1-on-1 private match which 
 resulted in victory for me as I became re-accustomed to the controller shockingly quick and killed 
 him at times with deadly accuracy, therefore rekindling my love and liking for console gaming now 
 that it had the joys of online fragging at its whim) . 
  
  As far as Call of Duty 4 is concerned, the graphics are stone cold stunning and pay true homage 
 to the graphical capabilities of next-gen consoles and high powered PCs, the single-player is absolutely 
 incredible and in a lot of cases hard to put down at times due to its thrilling storyline, cinematic 
 execution and frenzied firefights, the online multiplayer remains as gripping as ever if not heavily 
 improved (the system of ranking up; unlocking lots of guns, attachments and camofluage patterns 
 through assorted challenges: and the addition of Prestige Mode in the PS3 and Xbox360 versions 
 adds a lot of challenge, replay value and longevity to it in my opinion)
  
  In terms of possessing both the PC and PS3 versions the only differences between them that immediately 
 come to mind are the inclusion of Prestige Mode in the PS3 version but not the PC version and the 
 massive difference in time that it would take to establish yourself in the multiplayer mode (with 
 the PC version you can play in a single server in a single game mode for hours on end and reach 
 a high rank in virtually no time with dozens of players whereas with the PS3 version the game modes 
 have time limits and in some cases quite small score limits with a limit of 18-players at a time 
 in 1 server meaning that ranking up will take more time, this most likely being the case with the 
 Xbox360 version aswell) 
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4 is simply a masterpiece and one of the most engaging and enthralling 
 shooters (both online and offline) that you will play in a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Messy-Slick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The story is set in a fictional near-future war between the United States, Europe, and Russian 
 Loyalists against Russian Ultranationalists and Middle Eastern rebels, and features real-world 
 weapons and vehicles. It is told from the perspective of both a United States Marine and an operative 
 of the British SAS, and is set in multiple locations, including the Middle East, Azerbaijan, Russia, 
 and Pripyat. Its multiplayer features different game modes and contains a leveling system, which 
 allows the player to unlock additional weapons, weapon attachments, and camouflage schemes as they 
 advance.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare received almost universal praise, winning multiple awards at gaming 
 websites, and has been complimented on its storyline, visual elements, realism, and quality of 
 its multiplayer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  There's probably not a lot that I can say here that you haven't read already. If you're on the 
 fence about buying this game, and are looking to user reviews for help, then there's no need to 
 read any further. This game should be in any shooter fan's collection.
  
  If you're looking for in-depth descriptions of the campaign, the GameSpot and/or IGN reviews do 
 it justice.
  
  I ran through Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare's single-player campaign in rather short order, and 
 enjoyed almost every second of it. Inexplicably, I didn't touch the multiplayer portion until almost 
 2 months later. Actually, there is a good reason for that, and it's The Orange Box. At any rate, 
 I returned to COD4 a few weeks ago, and I've spent over 26 hours online since. The experience points 
 you earn in the various modes increase your rank, which unlocks weapons, camos, and perks (abilities 
 such as holding more ammo, increased bullet damage, explosives, etc.) . This pseudo-RPG leveling 
 system fused with FPS gameplay that is equal parts frantic and tactical make for the most addictive 
 multiplayer experience this reviewer has ever played. 
  
  There are a few issues that remain to be resolved that worked to keep my rating below a perfect 
 10. The lobby system works well, when it works. You will experience infrequent but annoying disconnections 
 from games and lobbies. Host migration is essentially nonexistent, so when the gamer with the best 
 connection leaves a game, everyone leaves with him/her. There's the occasional bout of lag, hit 
 detection problems, and some people claim there is rampant glitching/cheating that utterly ruins 
 their experience (I have not run into this personally, but the complaints are consistent enough 
 that I cannot discount them) .
  
  There are also some additional annoyances that may bother you, such as campers and grenade/RPG/grenade 
 launcher spammers. However, this is more a personal problem endemic with many gamers in any online 
 FPS. It doesn't bother me enough to affect my score in any way.
  
  COD4 is one of those rare titles that has lived up to the hype, and is well deserving of all the 
 praise it has garnered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  When the first Call of Duty, World War Two was an amazing experience, soon sequels and clones have 
 made the well very dry, but Infinity Ward recognised this by setting the fourth instalment in the 
 Modern Era, going against terrorists instead of Nazis, fighting in the rebellious Middle East and 
 civil war ridden Russia instead of Nazi Occupied Europe.
  
  Like most COD games, you play more than one character, the first you play is Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish, 
 a member of the British SAS 22nd Regiment, who's mission are trying to stop the Ultranationalist 
 Party of Russia from taking over the country and returning it to Communism. The other character 
 is Sergeant Paul Jackson of the United States Marine Corps Force Reconnaissance, who fights with 
 other Marines to find leader of a terrorist group who killed the President of unnamed Arab country, 
 and who soon triggers a nuke, decimated the capital and killing all the Marines including yourself, 
 making you play the rest of the game as Soap.
  
  The graphics in this are incredible, Lighting is very realistic, the look of destruction is astounding 
 and the night vision looks incredibly realistic. Even though many shooters offer a cover system, 
 COD 4 asks you to duck behind walls but this can't be effective as weapons pierce through thin 
 materials. 
  
  The multiplayer is very fun, but novice players will be infuriated being constantly killed by more 
 experienced players. It also offers a rank system where you rise in rank with experience points 
 which allow you to create you're own class with customisable weapons and perks. And also challenges 
 which give you loads of experience usually consist of killing more with a certain weapon.
  
  COD 4 is an excellent game, with an exciting story, bullet-ridden gameplay and stunning visuals 
 make it the best in the series, and maybe other WWII series will follow by bringing their tired, 
 Nazi beating series to the new, terrorist-thrashing modern era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Storyline - 9/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Gameplay - 8.5/10 (offline) 10/10 (Online)
  
  The storyline is not the weak point of this game. 
 Actually this game doesn't even have a weak point. It starts off as a routine mission in the middle 
 of the ocean until things change. You chase down these 2 generals and one's son through urban, rural 
 and desert scenarios. You even get to get on the AC130 Gunship. The ending is satisfying but they 
 could of made those last few missions more intense so you could really feel the emotion. Nonetheless 
 there is a lot of emotion in the ending. 
  
  The graphics is one thing that really make this game shine. The character models are what really 
 caught my attention. From that first mission when Captain Price looks you in the face. Levels also 
 look amazing with HDR Rendering and superb lighting. Reflections off cars, buildings, clothing, even 
 your gun. Your enemies are also very well rendered. 
  Sound effect fall into place very nicely. The guns and explosions sound just like the really thing. 
 No guns sound the like in this game. You can determine if your enemy is shooting a 50 cal sniper, 
 M16, M14 etc.
  
  This is one little thing about offline gameplay. If you play the game on recruit, you will be able 
 to fight much more people and be like Rambo. Its fun but if you try on a harder difficulty, It 
 turns into a more stationary game. This is were I think there should of been a cover system. You 
 should still go for the challenge because veteran mode is not easy. Multiplayer can really help 
 you with veteran mode. Multiplayer mode is were this game put it over most shooters. From guns to 
 gun camo's to attachments. Multiplayer is every fun but host migration and lobby mute function 
 are needed. It is very addictive and you will be playing this game for a long time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin18180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  It's Modern Warfare. It's like if Halo were on steroids, and set in our time period. The online 
 play only enchances the overall game.
  
  So, the plot is something like this- there's been a military coup of some sort in some unnamed 
 Middle Eastern country. Also, there are some nuclear missiles involved. You play as both a SAS 
 rookie as well as a USMC sargeant. It's not very hard to follow, but it adds to the gameplay in 
 terms of you knowing basically what's happening. Online is amazing. There's like 15different game 
 modes, including the traditional Team Deathmatch, played on 8+ maps. It's XP based, so the more 
 and better you play, the more things you get.
  
  Pros-
  Graphics. Duh.
  Very realistic weapons.
  Large choice of weapons, adding to the realism- not everyone's carrying 
 the same gun.
  Plot.
  Online is one of the best.
  
  Cons-
  Faulty hit detection on consoles.
  That's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fartmaster99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare has extreme life like graphics, great single player modes and has 
 the best online a game could ever have!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  EVER!!!!!!!!!!! 
  Good things about it
  Great single player campaign that sharpens your skills for online play 
 or single player campaign at a harder level
  Very Very Very addictive online play campaigns that will make it so you will never ever want to 
 put down your PLAYSTATION3 or Xbox 360 controler down. Period.
  Very realistic
  LIfe like graphics
  
  Bad things about it
  It was really short and you can beat it in 6-9 
 hours 
  Well there isnt much bad about it. This game is that good. Its the best 1st person shooter Ive 
 ever played in my whole intire life.
  
  Over all Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a really good game and is worth your 60 bucks. Lets hope 
 the next Call of Duty is even better than the first few. Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is one of 
 the best, if not the best game I've ever played. If you have 60 bucks and love FPS games Call of 
 Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the number 1 perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WB92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  At first i wasnt sure about buying this game because of negative comments from reiews about how 
 long it as but this game is so realistic, additctive and fun. I finished playing the single player 
 and it was perfect all the guns feel realistic and the AI is very good, but the main part of this 
 game is the multi-player, it is the most deepest and addictive multi-player game ive played, while 
 u play you move in rank and unlock new guns and perks (desired abilities) and you can create-a-class 
 which adds an rpg element to the game, the perks give u advantage over other people in certain 
 areas the rpg-7 has to be a WOW factor in the game, i just love shooting it and admiring the physics 
 of the game when the smoke comes out of it, it feels so real, you have a long range of weapons 
 in the game rabging from a desert eagle pistol to a barret 50. cal sniper the game is similar to 
 counterstrike in the sense that it is marines vs terrorists in team battles. All in all this is 
 a MUST-HAVE GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dieyetagain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare or COD4...... What a fantastic game this is. Amazing story line, 
 truly inspirational. I love the ending especially. This game should be played by all ages. It's 
 amazingly amazing.
  
  Lets get down to some scores. We'll start off with the graphics. The Graphics on Call of Duty 4 
 are outstanding. The guns are excellent the people are excellent and the environment is excellent. 
 Also when you shoot a window the glass would crack beautifully. I give the graphics a 9.5/10. 
 
  
  The sound on this game are very life like with the soldiers muttering and giving orders while the 
 enemy is doing so by speaking arabic, it's great. The gunshots are loud and crisp, makes a beautiful 
 shooting sound. I give the sound a 8.5/10
  
  The gameplay, well although it was inspirational, fantastic, awesome, wicked, sick, excellent, 
 amazing, funny, sad, it was a bit short being beaten in a time of 6 hours for me. Of course they 
 could of made it longer but as i said it's still lots of things haha.
  
  That is my review on COD4-Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. A must get for first person shooter fans. 
 Or anyone who owns a PS3 or Xbox 360 for that matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The game takes place in a modern setting and you take the role of Sergeant "Soap" MacTavish of 
 the S. A. S. and Sergeant Paul Jackson of the USMC 1st Force Recon. Throught most of the game you 
 will play as Soap infiltrating Russia to find rescue Nikolai, the informant who has been helping 
 you, and to find out who is behind all this. When playing as Jackson you will be travelling through 
 a middle eastern country looking for Khaled Al-Asad who is thought to be the blame for all the 
 fighting. Ultimately you will have to find Imran Zakhaev who is the one at the top of all this 
 disturbance. Sadly the singleplayer campaign is very short which makes you wish for more but this 
 is compensated by the fantastic multiplayer
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is like and other modern first person shooter. You press R1 to shoot 
 which is not very accurate , or you could hold L1 to bring the gun up to your face and aim down 
 the sights which makes your shots more accurate. L2 handles special grenades like flash, smoke 
 and stun while R2 is used for throwing FRAG grenades or throwing them back if the land near you. 
 If you hold down L3 you can sprint and with R3 you can use your knife which is a one hit kill if 
 you manage to strike you opponent directly. The aiming is very smooth and precise on the default 
 settings, I was surprised how good they were compared to other console shooters I have played and 
 now thinking back I would rather play CoD4 on PS3 than on PC when I normally like to play FPS's 
 on PC. Also the game runs at a constant 60 Frames Per Second which helps you stay in the action.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Call of Duty 4 has one of the best graphics but it still has some flaws. There are many great things 
 about the graphics like HDR, high detail models, great animation, lighting, etc. that make it look 
 outstanding but there are also minor things that hinder its greatness. If you look at the shadows 
 quite close they are very jaggy and same can be said for the textures in some areas, from a distance 
 they look fine but come closer and the will look meh. Overall though I'm just nit-picking here 
 and the overall presentation is great.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is amazing and makes you feel like you are in a real battle field with gun fire from 
 all sides and troops shooting commands. Also the voice acting is great and makes for some very 
 life like characters and helps make bring out the story.
  
  Multiplayer:
  To compensate for the short but great single player , the multiplayer portion of Call of Duty 4 
 is amazing. It infuses a levelling system of RPG's and as you level you also unlock new weapons 
 and 'perks' which are special abilities which can help you in battle. Perks allow you to things 
 such as reload faster, be able to run for longer, do more damage ,or my favourite , to drop a live 
 grenade after you die which teaches those guys who try and knife you not to mess with you. You 
 are only allowed 3 perks at once and perks are split up into 3 categories (you are allowed 1 perk 
 from each category) . The first category giving you extra fire power in the form of extra grenades, 
 claymores and C4. The second category focuses on things that affect your character like more health, 
 increased rate of fire and higher explosive damage. The third category focuses on abilities that 
 fit your play style like increasing you hip fire accuracy, being able to shoot through thicker 
 walls and being able to hold your breath longer for those deadly sniper shots. At level 4 you get 
 to create your own class where your able to choose what weapon your using , what your side arm 
 is, what special grenades you want and what perks you want to use. You can create up to 5 custom 
 classes to suite your different play styles.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If bought for single player only the game wont last you very long as you can probably beat it on 
 normal difficulty in about 6-7 hours but if you go back and try the higher difficulties or the 
 arcade mode you will get some more playtime for it. If you buy it for multiplayer as well prepare 
 for hours upon hours of fun and enjoyment. Call of Duty 4 is a must buy for any shooter fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffreytheking
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare has life like graphics and superb online game play that will make 
 it so that you never want to put your Playstation3 controler down. Ever!!!!!!!!!!. You will never 
 put that controler down until you think your Playstation 3 will overheat (mine almost did after 
 around six long hours of online play!!) But the one great flaw was that the game was very short. 
 I completed it after around 9hours of playing it. Its fairly challenging and it sharpens your skills 
 before you play online or try to beat it again in a much harder mode. Overall Call of Duty 4 Modern 
 Warfare is a very good 1st person shooter and its worth your 60 bucks. If you haven't played it 
 yet (which i completely 1,000,000% doubt) and you love 1st person shooter games Call of Duty 4 
 is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private_Akorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  By now you have probably heard everything about COD 4. Well, there is a lot to say.
  
  First, the single player. It may be short, but it will still take a while when played on the higher 
 difficulty settings, which requires major tactical planning. Also, this game simply has so many 
 of those "Holy Crap, that is so f***ing awesome" moments. Other shooters may have longer levels 
 and take more time to complete, but COD 4 just so much more fun and memorable firefights. The graphics 
 are absolutely incredible in the campaign and the sound is also top - notch. The AI proved very 
 challenging to overcome and almost never did anything outright stupid.
  
  Gameplay wise, COD 4 has some of the best controls I have ever seen in an FPS. Between the perfect 
 analog sensitivity, intuitive layout, and excellent usage of the Aim Down the Sight mechanic. it 
 has something everyone can appreciate. It also has everything a realistic shooter should have such 
 as a well - balanced melee attack, sprint, and stand/crouch/prone functions, not to mention 'cooking' 
 grenades. This may seem very basic, but in fact it is pretty surprising how many FPS are missing 
 these.
  
  On to multiplayer. One thing should be said in that the graphics are less impressive, but the toning 
 down is what enables the game to run at 60 fps.
  Seriously, this game never lags. Unfortunately it has an annoying thing where the server is tied 
 to the "host" or the first player to enter a lobby. Getting disconnected happens 5-10 % of the 
 matches (on PS3) which can be frustrating but is certainly not game - breaking.
  
  There are two reasons besides the excellent controls and level of polish that the game is so much 
 fun. First, the experience system. You can gain early ranks like crazy, and then may have to actively 
 attempt challenges in order to progress quickly. There are dozens of these challenges that reward 
 exp, and basically every three to four ranks you get a new gun. This is highly addictive, and makes 
 you keep coming back for more. It can be an incredible sense of accomplishment when you see, like, 
 a plus 2000 exp come up and you gain two ranks. It is so fun that starting over in "Prestige" mode 
 feels like a fresh start instead of a dreaded surrender of all your weapons and awards. 
  
  Finally, let me wrap up my long - winded review with the final reason for COD 4's greatness: the 
 map design. I'm sure we all have memories of Halo 1's huge, boring maps. They totally broke the 
 multiplayer. These map have great balance and an incredible sense of flow. Yow will never be trudging 
 for minutes trying to find an enemy. There are a few which simply suck, but for the most part all 
 of them can A) perform well on any mode, b) be played extremely tactically, with cheap campers, 
 or high - octane run n' gun, and c) never get boring. I've gone through the ranks twice and I still 
 find new ways to play matches, never get bored, and have not yet played all the game types because 
 I am too addicted to basic TDM and hardcore TDM. Frankly, if you own a good PC or next - gen console 
 (sorry Wii owners) , have an internet connection and like shooters, whatever excuse you have to 
 not play this is piss - poor at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sefreeman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Once you finish the campaign and go online against the world, you can't stop. I thought the game 
 was cool at first, but now I think it is the BEST FPS I've ever owned. Many games are hyped, but 
 when they come out, they aren't as good as they claim. For example, Army of TWO is one of those 
 that seemed great on the commercials and the overall game is very short and somewhat disappointing. 
 The overall strategies necessary to play COD 4 are awesome and the more you play, the more you 
 want to play. Prestige is the key. It allows you to "start" over once you hit rank 55, and now 
 you re-earn your perks and weapons and now you have the skill and map knowledge to do it. If you 
 know someone who likes first person shooters, make sure they get this game.
  Once you master your perk combinations and the different guns for different maps, you really begin 
 to work the game for all its got. 
  When you find that "spot" on each level, you can get 20 to 30 kills and when you go level after 
 level of top kills (least deaths is another good thing to work toward) , and then you really get 
 addicted. The length of the missions is perfect (10 minutes or 750 points) so you don't get bored, 
 and the missions all have their good and bad spots. The key is to have enough self-created classes 
 to be able to adjust during the battle. Though you have to die to change, you need to be able to 
 bounce back and take the "lead". The only perk I hate is Martyrdom. I think it sucks that you kill 
 someone and they automatically drop a grenade. I think if you want to use this, you should have 
 to drop the grenade yourself (within a second of dying) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canders3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a sports game only player, but then I bought Rainbow Six Vegas and enjoyed the shooters. 
 Next I went for COD4 and I've never turned back. I sat down and went through the game in one night. 
 I wish the game was longer, but the graphics and gameplay make up for the short storyline. Next 
 I started playing online and I was hooked. There must me thousands and thousands of people playing 
 this game at all times. As soon as you enter a room you are entered into a game.
  
  This game makes you skip work, stay up late, forget to eat and forget to let the dog out as your 
 addiction grows. The weapons are great and have much range between them. The team games are fun 
 online but I loved the free for all.
  
  If there has ever been a 10 rating, this game is it. A DO NOT MISS GAME, MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The call of Duty series has left it's WW11 battle grounds and now in modern day. The SP is very 
 short. You will probably finish in two days. (Depending on your skill and which skill lvl your 
 on) . What i love about this game is there is a button designated for looking down the barrel of 
 your gun. With out doing this you will not be able to play this game very well or fun for that 
 matter. The graphics are unbelivable. Any one who likes first pearson shooters. This is a must 
 have for any gamer. The SP is awsome the story is amazing and you play as two characters. You run 
 into a missle crysis where nuclear missles are launched from a Russian base and your objective 
 is to get deep inside the bass and destroy them in mid-air before they hit the east coast of America. 
 The MP online is addictive with ranking systems and challenges, when you complete weapon challenges 
 you unlock attachments fot it or special types of paint jobs. Other challenges you complete you 
 will earn XP for. The ranking sytem is huge! Most shooters have you go up 55 lvls and your at max 
 lvl but. This you go up 55 lvls and you can choose to start all over (Prestige) but with a different 
 simble. You can do this 10 times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Having played previous COD games and being disappointed, I was reluctant to see what the big hoopla 
 was about all over this game. Turns out, this time COD managed to get its act together and put 
 together one of the best games of 2007.
  
  The game has a movie like feel, taking in locations that aren't far fetched from reality. I was 
 pumped up during the first chapter of the game, you can really get into it as the momentum builds. 
 Later one it may start to get repetitive, but that's where the multiplayer comes in. It's really 
 fun, a good time for everyone as you can pick your usual warrior classes with unique weapons, and 
 gain rank with special options unlocked as you increase in points.
  
  Anyway, back to the single player campaign. You get to play as either the British Special Air Service 
 or the American Marines Force Recon. The tutorial is weaved into the game, and the game is broken 
 down into chapters with the ultimate outcome of whoever you're after resolved at the end. The soundtrack 
 fits the game perfectly and the game environment, although having extremely few interactive functions, 
 serves as a great backdrop and gives that illusion that it covers a wide span of space. The aiming 
 is great, you have to using the Aimpoint reticule to land accurate shots. The game also manages 
 to keep its play in check. What I mean by this is that you are part of a very small squad of killers, 
 so it's not like you can take on every single enemy, and in a particular sniper mission, this is 
 stressed (as well as being a memorable mission) . You can also pick up enemy weaponry, although 
 you can only carry a limited amount at any given time. The cutscenes are sometimes interactive, 
 and I cannot stress how many times I felt like I was acting out a scenes similar to the movie 'Black 
 Hawk Down' and other military hits.
  
  The game does have a downside, in that it gets a bit jaded at the end. But again, it manages to 
 keep things interesting at intervals, so it'll feel familiar but never really overdone. I would've 
 also preferred if you had limited health and had to go into houses to search for medkits instead 
 of the duck and recover method. 
  
  The final say is that this is a great game considering everything. If you're into FPS, world events, 
 action movies, then this is a definite must get, a contender for GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  There's little I can say about this game that hasn't already been said, but I'll just say it anyway.
 
  
  Graphically it is incredible. It really puts you in the fight. As games get closer and closer to 
 photorealism this game is one of the few that show what we really will have to look forward to. 
 
  
  The sound is right up there with the graphics. Top notch explosions, gun shots, voice acting. With 
 the right TV and a good sound system you may find yourself with post traumatic stress disorder 
 after a day of raging online battles.
  
  The gameplay is probably the best in any FPS I've played. The controls handle smoothly and realistically. 
 The default layout is natural and easy to pick up. Having played the 360 version and owning the 
 PS3 version I was missing the vibration. Can't wait for the dual shock 3.
  
  Single player is a little on the short side, but it is a wild ride all the way through and on the 
 harder difficulties it can keep you busy for a some time.
  
  Online is where it's at. I'm not seriously addicted like a lot of my friends, but once I get on 
 I have a hard time tearing myself away. In fact with so many good games out at the same time I 
 had to force myself to not start up online matches so that I could finish some of my other games. 
 The development system is unmatched in my opinion. It really makes you want to keep on keeping 
 on for hours on end and when you finally unlock that new weapon or perk you usually feel rewarded.
 
  
  I'm not a huge fan of the COD series, and at first I wasn't even going to pick this up. However 
 I decided to give it a shot the week it came out and was blown away. If you haven't played this 
 game already for any reason, do yourself a favor and at least give it a rental. If you like fpss, 
 I would have to say buy! buy! buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dem3ntEd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This FPS is one hell of a game. I have it on PS3, and I'm in love with it. Campaign is surprisingly 
 short, but fun nonetheless. The warfare is fun, and great shooting. But it may not have enough 
 features. You can't control vehicles and drive, or any other type of transport. It would be much 
 more fun, but it's still good without it. The movement is very realistic, and the guns are fun 
 to play with. One thing that you MUST have once you get this game is going on-line. This is one 
 of the BEST features of Call of Duty 4. The maps are great, and the satisfaction of sniping somebody 
 on the other side of the country is awesome. Although, the game, in my opinion, is a bit easy. 
 I can finish up the game in an hour or two. All I'm saying is, a better challenge, and a longer 
 story. Still, this game, is a MUST-HAVE for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantor000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Upon buying this game and recently getting a new HD tv I was astounded when I played this game. 
 I thought to myself as I turned my PS3 on and played the first levels, my God it is like I am there, 
 and that is what this game is like - the real thing. I commend infinity ward on one fine effort 
 displayed here. Although the campaign was a little short I feel that what was there was truly great. 
 The story, the locations and the thought put behind the whole structure was quite spectacular. 
 But for me the thing that this game will get remembered for is its online mode. To begin with I 
 found the whole pressing a button and letting the server find you a game slightly annoying but 
 I quickly adapted, and with the update it takes practically no time to find a game. Something for 
 me that adds to the addiction to this game is that okay some of the game modes are getting a little 
 old but somehow they made the option of playing all these work. They also used their brains and 
 came up with some other very addictive game modes. Adding to this the continuous levelling up and 
 the fact it does not take much really does add to the addictiveness of this game. Furthermore, 
 the guns and the upgrades you can unlock are absolutely brilliant. 
  
  To conclude this game is nothing less than an almost perfect masterpiece. This game should go down 
 in history as one where they got it all right. They made everything work and made it so addictive 
 that everyone had to buy it. The proof is at my school. When it first came out there were 5 people 
 in our year with PS3s and CoD4 by the end of the month there were 25!
  
  Well done infinity ward.
  
  P. S. if your making another CoD please keep it in modern warfare 
 or do it in Vietnam.
  
  
  Dantor ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth362008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The only thing this Game miss is the Create A Character option and the option to drive some kind 
 of transport, that would be a great addition to the Game, but overall it rocks, the offline game 
 is finished in a flash, but the strong point is the online game, is very funny to join a clan and 
 talk to friends as you play, see them die in front of you or vice-versa, i remember the last Game 
 i joy this much was Mario Kart 64 when the games has heart, i recommend this Game with the eyes 
 closed. The best thing in the online mode is the Rank level up as you gain experience, yo get better 
 weapons and artifacts to equip your soldier to help you in the battle. Forget about any other FPS, 
 this is the real evolution of Shooters, if you dont have it yet, what are you waiting, youre 
 missing some serious crazyness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivaz66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  its game that every gamer should play and im not a dirt person hardcore fan but this its just a 
 new gen game awesome
  
  the good
  
  exeptional graphics gorgeus!
  
  good music
  
  exelent gameplay very fun
  
  real time action
  
  a chanche for world war to a new warefare 
 
  
  the bad
  
  its to short
  
  its so rare that a first person shoter make me feel so good cod 4 its a war game so if you in to 
 that kind of things you will love ths game
  
  
  War rages on in the fourth edition of Activision's acclaimed war game. For the first time in the 
 series, Call of Duty moves away from WWII to the modern battlefield. Armed with an arsenal of advanced 
 and powerful modern day firepower, players are transported to treacherous hotspots around the globe 
 to take on a rogue enemy group threatening the world. As both a U. S Marine and British S. A. S. soldier 
 fighting through an unfolding story full of twists and turns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragdollsrock012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best FPS I have ever played. It's addicting on and offline will keep you 
 hooked for the coming months, and the graphics are superb. 
  
  One of the pros are that the online multiplayer will keep you playing it over and over again. Another 
 pro is that the offline campaign is VERY fun, and you get to choose a difficulty level, starting 
 with Recruit and ending with Veteran. Good luck beating the game on Veteran mode, its harder than 
 you think! And when playing multiplayer, you get to mix and match weapons, perks and even name 
 them to you're liking. While you play online, you rank up, which keeps the fun in multiplayer, 
 unlocking several other weapons and perks.
  
  There are very few cons. One of them is that single player is short, it took me about 8 hours to 
 complete. The other one is that the ending of the single player campaign is horrible, in a good 
 way. Its sad. Thats all I'm saying.
  
  So if you're a big fan of FPS's, then get Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, my favorite game of 2007.
 
  Thanks for reading!
  -Andrew J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theycallmeryan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a masterpiece. In story mode you play as a new British SAS recruit and a US Marine. 
 The story is not very long, in fact it is about half as long as your averge shooter, but it is 
 a great story. Its a lot better than your averge shooter's story too. After you beat single player 
 once you ulock Cheat Mode and Arcade Mode. 
  
  After you beat single player here's where online comes in. Online is very fun. You start at level 
 1 and work your way up to level 55. At first you have to choose from the preset classes but once 
 you get to level 3 you can make your own class. At level 12 you can join a clan. Once you reach 
 level 55 you have an important decision to make, do you stay at level 55 or do you go in to Presteige 
 Mode and restart at level 1.
  
  The graphics and sound are amazing. You should have surround sound and an HDTV to fully enjoy it. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game, Call of Duty 4 is the best Call of Duty game ever-period. I have to say the campaign 
 is not long, but not short. It is right in the middle. It may not seem medium sized campaign mode 
 but if you put it on very hard mode, it gets very challenging and if you like the challenge like 
 me, put it on very hard mode. I love the story so much. I'm a guy, and it really touched my heart 
 at the ending. A lot of big stuff happens during the campaign so it really keeps it off your toes. 
 You feel like you are in the game, and your war buddies are your brothers and that really makes 
 the game really great and fun. The graphics in this game are really really great. The sound is 
 superior. Controls are perfect. The online muiltiplayer never gets old. You are excited all the 
 time as if you just tried it. Overall the game is great, everything is so fun in this game, the 
 campaign, the muilitplayer, everything is so fun, great, and exciting when playing Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare for both the campaign mode, and the online multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batman360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is by far a work of genius. The game is the very reason why gamers 
 exists. The graphics are a technical achievement by all counts the facial animations are what really 
 stand out to me, sound is impressive, so is voice acting. Unlike it's predecessors this Call of 
 Duty is in a modern setting and it absolutely works. Most amazing of is how immersed you feel into 
 this game. 
  
  Campaign mode is short and can be done within 7 hours, but the game more than makes up for this 
 in multiplayer. Maps within this game are relatively enjoyable. The weapon system is done extremely 
 well and the perks are surprisingly well balanced. Even the more inexperienced players can still 
 have the upper hand on veteran players. The game is highly addictive and not to mention offers 
 an extremely high replay value. 
  
  If you enjoy a good FPS Call of Duty 4 is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockPwner
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  ===========================================================
  _______ ___ _____ _____ 
  _______/ __ \ ___ | | / _ \ | ___| 
  | ____| / __\ | || | | | | || | __ 
  | | | ___ | || | 
 | | | || __| 
  | | | | | | || |____ | | | || | 
  | |____| | | | ||_______| | |_| || | 
  |_______|__| | __|________| \_____ /|__| 
  ______ __ __ _________ __ ___ _____
  | _ \ | | | 
 ||___ ___|| | | | / _ |
  | | | || | | | | | | \/ | / /_| |_
  | | | || | | | | | \ / /___ _ |
  | | _| || |_| | | | \ / * | |
  |______/ \_____/\_| |__| |__| 
 * |__| 
  
  ===========================================================
  Call of duty 4 modern warfare, is the forth instalment (duh) in the series, and by far, displays 
 the best visuals, sound, gameplay and value in the series.
  
  ===========================================================
  
 
  
  What do i have to say? the visuals in CoD4, are the best visuals i have ever seen in a video game 
 yet (though Uncharted is very good) . the facial animations are spot on with the dialog, the environments 
 are almost real, and the guns.......... well, happy to say, look like guns! *******10***********
 
  
  
 
  
  The sound in CoD4 is amazing. First of all, the cast for the caracters in singleplayer are perfect, 
 there voises match there animations perfectly. Now, the sound of the guns ----- lets just say, 
 if u have a big tv, 7 surround sound speakers and a good sound box, just dim the lights and u feel 
 like ur in an actual warzone, fireing actuall 
  
  
 
  
  This is it........ the most important  just needed to add 
 some drama) . The gameplay in CoD4 is amazing and addictive................ at the same time! its 
 amazictive!!! (yay, i made up a word!) .
  In other reviews, about everyone says that the single player is short. to me it's a pretty good 
 lenth, but, even if you think it is short; i garantee ur money back (well not accually) , that u 
 wont forget one bit of it! It's a deep and fun story.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.- its........ defunep!!! ( 2 words! 
 im on a roll!) . Now, the multiplayer. i really dont need to say much, because it is amazictive 
 and defunep!!! ur probably thinking........ Man! that has to be good, amazictive and defunep? if 
 you want more on the multiplayer, i bet there is about 400 other reviews that talk about the multiplayer 
 more in depth.******12******** (can i do that?) (oh well) **********
  
  
 
  
  Well, the perfect, and overperfect scores of visuals, sound and gameplay, amazictive singleplayer, 
 and the multiplayer amazictive and defunep, this game will last u untill CoD5, mabye even 
 
  
  
 
  
  U NEED to get this amazictive and defunep game! its so good if u dont get it, i wont be ur friend 
 anymore. And if u hate this game (cough, cough) I will hate u back! Just look at these KILLER scores!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
   out of 10 ******************
   out of 10*******************
   
 out of 10*******************
   out of 10*******************
   
 out of 10 (just because gamespot wont let me go past 
 
  
  
  
  END ( u can buy the game now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navigata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish this game never stops the thrill of what is COD4 Modern Warfare. Single player 
 to online is just a wonderful experiance, something all FPS fans should play.
  
  Single Player: The single player is filled to the top with great cinematics, music and gameplay 
 to have you on the edge of your seat. The moment you enter training in the beginning of Sp to the 
 ending, its one heck of a ride.
  
  Gameplay is spot on with great enemy ai, squad and everything else. The fast paced action keeps 
 your heart pumping, never letting down for a dull moment. With great scenery and surroundinds you 
 sometimes find yourself looking in amazment instead of killing enemies. 
  
  The sound in this game adds to that whole dynamic. Playing in 5.1 surround sound is one of the 
 greates things. With gunshots right on with its real life counterparts, you sometimes think your 
 watching a movie. Bombshells falling behind you, voice overs everything is amazing. The only thing 
 that may bother you is sound clipping, although its only happened to me once.
  
  Online, this is where its at people. I mean, you will find yourself hooked like me. Starting of 
 as a private, you build and customize your own classes like never before. Picking your main gun 
 and 3 other perks, being your own soldier. Customization is endless, thats where the replayability 
 is. Along with something called prestige mode. Lvl 1-55 10 times over. You can stop at whatever 
 prestige youd like but its entertaining to keep going... With many different game modes such as 
 Headquarters, Search And Destroy, Sabotage online fun is endless.
  
  This game is great on all fronts. Online is really where it is at. If you are looking for a FPS, 
 look no further. COD4 IS A MUST for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mashad1602
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  This game is the real deal. After playing an hour i was already hooked onto the online game mode. 
 it just blows everything out of the water. Not only that but the entire online community is set 
 up perfectly. It might as well be its own world. But down to the specifics it had everything covered 
 from the blades of grass at overgrown or the rubble in crossfire to the broken down houses of backlot 
 this game looks as amazing as it feels.
  They also set up an online ranking mode which keeps you hooked to go onto the next rank, also the 
 system of unlocking attachments and newer guns has been very well set up and the "Prestige" modes 
 are really exciting.
  The single player mode is an entity in itself aswell with as great a storyline you can possibly 
 have with a FPS. But the only knocks on this game are that it has a couple glitches on a few maps 
 and the storyline comes up a bit short in length, and as PS3 owners we may have come up on the 
 short end of infinity wards favourites list because the leaderboards are poorly done in comparison 
 to the 360 version. Disappointing but hopefully they can provide an update to fix that.
  But overall that doesn't take away from its shine of being the greatest FPS to date.
  The only 
 other thing is the fact that they could come with more maps as it does get repetitive playing at 
 certain areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p5ilocyb3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow.. where to start?
  
  The story mode really sucks you in, the presentation is simply beautiful. Even though the story 
 mode isnt too long, I still had a blast.
  The Online is where this game really shines. I can honestly say this is the most addicting fps 
 ive ever played online. It was hard to admit, but its even better then resistance online. The vast 
 amount of replayability keeps pulling you back for more... with all the different promotions, earning 
 XP, challenges for each weapon, unlockable weapons, unlockable attachments for every weapon, perks 
 to unlock, etc, etc.. you will be playing this little gem for a good long time. Ive played the 
 360 version of this online as well, best thing about the PS3 version is the online is free. (greedy 
 microsoft forcing people to pay even more $ for xbox live.. still blows me away)
  Graphics are top notch, frame rate is solid even with all the craziness constantly going on. Sound 
 is absolutely killer, especially hooked up to surround sound, learning curve is pretty easy, youll 
 be getting headshots in no time.
  They really did raise the bar on this game, un-freaking-believable..
  
  If you have a ps3, 
 and dont have this game.. WTF are you waiting for? You're missing out big time. Go out NOW and buy 
 it, and join the insane online experience, you wont be able to set your SIXAXIS down until your 
 eyes are bleeding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrill25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 gives some of the best console experiences online and offline.
  
  Graphics: AMAZING. Everything has a meticulous level of detail to it and has in my opinion the 
 best graphics on a console game. A flash grenade has never been more terrifying.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are easy to learn and are tightly responsive. Killing someone online has 
 never been a feet until this game. Every kill you get you are greatful for it. Each gun has its 
 own feel to it that you will have to adjust to as you play to learn how to best use it.
  
  Sound: Listening to the ring of the tv where a grenade goes off near makes you feel you are really 
 there, the sound of bullets flying in a fire fight is intense and exhilarating. The voice acting 
 is top notch in single player.
  
  Value: The single player experience is like no other, you feel as though you are a small part of 
 a big war and it delivers plenty of thrills and heart pounding moments, but it is rather short. 
 The online is where this game shines. With an addictive upgrade system you want to keep playing 
 and playing because as you level up you gain access to new weapons and perks, that aid you. 
  
  This is simply a must own for any one. A campaign that will not let you down and an online 
 mode that will keep you up all night shows this game will be in your drive for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipherace2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I never owned the previous Call Of Duty games nor was never interested because they were into WW2 
 until I saw COD4 Modern Warfare. I was thinking of maybe buying it b/c I like modern FPS games. 
 It wasn't until My friend kept telling me to buy this one. I guess you can say if it wasn't from 
 him I woudn't be playing this AWESOME GAME!! Call Of Duty 4 has the right tools to keep you in 
 the mood to just keep on playing. Espicially the online gameplay, as you go on to the next level 
 you get to unlock weapons, side arms, even game modes such as Domination, Ground War , Team Tactical, 
 Team Deathmatch, Free For All and many other types. The controls are easy to learn and get use 
 to. My recommendation is GET IT!!, On PS3!! The only bad thing about the game is that the campaign 
 is a little short but the missions are fun. Though on the other hand, you have the online gameplay 
 so no need to whine about the game... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomba
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 & 2 were widely regarded as the best cross platform fps game's ever however Activision 
 in a moment of sillyness, dropped award winning developer Infinity Ward and made the dissapointing 
 Call of Duty 3 without them, however now they are back with a (flash) bang.
  
  FIRST HOUR OF PLAY
  
  The first thing that happens in the game is a training mission that is 
 familliar to any actual SAS member, you start by roping down and from there you go through various 
 challenges until you are given a recomended difficulty setting but what comes after that is special.
 
  
  THE OPENING SCENE
  
  The opening scene is the best since Half-Life's Tram Ride. You are being carried by two men into 
 a car from there you are free to look around and you will be truly missing out if you don't as 
 you'll see people being beat up, running from gunfire, cheering at there leader's speech, he is 
 talking about someone betraying there country and how he is going to kill those responsible and 
 at the end you find out that the person responsible is indeed you.
  
  GETTING IN THE BATTLE
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty 4 is outstandin, it is near on perfect 
 you feel that you are in the battlefield firing bullets into the guys head's which can be both 
 a good and a bad thing as people with weaker stomach's may cringe at the realistic deaths were 
 as gore hunter's such as me will smirk with a whisper of 'Lets go B*tches'
  
  OVERALL
  
  GRAPHICS 9.9 - The most wonderful graphics I've seen on any system (5000 PC Included) GAMEPLAY 
 10 - Perfectly balanced, each weapon feel's the way they should
  
  SOUND - Wonderful musical score alongside brilliant Gun and bomb noised works fantastically
  
 
  OVERALL 10 - The Best PS3 game... PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cataferal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Like swedish cheese, this game not only gives you a solid initial bite, but a great aftertaste 
 that'll linger for months.
  
  Which is all a roundabout way of saying the single-player is exciting and concise in it's design, 
 but the multiplayer is what'll keep you coming back for more. This is in no small part due to the 
 customisation options permitted through "Perks". When you enter the fray, your allowed to choose 
 up to 3 perks from a list of 20+, which can effect anything from clip size to proficiency with 
 certain weapons. This encourages you to hone your skills towards a certain type of play, and to 
 also get you talking with your team-mates over how best to balance your squad, and which tactics 
 to use.
  
  Overall, well worth it if you have online access. Possibly the best FPS i've played to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I guess it is repetitve to review this game because hundreds of people are already reviewing this 
 game with great score. I usually don't like shootings game much (except for Perfect Dark on N64) , 
 especially the only multiplayer; nevertheless, this game changes my opinion for future games to 
 come. There are so much actions being packed in this game that it is just fun to play in single 
 player mode. I tried to online game play with few friends and love that as well. One of the reason 
 I never like the multiplayer online game play is that other players are too good and I getting 
 my butt whoop. However, this game is a nudge for me to give it a shot with my friends online and 
 maybe rejoining the online community.
  
  Final words for this game: "Go buy it." It's worth every penny for new and old player to this type 
 of game genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  For the record, i generally HATE first person games. To me, Resistance Fall of Man was boring and 
 i could not get into Rainbow Six Vegas at all. COD 4 changed my opinion of first person shooters 
 and multiplayer online games. Believe the hype. 
  
  Where to start? Visually the game is amazing. Some of the best in game graphics you'll see. Sound 
 is great too. The 1 player game campagne was short. Probably about 6 hours but it basically is 
 there to teach you how to play this game and prep you for the mega-fun online multiplayer which 
 makes up for the short campagne mode. 
  
  Online multiplayer gives you alot of different game options, weapon upgrades, custom classes and 
 challenges that will keep you busy for hours upon hours. If you're one of the few that do not own 
 this game yet, go out and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Man7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Bravo! I think that everyone who owns a gaming system shouldbuy this game. The online gaming was 
 amazing, it also persuaded me in thinking it was good because im so good at it... The Marines section 
 of the campaign was unbelieably intense. I loved it. A MASTERPIECE. The one thing I hated about 
 it was your marine character dying and Ssgt. Griggs dying. He was the bomb. My favourite thing 
 about the game was running down the streets while you are getting shot at from everywhere. So intense. 
 I also loved the all-gillied up mission, haha it was pretty sweet. I can barely say anything about 
 the multiplayer. The only thing i can say is that I LOVE IT!!!!! The voice acting in the game was 
 also very well done and I had a good chuckle at some parts. I also agree with everyone else when 
 i say that the campaign was too short, it was fun, but it was short.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippihop
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Ok so here it is.
  
  I've played this game for a good 20-30 hours probally more just so you know. Now i have played 
 the campain and as amazing as it may be it is far short. The explosion are nice, the graphics are 
 nice and so is the sound an gameplay but there isn't enough of it! If you want a game with an amazing 
 but short campain then this would be the game for you.
  
  THE ONLINE. Ok do people need their heads testing or something? So it starts off well and then 
 you think to yourself "what the hell i can't filter what map you want to play or choose a host!" 
 I mean honestly what online game have you played where you can't filter certain options. LAG i 
 have never seen so much; now for the record i have played PS3 version (which i own) and the 360 
 version which i proudly don't own and have experienced the same amount of lag on both or near to 
 it anyway. This has nothing to do with my conection because my conection is fine i can play many 
 other games and not experience lag what so ever and as for the 360 version i played it was on multiple 
 360 i played it and they're connection where also fine seems i had played other online titles on 
 them. Now you can not tell me that you have played COD 4 online and gone up to someone stabbed 
 them they don't die but you see and hear your knife go in and then you spontaniously die and watch 
 the killcam and you knife doesn't come out at all and you get shot by the person you stabbed. Or 
 the alternative you shoot someone even headshot and they should be dead but they shoot you and 
 you die and you watch the killcam and not a single shot comes out your gun but the other played 
 kills you easy. So lag is a big issue and yes i have used the new patch. The lack of maps isn't 
 fun either there should be more maps, ok so they can bring out a patch but you will probally have 
 to pay for it.
  
  So this is basically a game that is far to hyped up and because people say omg it's amazing other 
 people automaticaly go omg it's amazing well it's not. It's ok average that's all. Want a good 
 multiplayer online game with very little lag get UT3 it's PWNS COD.
  
  Byeeeeeeeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamyvabam123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Call of duty franchise have developed a new type of first person shooter to the series, and 
 the game is simply stunning in every way. This game is about these two perspective sides, one character 
 fighting war in the middle east and the other at Russia. The campaign of this game is not as lengthy 
 as the other average 1st person shooters, but it still delivers lots of actions and has alot campaign 
 replay value. This game has four difficulty levels: recruit, intermediate, hardened, and veteran. 
 So in this case you will be practicing untill you beat this game on veteran. Now for the online 
 part. The online is the main reason why you should buy this game. It is exttremeley addicting, 
 to fight against your friends and others online in great looking enviroment and visuals. But that 
 isnt why it's addicting... the main reason is that you get ranked and as you rank, you unlock new 
 weapons, accessories, and gun camouflage. There are 11 prestige stages where so once you unlocked 
 every challenge and unlocked every gun, you would unlock prestige to start the whole thing over, 
 but in a much better rank. As you rank up you earn respect from people and that way people know 
 who they are really messing with.
  
  So i give this game a 10 / 10 due to the following.
  
  Graphics: 10 / 10 - Simply the best looking console fps game to date
  Sound: 10 / 10 - Amazing 
 realistic sounds will invite you to the real war.
  Value: 10 / 10 - A never ending, highly addicting online multiplayer and a really fun single player.
 
  Gameplay: 10 / 10: Very fast paced game that will amaze you with how much fun you can really have.
 
  
  Total 10 / 10, Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The most addicting game ever is Call of Duty 4.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is awesome. I like how you can call in airstrikes, helicopters 
 and throw different grenades.
  
  Graphics: The graphics make it feel like you are in a real war.
  
  Online Play: When you play 
 online it is so fun because there are many maps to play on and so many different game modes. When 
 you play you will die and you will kill people but whatever happens it will be alot of fun.
  
  Weapons: There are so many weapons in this game. You can choose from assualt rifles, sub machine 
 guns, light machine guns, shotguns, and snipers. There are also challenges for each weapon and 
 when you complete them you get experience points ( XP ) . You can also Create you're own Classes 
 where you pick guns and pistols and camouflage patterns. You can also add perks which can help 
 you when you play online. Eg. Gun ( G36C ) , Pistol ( Desert Eagle ) , with Perk 1 ( C4 x 2 ) , Perk 
 2 ( Juggernaut ) , Perk 3 ( Matyrdom ) .
  
  Call of Duty 4 is by far the best War Game out there and probably the best Game in the World.
 
  This Game is so fun that you could waste 100 Hours playing it and not get bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Meet Call Of Duty 4, the world's favorite online game, and considering it's now four months after 
 its initial release, that has to be saying something. It's constantly fast paced and intense, whilst 
 some multiplayer modes can slow things down considerably, allowing for a game which caters to most, 
 if not all, of the first person shooter gamers out there.
  
  So lets start with the history. Call of Duty 4 is developer Infinity Ward's third Call of Duty 
 game, having given last years title Call of Duty 3 to another developer. These two years of development 
 time have paid off for the team, allowing them to focus heavily on every aspect of Call of Duty 
 4.
  
  The single player portion of the game, in true COD style, has you switching from multiple characters 
 as they play their part in a global crisis erupting in Russia and the Middle East. Over the course 
 of the game this will allow you to spray hot lead in a multitude of locales, from the abandoned 
 farms of rural Russia, to the back alleys of a Middle Eastern slum. The story is mostly told through 
 mission briefing's at the beginning of each level and whilst the story has some depth to it, the 
 objectives are rarely more complex than "Get from A to B whilst raining hot death upon everyone 
 in your path" which sounds cheap, but in fact suites the game perfectly, considering the nature 
 of its gameplay. It's also important to note that COD4 had a fairly definative ending. There's 
 no "To be continued..." splashed across the credits which definitely makes me feel better about 
 the whole thing. 
  
  It's fair to say that although COD4's campaign is almost criminally short, spanning in at roughly 
 six hours there's never a dull moment to be had. Missions will usually involve your squad being 
 heavily outnumbered against seemingly hundreds of enemies, who will sometimes come at you from 
 behind just to keep you on your toes. At points in the game you may find yourself kept in one place 
 for too long, as enemies continually respawn, which, whilst intense, can feel like somewhat of 
 a lengthening ploy on the developers part. Whilst the intention may be for you to aggressively 
 push forward, thus allowing your squad to corner the enemy, less skilled players may often opt 
 to play it safe, as death can lead to a lengthy replay of certain sections. 
  
  It would be stupid of anyone to judge Call of Duty 4 on the merits of its single player alone. 
 Since much of its critical acclaim comes as a result of the polished multiplayer, it's no surprise 
 that it seems by far to be the result of the lions share of the development time. Players can choose 
 from a wide variety of online and offline game modes including Team Deathmatch, Headquarters (where 
 both teams rush to capture and defend a base against the other team) , Search and Destroy (both 
 teams rush to deploy a bomb and then to defend it) and Cage match (a one on one dual) . These game 
 modes offer a huge amount of variety, and whilst many will stick with the standard deathmatch types, 
 there is the option for many to go with more tactics based games. All modes run lag free, and getting 
 into any form of game is easy, one needs to simply select a game mode and wait for a match to be 
 found or created. Offline multiplayer works a treat as well, but can suffer frame rate hitches 
 when faces with multiple grenades and explosions. Whilst such events rarely occur, they're quite 
 noticeable when they do. 
  
  Call of Duty is an immense game which someone could quite easily lose moths to. The online ranking 
 system gives you incentive to keep playing, whilst a continuing player base ensures that even new 
 players won't feel too alienated at the bottom of the leaderboard. Call of Duty 4 is an essential 
 purchase for anyone remotely interested in first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadskull129
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. I've never seen a shooter like this before. This kills Halo or any other shooter like 
 Unreal Tournament. It's a must-have. This game has one of the most realistic graphics. The only 
 problem is that the Campaign mode is too short.... This game is definetly worth the money you spend 
 on it and you won't put it down for a pretty long time. The thing that could have made this game 
 better is fixing the Campaign mode and the feature for character cuztomization in Online Play. 
 This Game also has amazing online play with no lag at all. This game has also won alot of annual 
 awards. This game has one more problem... there are stupid people online that mess up your play... 
 some stupid nooblets who try to talk like gangsters and swear the whole time and the people who 
 leave there microphone switched on while listening to music. Other then that, PS3 rocks and X360 
 sucks balls. PS3, keep killing X360 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is known for its on-rails scripted experience, big booms and World War 
 II. As the subtitle suggests, part 4 in this popular franchise leaves the virtual WWII for what 
 it is, and does this with true perfection.
  
  When you start the singleplayer campaign, the first thing you do is playing a pretty dull tutorial, 
 which shows the basics of the CoD gameplay. At the end of it, the computer sets your recommended 
 difficulty level. After this, the actual campaign starts off...
  
  You find yourself in a British SAS chopper flying over the ocean, with an enormous amount of rain 
 falling down. In the distance you see a big ship. It's from the Russian Spetsnaz. Once you're on 
 the deck, everyone starts shooting through the windows. Five Russians are killed. We get inside, 
 go downstairs and infiltrate the ship. A lot of minutes and tons of dead soldiers later, the pilot 
 says over the radio: "Enemy helicopter inbound! They've opened fire! Get the hell out of there!" 
 What follows is one of the most intense moments ever in video game history. With a ship going almost 
 vertical, you're running for your life. At the end of the run, the helicopter's already flying 
 away. A jump follows. You almost fall off in the water, but a teammate saves you. Impressive.
 
  
  The rest of the singleplayer is old-fashion Call of Duty style: kill people and follow your teammates. 
 There are absolutely no tactics involved. There is no cover system either, what is a slight dissappointment. 
 Anyway, in the rest of the campaign you will either play with the SAS or the US Marines. There 
 is also a sniper level set in Chernobyl, which is a pretty neat experience considering you'll take 
 out a key guy sniping. It's very cool at first, but if you play it the second time it's exactly 
 the same as the first. Actually, this isn't that bad because the experience is so good.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the best part of the game. What makes this multiplayer so good, is 
 a combination of very well-balanced maps, weapons and perks, which are special abilities like Martyrdom, 
 which lets you drop a frag grenade when you're killed. There is also a perk called Bandolier, which 
 means that once equipped, you have extra ammunition magazines on your disposal. One of the most 
 original perks is Last Stand, which means that if you're almost dead and laying on the ground, 
 you'll pull out your pistol to take down any enemies nearby. The perks are one of the most important 
 things in combat.
  
  In CoD4's multiplayer, you've got over 15 different game types to play, like basic modes like Team 
 Deatchmatch, Free-for-all and Domination, but also more unique options like Search and Destroy 
 (one team has to plant a bomb, the other one needs to stop them, no respawns) and Sabotage (my 
 personal favorite, 1 bomb, 2 teams and the first team that successfully plants and detonates the 
 bomb on the enemy defend point wins)
  
  At maps CoD4 doesn't fail to deliver. The only map that's not that great, is Shipment, a far too 
 small map where there is an enemy on almost every corner. Especially in Domination, this is extremely 
 frustrating to be killed in almost every 10 seconds.
  
  In all, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best shooters you've ever played, and in multiplayer 
 you'll have more options than you could ever imagine. With a pretty fun console-exclusive option 
 called Prestige Mode (which allows you to do the multiplayer mode all again from Level 1 to 55) 
 this is a game that you could play for weeks, months or even years.
  
  Note: maybe you've heard, but Call of Duty 5 will be made by the studio that created the worst 
 CoD in the series (it's called Treyarch, they made CoD3) . It will return to WWII. Pretty lame.
 
  
  Erik van Klinken
  PSN Name: evklinken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jon289205
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 will NOT disappoint. The Single Player is quite short; about 5-8 hours long depending 
 on what difficulty you play it. But, the online Multi Player, detail of the landscapes, enemy and 
 friendly AI, and everything else seriously makes up for the shortage of Game Play.
  
  On Single Player, you play as an American Soldier, and a U. K. Soldier. You'll come across a variety 
 of landscape. From swampy wet lands in Russia, to hot desserts in the middle east, to even missile 
 launch sites near the Soviet Union!!
  
  The fact that the game finally moves away from the WWII perspective is GREAT!! The Modern Combat 
 feel makes it as though you're actually in the game!! Plus the incredible graphics and improved 
 AI make it an even better game.
  
  But in my opinion, the Multi Player HAS to be the best. There is little and unnoticeable lag in 
 Game Play, and the weapon customization, maps, and ranks make the game all worthwhile to play. 
 There is always some one new, so if you decide to pick up the game, your not alone!! The online 
 starts to be frustrating in the beginning, due to the fact that you don't get better weapons, perks, 
 etc. until about halfway in rank. the game could also have a character customization option, and 
 vehicles that you can drive should have been put in, but in the end, this game is still a must 
 have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyboycalling
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  What can i say!
  
  This game is amazing, i wish all call of duty games where modern and not WWII. This game has a 
 great campaign but it is a bit short, i would reccomend doing it on hard straight away, other wise 
 u will go straight through it in a day, or if your good at shooters do veteran!!! so much fun!!!!!1
 
  
  Great weapons, good accessories, great game!
  
  The next topic!
  
  ONLINE PLAY!
  
  OMFG! the best bit about the game! It is brilliant, sometimes it can have a bit of lagging 
 but apart from that it is the best online!!!! The upgrade ranking system is a great design. You 
 get XP for each match, which brings up ranks, this then gets higher ranks and better weapons!!! 
 Also if you do challenges like 75 kills with a weapon (e. g. p90) and 150 headshots or kill two 
 enemies while in the air! you get upgrades on the weapons like zooms camo...
  
  Perfect game just make a longer campaign and give it 10/10
  
  P. S as yuu coomplete campaign 
 u get arcade which is doing missions and getting points for the style of kills and stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendharpz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is just the best game ever released for the playstation 3. No future 
 Call of Duty game will match this game. It's a short campaign but it makes up for the shortness 
 of the campaign by filling each mission with loads of action. The online play is even better with 
 lots to do and many people to kill. The online has a great setup as it has plenty of guns and challenges 
 to level yourself up. I also like the fact that you get to start over again after you have completed 
 level 55 because it gives you a chance to show your worth. Some people don't like the fact that 
 you have to trade in all your weapons and challenges and all the other stuff you have just for 
 one little insignia. I like it because it would be just totally boring just keeping the same weapons 
 and not getting any further apart from leveling up. If they didn't make you trade in your weapons 
 then there would be no point in having 10 prestige modes. Also whoever scored this game as abysmal 
 on the chart should get a life because it will take a really good game to match this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  this game is a lllot better better better better better better better better than th e other call 
 of dutys games like the third one was really really really really really really kool butt thsi 
 one is a lot better better better b etter than the other ones the first one was pretty easy butt 
 this this one was a lot better tha n the other ones becAuse this is rated M and one level u get 
 to wear gule suits and you use sliented sniper rifle and if u get seen a bonch of dogs come out 
 and eat yr neck out adn then they run a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickstaff
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This the best fps ever to date because of flawless game play. The gun selection features some of 
 my favorites such as the m16, mp5, g36c, and m249 SAW. The AI in call of duty 4 is one of the smartest 
 Ai I've ever seen. But the thing that really makes call of duty 4 stand out is the awesome multiplayer 
 the frame rate amazingly dose not even drop from that beautiful 60 frames. All the custom options 
 in multiplayer is outstanding. I love how in call of duty 4 you can drop your pistol for a machine 
 that may not sound like a lot but, in a lot of war games you can only have one machine gun and 
 one pistol. And thats what makes this the best first person shooter to date. I would recommend 
 this game to any one that loves shooting games. And the best graphics I've seen in a war game. 
 Which is why I give call of duty 4 a hard earned 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game and is the best game ever. YOU NEED TO BUY THIS GAME! The graphics are 
 amazing and the attention they put into small gameplay and graphical details is amazing! You'll 
 spend a while just staring at how good the graphics are. Then the gameplay is even better. You 
 can shoot through walls and doors! It all ads up to the best experience ever! They need to make 
 more games like this one, but NO CLONES! I don't want to see a bunch of people copying this game, 
 just make more modern call of duty's. This game is unforgettable and will come to mind when you 
 think 2007 long after all the others are forgotten. I can't wait to see what the company has planned 
 next! It will be amazing. Well, there are also plenty of missions and 4 difficulties, so it will 
 keep you busy. Hope you like this game, I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Though the campaign is short, it is still tons of fun and packed with great production value. With 
 good AI and a non stop combat the campaign flies by but leaves a lasting impression. Great story 
 and highly immersive. 
  
  With that said, online is where it's at when you are done with the campaign. Infinity has done 
 an amazing job of creating an online experience more addictive than nicotine. With so many challenges 
 to complete and unlockables to obtain you wil easily have 40 hours into the online play before 
 completing everything, and then you can do it all over again if you feel like it with prestige 
 mode. The only negative thing I can say about the game is that the online functions like invite 
 a friend and chat don't always work well and it can be quite laggy at times due to P2P connection 
 and varying connection speeds, but you do learn to get past that. To me that is the only factor 
 that holds this game back from being a perfect 10. In short this is hands down one of the best 
 games ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke_21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Not a WWII gun game, Guns from modern day, Nice Story, Graphics
  
  The Bad
  Story Mode is to short
  
  The story kicks off with you doing some basic target shooting as 
 an SAS soilder named 'Soap' and then do a fun course called a FNG (my record is 31 seconds i think) . 
 Then you start doing some missions as 'Soap' and a US Marine Sgt Jackson. You go around killing 
 terrorists and to stop them taking over the world. You get to take out tanks and shoot planes down. 
 Another good thing is it is realistic (unless you do the easiest difficulty) and if you get shot 
 about 3 times you are Dead. The missions are fun and the story is well written.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Buildings look like Buildings with excellent detail, they really set 
 a new bar when it comes to Gun games. The first mission looks excellent and later in the game missiles 
 are launched off and that just looks spectacular.
  
  The guns are awesome. They are not the regular WWII guns and some double as 2 different guns. The 
 assault rifles have scopes, one assault rifle doubles as a grenade launcher. The grenades are useful 
 and one thing i liked was the ability to throw back a grenade chucked at you (if your fast enough) .
 
  
  Multi-Player is great fun (only done it once) , i lost heaps of times. I haven't got broadband so 
 i haven't had a chance to go online.
  
  All in all i liked this game and still play it (i don't usually play FPS, mainly into anime based 
 fighting games and RPG's) , it is well worth your time and money to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally a fps game not based on WW2, the CoD series comes to the PS3 and 360 with a new breed of 
 fps, Modern Warfare.
  
  In the game you'll play as 2 soldiers, a British SAS Soldier Called 'Soap' and a US Marine Colonel 
 called Paul Jackson.
  The game starts with a tutorial (which is suprisingly fun) through the eyes of the newly recruited 
 SAS soldier Soap. before long youll be assaulting buildings filled with terrorists, blowing up 
 tanks, sniping from building tops, infiltrating terrorist bases and fighting in all out gun battles 
 in the streets of the middle-east.
  
  Visually this game is great, the graphics are amazing, especially in the first mission where you 
 have to retrieve something from the boat, the rain the light the shadows the people, all look amazing.
 
  
  Sound wise there isnt really anything new, nice soundtrack realistic sound effects.
  
  Gameplay is great nice controls, campaign is a little short, i have heard the multiplayer makes 
 up for this, though i have not played multiplayer yet. 
  
  The icing on the cake is that the game is nicely realistic in how you cant just run out into the 
 open, guns blazing and kill 30 enemys with out a scratch on you, and other little things that make 
 the game more realistic are being able to throw a grenade back at the original thrower if you are 
 fast enough, or how on the long range sniper mission the bullets curve with the wind.
  
  All in all this is a great game, would recomend it to anyone who is a fps fan, or just needs a 
 great realistic game on their ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  i never bought any of the CoD series, but my friend had it and urged me to but it so i did. The 
 single player mode was great even though it was pretty short. But, what really got my attention 
 was the multiplayer. There are so many different types of gameplay and the free-for-all and team-deathmatch 
 are one of the best. I am so glad i bought this game. if anyone wants my psn its on my profile 
 and add me. (I only have one friend who has CoD 4 so i want more to talk to and and also to be 
 friends with please) The weapons in the game are really cool and my favorites are the dragunov 
 sniper and the m16a4 assault rifle. The graphics are just amazing and the landscape is incredible. 
 This game is highly addictive. Once I started playing multiplayer I could not stop. It is one of 
 the best multiplayer games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aqueousphoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Talk about the greatest modern wargame of all time. This game is the real modern combat game you've 
 been waiting for. Forget about shields, sword, or sci-fi; this is a full-on tactical warfare game 
 employing the use of real life modern weapons. It features a great storyline, in which you take 
 control of US and European troops. As for multiplayer options this game comes loaded with great 
 assault levels in which you will feel the alarming sense of a real life battle situation. If you 
 needed a reason to buy a PS3 then this game is it. If you don't have a PS3 to play this game in 
 or any other nex-gen console. Follow this link for an offer you shouldn't ignore. Link: http://gaming. free4every1. com/index. php? referral=3211 
 Just follow the instructions on the website, refer some info and they will send you whatever prize 
 you want from their offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Well this is one of the games that i just cant stop playing right now me and my clan are playing 
 in mlg and this game will keep you busy for a really long time i thought i was addicted to rainbow 
 six vegas 1st well shoot this is nothing like other games you have to play it there is not much 
 glitching to it and it gets patched there is no lag on internet well there was once when all servers 
 crashed but got patched over so now its good and the guns are real but the game play online is 
 like you waste a full clip to kill a guy and yet he prob still not going to die so i recomend to 
 play hardcore team death matches because its a 1 shot 1 kill no metter what the other thing tho 
 they made 50 cal sniper rifle very weak and less accurate then it is in RL trust me i serve in 
 sniper division so i know that and other sniper rifles are more powerful then 50cal oh give me 
 a break but its just little stuff that will make you forget about it once you get into the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abshakies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  When i first played COD4 i noticed that you jump in straight in the action... after that you witness 
 your **Spoiler start ** execution : (.... ** Spoiler end **. you can finish the game in the same 
 day (if you have nothing else to do the whole day) .
  my favorite parts were when you are on the AC- 130 Plane shooting hostiles (like in the transformers 
 movie, a giant plant flying around with its big machine gun shooting the scorpion called scorpinok) 
 and being a snipper assassin in the 1990's. the cheats... These cheats are great because you have 
 to work for them, because they are not a series of strokes in stead you have to find hidden Intel 
 pieces through out the game ( 30 to be exact) the more you find the more cheats you have access 
 to.
  
  But the real fun is after i finished the game. (and after the extra bonus on the end of the credits) 
 is the Multi player game. there you have to gain EXP so you can get promoted, and the higher you 
 get promoted the more weapons features you get (as well as perks) it is worth it because you eliminate 
 beginners in difficult levels, and also learn how develop team work. (though the only annoying 
 thing is that you cant shut certain people up in the multi player game, though i read that the 
 developers will send a patch to fix them up very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burnout_Avenged
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was Activision's and Infinity Ward's step back from the repetitive 
 Second World War First Person Shooter. As you can guess from the title, it isn't a Second World 
 War First Person Shooter. It's a Modern First Person Shooter. Judging from the fact it's modern, 
 the chances are, you'll be fighting either Russians, Arabs or both. In this game, it's the latter. 
 You start the game off as an SAS recruit called Soap. Him and his regiment must fight their way 
 through Russia in order to stop a potential nuclear war. *Yawn*. This seems to be what any other 
 modern shooter is about, but Call of Duty 4 does it very well. The other side of the game is controlled 
 by a US Marine operative who fights somewhere in the Middle East. You don't really get to play 
 much of him, which is a real shame because he seems like the only character in the game who shows 
 any bit of style. The SAS are reasonably stylish, but your captain's 70's "handlebars" moustache 
 makes him look like a ****. The rest of the team are then downgraded to a bunch of posh weirdos. 
 The single player campaign is a little short, but the quality is amazing. There's always something 
 to do. Either finding Intel pieces to unlock special cheats or using the cheats or just trying 
 to finish the game. The online play is amazing too. It's a level/ exp based game, which includes 
 many different game modes. From the classic Team Deathmatch to Search & Destroy. You can unlock 
 weapons and perks etc, but these can either be a good thing or a bad. It makes the game more competitive, 
 but it can also make it a bit unfair on the lower level guys.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  Graphics- 9
  Sound- 9
  Value- 8
  Tilt- 9
  
  Overall- 9.5 because I don't like giving 
 full 10s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  All around awesome.
  
  One of the funniest things about it is that it can look better in slow-mo after you unlock the 
 cheat. The particle effects are stunning even at a slower speed.
  
  Arcade mode is fun, but nothing beats multiplayer.
  
  Everything that needs to be said about 
 the game has, already.
  
  The only thing I miss is more of a cover mechanic.
  
  But they put you in a few refreshing situations as far as FPSs go. 
  One of the first to actually 
 make you care about or ponder warfare and all the implications surrounding it. From being tied 
 up and publicly 'punished' to being a bit too near a very large explosion, to going on a sniping 
 mission deep inside enemy territory.
  
  Lots of games are being called 'cinematic' experiences nowadays. Heavenly Sword, Uncharted...
 
  
  COD4 has its own elements of cinema within it as well, and that's worth noting. It's obvious the 
 developers put their hearts and souls into this one.
  
  9.5!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I hate that I even picked up COD4, why you may ask? Because I will never be able to enjoy another 
 FPS unless some how they find out the Activision Formula! This game not only showcases the Next 
 Gen console but gives the rest of the FPS genre a Black eye at the same time. Never have I had 
 a game that had the visuals a sweet controls as this one. The pace of this game is "Frantic" and 
 it grabs you by the balls and never lets go!!!! From the start of this one you are Hooked, even 
 the tutorial missions are sweet, now thats a first for me. 
  The only bad thing about this game is "That it ends". And yeah the end does come quicker than your 
 average shooter but this does not take away from the greatness of this Masterpiece. If you have 
 not played this than you are still in the dark and have not seen what real game developers can 
 do. I just hope that all companies take a page out of iInfinity ward and Activisions book and try 
 there best to image this game, if not I probably will never enjoy another FPS again.
  COD4 is the best looking and playing game made to date...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacadekrazy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  For the most part in this game the two versions of the game (360 & PS3) are the same. The lighting 
 in the 360 version is slightly better. The 360 version allows you to review your friends leaderboard 
 as where the PS3 only allows you to see the friends that are online. Like in most games with the 
 360 you can see what game mode and map your friend is playing before joining their room. You can 
 only join a friends room on the PS3 version if you are invited. In order to add a new friend on 
 the PS3 you have to go to the dashboard out of the game to do it. On the 360 this can be done anytime 
 even in game. Communication is more reliable with cable headset with any game so vintage 360 not 
 having to use bluetooth. The game is good in the campaign versus the other call of dutys as it 
 doesnt feel like a run and gun anymore. The game is sold by the online multiplayer though. The 
 multiplayer has been revamped for the better with a new leveling system that is similar to games 
 in the role playing genre. Its a unique game that runs very smooth while looking amazing online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coa17ch
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  What else is there to say? Activision and Infinity Ward have come up with a real winner. The forth 
 installment of the Call of Duty series blows the competition out of the water. The graphics are 
 excellent and the game play is great. The controls are easy to use and to tell you the truth, I 
 found it to be very addictive. The one part that had me hooked the most is the online play. The 
 fact that you have many different maps to play in, and the selection of different game types is 
 fantastic. I love the fact that you can call in air strikes and also call on helicopters as well. 
 Unfortunately, there are a couple of downsides to the game. The first being that every once in 
 a while it can be difficult to connect to your clan or to friends. Another is that if you are already 
 in a game and the host decides to leave, sometimes you cannot reconnect to your party. It looks 
 like you are still there but after about 15 to 20 seconds it says that the party is no longer active. 
 If you can handle the few extra seconds it takes to reconnect to your party you are going to love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdogtim7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding & with awesome Graphics. They definately kicked it up a notch with COD 
 4 on PS3. I Love it so much that I bought a 2nd copy for my 2nd PS3. My Boys and I play Online 
 together and can Strategize as though we are in the woodsz playing Paintball.
  
  I have never played On-Line game play before mainly because of the addictive behavior that usually 
 results, but am now into it because of this game & the fact that it is pretty easy to turn off 
 considering each match is timed and has a 750 point limit in Team Deathmatch.. 
  
  The Play and graphics are so Realistic!!! You actually die quickly if not cautious, but this is 
 how war really is. However, if you have an on-line team & Headsets then you can far really well 
 unless your up against a similar yet supeior team.
  
  This game can be addictive, but its not hard to time yourself and shut it down. I can't see myself 
 ever getting bored with this game. You even go thru a career and achieve perks as you finish challanges. 
 Only thing I really hate is when someone comes up and knife's me. I am currently a Master Sargent 
 Level 15.
  
  Rated a 10. Absolutely the Best game I have ever played. Reminds me of my love for the N64 Perfect 
 Dark game and the PS2 original GHOST Recon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddlydoh400
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Although the campaign mode is not extremely long, it still provides an enjoyable experience and 
 makes sure to highlight all of the new aspects of the game. The story mode also throws in a few 
 twists and turns similar to the previous games in the series, which adds more excitement to the 
 plot. But once the single player game ends, the in depth multiplayer lays out a whole new world 
 to explore.
  
  At ground zero of the multiplayer setting, you are giving several choices of class to choose from 
 as well as a ranking of private. As you play more and progress though the levels, more weapons 
 and perks are unlocked. These range from M14 rifles to UAV jammers. Even though the levels seem 
 to go fairly quick, there are always challenges that need to be completed and once you reach level 
 55, prestige mode is unlocked. This allows you to repeat the same 55 levels again, but with a new 
 symbol.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is great addicting game that intertwines single and multiplayer action 
 into a fun and extremely entertaining atmosphere. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat, I mean, really, what else can be said? This is easily one of the 
 best FPS games of last year, one of the best FPS games ever, and a new high water mark for the 
 genre.
  
  COD4 takes a detour from the other games within the franchise by forgoing the WWII setting, and 
 placing this game in the present day. A modern day Middle Eastern conflict that has international 
 players including U. S. Marines, British SAS, and Middle Eastern (and Russian) terrorists. Modern 
 conflicts, modern enemies, and modern... warfare. The core gameplay mechanics may be essentially 
 the same as other games in the franchise, but the new coat of paint is a very welcome edition, 
 and gives the franchise the kind of freshness and recharge that a game like Resident Evil 4 did 
 for that franchise.
  
  The graphics truly are the stuff of "next-gen", a term I really hate, but within the last 6 months 
 I've actually started to see games that appear to be walking the walking, and COD4 is one of those 
 games. It doesn't really become clear until you finish the campaign and play a few rounds online, 
 but the varying degrees of locales really impresses upon the player. You have a freighter level, 
 suburban and city dessert levels, Russian countryside levels, and a few surprise levels along the 
 way. Adding in little things like awesome weather effects, lighting filters, and convincing camera 
 reactions and motions only add to the top shelf graphical presentation. The audio is also top of 
 the line, with some really excellent surround sound work going on. There's a point where *very 
 small spoiler* a nuclear weapon explodes, and the audio that poured out of my home stereo was enough 
 to (from where I come from) "make your butt pucker". The voice acting gets high marks too, especially 
 when people are reacting to the chaos of a battlefield. I don't think that actually being in some 
 of the game situations would sound much, if at all different.
  
  As for what I consider to be COD4's highest achievement, it has to be the overall storyline of 
 its single player campaign. I can't really delve into it too deeply without completely ruining 
 it (and I won't) , but let's just say that if you've really been waiting for someone to make a game 
 that reflects what you've always wanted to see in a Tom Clancy game, then COD4 is that game, but 
 without the Tom Clancy name stamped on it. It is so expertly paced that it absolutely will surprise 
 you at almost every turn. From an event that happens early on in the game, to the final few levels, 
 this game's story kept me engrossed and actually involved with its characters from the beginning 
 until its surprise ending. The single player campaign is also (by standards) a pretty short affair 
 and something that I finished in about six hours. This is by no means a bad thing though because 
 I think that if it were much longer, or filled with fluff, a lot of the tension in the storyline 
 would have started to lose its strength. After finishing the game all I could think was, "man I 
 wished Infinity Ward had made the 24 video game". It feels just like playing a season of 24... a 
 good season of 24, that is... Season 5. :)
  
  COD4 also has an online portion that is no slouch either. To join in a random game, now, would 
 probably be the video game equivalent to sticking your hand in a meat grinder, but if you have 
 a solid group of online friends, and they all have a copy of COD4, then this game could truly become 
 the only game you need in your library. It has the basic game types like Death Match and Team Death 
 Match, but COD4 throws in a very RPG-like leveling systems which allows the player to upgrade their 
 load outs. It seems like a small detail, but leveling up does one very important thing, it makes 
 you never want to stop playing. Always wondering what the next "level up" might reward you with 
 is a great incentive to keep running and gunning. As long as you have that solid set of online 
 buddies, then COD4 should without a doubt be your weapon of choice.
  
  At the end of the day, when I try and think about specific things I want to point out as pluses 
 for Call of Duty 4, I simply want to say "everything". The graphics, mechanics, sound, storyline, 
 and online features are all near perfect. When all is said and done the game ultimately doesn't 
 seem to stand out as anything truly original, but it is a game that has been distilled and filtered 
 into the perfect essence of the genre. It's a real touchstone for the industry, and is something 
 EVERY fan of FPSes should absolutely check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I have only played a few scattered single player missions and I had a great time. I can tell you 
 that the single player is worth the buy alone. The multiplayer split screen was great fun also, 
 verry well done and thought out. But like they say, It's true value lies in the online multiplayer. 
 It's design was well thought out and the leveling system perks are a great added bonus, and the 
 kill streak system is great, who doesn't love calling in air strikes or trigger happy helicopter. 
 Unlocking new weapons and attachment's, designing your own custom class to get the edge on your 
 opponent with your own specialized class that fit's you makes this a great online experience. This 
 game will likely lead future FPS games to new heights and levels on online play. I've had a great 
 time playing this game and can't wait till I get a PS3 so I can buy it and write an actual justifying 
 review for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saws7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game in every way is through the roof. The Graphics, AI, sound, detail, fun level, realness, story, leveling 
 system, accuracy, fast, and multiplayer is awesome! This is probably the best or close to the best 
 FPS ever. The story is thrown in modern warfare and made it seem like you were there from the assaination 
 to the sniper mission to the nuclear blast, two words Real Fun! The Xbox version has a little better 
 graphics like on multiplayer you can see the rain rolling off the Crates and on the ps3 you cant 
 but the graphics on the ps3 are still very nice. This is a must have on Pc,360, or PS3 I have played 
 all three versions and they are all basically the same all A++++ I have played all of the Call 
 of Duty games and have to say this is the best of the franchise! I give this game a perfect 10 
 Infinity Ward knows what they are doing thats for sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudgeman7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  OK lets start with the good stuff: Everything! the graphics are awesome, the gameplay is awesome, 
 the online play is the best ever and the story is amazing! The amount of guns you can use online 
 is amazing, as well as the challenges and perks as well. this makes basically everyone more or 
 less unique in every game, which is awesome
  
  The only bad thing about this game is the short story. But i don't really care about this, as the 
 online play actaully rocks my world! :D
  
  I will be playing this game for years to come.
  
  This game has quite a few glitches and stuff, 
 but they are fun to find IMO and sometimes they can be fairly amusing.
  
  I could play the online play for ever! its so good!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i love it so much. Everyone 
 buy this game! BUY IT! please for your sake. you will love this game.... you must.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oman2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  one of the best games ever....
  every one who own a ps3 should go now and buy a copy....
  even the people who dont own a ps3 or xbox360 or pc they must consider buying one without and hesitation 
 because this game is available....
  the one player camping is fair and it is really short...
  however on-line playing is addictive... 
 and i am serious about it....
  everyone will have a lot of fun....
  there are a variety of weapons and perks to use & u will be amazed with the different stages that 
 you can play either on on-line or offline ....
  the games offer alot of stages to play in it ... some are really big and have alot of stuff in.. 
 and some are really small that it will be easy for small number of players to play in it...
  one of the best things ... is that you can play up to 17 other players... cool
  you wont regret 
 buying a copy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I put off playing this game for a long time cause I thought they betrayed the call of duty franchise... I 
 also figured it had to control different seeing as how newer weapons are completely different.. Oh 
 how wrong I was!
  
  
  This is 100% C. O. D. the controls feel right at home, The levels are designed perfect, and did I 
 mention how good it looks? Well it does look good, just go watch a video or somethin if you aint 
 on the bandwagon yet!
  
  
  I only kick myself now because i held out for so long, But I do warn the campaign is one of those 
 games leaves you craving more, I made it to the end like I dont want it to end! So my only issue 
 is that its too short but I guess they had to leave room to expand on the modern franchise... and 
 I say that because I honestly think thats whats going to happen, judging by how well received this 
 game was in the end.
  
  
  My advice if you dont have this game than get it... if youre a fan of C. O. D. youll love it... if 
 youre not a fan of WWII shooters this is what youve been missing on the C. O. D. front. And if you 
 dont have a PS3 yet than make sure this is on your first games list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacificjohn
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I had never played Call of Duty prior to this, with the exception of one of those game kiosks they 
 have in the stores (that experience wasn't that great but that's taking away from the story) . I 
 am wishing that I could have played this one sooner! The people at Infinity Ward did their homework 
 to put this title way above par. The online is addicting and the game off-line (for those who have 
 played it off-line at all) is brutal without being painful. The online version is very diverse 
 with about two dozen different games to play, with about a dozen of those team-based games. The 
 only caveat that I personally have is I wish that they had a straight-forward Capture the Flag 
 type game rather than the Domination (where you capture 3 flags and get points for simply holding 
 any one of the three) . Other than that, online is a blast. See you in Free-For-All! I'll be the 
 soldier knifing you in the back and running before you ever saw me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_boss4life
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Well i got this game when it first came out, i played it eversince and its awesome the online that 
 is....
  I have 5 days and 3 hours on multiplayer but i still havent finish the Single player, why?
  Because 
 the single player SUCKS!!!!! No AI, its way too short, and with only one good mission ( the sniper 
 one) thats it... all you do in the sp campaing is good forward and shot everybody who is not on 
 yourside... the enemies will shot you back until they kill you..
  well if you love online fps you gotta get this game, but if you are not a fan of online then get 
 as far away from this game as possible
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobmb10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Ok i have just got cod 4 and i have got to say it is pretty amazing. Despite this is the first 
 cod game i have had it is possible that it is my favorite army game yet. the graphics are top notch 
 the war zone is realistic blood everywhere. now what i like most is the gameplay oh god this has 
 just got to be the best gameplay ever the soliders react propley the game has the right feel to 
 make it look like you are actully the solider.
  
  Now the campain mode might be short but it is sweet but it is not the shortest game ive played. 
 the story in campain mode is fun and has got a interesting story to make you wanting to play on 
 to find out what is going to happen if you have finished campain there is allways these pieces 
 of intel to find back in the campain mode and if you have completed the campain mode anyway you 
 do unlock a selection called arcade mode.
  
  When you have completed the game fully there is allways the fun online mode to keep you going for 
 as long as you like.
  
  this is a great game and so i give it 9.5/10!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsquaredcc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Once There was Atari.... NOW CALL OF DUTY 4: MODERN WARFARE... The Revolution of Gaming and Entertainent.... Absolutely 
 the greatest 1st person shooter made yet.... 9.5 for Great Graphics, for Amazing Gameplay, and 
 for Awesome Storyline... No first person shooters compare to this game!... This is the turning 
 point in not only shooters, but in the gaming society, and this game deserves all of the hype, 
 flash, and substance you could want in a game, and more.... An Absolute instant Classic.... It is 
 almost like you are there the graphics are so AMAZING.... Best Game Yet in the Call Of Duty series.... 
 This is a great game if you like to play shooters.... Great In depth Story on the war on Terrorism.... 
 After the happening in 2001 this game basically wrote itself.... Again it deserves all of the hype 
 it has been receiving..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodges_3_5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing! The graphics were just spectaculor.! Everything looked perfect and silky. 
 This game had a pretty good campaign, it could've been a lot longer but the end was awesome and 
 different from the rest. The action and gameplay is spectaculor. Nonstop action and perfect shooting, 
 aiming and the enviroment.
  Now, the best part! MULTIPLAYER!!!!! The multiplayer is the greatest ever! You start out as a low-life 
 who it seems as if everyone kills you a thousand times. But, as you gain some kills, you get better 
 guns and perks. The satisfaction of getting better guns and raising your rank feels great! You 
 can change guns, perks suck as mardor, which drops a live grenade every time you die, which adds 
 kills. You can even pick your scope, it is so open. Its perfect
  Here are my ratings for a great game!
  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-10
  Soundtrack-8.5
  2-player 
 Action-9
  Online Multiplayer-10!
  
  A perfect 10!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  After waiting eagerly for this game to come out, I held my collective money and breath into renting 
 this first "just to make sure." After reading the Gerstmann (sigh) penned review, I really didn't 
 think the single player game could be as short as he made out. But after killing the bad guys and 
 saving the day was done, I could concur with his original findings; that sucker is incredibly short. 
 After a prolonged lunch break (about three hours) I was able to beat the game on the normal difficulty 
 setting, albeit dying several times in the process. Thankfully the multiplayer graciously extended 
 my time with the game to a considerable degree (I have now bought the game and am playing it at 
 least twice a week) Not bad for replayability huh? Other things to note are the gorgeous graphics 
 that are very fluid and rarely chop even during intense firefights. I personally bought the PS3 
 edition and have to say that it is identical to the 360 version. In the gameplay dept., there are 
 scripted moments in the campaign that really give you a sense of combat; this game really feels 
 like you are fighting alongside your buddies against the non-do gooders. Chaos and sheer adrenaline 
 are to best describe some of the intense firefights that occur in the game. And there are moments 
 that you sit back and say, "That was crazy!" Without ruining the game too much there are "realistic" 
 moments in the game that remind you that this game really is trying to give the player a sense 
 of the harshness of the real world in that the good guys don't always win and war does have a cost. 
 But because of this, the game delivers on giving you realistic weapons and feel. Shooting a AK-47 
 feels more powerful than an MP-5 and so forth. But where this game really shines is the multiplayer. 
 Once you enter into the online part of the game, you are given a rank, this is very important because 
 it regulates what perks, weapons and options you have available to you. As you increase in rank, 
 these do so accordingly, without making the gameplay unfair to the point that a level 1 player 
 cannot stand a chance against a level 32 player. Some of the perks are extra ammo, extra health, 
 dropping a live grenade when you are dead, etc. Your success is still based on your abilities, 
 although the extra stuff definitely augments your skill as a soldier. Overall the game I believe 
 is the best FPS to come out this generation, possibly ever. With the endless replayability and 
 customization options you really are left with a remarkable experience that is something to talk 
 about at the water cooler the next day at work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward have finally abandoned the World War II setting that the series is known for, and 
 gone into the 21st century with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. While the campaign is criminally 
 short, the quality of that campaign combined with an addictive multiplayer plus some really slick 
 visuals make Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare the best first-person-shooter of 2007.
  
  Even though the campaign is short, the game covers a lot of ground in the 5-7 hours it will take 
 you to complete the game, depending on the difficulty level you're playing on. The game tells a 
 story of two soldiers: A British SAS that goes by the name of 'Soap' McTavish and a US colonel 
 called Paul Jackson. You start the game out in the eyes of 'Soap' McTavish by following a basic 
 tutorial that explains the controls. 
  
  Once you have completed the tutorial, you embark on your first mission that's set in the Bering 
 Strait where you have to infiltrate a ship that's supposed to be carrying nuclear warheads, and 
 it's up to you and your squad to save the world. This first mission alone features plenty of breathtaking 
 moments which, for story purposes, won't be explained here since it's a sight you have to see with 
 your own eyes to truly appreciate. Call of Duty 4 manages to keep one-upping itself with these 
 breathtaking scenarios, and it never, brings down the pace, save for a mission where you have to 
 go on a sniping mission, that, as slow as it is, manages to be a huge compliment to the action 
 in the other missions. 
  
  Don't let the name "Modern Warfare" fool you, Call of Duty 4 plays almost exactly like its World 
 War II counterparts. You have a compass at the bottom of the screen that tells you where you have 
 to go, but getting to that position is easier said than done, as enemies will do a pretty good 
 job of making you look like Swiss cheese, even on the lower difficulties, if you don't keep your 
 head down. You still have the aiming mode, where you have to look down the sights for increased 
 accuracy and by still having that, Call of Duty 4 manages to be more tactical than it might look. 
 Especially on the harder difficulties.
  
  
  Once you complete the singleplayer campaign, there's a great multiplayer component to sink your 
 teeth in. Up to 18 players can play online on the 360 and PS3 versions on 16 different maps. All 
 of the maps are wonderfully balanced, and they are a real joy to play on. A lot of the maps are 
 taken directly from the singleplayer campaign, with a few alterations to make it equally enjoyable 
 for all types of players, of course. There are six modes to choose from, ranging from the standard 
 Team Deathmatch to a Counter-Strike like mode called Search and Destroy, where one of the players 
 on your team has to plant a bomb somewhere on the map, and the other team has to locate and disarm 
 it. There are also "Hardcore" versions of the modes where there isn't a map, and you take more 
 damage from gunfire. All weapons and perks are also stuff you have to pick up in the "Hardcore" 
 versions of the modes.
  
  The thing that makes the multiplayer so addicting, is the inclusion of experience points. You get 
 experience points for killing a guy, calling in a UAV, which is a radar that shows your enemies 
 positions on the map, calling in an airstrike, calling in a helicopter or completing weapon challenges. 
 The way you can call in a UAV is by killing three guys. You can call in an airstrike by killing 
 five guys, which is especially deadly if it's combined with a UAV. If you manage to kill seven 
 guys in a row, you get to call in a helicopter which is really handy if your team is behind on 
 points. The other team can shoot the chopper down though, if one of the players has a rocket launcher. 
 It's also possible to take it down with conventional gunfire, but that takes a long time and you 
 will most likely be dead before you shoot them down. These advantages keep the multiplayer fresh 
 and exciting. The experience points you gather by doing these actions level up your character, 
 which gives you better weapons and new weapon challenges, which are all pretty basic "kill a set 
 number of dudes" challenges, but they give you an incentive to try out new weapons, instead of 
 relying on the same weapon all the time. 
  
  Perks are also a new addition to the Call of Duty franchise. The perks are upgrades, if you can 
 call them that, to your character. Some of them make you sprint longer and some can make you reload 
 faster. One of the perks is particularly interesting: It's called "Last Stand" and what it does 
 is that if you get killed, you get to pull out your pistol and try to kill the guy who shot you. 
 If you manage to kill him before you die, you get double the experience points you would normally 
 get. It's a neat little perk that can bite your opponent in the ass if he's not careful.
  
  Once you get to level 4 in the online mode, which is pretty easy, you get to create your own cIass. 
 This is where the fun of gaining perks begins: When you level up, you'll be treated with some new 
 perks although it's not every time you increase your level you get new perks. You can customize 
 up to six cIasses, and it really comes down to you how you want to play. There's a big selection 
 of weapons and perks you can use, and the fact that you want to keep unlocking them, is one of 
 the major plusses with the online.
  
  Once you get to level 55 in the online mode, you have a choice: Keep playing? Or unlock Prestige 
 Mode? Prestige mode resets you back to level 1 again, but every time you level up, you get a different 
 badge than the others to gloat. You can play through Prestige Mode four times before you have to 
 stop at level 55. 
  
  Visually, Call of Duty 4 is outstanding. It features sharp textures, solid animations and just 
 sucks you into these war-torn villages by really portraying some life-like graphics. The lighting 
 is a great contributor to this. You'll especially see it in the first mission where one of your 
 squad members smokes a cigar. It looks appropriately real and is really the icing on the cake to 
 an already great-looking game.
  
  Audio-wise, Call of Duty 4 doesn't really bring anything new to the table: It features the traditional 
 movie-like soundtrack when the action picks up, and is appropriately moody when you're sneaking 
 around. The game does feature a rap over the end credits that's hilarious if you pay attention 
 to the lyrics. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare might look like your average first-person-shooter, but a thought-provoking 
 story, short, but sweet single-player and a fantastic multiplayer suite all add up to make it the 
 best first-person-shooter of 2007.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada_konke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  If the single campaign was longer I would have given it 10/10. There are many parts of the game 
 that make you wonder. Some missions even touch you emotionally and I must admit I almost burst 
 in tears in two missions. If you have a dream of joining the Army for whatever reason, play this 
 game and I'm sure you will reconsider. This is the 1st ever real-time game I've ever played that 
 gives one a reality check. I just played this game lately after I heard it got the GPA'07 award 
 for best game of the year. This is one of the few games that is banned by the Govt. in my country 
 (UAE) , but I got it imported through my channels. I know why they banned it, because of its Brutal 
 content and offensive scenes. I wish they come out with a prequel sooner or later. Maybe CoD5: should 
 be The War in Vietnam or Guantanamo Bay gets freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLA-ZERO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  It has amazing graphics, its easy to learn, and it takes place in our time, unlike the previos 
 call of dutys. The only really bad thing is that the game is mad short. i finished the game in 
 3 days playing like 2 hours each time i played. But otherwise its an amazing first-person shooter. 
 and the online play makes everything better, way better. i played online for five minutes and was 
 shocked by how good and fun it was. and multiplayer is just as fun and cool. some people may think 
 that it may be copying the Halo series, cuz i've seen some things like it in the game, but overall 
 i say this is one of my favorite games, and it got 40+ awards, now thats amazing. i would recommend 
 this game to anybody who wants a great game, for the freakin' 60 bucks that its worth. thanks for 
 reading........ peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardMurphy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  As I took my first tentative steps into the world of online multi-player, I feel I have made a 
 huge error by selecting this game as I began to realise that I'll be hard pushed to find another 
 shooter that's as fun and as well balanced as this. The worry I had about not being very good against 
 human opponents faded as my skills improved and I sneaked up the leader table. It is the verity 
 of the situations and weapon classes that eased me into the killing rhythm needed to have any chance 
 of succeeding at the game. This is by far the hardest thing to get right in a multiplier game. 
 Ensuring that new starters and veterans have a balanced playing field leads to the natural conclusion 
 of a players skill and knowledge of their weapon and level are the only things that separate the 
 good from the bad. This makes playing Call Of Duty IV not only fun, but very rewarding!
  
  Each weapon falls into one of five classes. These classes are mainly determined by one thing; 'how 
 far you want to be from the enemy when you shoot him in the face'. Taking one of the long distance 
 classes on a close quarters location is suicide, as is taking a short range sub-machine gun to 
 an open plan location. You learn this quickly. You may think this is going to channel weapon selection 
 to fit the area. This is not so. Each weapon in it's class has plus and minus effects to your overall 
 character statistics. Taking a Light machine gun to battle will slow you down more than an M16 
 but your rate of fire is vastly improved. This will favour those who prefer to get dug in deep 
 and pick enemies off from a distance as opposed to those who prefer to see the whites of their 
 enemy's eyes before pulling the trigger. Each weapon in the class has advantages and disadvantages 
 as well over its counterparts also. Its not until you use the weapon for extended amounts of time 
 before its full benefits have been exploited. Although there is not an extensive weapon catalogue, 
 the weapons that are on display are by far enough for every possible scenario and situation. Further 
 to finding your preferred weapon and class, you can customise your gun to how you see fit. A number 
 of unlock-able extras are available for each gun. Interestingly the final addition is not always 
 the best for that weapon, again it's all about personal preference, and that's what helps make 
 this game so enjoyable.
  
  Having created your perfect killing machine with a verity of add-ons and perks (and a natty new 
 paint job) , you can save it to one of five personal profiles, along with your favourite choice 
 of explosives and side-arm, (having a Golden Desert Eagle is bound to bring the warlord out of 
 anyone) . This aids quick selection mid-battle if your Skorpion isn't quite working out as you'd 
 expected. This leads me to the levels in which to try out your shiny new firearm. As I have already 
 pointed out, the areas are basically broken down by their proximity, size and range. Some of the 
 more open plan levels have intricate sections in which a sniper rifle would be useless and the 
 tighter areas will inevitably have a platform from which any amateur sniper can pop a few melons. 
 This aside, most levels have a preferred class of weapon that works well within it. Some levels 
 (Bloc) see everyone take the sniper rifle for a run and a breathless slow moving sniper hunt ensues. 
 In other levels (Vacant) your proximity to the enemy is so close the most preferred weapon is your 
 combat knife. This leads to quick paced on your toes action where stopping for a second means certain 
 death. These levels are great because they know what they are and so do the players. However it's 
 the mid ranged levels where the fun is really had. Because these levels have no definite class, 
 user preference is king. Some players will don the shotgun and punch though enemy lines racking 
 up crazy kill numbers and a reputation for being a blood thirst mad-man. Whilst other equip themselves 
 with a single shot rifle and a bucket load of patience and just wait
  
  One addition I did not expect from this game was an experience point and levelling up system. This 
 has proved itself to be a fairly important factor in the 'just one more go' effect the multi-player 
 has over people. A new weapon or perk is always just a few levels away. This has led some late 
 nights and early mornings trying to get your new favourite weapon. 
  
  So an incredibly well balanced online multi-player and an RPG style levelling up system, it will 
 come as no surprise that this is where the majority of my playtime has been spent! Does this mean 
 the single player campaign has suffered? No! Categorically not, in fact. The single player is one 
 of the finest examples of the horror of combat and war I've ever seen in a videogame! Although 
 short, the campaign is perfectly paced and shows two very different aspects of modern warfare; 
 small squad tactical strikes and large-scale urban firefights. These are broken up with short, 
 almost sub-missions, which usually involve sitting behind a huge gun emplacement and shooting anything 
 that moves. As with the multi player, the single player campaign is remarkably well researched 
 and alarmingly realistic in it's approach. The story which runs through the single player missions 
 is enough to make you want to get to the conclusion of the campaign, however, as the whole game 
 can be finished in under ten hours, you rarely need an excuse to play it from start to finish in 
 a day. 
  
  All in all Call of Duty IV is clearly one of the finest first person shooting games out there. 
 With tonnes to unlock in a magnificent online mode and the sheer and utter indulgence of the single 
 player campaign it really is hard to see why you need another game ever again. The only ever complaint 
 I could have about it is it's lack of any form of originality in the design, but that would not 
 be fitting to the context of the game. Hardly a criticism at all! Superb. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasra_showan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  man to omram bazi be in ghashangi bazi nakardehbodam
  harf nadareh
  kheli hal mideh man dar roz ageh 4 sate bishtar bazi nakonam aslan rozam rooz nist
  ba bache 
 ha mikhaim berim gameh net va koli bazi konim
  man ta hala 3 bar bazi kardam
  va ta akhareshbazi kardam
  ghesmateh terorist huanteshharf nadareh
  kheli bahaleh
  kholaseh 
 pishnahad mikonam berin bekharin va hatman bazi konid
  az dasteton mireh
  om ram, om-ram, omr am, omr-am, imam, Miriam, Abram, Avram, Mariam, Myriam, Moran, Mora, Omar, 
 Oman, Oran, overarm, pram, Amara, Emera, Omero, Ora, RAM, Ram, moray, ram, moral, amoral, Orran, 
 Abramo, Bram, Gram, cram, dram, gram, okra, oral, tram, Miran, Mirzam, arum, Ingram, Irma, Mira, 
 Moria, Byram, Hiram, Imbrium, Occam, Oprah, imams, Iran, Merriam, Priam, arm, aroma, ashram, immoral, 
 mom, momma, okras, omega, omen, scram 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monk0072008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  this game is good and all but way too short but online is the best i have ever played EVER!!! you 
 will most likly like it but if you dont have online play then you might not like it becuse is just 
 way to short but the weapons are highly addictave esspesily in online cause you can pretty much 
 make your own. but if your not a fan of shooters you proboly wont like this game but this is a 
 must have game and if your a fan of the others in this series you'll like this. it's worth the 60 
 bucks the missions are really good compared to other games the most accurate weapon is the draganov 
 and the strongst weapon is the rpg of course m avorite weapon is the mp44 that weapon is only in 
 online to me the worst weapon is the m16 if you have a ps3, xbox360 or a pc/ mac get this game but 
 you might want to rent it first befor getting it well its your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redt_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  not too sure how many of u ppl hav an hdtv out there but this game running at full 1080p is frikn 
 awesome!!! the only complaint i have is that the main storyline looks better than the two player 
 and online play not huge but noticable.... other than that this game deserves a 10!!! everything 
 from the smoke effects to the fire effects and the stunning sound is all so perfectly put together 
 in such harmony that just cannot be explained without just smackin a controller in your hands and 
 givin the game a twirl yourself... o and i just had a brain malfunction but the level w all the 
 barrels and shiping containers online is A BLAST but i will tell you not to play that level unless 
 you kno where the respawn locations are EXACTLY haha... a must have for ps3 owners... o and if you 
 DO have an hdtv- get an HDMI cable! they may be somewhat exspensive but GOD THEYRE WORTH IT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGMustangs
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas, and because I never played Call of Duty games before, I started 
 on Regular Difficulty. I beat it easily within a week, except for "No Fighting In the War Room", 
 which sadly, I could only beat on Recruit at the time (sad, yes I know) . After Regular was really 
 easy, I thought Hardened wouldn't be a challenge. And it wasn't much. I didn't attempt No Fighting 
 in the War Room, because I didn't think I was up to it. I stopped playing it because I got Medal 
 of Honor Airborne, then Assassin's Creed a month later, so I was occupied with those two games 
 for awhile. 
  Then I picked the game up again after I beat Assassin's Creed (great game by the way) . At first, 
 I thought I had no chance to beat the game on Veteran. But it really wasn't as hard as I thought 
 it would be.
  Act I was really a cake walk, though "War Pig" made me die a few times. And Hunted made me mad 
 because the helicopter would kill me alot near the barn. But I finally beat that by letting the 
 guys on your squad distract the enemies while I popped up and down and killed them with the M4. 
 Next, I blew up the two trucks so it was safe for me to crawl under them. MAKE SURE, before you 
 go under them, that all the enemies have been eliminated, maybe leaving 1 or 2. But they throw 
 grenades and there's no where to run to. So then I shot the guy in the heli and ran to the barn 
 and got the Stinger. Level Complete. 
  The next level that caused me Trouble was in Act II, "One Shot, One Kill". The main part I couldn't 
 complete was when you run by the buses right after you kill Zakheav (well not really, you just 
 blow his arm off) . But I got it when I sniped 5 guys coming at me then threw a flashbang out then 
 ran to the apartment. Then the Ferris wheel,,,, I hid behind the bumper cars, no problem.
  No Fighting in the War Room was pretty easy once I watched a video review so yeah. Great Ending, 
 but sad Gaz, Captain Price, and SSgt. Griggs die, and basically everyone but Soap. The Epilogue 
 took me awhile but I got it with luck and flashbangs. So Veteran was generally, not a problem.
 
  Now for the Ratings for Each characteristic:
  Graphics: 10 out of 10. They look like real people come on.
  Gameplay: 10 out of 10. Campaign 
 was great, I wish there was maybe 5 more levels, but still perfect. Have not played online but 
 I can't wait, to own hopefully.
  Sound: 10 out of 10. Just listen, and Cpt. Price and Gaz, and Griggs sound cool.
  Difficulty: 
 I'm not sure. Depends on if you understand how to beat each level. I take my time, which makes 
 it easier. Like on Safehouse, I call 2 or 3 chopper things on each house sometimes.
  Makes it sooooo much easier. And easier for headshots. 
  
  Overall 10 out of 10 . I love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigarn12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  this game, is the better game of war i never play you should buy it. they are saying that is going 
 to come out call of duty 5, call of duty 4 is very cool the internet is the better thing call of 
 duty 4 has. when In the internet. if you a lot of points you get new weapons, you can put red dot 
 a lot of things, in spit screen you can play with your friends, brother, cousins, with who ever you 
 want is one of the bes game i ever play. I play this game almost all game, i have like 6 games 
 and this is one i like more. The other game i wanted to buy when it come out is metal gear solid 
 4 i have all the trilogy and i wish i buy it exactly the day it come out, other game is gran turismo 
 5 is the real driving simulator have the best cars in the world. Oh if you don't like it tell me 
 because is the best game in series if you don't like you are a stupid idiot. and skate y wanted 
 to buy it too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  the multiplayer is basically the only reason to get this game as the 5 hour single player is cool, 
 but there isn't much there. 
  
  the online aspect is great when it works well, but the lag can be horrible at times and disconnects 
 are frequent. there is nothing more frustrating than having a bad connection and dropping a whole 
 clip into someone.. missing every time then having them turn and drop you after which you watch 
 your kill cam and see you were shooting off to the side of them the whole time. a couple boards 
 are completely worthless, especially the bog because you can't get a good connection to it ever 
 and it looks like your opponents are teleporting through the level. others are a joy to play, especially 
 the shipment. overall I love the game, but it will test you patience more often than you would 
 like it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets start by saying call of duty is used to being in wide open nazi slaying wwII era but it 
 does a good job of going into modern warfare with modern weapons and the fact that you also have 
 2 parts of the story the S. A. S. and the U. S. marines both have several mission (except the marines 
 which get blown to piece) the story may be griping and interesting but the problem is the game 
 is to short.
  after your done trying to overrun the russian empire you can slaughter you buddies online with 
 a large aray of weapons and perks to make you the ultimate weapon, plus with 55 levels of ranking 
 to get up you can easily waist countless hours splattering brains over pavement and get fired from 
 work
  
  taking all the features into account, great but short story mode and more online features than 
 the microsoft windows website plus all the fun you can have customising you online class give this 
 a 9.0 a great game and a true next generation game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breackneckboy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about Call of Duty 4 is that it's now set in modern times, which 
 would mean it would be a completely different beast compared to its predecessors. Many gamers have 
 said that this might actually backfire. It didn't.
  
  You will play as a British S. A. S operative called "Soap" Mactavish and as an American Marine called 
 Sgt. Paul Jackson. In an engaging story, your enemies are a terrorist, Al-Asad, and a Russian ultra-nationalist, 
 Imran Zachaev. The campaign is painfully short, completed in 4-5 hours. But the campaign has exceptional 
 quality, making it REALLY worth your buck.
  
  The campaign has some really unexpected twists, such as you being a gunner in an AC-130U Gunship 
 and you battling with dogs who want to bite out your throat, it all makes it much more interesting 
 to play.
  
  But if that isn't enough, then the online mode will totally blast you away. Online is extremely 
 deep, with lots of maps and modes, and perks and custom classes, it is an excellent game to play 
 online. 
  
  Having the PS3, Xbox 360 and the PC to work on, Infinity Ward had some pretty powerful hardware 
 to tamper with to make Call of Duty 4 a graphical showcase. They have done just that. Everything 
 from machine gun fire, smoke from rocket launchers, explosions, all that are extremely detailed 
 and make it look like a real war zone.
  
  The audio is no slouch neither. Gun shots, rockets and soldiers shouting for help, it truly sounds 
 like battle.
  
  Call of Duty 4 shows the true grit and horror of war. It will give you a look of how the boys are 
 doing in Iraq. Call of Duty 4 brings war to your living room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingalonso
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  the singleplayer took me 4 hours and for experts probadly 1 hour. the thing is they concentrated 
 more on multiplayer than singleplayer. what happens if you dont have playstation network or xbox 
 live. 40 spent for 1 hour. the single player is good but its to short for single player i would 
 rate 6.0
  
  and now multiplayer its good but there should be more players , you can only have 18 players which 
 is much worse as the game resistance fall of man where 40 players can be in the same game at once, though 
 the ranking system is good. for multiplayer i give 8.5
  
  summary
  
  single player -6.0
  
  multiplayer -8.5
  
  overall.-7.0
  
  the fifth call of duty is 
 coming out soon, but im angy its in ww11 again nearly everybody is sick of ww2. but it could give 
 a possibility of massive scale online battles 
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fffan9391
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  If you liked all the other Call of Duty games, this one completely blows them out of the water! 
 The game has outstanding sound and graphics and the weapons are extremely easy to use. There are 
 5 difficulty levels so it is perfect for even the most inexperienced FPS player. My only complaint 
 about the single player is that the game is really short. And as if the game itself wasn't terrific 
 (despite it's short length) , you have the online multiplayer which is absolutely outstanding. Complete 
 with levels and unlockables, the multiplayer will keep you playing for hours on end. And then there's 
 Prestige Mode, where you can go back to level 1 all over again and start over with a new insignia 
 to show your greatness and you can do it up to ten times! My only complaint with the multiplayer 
 is that you can't mute the voice chat of other players which tends to get just a little annoying 
 at times. Overall CoD4 is one of the best games I've ever played and I highly recommend it to anyone 
 whose looking for a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LickMyPorcupine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 turns away from the World War 2 battlefields, and instead plunges you into a war 
 in the middle-east and southern Russia. In the single-player you play as an S. A. S soldier in Russia 
 and as a marine in the middle-east. The harsh desert environments of the middle-east contrast well 
 with the lush greenary and forests of Russia and so prevent the setting from becoming too familiar 
 and dull. By the last level in the campaign you will be sitting on the edge of your seat entranced 
 by the frighteningly plausable story-line with only one thing on your mind- to save the Western 
 World from certain destruction.
  The games graphics never cease to amaze me even after so many hours spent playing it. The gameplay 
 is seamless and you get a strange sense of satiafaction whenever you fire any of the guns in the 
 games wide arsenal. The only prblam with the singleplayer is the obvious lack of length in the campaign 
 but the multiplayer easily makes up for this.
  
  Call of Duty's multiplayer manages to remain fresh and fun no matter how many hours you seem to 
 spend on it. You get such a surge of self-satisfaction whenever you hear the music come on to tell 
 you you've advanced to the next level. The guns all seem to be really varied and unique and it's 
 always exciting to see that you've unlocked a new one. The levels are all unique and in one level 
 you may dominate with a certain gun but be completely hopeless with it in another level, it's here 
 that Create-a-Class comes into play. Create-a-Class allows you to make five classes, each with 
 two weapons and three perks, this allows you to have classes for different types of levels, for 
 instance; in an urban environment you may want to have an accurate assault rifle such as an M4 
 or M16 or you migh chose a light machine gun such as the M60, in a rural environment you may choose 
 a sniper rifle and a sub-machine gun.
  
  All of these things combine to make undoubtedly one of, if not the best game of 2007.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morganman900
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has, until this point, been a fairly decent WWII shooter. And, like most other WWII 
 shooters, it began to lose steam and fail around the third game. After all, there's only so much 
 you can do with WWII. We know who won it, and who the runners up were.
  
  Call of Duty 4 then is a break from the series, in that it changes to the modern day. Set in a 
 fairly dubious Middle-Eastern country of ambiguous origins, you follow the story's of two soldiers, 
 a new recruit named 'Soap' Mactavish in the SAS, and Sgt. Rob Johnson in the USMC. The game starts 
 off well, as you start off in the shoes of the (former) president of the aforementioned country, 
 as you are seized by communist rebels, and driven through the streets to witness the overthrow 
 of your regime by rebels. After which, you are executed. 
  
  What then follows is a great story, and I won't go into to much detail now, but suffice to say 
 it's great. One detracting factor is that it's way too short. The game has quality in bucketloads 
 but you can never help but wish there had been a few more hills/buildings to take. The ending comes 
 as a complete shock as well, like being hit in the balls by a pregnant rhinoceros, and there's 
 obviously a sequel in the works.
  
  The game play itself if fairly self-explanatory for a FPS, so I won't talk about it much. The graphics 
 look great, and there are some bits that are plain gob smacking.
  
  The online feels like the main focus of COD4, but I wish it wasn't. Multiplayer, while some of 
 it's ideas are well thought out, is not well executed. The perks system is unbalanced, allowing 
 those with the best perks getting all the kills and now allowing other people to, thus creating 
 a vicious circle. Finding a lag-free game is a problem as well, most games are laggy and you'll 
 probably experience some moments of severe annoyance and anger, caused by the cruel bastard that 
 is Lag. There's a variety of game modes, but some of the more-varied and interesting ones require 
 high levels and there are therefore less people. Not that it's not fun, but it's certainly no Halo-beater 
 in terms of multiplayer.
  
  Call Of Duty 4 is a great game, and you could do a lot worse than this for a first person shooter, 
 and not a lot better. The game suffers from being criminally short, with the story taking only 
 about 10 hours (more if you have the inclination to repeat in higher difficulties) , but the multiplayer 
 will undoubtedly extend this. If you like first person shooters, or games in general, or Call Of 
 Duty, or all of them, buy this game, as it's certainly a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermindwho
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  This is the best shooter i have ever seen!!! 
  
  The graphics are just nearly as good as in real live!!! 
  
  You also need to play on nearly 
 full volume to see the dynamic of this game!!!
  
  I love the gameplay, it is so dynamic, and the multiplayer is very good as well!!!
  
  I also 
 couldn't find any glitches in this game! 
  
  Its difficulty is just right for this type of shooter, it is not very difficult and not very easy!!! 
 
  
  There is lots to unlock in this game (ex. a golden ak - 47) 
  
  The good thing is that there is no cheats in Call of Duty 4 to spoil the pleasure of the game. 
 
  
  I think it was a bit too short, I finished it in 5 hours, but still the game is awsome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnomepickle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm so glad Call of Duty has moved to a modern setting, I was really getting tired of Nazis and 
 D-Day.
  
  Ok, review.
  1. Short single player, but the experience is awesome while it lasts.
  2. Online multiplayer: 
 I hear all these people complaining about lag and terrible hit detection and lack of depth. Let 
 me ask you, have you ever played a game in your life? Lag is a problem now and then but that is 
 to be expected from any kind of online game. Hit detection? Maybe you should just not suck at FPS 
 games and stop blaming the programmers for your lack of skill. No depth? This is probably one of 
 the most in depth multiplayer experiences available right now. I hate when people say a game sucks 
 just because you can't blast right up to the highest level within 5 minutes. This game was meant 
 to be enjoyed, not rushed through just to have a lvl55 next to your name.
  
  I love playing this game. I have always been a fan of FPS games and this one is definitely at the 
 top of my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good-
  - Weapons feel right and deliver the right punch.
  - Campaigns is extremely tense and will make you want to play it over and over again.
  - Graphics 
 and visuals are stunning, from the blown up walls to the guns.
  - Control scheme coudnt be better.
  - Knifing enemies.
  - Knifing enemies online.
  - Knifing 
 enemies online from behind
  - Online has you hooked
  
  The bad 
  - Short campaign
  
  Call of duty leaves its ww2 shell and jumps up about 63 years to the modern day. No easy task 
 and could have been screwed up from the first level. But..... no! This is the perfect FPS, and I'm 
 new to FPS'S.
  
  The campaign see's you stopping some terrorist types in Russia and an unknown place in the middle 
 east. The S. A. S and the Marines are the two main faction you'll play. The S. A. S for the bulk as 
 'soap', a new recruit. The marines campaign doesn't last past the first act, but, its still rocks. Your'e 
 main guys are Cpt. price for the S. A. S and hes one hard son of a B=%$#. The main terrorist include 
 Al-Asad, a prince from the middle east and Zachyaev, a russian ultranationalist.
  
  Its over so quick any spoilers would give you the bulk of the story. But, theres online. This is 
 great. I was crap at the start but I see myself improving all the time. You have 5 cstom class 
 spots, with 2 guns, FRAGS, a special grenade and 3 perks ( or advantages) . The best of these is 
 the last stand one, where you last (not being shot) roughly 1 minute iwth your pistol , ready to 
 reap revenge.
  
  Overall, a great game. I give it 9.9, but it only goes to 9.5 or 10. A hell with it, it gets 10!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDaleMoney
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok hmm where should i start lets see ummm any where the game is perfect in every aspect of gaming!! 
 Lets start with the story, in the prologue you start out trying to find some nuclear weapons on 
 a cargo ship. The gameplay is riveting and exciting. I'd rather not go through the level because 
 that will spoil it for you people that havent played the game yet. If you havent played the game 
 yet after you read this review go and BUY IT!!! Well now I'll rate all of the aspects of the game.
 
  Gameplay- 10 
  The gameplay is exciting and will leave you wanting more as you go through every mission.
  Sound- 
 10
  There is a lot of gun fire and explosions which will have you on the edge of your seat.
  Multiplayer-10
 
  You can play up to four players split screen or you can go online and experience some of the best 
 online action around.
  Graphics-10
  Wow what do u know the game has great graphics on PS3 it looks absolutely. superb
  
  Above 
 all The game is perfect!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! GO GET  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopsign69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the game to get. There is nothing out there that's availible that tops this game, 
 not even close. CoD4 is a great multiplayer game which is VERY addictive and very fun, you can 
 play the game for hours and have a lot of fun. The game is much funner when playing with a friend/s 
 too, making the game even better.
  
  The sound is great and flawless, the graphics are amazing, the controls are great and the mechanics 
 are outstanding. There is plenty of different modes you can play making Online that much more fun. 
 They also added a level system which makes players ambitious and willing to play more and more. 
 It's easy to find a match to play and there is a lot of players.
  
  The only downfall to this game in my opinion is the lack of maps, a good 10 more maps would be 
 nice, although there really is a lot of maps. I just like a large influx of maps to play with.
 
  
  If you have a PS3, Xbox or PC, you HAVE to get this game. Your a **** if you don't. Sorry but it 
 had to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  So far this generation on consoles, if you could only have one game, Call of Duty 4 would have 
 to be it. 
  
  The game is amazing from top to bottom. Graphics are very nice. You could nitpick about textures 
 and what not, but the environments and character models are very real looking, and very crisp. 
 They stand out very nicely. Gameplay is great, fast paced at 60 frames per second. Controls are 
 perfect and the sprint button is a nice touch. The story mode, while short, is very immersive and 
 captivating, and worth playing through, however if you don't have an on-line connection I wouldn't 
 recommend buying the game. You could obviously finish the campaign in a rental.
  
  On-line the fun really begins, and I mean REALLY. This is the deepest online shooter you have ever 
 witnessed. It's almost like an RPG the way you level up and gain, weapons, and add-ons you you're 
 weapons, and perks. Perks are a nice addition which you can choose on your own. These include things 
 like holding extra grenades or ammo, stronger bullets, stronger armor, faster fire rate, as well 
 as dozens of other perks you can use to customize to your style of play. You start off with pretty 
 good guns in the M16 and the Mp5. So even though you don't have as many choices as higher levels, 
 you are by no means gimped. It is easy to gain experience points to level up, so you can get into 
 the game in no time. There are tons of challenges to complete, which give you experience bonuses, 
 tons of weapons to unlock, tons of perks, and the ranking system goes on for hundreds of hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  The only thing this game lacks is an online splitscreen mode. But as soon as you dive into the 
 game you will forget about what it doesn't have. Call of Duty 4 is one of the best gaming experiences 
 there it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakep123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is hard to explain in a review because you are just waisting time spent on playing it. The 
 Graphics are great, (though my HDTV only plays it in 720 when the box says its 1080) From the lighting 
 effects to the smoke, fire and weather effects, the graphics and emotions are superb. The audio 
 is also great. It plays in Dolby Digital and sounds amazing on a surround sound system. The Sound 
 effects are extremely accurate down to every gun, grenade and war like sound. the bullets will 
 whizz by and ricochet on anything near, as helicopters soar from right to left. Footsteps creep 
 on the surround speaker where the enemy is so you always know where everyone is. Also the Voice 
 acting of the characters is very good and realistic, as well as the character design. I must say 
 Captin Price, Riggs and Gaz are my homies. The story line is great and very entertaining not to 
 mention has a very lot in common with the war we are facing today. The amount of detail put into 
 this campaign makes this more like an interactive war movie then a video game. Then a new arcade 
 mode is unlocked after completion that is based on a points system and creates an even higher replay 
 value. Though the single player mode is somewhat short, the multiplayer makes up for it. Online 
 play is amazing. Its is by far my favorite online game that i have ever been involved with. the 
 16 levels are extremely detailed and up to 18 players can be involved. The thing that sets this 
 game apart though is the upgrading class and rank system. Rankings go up, and perks are unlocked. 
 new guns and weapons are also unlocked and u can create up to 5 custom classes depending on your 
 fighting style. ALL IN ALL this game is great, and weather u like first person shooters or not, 
 u should check this one out........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lozedge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best gams i ve played it dosent matter if you play the story or online 
 the game is great combat is fun and very addicting 
  
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  the game put you in controll of a special air service recruit named soap
  and seargent Jackson 
 of the marines through the story you fight terrorists
  throughout many places the way tha game lokks is amazing insanelly
  detailed and realistic the 
 soud design is also very realistic as well their 
  will be a part in the game tha made me say holy s**** any way there nothing really wrong with single 
 player game
  
  MULTI-PLAYER
  
  the online have is just as fun as offline fighting other player online from
  a classic deatmatch 
 to search and destroy were you ither have to defend a certain cp from oppnents from planting a 
 bomb there or try to plant the bomb yourself the rank system is also a nice add letting peppole 
 
  gain new perks and weapons as they grow higher in ranks 
  
  player should also chosse they weapons they like the most and one for the right situation to surrivie 
 in a match lets be honest a usp pistol wont be uch against a ak-47 riffle also player can also 
 call in airstrike a helicopter and a uav radar to the game when they have enough kills with one 
 life 
  3 kills=uav 5 kills=airstrike 7kills=helicopter the a large amount of maps to keep any one happy 
 online 
  
  off or online there is really nothing wrong with this game i really recommend this game who has 
 a ps3 360 0r pc this game will be probably
  one of the best games any fps game fan would want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought that it would be another WWII game where everything is the same as the previous 
 COD games. I was just so impressed with th' graphics and storyline! The modern warfare is an excellent 
 idea for th' 4th game in th' series! The only problem is: the game is way too short! But with the 
 excellent graphics and incredible gameplay, it takes up the bad and makes it more balanced. Multiplayer 
 and co-op mode is just unbelievable! I won't tell you everything the game has but I can't resist. 
 There are some little frustrating and long parts, but the game in general is awesome! There some 
 parts which I liked less that I like more in Rainbow 6 Vegas like to take cover and smoke bombs 
 but if you didn't play Rainbow 6 first, you'll just luv this game! Briefely, I just reccomend this 
 game to ANYONE who just wants to pop a head with a snyper anywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATSIMUS
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  infinity ward have hit the jackpot and created one of the greatest games ever. bringing the Call 
 of duty franchise from world war II to the modern day. The campaign puts you in the place of SAS 
 "soap" Mctavish and Us marine Sgt Jackson as you play to save the world from terrorism. Each level 
 features completely unique objectives and unique ways to do them, you can be a sleek elite sniper 
 or an "all guns blazing" attacker it is yor game and your way to play it even play as the gunner 
 on a assault plane, this means that there is never a dull moment. The game features destructble 
 environments realistic blood splatter clever enemies and difficulties for all levels of gamer from 
 beginner to master. Also unlockable cheats and an arcade mode CoD4 for years to come. 
  
  But the campaign isnt the best thing about this game, neither are the amazing graphics its the 
 online play. Played out in a RPG style you collect over 30 weapons, perks and new challenges as 
 you get more points as you advance through 55 ranks from private to commander. Customize your guns 
 aswell with unockable camouflage and weapon attachements you will always be unlocking items online. 
 And with the aaddition of perks you can choose your own abilities and way of play, get claymores 
 for defending or extra ammo for all out assaults, extra breath for holding your sniper rifle in 
 place or just leave grenades behind when you die what ever you want. Played throughout 14 game 
 modes including team deathmatch, headquarters and search and destroy all involving different styles 
 of play and tactics. There are tons of maps picked from the campaign it is well worth getting. 
 One last little problem is trying to find a game online can be tricky so if you don't get one straight 
 away dont be disheartened just exit and re-enter or just pick another game mode.
  2 thumbs up great game
  cod4 id - mat1993thew rank prestige 40
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocoAsce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The single player for this game was extremely short. the online multiplayer didn't get me as hooked 
 as i though i played on it for about 2 weeks and left the game to pick up dust, i played COD2 online 
 for over 2 years this really wasn't what i expected, the range of weapons could have been better. 
 about the only good point for innovation i saw were the graphics... overall i guess if you didn't 
 play the older game and wasn't expecting it to be better you could rate it a 9+ but not for me. 
 the hole upgrading system they put in on the multiplayer just took time away from the actual going 
 in and shooting, sometimes it just got really annoying after you had already made a few sets and 
 u unlock something else to go spend precious time changing everything again. definitely better 
 to COD3 but i would still rather take out my COD2 and continue playing that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Call of Duty was moving to a present day setting, I was very much skeptical 
 and even more because of my dissapointment with Call of Duty 3 (back when I didn't know they weren't 
 even made by the same people!)
  
  Fortunately, since this one is made by Infinity Ward, what we have here is a seminal FPS, much 
 like it's true predecessor, Call of Duty 2.
  
  The story is simple, involves war in Russia and the Middle East, terrorists, nukes, nothing special, 
 just an excuse to alternate between the perspective of a SAS operative and a US Marine. However, 
 a few levels mix things up a little and the story sure has a few twists not usually seen in shooters 
 that I won't spoil here.
  
  Graphics are just plain gorgeous, with simply amazing details, definition and the inclusion of 
 more physics than any previous COD sure helps to feel that we are actually in the middle of a battle! 
 A particular level where we get to operate an AC-130 gunship features thermal viewing that almost 
 looks like actual footage, simply amazing. 
  
  Sound is also terrific, you should listen to it LOUD, and the soundtrack features soime interesting 
 combinations of different elements.
  
  Gameplay has nothing very original but refines to the extreme the must haves of a FPS. However, 
 levels tend to bring a little new to gameplay each time, keeping the experience fresh.
  
  Multiplayer is probably the most innovative part of this game, the experience system, and the challenges 
 make up a very addicting experience that will keep players wanting to come back to unlock the next 
 badass weapon or attachement, and game modes are very fun.
  
  So, why not a 10? Because the single-player, while spectacular, varied and rewarding is unreasonably 
 short. An hardcore gamer will probably go through it in 5 or 6 hours, and for people with no intertnet 
 connection for their PS3 probably that doesn't justify the price tag.
  
  This is surely the best Call of Duty game to date, and probably one of the best FPS ever, but I 
 sure hope that next time around more attention will be given not only to quality but duration of 
 the singleplayer experience, because this is not Unreal Tournament, and the campaign mode is still 
 the soul of Call of Duty.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Plate
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Everything, I mean EVERYTHING about this game is amazing. Read this to find out why:
  
  Single-Player: At just the right timing, it clocks around six hours. In those six hours, not a 
 single moment is dull. The training level is even fun. THE TRAINING LEVEL FOLKS! IF A GAME CAN 
 MAKE THE TRAINING LEVEL FUN, THEN IT IS INCREDIBLE! This game is completely fictional, so all of 
 you ppl tired of Iraq and Afghanistan games, this shouldn't effect you. The graphics are insane, 
 and the playability is easy. 
  
  Multiplayer: This rules. From creating custom classes, [FINALLY, now I can equip a sniper with 
 a submachine gun... No more will noobs who try to get in close range overtake me!!!!!!!] to the 
 perks and unlockables, this is one dang good online game. The matches are perfectly sized for these 
 close and long quarters maps, with downloadable content on the way. Seriously people, this game 
 won game of the year!!!!! Who wouldn't want to play it??? Oh wait, i no, those stupid Halo 3 nerds 
 who think it and it only excel. Yea, you guys are missing out, Halo drools, COD4 rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaBrotherian2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Straight balling!!! This is how i would describe this first person shooter and if anybody would 
 like to disagree, your incompetence disturbs me in an unexplainable manner. You should be stripped 
 from your gamer privileges. Anyways, everyone knows that the games Story, weapons, A. I. ( Artificial 
 intelligence) and game play is up to first person standards. I'm more concerned about the online 
 game play. This intrigues me the most, cause the online game play starts you off has a newb ( beginner) . 
 The online format keeps track of your kills, deaths and detailed body shots for example, a head 
 shot would be one. Another capability is personalizing the online character to your actual height, 
 weight, and facial features which is the first. The more you play online, your character will build 
 better attributes and customize the characters weapons. This feature gives you a huge advantage 
 towards the opposing squad. The more you play the better the character. And one more thing, PEACE 
 OUT HALO, PEACE THE F*** OUT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  OMG this is the best shooter game that i'm actually playing. 
  I start this one two days ago, and it makes me talk to the guys in front of my tv, screaming, and 
 moving my head like a crazy (first mission when the ship starts to sink ) .. you can feel all the 
 action, adrenaline, the design of all thinks is so real that you feel you're in real combat. 
 
  
  There's a lot of things that you can do, shooting from a chopper, drop bombs from a airplane, rescue 
 people, fight with dog, rockets, claymores, night vision, big explosions, and a lot more... 
  
  Every detail is in place, in the attacks and explosions the soldiers help you, i like a lot 
 the sections when explains the missions, cool graphics with descriptions of military pieces.
  
  The sound of this game is great, i hope we can have the next 5 soon.
  
  About the game 
 difficult is right to everyone, if you don't like shooting games you should try Call Of Duty 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Truly an amazing accomplishment, COD4 is an amazing game. It's an addictive online shooter that 
 pushes the technical and cinematic boundaries of games to another level. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. They are the most photorealistic I've seen in a game yet. The characters 
 look like real people, the buildings like real buildings, and the weapons have an incredible level 
 of detail. Taking Call of Duty out of WWII and placing it in a modern day setting was a terrific 
 choice.
  
  The gameplay is both tight and exciting. The weapons all behave like their real-world counterparts: 
 The M-16 fires 3 round bursts, AK47 is fully automatic, etc. All the game modes you would expect 
 from a shooter are here. King of the hill, capture the flag, death match, counterstrike esque "plant 
 the bomb" maps. There's a large enough variety of weapons for everyone to find their favorite. 
 Shotguns, machine guns, assault rifles, SMGs, ans sniper rifles fill out the roster.
  
  The online mode is where COD4 really shines. When you play ranked game you essentially earn "experience 
 points" and "level up". When you level up you unlock new weapons, perks, game modes. It's a great 
 system that keeps you coming back time and time again.
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game. If you enjoy multilayer shooters at all then this 
 game is a definite must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniamsmart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played. It is not only becouse iam a shooter games fan 
 but also becouse the gameplay is so good and so real. Graphics in the game have a huge advantage 
 and make the game really realistic. The gameplay of the game is very good and really brings you 
 into the action of a real army soldier. Not only is the Story mode great but the Online gaming 
 is fantastic. 
  
  Especially with the ranks and getting new things for your soldier by getting higher ranks for example 
 getting a better assult riffle, or a better machine gun, or sniper. By getting ranks you can also 
 get new clothing that can camaflouge u into the surroundings. This game is mostly for shooter fans 
 but any gamer could like this game if they try it. :)
  
  I give this game a two thumbs up and 10 for the rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtShade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow ive played COD before and personally ive just thought it was another game but with its new 
 installment i think its just at the peak this game has everything u look for in a FPS, the best 
 part about the game by far is the Multiplayer. without this key element the game wouldnt be worth 
 the buy just a rent. you can enter games with friends voice chat , play team objectives and just 
 all out have fun, with the unique class and different features this game will pay for itself in 
 minutes. This game falls under so many different categories of success its mind boggling. Its difficult 
 to not find yourself playing it for hours on end and still be having fun. the creators of the game 
 are still very active with the game and often have contest and opportunities for advancement in 
 both the real world and the gaming world by far COD4 is a invest because this game lives on beyond 
 just game-play its innovative and by far standard to all other FPS to follow. the crowd on the 
 game is fun and the Story line is short but sweet and you'll even find yourself repeats some of 
 the mission just because there so very exciting. The graphics are wonderful and the controls fit 
 just right.
  A experience that should be shared with anyone who like a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I had a great time with this game, the graphics were superb and the gameplay was easy to learn. 
 I now know what all the fuss was about when i first played the game, I could not believe I waited 
 this long to play it. Now, the game does have two flaws and it is mainly with the single player 
 campaign, it is very short and it only took me about a day to complete and that the story is very 
 cliche. Other than those two things they execute the game very well. Multiplayer is an absolute 
 blast to play. As I said before the game is easy to learn but, the multiplayer has a steep learning 
 curve towards mastering. You will be killed in a very realistic manner, meaning quickly. Overall 
 this game accomplishes all that it sets out to do. Hopefully we will see many more games follow 
 its lead and deliver a complete package just as Infinity Ward has. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  the good:
  1) addictive multiplayer
  2) amazing graphics
  3) shooting through walls
  4) the missions are just awesome
  5) awesome sound effects
  
  
  the bad:
  1) no driveable 
 vehicles
  2) short single player
  3) you can only hit something whit a rpg from short range
  4) no bipods
  
  this is the first 
 call of duty game that is set in the modern time and its awesome. the graphics is really one of 
 the best you've ever seen everything is so detailed from beginning to end and you never played 
 such amzing mission it got lots of veriati from big epic battle to a stealth sniper mission.
  
  the game hasn't got some cod things like driveable vehicles and guns whit bipods wich sucks 
 cause i liked those things but it got some new things wich i hope future shooters will do the same 
 too like shoot through walls and a knife melee attack those things are really awesome and i get 
 used to it really quick .
  
  the big dissapointment is in the single player its too short but that actually doesnt matter much 
 because the multiplayer is just great, i'm dont play much multiplayer but I do whit cod4 its just 
 so extreemly fun .
  
  if you like shooters just buy this game .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the best FPS I've played in years. Great storyline with great graphics. The storyline may 
 be short but has more to offer online with it's customizable weapons and perks. Online play works 
 with a ranking system that as you go online you unlock new features that make you playing this 
 game a little easier. The perks in this game are really helpful which includes from shooting through 
 walls to martyrdom which allows you to drop a grenade when you die allowing you to get some kills 
 just before you spawn. It includes customizable colors such as digital camoflage which looks great 
 on an AK-47 along with a scope. There are many challenges to keep you occupied throughout your 
 day and has a variety of maps to paly over and over again. Once you reach to general you're given 
 an option to do prestige mode which is pretty much you lose everything and yes I mean everything 
 but what you gain is your rank and your leaderboard position. You can do this ten times which can 
 be an annoyance but it gives you to do something on your spare time. I suggest you get this game 
 if your a fan of shooting games. If you're not big on FPS I suggest you get it anyway as you get 
 more than what your paying for and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The story is good, giving a 6 - 15 hour play. It's pretty much about stopping terrorists from destroying 
 the rest of the world.
  Excellent graphics and voice-actors. Unlike many other First-Person Shooters people die in a couple 
 of shots, making it more realistic. The difficulty level is from medium difficulty to a difficulty 
 few can master. Lots of different weapons, all from our time. 
  
  Now, moving to internet-play, there is a super ranking system, and as your rank goes up, you gain 
 new weapons, attachments and perks that you can use to defeat the enemy. There is many different 
 game modes to play; you can fight free for all, team deathmatch, Search and Destroy, and many more. 
 Excellent Friend system where you can invite your best friends to join your game easily. You can 
 take eachother out one-on-one, or play as teammates. You can also view your statistics at any time, 
 and you can compete with your friends to get an excellent score. Voice-chatting makes it possible 
 make plans on how you're going to get a victory with your team. You can add a clan tag in front 
 of your name and join the rest of your clan in battle. 
  
  Basically if you like First-Person Shooters, you should definitely buy this game. If you don't 
 usually like First-Person Shooters, you might get a pleasant surprise when you play this game anyways. 
 Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  OK, before I get to the review I just want to say that this is this really is, I think, the best 
 shooter ever and the best game of the year. Now the review. As for gameplay, the game delivers 
 realistic, fun, beautiful game with intense heart- pounding levels. a good example of these traits 
 is the level at the end of Act 1 called Shock and Awe and the mini level following it. The part 
 at the end where the nuke goes off gave me what I like to call anoh, **** moment. And the mini 
 level following gave me a sense of hopelessness as i crawled from the wrecked chopper. As for the 
 graphics, they are beautiful, almost, ALMOST, photo- realistic.
  Some animations, I think, could have been better, like the characters walking up and down stairs 
 looked kind of cheap but pretty much all of the other animations looked very real and human like. 
 This game has some the best and most fun multiplayer I've seen, with a deep customizable leveling 
 system, if you happen to be playing online on PS3 then my screen name is lunchbox101, but don't 
 try to play me, I'll kick your ass. I possibly hold records for number of kills in deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has left WWII. Is that a good thing. Absolutely. No more old weapons, in Call of 
 Duty 4, you actually have a great thing called modern technology. 
  
  In Call of Duty 4, as all modern warfare games do your job is to kill 2 Arab and 2 Russian "terrorist" 
 leaders as America would call it. You play as two characters, one British, Soap MacTavish, with 
 him you mostly do stealth missions, and with American Sgt. Paul Jackson, where of course since he 
 is a American everyone knows you are there and you just kill everyone you see.
  
  The graphics are amazingly realistic, and sometime I mistake the game for a HD movie. The sounds 
 are amazing as well, you can clearly hear the moans of men shot in the face, and the controls work 
 great. The default controls use R1 to shoot, R2 for a frag grenade, L1 for youe sights, L2 for 
 your secondary grenade, X to jump, Triangle to change weapons, circle to change stances (hold to 
 go prone) , Square to reload, the directional buttons give you use to claymores, RPG's, night vision, 
 C4's, etc. and you use the left analog stick to move, and use the right analog stick to aim your 
 gun. Also pressing the L3 button allows you to sprint whil R3 allows you to melee enemies with 
 your knife. 
  
  The online mode allows you to choose which weapons you want to go into battle with in a variety 
 of modes (free for all, team death match, 1 on 1, etc.) and as you kill and win more people and 
 matches your rank increases giving you more choices of weapons and camoflauges.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4's upgrade to a modern setting is a complete success with a compelling story 
 full of twists and turns, which should be in your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XgoosegogglesX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played in years. I love the transition from WWII to the modern 
 battlefield. To tell you the truth i almsot became sick of the whole WWII action. The first player 
 action is great along with a great storyline. There is a good selection of in battle uses of your 
 equipment such as night vision and what not. But the online action is where its at. The online 
 advancement keeps you comming back for more. For every kill you get you recieve a set number of 
 exp points that will advance your rank among the Call of Duty leaderboards. The selection of guns 
 that you eventually earn come with a wide assortment of attachments and camo for your shooting 
 pleasure. Theres also a sort of boot camp where you recieve experience points for falling a certain 
 distace and surviving to winning a ceartain battle on the top of the leaderboard. There isn't a 
 night when i dont play Call of Duty 4!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  There is something about this game that just makes you keep on playing for hours. When it comes 
 to shooters, this is the best game out there. I first of all say it has the best graphics to date, 
 and the guns are just so damn awesome. The only reason I didn't allow this game to got a perfect 
 10 is because there isn't any 2 player co-op or 2 player split screen online. The story mode, although 
 short, is extremely fun. The levels feel like you are watching a movie. I got shivers when I was 
 playing the sniper level and the ship level. One other thing I didn't especially like was the fact 
 that you couldn't choose your gun in the campaign mode. I got a little tired of using the M4 so 
 I just swapped guns with a dead guy. The multiplayer is really where this game shines. The ranking 
 system is so cool that it makes you want to play just to get your guy high in rank. The different 
 modes are great as well. All in all, I would say any player would agree that this game was worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  I respect the fact that experienced gamers and FPS specialists love this game, and of course, 
 it was made for them. However, I think that sometimes game reviews should disclose that not 
 all games are meant for the average gamer. I have limited experience in FPS games and I was 
 shocked by the lack of help and the apparent assumption that everyone who picks up the game is 
 an FPS expert. The biggest problem I had was with the basic movement of the first person. It took 
 me a long time just to move the way I intended. I guess this sounds almost comical to someone born 
 with a joystick in their hand. Somehow, I think I am not the only person in the world who is intimidated 
 by FPS games and does not like being written off by the company that took my sixty dollars. I also 
 feel that there should be disclosure that FPS games make some people physicially ill, one of the 
 nasty little secrets of the gaming world. I am leaving out the part of review about the good graphics, 
 story, and action because you know that already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnett
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Never in my gaming life, 37 yrs old playing since 14, have I been so influenced by a games multi-player 
 levels. I have been a fan of the COD series since day one. COD4 raises the bar of excellence with 
 it's latest in the series and saying goodbye to WWII and hello to modern technology. The graphics 
 are awesome and the controllers very friendly. While the single level game play is short the game 
 makes up for it on-line with its multi-player matches choose between team death match and free-for 
 all and more as you unlock them with the higher rank you become in the game. Playing on-line in 
 free-for-all death matches put you in different maps with a 8 on 8 melee of firepower.... dying 
 has never been so much fun as it is in this game. sure i like to win just like everyone else but 
 when taken down they show you the kill cam which allows you to see from your killers viewpoint 
 how he /she took you out. By far one of THE best Games yet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Irishman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  .I need to start off saying that I owned over 30 games for my PS2; 3 of which were FPS games. Other 
 than that I pretty much never play them. It's not that I dislike the genre or anything it's just 
 I like a little more story in my game. Well I must say that the only FPS games I have ever really 
 enjoyed were more realistic games; to me there just is a void that comes from using wired guns 
 that don't exist and using them on guys in space suits. In any case I very much enjoyed playing 
 Medal of Honor Frontline for my PS2 way back in the day and I thought when I first heard of Call 
 of Duty 4 to give it a shot. I must say I really enjoyed this game a lot. By the way when I say 
 the game is easy on the difficulty it's because I played through the single player campaign on 
 normal the first time and didn't die that much. For a guy that hasn't played any FPS's for an extended 
 period of time I felt that way. The graphics (for an FPS; which usually seem a little stale to 
 me) are quite excellent. However, the faces on your men and the enemies as well could use some 
 work; the cars in the streets are a little mundane too. But other than that there really isn't 
 too much to cry about in the graphics department. The sound though couldn't be any better. The 
 gun fire, voice acting (especially for an FPS) is amazing, while explosions, planes flying over 
 head, etc. are all just awesome. You truly need to have a surround system though to get the full 
 effect. The controls I felt were very responsive; quite similar to the other FPS games I have played. 
 And the range of weapons is very good to boot. The single player mode (while short) is entertaining 
 to say the least and I found myself admiring our soldiers overseas even more while playing though 
 this game. That really is the major problem with the single player portion; it's just to damn short. 
 The range of missions though is actually my favorite part of the game. I was very impressed when 
 I played though the level where you take control of a rail gun on a helicopter and shoot guys down 
 from above. In that particular level you can switch between guns and bombs to halt the enemy advance 
 (pretty rock hard.) When the single player campaign is over, stay through the credits (mute it 
 if you are like me and can't stand rap) because you get to play a cool timed level in a plane that 
 is going down, in which you have to save the hostage on the plane. Well I played through a few 
 minutes of the multiplayer before I wrote this review and I must say I am a bit disappointed. To 
 me this is what brings the score down (besides the short single player.) If you are like me, I 
 never had my PS2 connected to the internet, this is my first time playing online, let alone any 
 real experience with a FPS, you will be lost. Once I found a game, I was thrown in with a bunch 
 of guys who really knew what they were doing. I pretty much hated my first experience because I 
 had no idea what to do. Just a short explanation of how things work would have been just fine, 
 but that was no where to be found. Instead I just got hammered by guys way beyond my skill level 
 at the time. It showed too; I was at level 1 and some other guys I was playing with were at level 
 15 or more! To me that just sucks, because it isn't fun at all to just get clobbered and know that 
 you have no idea what you are doing. Multiplayer problems aside I really did enjoy this game and 
 hopefully once I figure the rules of multiplayer out I won't be so mad about it. Anyway if you 
 are into FPS games or just want a change of pace from either a Halo or WWII type of game, CoD is 
 a game you should enlist in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  COD4 is an online gift from the gods... er... activision that should be owned by any fan of the genre. 
 The online ranking, weapon upgrades, and trash talking make this one hell of a game. When you sit 
 down for a game or two, it turns into a "im almost at the next rank!" situation every time, and 
 you never go more than 2 or 3 ranks without unlocking a weapon of perk that you can't wait to try 
 out. The shooting machanics, granade throwing, and knifing are also done very well with one click 
 of a button. The single player campaign is not ground breaking but it gets the job done. On the 
 easiest modes it shouldn't take a dedicated player more than 5 or so hours to beat, harder levels 
 extending that period of time. Don't expect to spend too much time on it because although it makes 
 for a decent 2 or 3 play-throughs the online will be calling you in your sleep. Here is where you 
 must make your choice. Go and get the game and be immersed in one of the best online experiences 
 available today, or do existing online players a favor and don't lag up the servers with your newbie 
 self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabeau
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game if you have access to the Internet. If you don't then you probably 
 won't enjoy it very much because of the mediocre single player. Also if you are going to play it 
 online, you should play in HD. If you do not then you will miss the awesome graphics it has to 
 offer. Now, I have never played any of the other Call of Duty games because I don't like games 
 that are set in the past. When it was announced that Call of Duty 4 was set in the present day 
 I decided to get it as my first PS3 game. Ever since I got it I have been playing it non-stop. 
 The only problem I can find with it is that sometimes when you are out of range from a grenade 
 you still get hit, which can be annoying when you are online. Overall, Call of Duty 4 is an excellent 
 game with superb graphics and it is also very addictive but if you want good single player I suggest 
 you look elsewhere. If not, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a series of video games that take place during World War II. But all that changes 
 wih Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. You play as Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish of the British S. A. S. 
 (Special Air Service) and As Sgt. Paul Jackson of the U. S. M. C. (United States Marine Corps) as 
 you progress through the game and survive. My only problem with this game is no open-ended gameplay. 
 For instance if you wanted to hop a fence you cannot. Then another time you can hop a fence. Also 
 most things are indestructible. Sure, you can break a TV with a bullet but that's about it. The 
 TV wont fall off the table. The only thing that will fall of the table is a computer, but that 
 won't even break when it does. Moving on remember not to get too into it. Remember what John F. 
 Kennedy said "Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an end to mankind." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_rock_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Well let me just say: this game rocks right off the hand you jump right into it and the first mission 
 is so much fun and make you say WOW.
  
  Gameplay: Very tight controls killing emenys is a good feeling and running to spot to spot trying 
 to duck enemy's, while bullets flying past your head feel great to. Online is where it shines the 
 most and the main reaason you should buy this game, from the leveling up with preks unlocking new 
 this for your self it great too playing this game online with friend is so much fun..
  
  Sound: I will tell you to turn down your tv the game sounds like your right there in the middle 
 of the battle that going on around you. Even the gun has there on sound they did a great job on 
 that, also while your in the air to it sound like you up there..
  
  Controls: Very tight work when your online battle other people, since I have the PS3 verson I'am 
 used to it and every butten is used on the ps3 controler you should feel right at home with this 
 game.
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking games out there they really out did thet self with this game, to 
 your crew the levels even online it all looks greats you should see the first mission and ask your 
 self does it looks good..
  
  Overall: It does not matter what system you buy it for buy this game it a must play and a must own, your 
 paying 60 dollars for a game with so much stuff in there you getting your moneys worth with this 
 game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradley7777
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is hard to put into words. Its so amamzing. The graphics, the gamplay, the missions, the 
 weapons and all the gadgets come together in a neat little chocolate cake, and the strong online 
 multiplayer is the scoopful of mint choc chip ice cream on the top. The authenticy in the game 
 is amazing. How they do everything looks so natural, even when they die. The way the enemy tells 
 each other to take the route to the right or try to flank tyour team at different positions. And 
 how much time and effort is been put into the weapons. Every click, clang, bang and cocking of 
 the gun combine to make it that little more realistic. The multiplayer will keep you hooked for 
 hours, endlessy trying to get as much XP points as possible, but its like 'Ill do up to the next 
 level and turn it off', but you end up doing the next 10 levels without even realising it. Now 
 to the bad points, which there is only 1. The single player campaign is really, really short, I 
 mean a dedicated player will clock it in 5 to 6 hours MAX. Overall a fantastic game that even compares 
 to the likes of TES: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  A neat feature to the plot is that you play as two different soldiers, one for the British and 
 the other an American. Creating a cool sense of both forces and where in the world they struggle 
 for peace. It is a standard plot line, terrorists are at it again, and the two super powers of 
 the world need to knock some sense into some people.
  
  What makes the plot great is the total realism of the game, in all aspects, but the characters 
 make you remember their names and their attitudes. So when the lead starts to fly, you want all 
 your comrades to make it out alive.
  
  The voice acting is simply terrific, along with an excellent selection of music to set the heroic 
 war tone.
  
  Graphically speaking, this game lets you know your playing a next gen console (or really high end 
 PC for you rich folk) . Amazing attention to detail with the textures, animation and the effects 
 of war on each environment. The screen tilts when a ship is swaying or when your dazed and almost 
 unconscious. During a stealthy sniping level, when ducking into the grass, your so close each blade 
 and it still looks very good.
  
  Each level has a sense of individuality and no real repetition as well. That being said, its hard 
 for this game to repeat itself, with such a short campaign.
  
  Game play wise, best shooter I have ever played (yes I've played Halo 3, and Golden eye) . Beautiful 
 selection of weapons to use, and each one has a different feel.
  
  Sometimes only thou the campaing feels slow, but overall call of Duty 4, stands one ov the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  By moving away from the WWII shooters, IW were taking somewhat of a gamble with Modern Warfare, 
 however, it paid off in style.
  
  The main story mode is centered around S. A. S. and US Marines operations primarily in the Middle 
 East and is an enjoyable experience. There are many melodramatic moments in the story, but they 
 work really well with the plot and immerse you into the game.
  
  The combat is very hectic and requires the use of tactical shooting (running for cover and looking 
 through your sight before shooting) if you are looking to survive. The AI is an improvement from 
 the earlier installments of COD as well. Not only are your enemies smarter and more resourceful, 
 your teammates are also very useful - not to the point where you feel useless, but they dispose 
 of their fair share of bad guys!
  
  The weaponry in the game has been re-created from real life with great accuracy, from the side-arms 
 to the gun-ships. The maps are beautifully rich in detail and sound is amazing.
  
  There are two drawbacks with the single-player mode. Firstly, it is too short (about 6 hours long) 
 and a co-op mode is missing, but I'm just nit-picking. Otherwise it is a great experience, and 
 after it, you have multi-player online to look forward to!
  
  The online mode employs a class-based system with experience points (and levels) gained by killing, 
 assisting and completing challenges. You are able to create your own classes and choose your own 
 weapons and 'perks', which are extra abilities which aid you during battle. These perks range from 
 more health (Juggernaut) to dropping live grenades when you die (Martyrdom) and are gradually unlocked 
 as you level-up. From my own experience I can say there is minimal lag issues and the game runs 
 extremely smoothly online.
  
  All in all, COD4 is a superb game and is as near to a must-own game on the PS3 as anything else 
 thus far. The single-player mode is fairly short but is a great shooter experience and the multi-player 
 mode is very addictive - it's well worth the 40! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, in my opinion, is one of the best shooters so far. Infinity Ward has always been 
 able to pull of amazing Call of Duty games. With COD4, they take the series in an all new direction 
 with Modern Warfare. Along with an all new environment, Call of Duty 4 brings an all new level 
 of graphics. Graphics in this game are just plain amazing. COD4 has both online and a campaign 
 mode. The single player mode is of extremely good quality, however, my only complaint is the length 
 of the story. Another thing I don't like about the story is that you don't have a feeling of accomplishment 
 at the conclusion of the game like you do in WW2 COD games. The campaign is amazing but I don't 
 recommend buying this game if you're not going to play multiplayer (specifically the online) . The 
 online in this game is just plain awesome. They have a cool leveling system unlocking different 
 guns as you higher your level. You level by getting points which you earn from your team's results 
 in a game, killing people, and finishing the challenges. To of it all of, when you reach lv.55 
 there is a prestige mode that is pretty cool for those who get bored when they're finished unlocking 
 everything. In conclusion, this game is just plain crazy and awesome. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fordy-rams
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  a must buy game for anyone ! the online play is suberb with around 15 maps to play on and tons 
 of guns. ya can create ur own class wen u get a betta lvl and also hav ur own clan ( OFP are legends 
 ) . there are 550 lvls to get through online and bout 3 times that much challenges on the downside 
 the single player is a little short but still fun. i would probs jus buy it for the snipin mission 
 dats pure class nd u even get to experience wot it myt feel lyk wen a nuclear bomb hits u ( nd 
 u dont get that experience too many times in ur lyf) . The graphics are also immense. sometimes 
 the quality is better than some movies i watched. i also reccommend buyin a hedset if u are going 
 online as they really come in handy. so wot im basically tryin to say is buy it ! nd if u do get 
 online use "hab" as ur clan name ( i need more playas in my clan ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I know I wrote a review for the PC version of the game, but there are some things I have to point 
 out about this one. The multiplayer is good, the single player is extremely fun, althouigh it is 
 short. I really like the level "One Shot One Kill" because of the amazing visuals, like when the 
 helicopter crashes down on your Captain. The multiplayer keeps it fun way after you got every last 
 intel, got unbeatable high scores on arcade mode, and played through the game on every level. It 
 mixes things up with the perks, different weapons, etc. Plus, you have to get a certain amount 
 of headshots/kills to unlock different things (like Red Dot Sight or Red Tiger) and that makes 
 you feel so accomplished when you get these add-ons to your gun. Only one complaint, only for the 
 PS3 version, is that I feel the sensitivity is higher for the PS3 than the X360 or the PC. But 
 overall, extremely fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Although the previous Call of Duty games were revolutionary at their time, who in the hell wants 
 to keep shooting a bunch of Nazi's?! Nobody, that's who. Thus the birth of Modern Warfare. This 
 time around the story revolves around two different factions of the army from two different countries, 
 whose style of gameplay differs from one another. The visuals in this game are the best so far, 
 I think, on any next-gen console. The sound design on the weapons, environments, pretty much everything 
 are the greatest. The multiplayer is awesome, whether your just playing with friends, or online 
 with some guy in Tulsa, the multiplayer is great. The only thing wrong with this game is that it 
 i way too short!! If you ply straight through it takes you less than a day, when they make the 
 next one I, along with pretty much anyone else who has played it wants at least 25hr of solid non-repetetitive, 
 and fun gameplay. So in all this is the best in the series, and so far the best fps so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toron01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The good, awesome campain mode. The bad, campain mode is short but worth playing, The Ugly, The 
 online is riddled with problems... terrible lag.. games ending in connection interupted and host 
 ended game. bad hit detection. amongst other online problems as well. The online game itself is 
 awesome and highly addicting but the problems will have you in a rage before you know it. the only 
 solution to the problems seems to be for you to open your router ports when you want to play. which 
 may lead to a security issue on your network if you dont close them back up when you are done playing. 
 Seems infinity ward has no intent on fixing these issues. The forums are full of dissatisfied online 
 gamers. Infinity ward came out with a connection patch a month ago that fixed somethings and made 
 other things worse. Since then they have left gamers in the dark as to what is going on... Id say 
 rent it before you buy it. the game deservers the 9.5 but with the online is junk at this time. 
 so i give it a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tapps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  This is without doubt the best looking first person shooter ive ever played. Its graphics are truly 
 superb right down to the last blade of grass and the dents in your gun. The AI is also fantastic, 
 the enemy actually make decisions like they would in real life. The easiness is perfect to, you 
 cant take hundreds of bullets before you die. You will die after a realistic number of bullets/grenades 
 penetrate you. Speaking of grenades, the choice is immense, from flash-bangs to smoke grenades.
 
  
  The online gameplay is great to, you have a wide choice of battles, and you can even do your own 
 private games with just other friends. you have a huge choice of places to fight. You can also 
 chose the difficultythat is reccomended for you
  
  GET THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE FPS'S. you arent clever if you dont , its better than the rest of the 
 series (and they were good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an outstanding game. The gameplay diverts itself from its WWII 
 counterparts, and it turned out to be a great decision. There is practically nothing wrong with 
 Call of Duty 4. Practically Nothing.
  
  The core gameplay is about the same as the previous Call of Duties. The L1 button brings the gun 
 up to your face so you can aim. But what separates this one from the others is the variety in gameplay. 
 The guns are great and realistic and powerful. The single player campaign takes you through the 
 Middle East as an American Soldier, through Russia as an SAS soldier, and through Chernobyl as 
 a flashback 15 years in the past. There is one mission where you are in the seat of a bomber plane, 
 and you get to shoot bombs at the little dots on the screen. It's really incredible to watch the 
 little guys fly all over the screen. Also worth adding is the ability to shoot through plaster, 
 wood, or other thin materials. This is really helpful both online and in multiplayer. Also, COD 
 4 uses the same health system as COD 2, as your health regenerates as long as you stay out of sight.
 
  
  The AI in Call of Duty 4 is just incredible. Enemies come in vast numbers, and will use flanking 
 techniques and will have squad tactics of their own. It is really top notch in gaming today.
  
  The campaign is only about 6 or 7 hours, but the overall quality of it is through the roof. 
 Not one moment is boring, as you will develop a camaraderie with your squad members, especially 
 Gaz and Captain Price. The Story in COD 4 is actually really good, as opposed to other shooters. 
 The world is on the verge of a nuclear war, and you and your 5 or 6 squad members will have to 
 save the world on your own, it seems. There are themes of genocide and injustice, and those are 
 really captured in the campaign.
  
  The multiplayer of COD 4 is the best of any shooter. There are 16 maps right out of the box, all 
 of which were probably seen at one point in the campaign. There are a ton of different game modes 
 like the normal team deathmatch, as well as a one on one cage match against another player. There's 
 sabotage, and domination, and many other great games to be played. What's cool is the ability to 
 create a class. As you play and become better, you will unlock upgrades such as different attachments 
 and camouflage for your weapons, as well as perks like explosives. Other perks include the ability 
 to upgrade you bullet damage, as well as your own health, the ability to remain unseen on enemy 
 radar, and much more. If you get a 3 kill streak, you will get a UAV recon, which allows you to 
 spot enemies on your radar, 5 kill streak is an airstrike, and a 7 kill streak is helicopter support. 
 Playing online will have the Blu Ray in your hard drive forever. You are always motivated to do 
 well, but if you don't there is still no pressure because it is still so much fun. There's also 
 challenges to do, such as getting 150 headshots with a weapon, or running 10 miles. These challenges 
 will get you XP to rank up. Online is incredible fun in COD 4.
  
  It may not get noted a lot, but COD 4 is one of the most photo realistic games ever made. The character 
 models are incredible, the lighting and shadows are great, and the buildings and textures are some 
 of the best on a console. It doesn't hurt that the frame rate is silky smooth.
  
  There's nothing really else to say, this game is almost flawless. But it is still missing offline 
 or online coop, and the campaign could have been longer. Other than that, there is not one, NOT 
 ONE reason you shouldn't get the game. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best games 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (PS3) is a quality product. I couldn't agree more with all the positive 
 reviews this game has received. As soon as I booted the game up and engaged in the intro I knew 
 I was in for something special. The graphics and sound are outstanding (as expected on a new gen 
 system) . I am currently only a few missions into the game and it is really hard to put down (but 
 hey I gotta work!) I've played many a first-person shooter and I can say that the intro level in 
 this game alone is worth the price of admission. I've never felt so IMMERSED in a game. I'll never 
 give anything away just trust me you'll know what I m talking about when you play. Even when the 
 intro credits are rolling it really was an interesting segment. You really feel like you are in 
 the game and going through the hostile environment. Believe me I was skeptical at first about the 
 game but, after NOT being able to put down the first time playing I am a believer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flam3Thr0w3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I just want to start off by saying, do not buy this game if you don't have your PS3 hooked up to 
 the internet.
  Why?
  Because while the single player is great fun, it is all over in about 5 hours.
  Now this is very 
 short for a 40/$50 game.
  But the multiplayer is really where this game shines.
  I have spent countless hours playing this game online!
  It never gets boring!
  It is so addictive, 
 that I havn't hardly touched all the other great games that I got for christmas!
  There are lots of maps and game modes to keep you interested for months to come, and believe me, 
 I am a big first person shooter fan, and this is the best first person shooter I have ever played 
 in my life.
  The game also has an excellent split screen mode with support for up to 4 players.
  Everytime 
 my friends come round we can't resistant turning on the PS3 for a team deathmatch.
  So if you buy this game, buy it for it's amazing multiplayer, not for it's great, but short, single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Br0ck8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  to begin with the campaign is better than most movies out at the moment as it acctualy feels like 
 one and will have you ducking behind a pillow with evry bullet that flys at you its so realistic 
 and dramatic especialy when your character is killed by a nukeleur explosion along with nearly 
 two armys and when you have to sneek threw a city full of toxic radiation to assassinate someone 
 with a one shot sniper kill. sure the campaign is over in a flash but you will be replaying the 
 missions over and over again straining yourself on veteren mode and rounding up your high scores 
 in arcade mode .but now to the best part the online bit which is probaly the best in the world. you 
 will probaly die a lot at first but when you get your first kill you will be waving your arms in 
 triumph just make sure your not shot while doing this ^_^. after just 4 lvls up you will be able 
 to create your own class which makes thing realy exiting since as you lvl up you can get realy 
 fun perks such as martydom which lets you let off a grenade when you die giving some realy cheap 
 kills but a glorious revenge. dont forget about the chalenges as when you complete all of them for 
 a certain weopon you get a gloden gun version of it pretty cool but it dosnt have any special abilitys 
 just looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeBreww
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitly the best in the series. I was starting to get sick of WWII, in all 
 of their previous ones. This game is just non stop action from beginning to end. You will be able 
 to beat it in a weekend, but I would definitly recommend playing this game first time through, 
 on hard. It won't be as short.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is fantastic overall. You will have a variety of things to do, including 
 a sniper mission, airplane bombing, to being in a video as a hostile in campaign, but with the 
 side of online multiplayer, You will playing this game for a long time. You do get a extra level 
 once you beat the game called high mile club, where you're in a airplane, trying to rescue someone 
 being held captive. It's actually quite challenging trying to beat it on all four difficulties. 
 The ai is really smart to. They hide, and don't come running up to you randomly. You have lots 
 of different guns too, and even more to choose from online.
  
  Graphics/Visuals- The graphics are really great looking, all of the bodies of your enimies look 
 very nice, and the movements of the marines look very realistic. The lighting is also great too. 
 The visuals look good, mostly there will just be mountains in the distance, not alot more. 
  
  Sound- The sound is great. guns sound very good, explosions of cars and other things sound 
 great too. 
  
  Online- Like I said, online will definitly keep you playing this game. It's probably my favorite 
 thing in this game. You go up in ranks or levels, as you keep playing and you get to create your 
 own classes, and there is lots of levels to play from. There also a variety of different modes 
 you can play including, free for all, team deathmach, search and destroy, hardcore team deathmach, 
 hard core search and destroy, and old school cage maches (1 on 1) . 
  
  Bad- Not much, mabey a few glitches here and there, bodies somtimes, glitch up online awkardly, 
 somtimes you'll shoot at people online. and it won't effect them, like its not responding or something, 
 I really don't know. 
  
  But overall this game is fantastic, and I would definitly recommend it. Just play it on hard, your 
 first time through, and the game will last longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwhitby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the campaign. the campaign is a really gripping experience due to amazingly smooth 
 gameplay along with a pretty large degree of variety. from storming a ship to stealthily sneaking 
 past patrols of enemies in guilly suits. it really makes you want to see what kind of experience 
 the next mission will bring. You are also spoiled by the graphics which are highly polished and 
 textures which cant be challenged by any other game. However the campaign is too short and you 
 could easily complete it in one sitting. However the short campaign is made up for by a rewarding 
 multiplayer that allows you to play in your own style due to the create a class feature so if you 
 want to be stealthy you can. all you have to do is choose your gun and choose perks which can do 
 a range of various things including extra bullet damage, uav jammers, better accuracy, extra sprinting 
 distances and many more. so if you want an intense campaign or a good online shooter make sure 
 you check out call of duty 4 modern warfare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooman214
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  If you have played RFOM and you completely loved the game from the single-player to the multiplayer 
 experience, then you must own Call of Duty 4. Here are two big reasons why:
  1) Gameplay: The gameplay for this title is so amazing, it is kinda hard to describe. The way guns 
 handle to the AI of the enemy and allies is so life-like in my opinion. The single-player campaign 
 is somewhat short but it is still very fun to play through. But the multiplayer is the reason to 
 own this game. 
  2) Multiplayer: The multiplayer on this game is very addicting. The way everything is set up is 
 nice. The gaining of XP is done in my opinion very nicely. After every round, the game tells you 
 how much further until you get to the next rank. Unlike RFOM, when you level-up you actually get 
 rewarded with new weapons, challenges, and perks to customize your character in your own class. 
 Also the classes that are presented from the start are nice also, so you don't have to worry about 
 running around the map trying to pick whatever weapon that you might want, instead you have it 
 from the beginning.
  So if you want to enjoy a rich multiplayer and single-player game, then go out and pick this game 
 up. But be warned that when you first get online you might have some problems with a little things 
 called the "Downloading Game Settings" message. If you see this message just go to the boards on 
 either gamespot. com or charlieoscardelta. com (cod. com) and you should be able to find a way to fix 
 it, I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macdaddy0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a modern day shooter. This is a very new approach compared to the rest of the 
 series, which is usually focused during the world wars. Even though it's Eidos's first time creating 
 a modern shooter, they did a fantastic job! The story line is well put together and so is the game 
 play, making this a need-to-own top seller. If you own a ps3 there is no way you should go through 
 2008 without having this game.
  
  The online aspect of Call of Duty 4 is most likely the main reason why it is so amazing. There 
 is wide range of weapon capabilities and a good selection of game modes to choose from. Some types 
 of game modes are team deathmatch, free for all, and then there's my personal favorite, (hardcore) 
 search and destroy. This game mode is like a socom set-up, if you die you have to wait until everyone 
 else does or the objective is destroyed to respawn. But there is very good exp involved which helps 
 get you into prestige. A person can choose to enter prestige if they have reached level 55 (5000exp 
 after reaching 55) . If you choose to enter prestige mode you lose everything you have except your 
 world rank/stats and clan tag. In return though, you gain a new rank symbol that symbolizes you 
 have gone prestige. There are 10 of these, if you are able to get to the last one you have proven 
 yourself to be a true hardcore Call of Duty 4 player. 
  
  The one drawback of this game seems to be that the amazing online play takes away from the offline 
 experience. Even I tried the campaign when I first got the game, but the more I played online the 
 more I forgot about finishing the rest of the story. Besides that, the game is extremely well-rounded 
 and if you own a PS3 then you need to buy Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONbonSMITH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is must have game. Throw away the things you've heard about single player not being 
 long enough, it just doesn't matter. The single player mode is so immersive you won't want to stop, 
 I didn't. Single player isn't all it has to offer, online multiplayer and arcade mode make it all 
 well balanced. Running at 720p also brings a lot to the table.
  The control set-up was very well done, the one button grenade toss back was an improvement from 
 CoD 3's 2 button toss back. Using the R2/L2 buttons on the SIXAXIS is a pain no matter what game 
 you're playing, developers should keep this in mind. Overall it's really easy to just pick it up 
 and start shooting away without a problem, that's all we can ask. Also the variety of guns is very 
 pleasing, 4 different types of pistols, a collection of assault rifles, light machine guns, sub 
 machine guns and sniper rifles. In single player you some different models of the guns you see 
 in multiplayer, but you don't get to pick your attachments. Online its all up to you though, attachments 
 include grenade launcher, silencer, red dot sight, light machine gun grips and ACOG scopes which 
 are top of the line. The quality of attachments depend on how many kills you get with a certain 
 weapon, get 150 kills with a certain weapon and you'll unlock all the attachments. Skins for your 
 weapon are a different story, you'll get woodland and desert skin standard, but you can unlock 
 digital camo, blue tiger camo and with 150 headshots you unlock red tiger camo and if you complete 
 all challenges in a weapon group you get a gold skin unlocked for one of those weapons. As you 
 probably already know, you gain levels through competing in online matches, don't get discouraged 
 at first, it's different from other online shooters and can be a little tricky. Once you max out 
 on lvl 55 you have a choice of continuing on and starting over again, but with all your stats and 
 a different looking metal, or you can keep with it and keep all your goodies and finish the challenges 
 off.
  You don't need think twice about adding this to your library if you like FPS' and have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elmetfano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Man oh man, what can I say about COD4, well IT IS A MASTERPIECE! every aspect of the game is amazing. 
 Gameplay, awesome. Multiplayer, awesome. Graphics, awesome. Well I pretty much gave an awesome 
 for the big 3 things you look for in a game. COD4 is a 1st person shooter that takes place during 
 "modern warfare." The campaign may be short but you will have fun with it. But lets get to the 
 multiplayer, something you can easily spend all day on. You get to customize everything your soldier 
 equipes/does. by does I mean there are perks. Perks for example would be "Increased health" or 
 "Last Stand" (when it looks like your dead, you draw your pistol wile fireing on you back till 
 you truely die"
  I mean the games great, you have to pick it up as your next game if you already havent. Your missing 
 out BIG TIME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  UI admit it. I'm not amazing on First Person Shooters. I'm about average at them, I can beat some 
 people, but most people always beat me.
  
  Saying that, I do really enjoy them.
  
  And from what I have played, there are two very different typres of FPSs.
  
  The first is the 
 usual one, which includes games like Timesplitters.
  
  The second are ones set around a war. Now these tend to be very different, for some strange reason, 
 and I, like many people, don't enjoy them as much.
  
  Still, I'm not here to talk about FPSs in general, I'm here to talk about Call Of Duty 4. Now, 
 don't expect any comparison between this and the previous Call Of Duty games, because it's impossible 
 (seen as I haven't playd any of the previous games!)
  
  Frankly, it's an amazing game. It fits very nicely in between those two types of FPS I've been 
 talking about, and is such an impressive game.
  
  Take the first level for example. After the training, you head out in a helicopter, towards a large 
 cargo ship. You have to infultrate the ship, and steal something from inside. It sounds typical 
 of this type of game, and it IS typical of this type of game, until you start getting off the ship. 
 I won't tell you exactly what happens, because that will ruin the surprise and realism of the game 
 when you play it, but this next part feels frantic, feels real, and just makes you feel as though 
 you really are there! I'm not just saying that, this is an experience that is more powerful than 
 any other game I've ever played.
  
  I mean, look at the titles screen! The entire titles is played like a movie, with you seeing from 
 the eyes of an important political person, being dragged into a car, and being driven around a 
 run down city. What's more, you can look around, and watch events going on around the city, such 
 as people being chased by soldiers, being killed, and loads of other things going on. Meanwhile, 
 the names of the people who made the game are appearing on the screen.
  
  It's a revolutionary game, unlike anything you will probably ever play!
  
  Specs:
  
  Graphics:
 
  Excellent, really, very good. As good as you'd expect from a Next-Gen console, and some of the 
 best graphics I've ever seen. 9/10
  
  Sound:
  Sound effects are very realistic, with enough background sounds to make it feel just realistic 
 enough. 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The actual gameplay is excellent, it doesn't faulter, or spend much time loading, it just plays 
 very smoothly. 8/10
  
  Storyline:
  One of the most involved storylines I've ever experienced, which really gets you involved. 9/10
 
  
  Controls:
  The controls are also very good, they make you feel like you know exactly what you're doing, and 
 are so so easy to pick up! 8/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is seriously awesome. Very intense, yet very team based. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espioage
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This has won and been nominated for loads of awards. The game blows you away and can be described 
 in one word, perfect. This is excellent on single-player and online. Since i have got PSN i have 
 been constantly playing online. I try to play as long as i can. If you buy this game you'll cancel 
 all future plans and forget about every other game you own. You may as well sell all your games 
 because you won't want to play anything else. CoD4 blows every war, well really every other game 
 at the moment, out of the water. Theres really only one word to describe the game, its perfect. 
 It still surprises me how Infinity Ward could make the game so good. I am definitely going to be 
 looking out for CoD5. The graphics are immense. If you own a PS3 buy this game now. The future 
 looks good for games and Infinity Ward.
  
  Warning: May result you to spend all day on your console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Thats right this game is the best shooter i have ever played!
  
  The game has everything you need great gameplay, tight controls, great single player, and a incredible 
 online multi player.
  
  The weapons in call of duty are amazing they sound and look spectacular. Everything about them 
 is perfect and there all evened out quite well there isnt one gun that is a whole lot better then 
 any of the other guns so you'll never be at a disadvantage.
  
  The single player of call of duty is great it isn't the best but this game isn't really made for 
 the single player action. in my opinion i loved the storyline but just found it a little to short. 
 The A. I was brilliant even though they did tend to charge at you a couple of times. On the medium 
 difficulty it should only take a person around 6-8 hours to finish the campaign.
  
  Now the best part of call of duty which separates it from any other shooter is it's multi player, 
 its amazing there is nothing i could think of to change it. To sum it up you need to get kills, 
 and do other objectives. When you do this you gain XP when you gain XP you rank up when you rank 
 up you get new weapons and perks, and it continues.
  
  To sum it all up BUY THIS GAME! you wont regret it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdaddyoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait. The single player part of the game is somewhat short, but yet still 
 challenging and interesting to play. As for the multiplayer portion, this part is very well planned 
 out. From design your own classes to gaining EXP point to just plain old online shooter fun. The 
 multiplayer part completely makes up for the short yet great single player campaign. If you own 
 a PS3 the HD quality of the image is overwhelming. The maps are highly rich with lots of places 
 to hide or to set traps, and verity of playing is also quite fulfilling. Anywhere from full blow 
 out of ground war ( that includes team death matches, domination, and free-for-all) to a little 
 bit more tactical ( headquarters, subotage) . Mind you, you don't get every one of these types from 
 the beginning, you have to earn them by playing and gaining exp point and getting promoted along 
 the ranks. Like previously mentioned, well planned out multiplayer side to this game. Definitely 
 a must own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Great Multiplayer, its great due to the multiplayer set-up, Like the level ups, the ranks, the weapons, the 
 challenges and the game modes!, this game has a great multiplayer because of that, more first-person-shooters 
 should have this kind of multiplayer set-up, Bad Offline Multiplayer, NO BOTS, HARD 3-player splitscreen, its 
 no fun if you are only 2 people playing it..., now to the Graphics, STUNNING, imagine from the old 
 games, what a great improvement, this game has state-of-the-art graphics it is amazing, Infinity 
 Ward did a really good job on this catagory of the game, The physics may have flaws but still good, now 
 lets get to the story, WOW!!! amazing story i dont wanna spoil it so... better not for the ones 
 who didnt finish it. great ending, SHORT but not easy... that is the only flaw... SHORT... My Opinion 
 Is GET THIS GAME if you dont YOUR MISSING A GREAT LIFE EXPERIENCE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been one of the most impressive WW2 games around, offering pitch perfect 
 gameplay, awe inspiring graphics, immersive sound effects, and multiplayer to die for. With Call 
 of Duty 4, the game makes a daring move to modern warfare, and you know what? It pays off.
  
  As soon as the first level begins, you can't help yourself but stare open mouthed at the spectacular 
 graphics. Textures look real and 3d, no more flat walls to look at. Characters show emotion and 
 move realistically. Light reflects and refracts just as it does in reality. And that's just the 
 first level. When combat kicks in, you get even more astounding effects including heat blur from 
 rifles, motion blur from narrowly missing bullets, realistic looking smoke trails from those deadly 
 RPG wielding terrorists. Everything looks and feels as it should, which is frankly quite terrifying 
 when you're hunkered behind a car under heavy fire when a grenade lands right next to your feet.
 
  
  The sound is just as pitch perfect as the graphics. Rifles sound deep and deadly. The dreaded metallic 
 sound of frag grenades landing near you is terrifying. Bullets scream past you as you hunker behind 
 cover. Your allies call out enemy locations realistically, and your foes scream at you and each 
 other in their native tongue. The voice acting of the main characters is superb, from the highly 
 disciplined SAS operatives Captain Price and Gaz, to the somewhat less disciplined antics of Marine 
 Recon Sgt. Griggs.
  
  With all the initial emphasis being on graphics and sound, it seemed as though gameplay had been 
 pushed to the sidelines, but not so. The single player campaign isn't very lengthy, but it is white 
 knuckled raw and brutal action at it's best. There's never a dull moment during the campaign and, 
 as you get used to the game, the harder difficulties offer a perfect challenge to test your skills. 
 Playing the game on veteren is stupidly hard, it just forces you to plan your attacks and movements. 
 It forces you to be careful and, as such, it forces you to act far more realistically in the given 
 circumstance.
  
  The meat of the game isn't single player though. The multiplayer in COD has been completley redone, 
 and boy is it addictive. As you play, you gain experiance which contributes to your promotion. 
 With each promotion you unlock certain items, such as different game types, new weapons or perks 
 to put in a custom class, or challenges. This adds a whole new dimension to the game as you try 
 to rank up as fast as you can to get to a really cool item that wanted.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is a solid FPS that scores high on just about every front. The only 
 negative about it is that the single player campaign is short, but that's just a testament to how 
 good the game is, because you don't want it to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srpots
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  The single player is good but not great. At times it was boring and only towards the end could 
 I find myself playing more than two levels at a time before switching over to multiplayer. It really 
 picks up in the end. If you don't have wireless internet then I would suggest that you only rent 
 the game next weekend; you can beat the game within 6-8 hours.
  
  The multiplayer is worth $100 alone. The level system adds some interest to it; it gives you some 
 motivation and with 550 levels (55 levels and you can repeat the levels up to ten times) . There 
 are a few problems like sometimes the teams are unbalanced (a few times everybody on one team had 
 over 10 kills while nobody on the other team had more than 5 kills) . Also in the free-for-alls 
 the starting points are so close together you can take three steps forward and be shot from behind 
 even on bigger maps. A few times I've been killed by an airstrike, respawned, and killed by the 
 same airstrike. These problems aren't much of a problem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a First Person Shooter created by Infinity Ward. After a boat 
 load of FPS' s set during the WWII timeframe, COD4 breaks the mold and places you within various 
 environments (mainly urban) during modern times. This is a HUGE change as it gives the game a unique 
 fresh feeling. Personally, FPS' are not my forte, however, after playing this game my feelings 
 for the genre began to change. 
  
  Somebody who is not a fan of FPS' can complete the single player campaign on normal in a little 
 over six hours. It will seem shorter than that due to the fact that the game is so faced paced 
 and well stylized that you become totally immersed in the ordeal. Graphically, the game is stunning 
 and can be arguably called the best visual experience on a console yet. Most models within the 
 game represent their real world counterparts very well. The physics engine is very good as smoke, 
 explosions, dust, gravity, etc. all behave as if you're in a real world warzone. The only hitch 
 I have with the game (noticed during the sniper mission) is that the grass doesn't perform how 
 you'd expect. I would've loved to see it sway in the wind and flow as if it had life to it, but 
 it just stands still. This isn't a big issue and doesn't take away from the overall experience 
 at all, however, it was a deflating moment for me personally.
  
  On a brief tangent, all I have to say is that I loved the sniper mission. I was completely immersed 
 in the situation especially when I entered the open field. The fast paced action until the moment 
 you're rescued is top notch and definitly one of the high points during the single player campaign.
 
  
  The sound effects and voice acting are great. The voice actors do a wonderful job and perform as 
 if you're watching a five star war flick... very believe able. The AI will flank your position throw 
 grenades you threw at them and generally put a good fight throughout the campaign and helps contribute 
 to the long lasting impression of the game. 
  
  The game's online modes flourishes and makes for one of the best multiplayer experiences to date. 
 You can request your friends to join your party, which is not too common on many PSN games (unfortunatly) 
 and take on the world through the traditional game modes such as: Capture the Flag, Death Match 
 and Team Death Match. You rank up after receiving experience points, which is key to your success 
 within the game. Once you rank up you can unlock better weapons and upgrade the various classes, 
 which in the long run will give you better tools to destroy your foes and claim domination over 
 all!!! If you're a fan of First Person Shooters or titles with great gameplay, Call of Duty 4 is 
 a title definetly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COOWMAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to begin? You start out with campaign mode, which is pretty much training for the online 
 mode. Many people have cited it for being too short, but for the quality of the storyline and the 
 look of the game, the campaign is great. The guns sound really good and there are some fun cheats 
 to put on too.
  
  Next is the online mode; one of the best for the PS3 to date. It's got a great ranking system, 
 weapon system and a new feature, the perk system. This lets you choose perks that your custom class 
 will have like an RPG or Martyrdom (where you drop a grenade each time you die.) It runs really 
 smoothly, although there is the occasional lag issue, but it doesn't happen too often. The online 
 also had problems on the PS3 where it was very difficult to join games, but it has since been fixed. 
 Another problem is that if you have a mic, there are some higher level people and clans who get 
 kinda cocky, but I've only encountered this twice since I got it in December.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is definitely a big step for the Call of Duty series. It has an amazing, 
 but short, campaign, but when that is over, the online comes into play and it will have you hooked 
 for a very long time. I HIGHLY recommend this game!
  
  P. S. If you're looking for a clan, we're recruiting. Just add the tag CRZY when you get the chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, I've always loved the CoD franchise. I knew at one point a lot of WWII game devs would change 
 their mind about the time they will put their game in. When CoD4 was announced, the near future 
 time was a selling point right there. The hype for this game had me going for a long, long time. 
 Then I finally got the game... and I loved the single player campaign. It had twists which was 
 much needed in FPS games. I'm not sure if I really can say it was predictable or not, because I 
 for one didn't see the twist in the middle of the game and I'm not sure exactly how many people 
 did. But then the game ended. Just like that. The team tactics and whatnot were great until the 
 last 2-3 missions when it became an all out war with a team of 2-6 people. I enjoyed the frustration 
 none the less. But the multiplayer is the key point. I. Am. Addicted to the multiplayer. The only 
 thing that irks me about games now is less attention to single player modes and too much time developing 
 for multiplayer. I call this Halo Syndrome. Thanks to a less than medicore game and medicore online 
 full of 8yr olds crying, every FPS thinks that's the winning formulae. Nigh. But this multiplayer 
 is addicting even when the 8yr olds come online screaming because they don't stay too long anyways. 
 And people for the most part have slight tactic in their ways of playing that actually make the 
 game seem more team effective and a bit more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhipMyAss
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  A neat feature to the plot is that you play as two different soldiers, one for the British and 
 the other an American. Creating a cool sense of both forces and where in the world they struggle 
 for peace. It is a standard plot line, terrorists are at it again, and the two super powers of 
 the world need to knock some sense into some people.
  
  What makes the plot great is the total realism of the game, in all aspects, but the characters 
 make you remember their names and their attitudes. So when the lead starts to fly, you want all 
 your comrades to make it out alive.
  
  The voice acting is simply terrific, along with an excellent selection of music to set the heroic 
 war tone.
  
  Graphically speaking, this game lets you know your playing a next gen console (or really high end 
 PC for you rich folk) . Amazing attention to detail with the textures, animation and the effects 
 of war on each environment. The screen tilts when a ship is swaying or when your dazed and almost 
 unconscious. During a stealthy sniping level, when ducking into the grass, your so close each blade 
 and it still looks very good.
  
  Each level has a sense of individuality and no real repetition as well. That being said, its hard 
 for this game to repeat itself, with such a short campaign.
  
  Game play wise, best shooter I have ever played (yes I've played Halo 3, and Golden eye) . Beautiful 
 selection of weapons to use, and each one has a different feel.
  
  All in all, it comes down to a few things. The campaign is short and intense. The online is amazing 
 and rewarding with unlockables and leveling up, you'll be busy for weeks. Some portions of the 
 game, they should have added filler, unlike the level where you stumble around for fifteen seconds 
 then die. Yes, you can replay that if you feel the need to stumble around drunk style in a video 
 game. No vehicle portions leave an empty sense in the whole experience though. As a PS3 owner, 
 I can't really recommend a better game, except Uncharted. 
  
  The only bad thing, is that it's too short, i finished the Story Mode in less than 2 days, and 
 only played for 6 hours total.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The first war related FPS I ever played was Call of Duty 2 for the 360. Up until that point, I 
 was squeamish about the concept of playing a game based on a real war, an event that took so many 
 lives and in the case of WW2 devastated much of the western world. I played the demo on XBOX Live 
 however and 20 minutes later found myself driving to a store to find and play what was an enjoyably 
 tense and somber game. I played Call of Duty 3 at launch and found it just as satisfying. But when 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was announced I was back where I started again, dealing with playing 
 a violent game that was mirroring real-life events, and not ones from 60 years ago but ones happening 
 right now. The great word-of-mouth the game has received compelled me to buy the game and I found 
 it to be an even more respectful (and dare I say enjoyable) portrayal of the human sacrifice involved 
 with human conflict.
  
  As I found myself not that impressed with the opening and first levels I assumed the good word-of-mouth 
 was being circulated by those who had hitherto been sitting out the current generation of war shooters 
 (having been fatigued with the WW2 genre) . As I progressed through the game though I found that 
 the developer, Infinity Ward (who produced the first, second but not third release) , was somehow 
 able to ramp up my involvement with each level of FPS and on-rails shooter action. If you are like 
 me you will find yourself in one previously unexploited use of on-rails-shooter saying to yourself, 
 "Okay, now I get what the buzz was about". And you will expect to see that game mechanic repeated 
 -- but it never is, as are none of the unique twists of play found throughout the game. 
  
  The non-repeating aspect of the game's special moments build on each other bringing back a sense 
 of what it was like to play an 8-bit platformer, a never ending,  
 romp toward the finish. Which brings up the matter of the length of Call of Duty 4. It is short. 
 Ordinarily, in fact, uniformly, I have disagreed with any criticism of a game being too short, 
 but in this case I was shocked when the end credits rolled (even knowing going into it that the 
 game was decried as short) . The bonus mini-level that follows after the credits indicates that 
 perhaps Infinity Ward would have preferred to of added a level or two if not for the requirement 
 of Activision to release a new Call of Duty each fiscal year. 
  
  For the purposes of this review the multi-player mode (which is wildly popular) remained un-played, 
 but I know for a fact that I will replay Call of Duty 4 and even for the 5-6 hours of Campaign 
 mode call of duty 4 is a tremendous value that is truly enjoyable to anyone who loves the FPS genre.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Never much of a fan for first person shooters, as they always seemed to lack the substance of my 
 beloved adventure and RPG games, Call of Duty 4 taught me a lesson I'll never forget.
  
  A neat feature to the plot is that you play as two different soldiers, one for the British and 
 the other an American. Creating a cool sense of both forces and where in the world they struggle 
 for peace. It is a standard plot line, terrorists are at it again, and the two super powers of 
 the world need to knock some sense into some people.
  
  What makes the plot great is the total realism of the game, in all aspects, but the characters 
 make you remember their names and their attitudes. So when the lead starts to fly, you want all 
 your comrades to make it out alive.
  
  The voice acting is simply terrific, along with an excellent selection of music to set the heroic 
 war tone.
  
  Graphically speaking, this game lets you know your playing a next gen console (or really high end 
 PC for you rich folk) . Amazing attention to detail with the textures, animation and the effects 
 of war on each environment. The screen tilts when a ship is swaying or when your dazed and almost 
 unconscious. During a stealthy sniping level, when ducking into the grass, your so close each blade 
 and it still looks very good.
  
  Each level has a sense of individuality and no real repetition as well. That being said, its hard 
 for this game to repeat itself, with such a short campaign.
  
  Game play wise, best shooter I have ever played (yes I've played Halo 3, and Golden eye) . Beautiful 
 selection of weapons to use, and each one has a different feel.
  
  All in all, it comes down to a few things. The campaign is short and intense. The online is amazing 
 and rewarding with unlockables and leveling up, you'll be busy for weeks. Some portions of the 
 game, they should have added filler, unlike the level where you stumble around for fifteen seconds 
 then die. Yes, you can replay that if you feel the need to stumble around drunk style in a video 
 game. No vehicle portions leave an empty sense in the whole experience though. As a PS3 owner, 
 I can't really recommend a better game, except Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-shot3369
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i've played for the ps3. The graphics are almost perfect and you couldn't 
 even ask for more from the game play. Online mode is dank and i can't get enough of it. This game 
 takes a little strategy which makes it better because you can't just run out in the middle of the 
 playing field and try to kill people. The only negative about the online play is they don't do 
 a good job matching you up with your ability. you will soon get over it though. 
  
  I can't talk a lot about the campaign because i have been playing online for most of the time. 
 Some situations feel very hard in the campaign which gets kind of annoying. The campaign isn't 
 what makes this game, but what it seems like in the first couple levels it seems worth finishing 
 it. I would say this game competes with halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KS_Oblivion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty francise has produced many great first person, WW2, shooters before. But this 
 new step into Modern Warfare surpasses any Call of Duty predecesor that I have seen or played. 
 The single player has not only a good story for a shooter but a good difficuty that some veteran 
 players will enjoy. While the single player is terrific the multiplayer just destroys the single 
 player in comparrison. You start with lowest rank of 1, at this point of time you have no privilages, 
 just to go into the match with already assembled "Classes" to use, each beggining class has five 
 primary weapons and different abilities with them. As you gain rank you climb the leaderboards 
 and start earning more stuff, and are soon able to create your own class. Which can lead to some 
 sense of achivement if youve assembled a piece of work that earns you kill after kill. Generally 
 if there is another addition to Call of Duty, I will wait eagerly for it if it's anything as good 
 as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenture333x2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern warfare. Buy this game. Don't just rent it. Buy it. Trust me you will not 
 be disappointed. Let me start with the single-player campaign. True, it is a little short, but 
 it is sweet. The story line great, and the is pretty challenging on higher difficulties. Try beating 
 the epilogue on Veteran. The single campaign focuses very heavily on teamwork, and you get to know 
 the characters around you well. Sgt. Briggs, Cpt. Price, Gaz. All good buddies of mine. As cool 
 as the single player is, one must remember that, in essence, it is only training for the true war 
 that lies ahead. Multi-player.
  You can hook up four controllers and play split screen with your friends. It's great, don't get 
 me wrong, but when go online the Call of Duty world opens up. When you first start out, don't get 
 discouraged, you are probably going to lose... badly. That's the beauty of this game though. You 
 will get better. Your levels will increase, and you will unlock new weapons. With these weapons 
 come challenges. As you complete these challenges, you gain more experience, and unlock attachments 
 for said weapons. Scopes, silencers, and so forth. You can start playing this game, and get lost 
 in it for hours at a time. The competition is intense, and there are always experience points at 
 stake. The downfall to this mode, and it can be a huge downfall at times, is that there is no way 
 to turn off people talking into their headsets. Even if you do not own one, peoples voices still 
 come out through your speakers loud and clear. I can not tell you how annoying this can be. You 
 will hear babies crying in the background, parents yelling at their kids, profanity, racism, people 
 talking on the phone, and lots of smack talk. Eventually you get used to it though, and only the 
 game becomes important. As you level up, you become more evenly matched, the competition becomes 
 more intense, and the banter gets to the point where it is useful. 
  All in all, this game is great. Simple, yet complex, it will entertain gamers of all types. It 
 is a must have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: assault120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  If you have played previous Call of Duty games you know the quality that goes into the gameplay. Never 
 overly to difficult for a first timer. Much of the combat is very similiar to previous COD games. 
 The objectives are always short enough to keep the player involved. What sets this Call of Duty 
 game apart from it's previous incarnations is the amount of realism that has gone into it. In single 
 player Campaign mode, you're a first person shooter (soldier) on the frontlines, and primarily 
 you're playing two separate, interlacing missions as two different characters. You also play a 
 cool, flashback side story as a sniper in a ghillie suit (camouflage clothing) . But mostly you 
 play in current times with a team of characters that are truly your band of AI brothers; the help 
 you might get from your team is based on the difficulty setting you've chosen. The graphics and 
 sound are so real that you could almost think your watching a movie. I finished the campaign mode 
 in one day. Its short but awesome and especially Sniper mission is so intense. Multiplayer is also 
 addictive. Pick up this game at all cost!!! its really the best game for online playing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardj692000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day i played BF2 and BF2147, I play these no more will a weapon be fired from richardj692000, 
 for there is Call of Duty 4!!
  
  Graphic on the PS3 on HD are amazing, at the moment this is the only game i have that runs on 1080i, 
 and wow, i've never seen anything like it. Aside from the graphics the games single player is a 
 heart stopping minefield of explosions, war hell, and i don't think theres enough room for all 
 the words to describe the single player game. By now you know its short, but the replay value is 
 great. each level is totally different and could be played differently each time. The gameplay 
 has no faults from what i can tell. But if you do get bored with shotting A. I then switch to multiplayer.
 
  
  If you don't have an internet connection on your PS3 then get one for this game! Online is awesome, 
 if your still slugging it out on Resistance fall of man then stop, smack yourself one and hope 
 down to the shop, no run, and get this game, No medal for wiping yr arse on a poor dead guy u knifed 
 (i'm not joking in R: FOM there is a medal for this) just good old points from the likes of BF2 
 to increase your rank when you shoot 150 poor noobs with an M16. There are also tonnes of different 
 game modes which are all soo much fun, the only thing you will get down about is if your like me 
 and want to get all the bonuses from shooting people, is that some of the weapons are like water 
 pistols at long range compared to others, but sill your compelled to best every weapon. Each weapon 
 is also customisable in attachments and skins aswell as your character with things called "perks" 
 which allow you nice extras in game like shoot the git that nailed you before u die and the annoying 
 drop a grenade when u die. The only thing you can't customised is the way u look but who cares.
 
  
  Right now the downside, connections can get a little problematic, sometimes you can wait up to 
 10mins to join a game, which tends to get annoying when the host decides to end the game 2 seconds 
 after it starts. Other issues are well up to you, theres nothing more annoying then someone killing 
 u with one shot after you've unloaded a clip in to them, or miss that headshot. But if you can't 
 cope with that then your in the wrong game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jckpodkid2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is my favorite game of all time. Some might not agree but how can't 
 you with the exciting single player campaign and the even more exciting Multiplayer. Create a class 
 is probably one of my favorite additions to the online portion of the game. Being able to customize 
 your guys weapons and perks is awesome. Perks are another very ingenious thing that I love about 
 this game. Your soldier is fully customizable for your online play. Although the weapon challenges 
 aren't very creative the other challenges such as the Boot Camp or Humiliation challenges are awesome 
 and to some unbeatable. While some would say that the lack of an outstanding single player campaign 
 hurt the game greatly. They are absolutely insane. To those of you who say Halo 3 is better than 
 this game you guys are crazy. A realistic military game will always beat a Sci-fi over rated game. 
 Now I am not saying that I don't like Halo. I am just saying that those of you who think Halo is 
 a million times better than COD4 are crazy. To those of you who do not have this wonderful game 
 and are debating on what to spend your money on, go with this one and I promise you that you won't 
 regret it. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is positively the best game out on the market as of right 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austrianator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warefare, surely is the best Call of Duty game ever. The story mode except 
 for being modern war fare though is much like the other games, it has the same length and you basically 
 do the same stuff, still i liked the story mode. The online play is amazing. It is certainly the 
 best First Person Shooter online!!!!! It is basically impossible to ever get bored of the online 
 play, it is totally adicting!!!!!!!!!! There is a huge variety of different game types to choose 
 from, over 40 weapons, a great voice chat, there are many different ranks that you will achieve 
 as you progress on through the online play and gain experience, you will also unlock new challenges 
 that are really challenging, and unlock new weapons and perks that will allow you to uprgrade your 
 weapon class; one of the best things is that you can create your own class, choose whatever gun 
 you would like with any perk of your choise, and you can even add and invite friends while you 
 are playing a game. The maps are really cool though I wish there were a little bit more, they ceep 
 making more maps as the months go by, but I wish there would have been more to begin with. This 
 game was totally worth its price, especially for me I got it for 37 dollars new. So as you see 
 this game is really impossible to ever get board of even if you finisch the story mode!!! I would 
 say ITS A MUST HAVE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Cosmonaut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer, but it lasts for a short time.
  When I bought the game I expected to get my moneys worth, and I actually did. I was a little 
 
  hesitative on spending $60 on it. But I can say now that if I payed 50 cents for every hour I 
 played this game it was worth it. Now to some of the bright sides. This game has awsome weapons, 
 and I love how you can customize them. The graphics are descent and the environment is solid. 
 
  The actual campain was almost like a movie and I loved it. Online however it is more like Counter 
 Strike, except better. I am dissapointed that you can not create your own person online, I mean 
 most of the characters look the same. I am really happy to say that I have not encountered any 
 cheaters or hackers. But there are here and there campers (but it is forgivable) . The online play 
 is pretty evend out. The teams are generally fair and people are cool. As of now I am on the verge 
 of my first prestige and I can say that I am getting a little bored. The challenges online are 
 something to look forward to but once you unlock them, you are sort of done with it. I mean I feel 
 like I have outplayed it and overplayed it. I guess as of now the only reason I play it is to boost 
 up my kill to death ratio. People should definetly try this game out. I loved the campaign and 
 I was surprised at some of the stuff that happens. I would have loved if they had included some 
 drivable vehicles online, but they didn't. Ohh yeaand by the way I am not looking forward to trading 
 in all my unlockables for a Prestige badge, it's a little ridiculous. 
  
  e-dub21 (my COD4 online name) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  COD has always beena great franchise even though Infinity Ward didn't make all of the games. It 
 was a WWII franchise, but this time, it made the jump to modern combat. 
  
  To start, the game looks fantastic. One of the best looking games on the PS3 at the moment. HD 
 is just a treat to look at and the immersion is fantastic. In game, one of the levels takes place 
 in Cherynoble and it has a strong resemblence to the real Cherynoble.
  
  The story of the game follows two soldiers. There are no cutscenes, but you gain an attatchment 
 to your characters. For a modern combat game about terrorists, the story is pretty good. 
  
  The single player aspect of the game is phenomenal. The enemies think and on the harder difficulties, 
 the game is one of the hardest shooters ever. There is a lot of trial and error invlolved, and 
 you will become frustrated. This gives you huge satisfaction when you beat a level after you just 
 died 20 times. There is even one level where you get to mow down troops from a gunship. It's hard 
 to fail, but it's just plain fun. Also, there is a sniping mission in Cherynoble. One of the most 
 fun missions ever. This game is worth $60 on the single player alone
  
  To back up the single player is one the greatest multiplayer experiences I have ever had the joy 
 of playing for many, many hours. You can customize you classes to gain an advantage over your opponents. 
 The levels, for the most part, are very good and the game modes are fantastic. Once you work your 
 way up to the top rank, you can reset your rank to get a sumbol next to your name. You can do this 
 10 whole times. It gives you the fun of rising in the rank and regaining your weapons over and 
 over again. The only fault is that there have been minor sever issues at times. The people online 
 are good, and you need to play smart to have good stats. I think that the multiplayer is also worth 
 $60.
  
  Basically, this game is just about perfect. Everything else seems so inferior after playing this. 
 If you don't own it, you should buy it immediatly. Even if your not a huge shooter fan, this is 
 one game that cannot be missed by anybody except for maybe a young child.
  
  B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has finally dropped the World War II genra to bring us Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
 If there is one thing the world could use less of, it is WWII shooters. COD4 is a modern FPS with 
 a short single player campaign and a great multiplayer game that will keep you going for hours 
 on end. As it seems with FPS games becoming more and more popular, COD4 stands head and sholders 
 above all others.
  
  The single player is very short, and I mean SHORT. I bet you racks up about five to six hours of 
 game play and that is it. Now although it maybe short it is still quite worth a run through at 
 least once. The quality of this game is beyond great, one of the best yet. The single player uses 
 multiple perspectives to lay the story out for you. You play as a United States Marine sometimes 
 and other as a British SAS operative. Now at first this might be confusing if you are not paying 
 close attention to the storyline. The best thing about the story mode is you can never guess what 
 happens next. Most of the time in shooters you do your mission and go home and the good guys always 
 win, well Call Of Duty 4 gives fresh slap in the face twists that will leave you amazed and surprised 
 from time to time. Though the game does leave you not carring much about what happens or about 
 the characters around you. There is alot of political jargon that gets in the way and kind of leaves 
 the mind wandering. Most times you go into a mission with no clue what is going on.
  
  The game play is quite standard as most shooters. You have a compass at the bottom of your screen 
 that points you in the direction you need to go, though it is not that easy. Though it shows you 
 where you have to go, there is no telling how to get there, except sometimes your team takes the 
 lead which makes it easier to know where to go. Sometimes you have to take the lead. Which you 
 will have to pay close attention, because it could cost lives if you go the wrong way or lead everyone 
 into a battle that could have been avoided. You team for the most part is seemingly smart, until 
 you get into gun fights were your teammates can alot of time get in your line of site. In which 
 you must move to keep yourself from blowing their heads off. Other times they will be shooting 
 at someone a hundred yards away and not the guy five feet away that is shooting you. It leave you 
 wondering "Why do I have a team?" sometimes. Though that is the only real down fall to the single 
 player game, it does get annoying fast and will have you screaming at your television alot.
  
  The multiplayer game is by far untouchable by any other game to date. The most indepth multiplayer 
 game made and all online shooters should look to COD4 as the Bible of multiplayer shooters. The 
 multiplayer goes up to eighteen players at a time, which depending on the game style you choose 
 to play differs. There is a total of sixteen maps altogether. Most of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, cramped spaces where grenades and SMG's are the order of the day. There is a total of 
 six game type for you to choose from. The classics such as team deathmatch and "Free-for-all" (your 
 standard deathmatch) , which have their fun, but there is a few others that are more interesting. 
 The other match types are well more team objective-oriented in ways of placing a bomb on one of 
 two areas while the other team tries to stop you. Or one were both teams fign to capture conrtrol 
 points (flags) to gain points. Also there is a "old-school" mode which leaves weapons on the ground 
 for you to run over to pick up.
  
  Also making the online play more interesting and more competetive, you get some bonuses for having 
 high skills in the art of shooting. If you get three kills in a row you get to set up a UAV drone 
 that lets your team see where the enemy is for about 30 seconds on the map. After you get five 
 kills in a row, you get to set up an air strike located anywhere you choose on the map to plast 
 your enemy away. Then if you get to seven kills in a row, you get a chopper to come in and mow 
 down the enemy, which the enemies can shoot down. All of these are not at all hard to get, after 
 all you get kills for the air strike and chopper, so that only helps your odds of getting these 
 streaks.
  
  In multiplayer mode you basicly always be working teward something. Which is nice making the game 
 very addicting and hard to put down. Basicly everything you do in the game gets you experience 
 points for everything you do. Getting kills, capturing control points, planting bombs, defusing 
 bombs, all of it. All of these things gives you points that go tward your experience level, or 
 rank if you will. Most of the things in the multiplayer become unlocked in reaching surtain ranks.
 
  
  The class system is very innovative and interesting also. Each class has a different weapon loadout 
 and different traits, called perks. Ranking up also unlocks the ability to create your own classes. 
 This lets you pick your own main weapon, your sidearm, attachments for both weapons, what sort 
 of special grenades you want to carry, and three perks. The perks are broken up into three groups 
 to help keep things balanced, and as you continue to level up, you'll unlock additional perks long 
 the way. These class traits, or "perks" is what really drives COD4 online to go above and beyond 
 other online shooters. 
  
  Perks in the Perk 1 group are more focused on explosives, such as having extra nades, or special 
 nades like flash or smoke. Or letting you have RPG's (good for shooting down enemy choppers) or 
 C4. 
  Perks in Perk 2 have things like juggernaut which is extra health or slight of hand which lets 
 you reload your weapon much faster (my personal favorite) .
  Perks in Perk 3 are things like last stand, which activates when you are killed by dropping you 
 to the ground and switching you to a pistol, giving you a moment to kill the guy who took you out 
 before he realizes you're still alive. Maybe sometimes taking more than one out if you are lucky. 
 Or martyrdom (my perk 3 favorite) which when you are killed you drop a live nade to blow up any 
 enemies standing around you.
  
  There is so many reasons to play Call Of Duty 4. The single player is fun about sometimes over 
 annoying, the multiplayer is the best yet and thr graphics and sound of the game on both sides 
 is awesome. If you are looking for a great multiplayer shooter that will never get old than this 
 is the game for you. Addicting, innovative and all around fun for hours at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddyTheGunners
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok where shall i start. If your a FPS fan or just a mediocre gamer than you shouldn't think twice 
 about claiming this fantastic game, why? well thats simple, amazing graphics, quality gameplay 
 and the online is simply outstanding. 
  
  I must say the campaign mode is a bit short, a good 6 hours to complete, but online makes up for 
 it where you could put no end of days into it, let alone hours. Im not saying the campaign mode 
 is shabby, no not at all, the storyy is good, and the various missions are brill, but online is 
 great in everyway all the unlockables and customaziation of perks make the game far from being 
 tediou, and all the great maps and game modes provide lots of fun, and the great challenges provide 
 endless amounts of goals to claim.
  
  Overall the game is definately one not to miss out on, get to your local gaming shop or order for 
 tinternet now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmanassian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most aggressive games I ever played in any system so far!!! you're in an 
 actual war!! believe me, you feel it down to your nerves.
  Each time you get hit by a bullet, you feel it, and you say to yourself "Man this is painful", 
 and then you say "so that's how the war soldiers must feel"!
  On the box, they have put a sign 17+ or Mature, they must add another sign though: must be or have 
 been in the navy.
  This is one hell of a game, forget Resistance (which is not bad either) , this is pure brutality, 
 and pure enjoyment that you won't die in a war. 
  This is also some kind of a lesson for us who don't know what war is.
  As for the game quality, 
 it's superb, ultra realistic (although they could have done better with the water effects, but 
 hey, you can't have everything) , and you get hurt while playing (that realistic) .
  PS: you have to play the hard level to feel all of this.
  Also, on the realistic side of the 
 game, the enemy soldiers actually are numbered, not like other games where enemy soldiers keep 
 coming and coming out of nowhere. But, unfortunately, the latter is the case of the allies which 
 keep coming out of nowhere: you see your partner getting killed, and then, out of nowhere, here 
 comes another one.
  To wrap it all up, this is one shooter game worth playing more that Resistance and even I found 
 it better than Assassin's Creed if you ask me (which I own) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacobOniell
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  IF you own a ps3 u hav got 2 get call of duty 4 modern warfare! Trust me, you wont even have to 
 rent it for even a second! Once you get this game you will see exactly what I mean. The campaign 
 is terriffic, storyline awsome. But best of all, its online multiplayer. Its so easy and its totally 
 fun. so if you have a ps3 and you dont have cll of duty 4, you are really pathetic. And if you 
 dont believe me, then you dont know what the hell you're missing. because let me tell ya, this 
 game is perfect! IT sooooooooooo deserves a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  It is okay for xbox 360 but is awful on pc. But on play station 3, you better believe me because 
 you have got to get this  If i could put a higher rating on this 
 game, i totally would. And you would too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieren_h
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare
  
 
  The wait is over believe the hype and go out and buy it.
  
 
  It is REVOLUTIONARY!!!
  
 
  Say no more, once you play the first mission you know you used your
  money in a good way.
  ----------------------------------------------------
  The sound and visuals and perfect.
  The 
 gameplay is perfect.
  One of the best Sequels
  ----------------------------------
  I rate it 10/10 because it is simply out standing
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  (One of Greatest Games of All time - Call of Duty 4 Modern:
  Ultimate Combat
  Best Sound and Visuals)
  ---------------------------------
  Best bits in the game:
  ------------
 
  Sound
  Visuals
  Gameplay
  The Effects
  Missions
  Photorealisticality
  Almost like being in a real war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRoncevic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The only flaws I found are in the same general area. 
  
  You CANNOT shoot out lights and any other objects, i. e. - a carton of milk, a bottled drink, a 
 lamp, etc, react the same way when shot. A dent from the bullet appears, Fin. 
  
  Seeing that we are equipped with night vision goggles, I would have loved to be able to shoot out 
 the light in a room of enemies and see them scramble blindly as I plucked them one by one. 
  
  The PS3 system is for HD and after seeing other FPS games that utilize such possibilities, 
 I expected CoD4 to do the same. As for shooting the milk carton for the first time, I had expected 
 to see a stream of liquid to come pouring out, or some such effect. THIS IN NO WAY MAKES ME DISLIKE 
 THE GAME... simply put... I LOVE CoD4!
  
  Oh, and there are minor flaws online. For one, I cannot add a friend while running the game (which, 
 being new to PS3, I'm not sure any game allows) . 
  
  I wish finding a game online was more like Socom: Navy Seals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for 3 weeks now and I have already played it enough to realized that this 
 is the best game that I have ever played in my life. This game has to be the most perfect game 
 ever. I get about 165kb a second actual speed downloading which is about as low as you can go on 
 DSL. I also have a wireless internet that has a range of 90 feet. My PS3 catches the signal at 
 about 60-80% and its 2 floors above my wifi. Let me just tell you I get NO LAG AT ALL. The only 
 thing that is annoying which will soon be fixed because Activision is making a patch is when the 
 host leaves the whole game ends and it counts as a loss for everyone involved in the game even 
 if it says victory on your screen. Once that is fixed this game will be perfect. The graphics are 
 insane, the surround sound is amazing, the gameplay is perfect, even the weapons, perks, and the 
 way you move around the map is perfect. The game is not ruled by snipers or any type of weapon 
 whatsoever. There are many gameplay modes that are very fun to play. I think that all of them are 
 great and that you can play one game type in the beginning and never get bored of that game type. 
 Another thing that I found to be a very cool feature about this game is that it tells you your 
 stats in the game. It tells you how long you have played, your kills, deaths, kill to death ration, 
 accuracy, win loss ration, and your score so you can see how you stack up against the person who 
 is number one in the whole entire game. Good luck beating the guy in first place though the game 
 has been out for about 3 months and he played for 26 days. Another cool thing is that if you have 
 many friends like me you can see how you stack up against them by scores, kills, accuracy or whatever 
 you want. Trust me on this one this is the best game that you will ever buy for the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy8vien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of socom and I can't wait to see how it'll look like in a ps3 format but this game 
 really gives socom a fight in terms of my personal feelings, the game is well made it's really 
 hard to find any flaw in terms of gameplay and graphics. The multiplayer game is the bread and 
 butter of this game it has wide variety of maps and very well designed environment, my only problem 
 I find really annoying which they can improve upon is their servers, there's never a day where 
 I get disconnected during the game. But overall till socom comes out with this one will keep you 
 up all night.
  
  Another improvemnt I think that need to be pointed out are some of the perks are overpowered I'm 
 just thinking that they could have made it much better and a little bit sensible, for example the 
 perk martyrdom where when you "die" you drop a granade... i mean you're dead already... how're you 
 able to drop that nade again? lol... anyways like I said by far the best fps multiplayer out there 
 for ps3 so go and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyking_1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The online is a great way to learn new tactics and maneuvers. The story mode 
 is good, it's just that some levels are easy and others are hard. But if anyone were to get this 
 game they would want to play as if their very lives depended on it. It is a great sequel to the 
 last game. The great part is that you are not in World War I of II. Now you are in Modern Warfare. 
 The new weapons are awesome. My favorite is the Javelin and the shot gun. The Javelin joins up 
 in the air and goes down to the target. Of course the assault rifles and cool. If any body wants 
 to face me or want to team up with me just add Dragonhead_630 to your friends.
  This is the next generation shooting game. This game will be on the top for a good while, but if 
 any other game beats these graphics it will be another Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricey88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Hold and wait for my signal...... GO GO GO! Boom! striaght from the start this game grips you slap 
 bang in the action, then it drags you by the scruff of your neck in n out fire fights of the modern 
 day world war!! 
  
  Iv just completed the game and yess.... i did stop playing it mainly because i had work lol but 
 also i got stuck on this one mission when your a sniper and gotta be all sneaky. i just could do 
 it for the life of me, then my mate came along and told me i was going the wrong way lol silly 
 me. So after that i re-done the level and marched foward and sprayed my highly detailed weapon 
 to the end. Obvirously not in the same day. To be fair it did take me about a week of gameplay 
 to finish but the game is complete, theres soo many different other features such as, Arcade Mode, 
 Hidden items to collect, challanges to do (alot are very funny) and not to mention the awesome multiplayer 
 online mode!!!
  COD4 is more then a game its a movie with its cinemactic play and vast detial within the characters, 
 levels and motion effects.
  
  This Game has basicly it all if you love action, drama and blasting a machine gun at the goons 
 that come across your line of fire lol This game is a MUST BUY if you have a PS3.
  
  Well done insomniac!! (golf clap) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty:4 is the first call of duty game i have ever played. This game was AMAZING!!! The 
 single player is perfect. the online is the best online game EVER. Every thing about it is amazing!! 
 In the story mode and on online there are a whole bunch of different guns to choose from. Every 
 thing from a hand gun to a high powered sniper riffle. The graphics are just amazing. When u are 
 shooting someone every thing looks so real like the bullets, ur gun, and even a wooden box that 
 u are crawling behind. So basically EVERY THING IS REAL!!!! In this game i only got stuck once 
 and that was becasue A STUPID glich that happend so i wasted over 1 hour trying to get past a part 
 that was gliched YAY. But in the end every thing was just so perfect in this game and i am really 
 looking forword to the new Call of duty: 5. But that wont be for a wile so i will stick with online 
 mode for now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozberlin76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  War is hell. Then the question is why is Call of Duty 4 such pure heaven? We'll push the graphics 
 aside for a moment (which is a VERY difficult shove considering how beautiful they are) and trudge 
 ahead to the rendezvous point of gameplay. The single campaign player mode is excellent considering 
 that most multi-player shooters want to give a powderpuff storyline that is more or less a skeleton 
 for the missions that act in all honesty as training for the really difficult enemy: other online 
 players. COD4 starts you off quickly in the action, introducing you to a SAS soldier named "Soap" 
 and plunges you into a tanker on a stormy sea to gather intel on a weapon, only to have your mission 
 quickly scrubbed when the whole boat starts to go down to Davy Jones' locker. The quick adrenaline 
 rush then shifts to you in the first person point of view of a fictional Middle Eastern leader, 
 about to be executed on live television to illustrate that these digital insurgents are not at 
 all playing around. As the campaign mode progresses, you're introduced to a marine with the last 
 name of Jackson, running through Qatar-esque scenarios to advance the storyline with the aid of 
 your fellow jarheads. The night missions and a scenario being pinned down by an allied tank that's 
 broken down are especially tense moments. This is what COD4 excels at: the intensity of the moment. 
 IN somehwat realistic mimicry, COD4 without ever saying anything makes you realize as you continue 
 playing that sometimes a firefight doesn't flatly end or is won. The objective is everything and 
 alot of times, the journey to that mission objective isn't going to result in you having a 98% 
 kill rate or taking out EVERY enemy. Clear them out enough to advance your position, trooper. Now, 
 multiplayer is the real meat and potatoes of this title. I'm not a big fan of online competition 
 per say, but what COD4 introduces to you on a decidely gradual level is ranks, new weapons, gameplay, 
 customization and clan affiliations. Like a Chicago-style pizza, the reward in this dish are DEEP. 
 My first venture into multiplayer got me riddled with bullets many, many times. But the promise 
 of new unlockables with every little bit of time logged online kept me plowing through embarrassing 
 kills to where i didn't even realize I was improving as I was so focused on the next perk in the 
 game. And now, yes, the graphics and sound: kings aren't treated as well as gamers in this game. 
 The visual and audio showcase presented to you is absolutely mind-blowing. At some points you may 
 want to pause the game just to appreciate every minute detail in foliage and water textures, every 
 errant bullet splintering wood nearby your head. The game is so intense at points and fast paced 
 that most of your saliva will be dribbled while watching cut scenes. Like I said, COD4 offers such 
 a multimedia feast that it's hard not to feel ungrateful how much time and effort the developer 
 put into the game. You'll swear for a minute when a fellow gamer guts you from behind while you 
 were too focused on sniping from the second floor of an abandoned building, but shrug it off mere 
 seconds later for more guerilla delight. Another thumbs up is to Infinity Ward for it's gutsy move 
 in the change of venue for this title. they had a winning formula with WWII period shooting, but 
 opted for the next generation of wars (and much more politically controversial) as the backdrop 
 for this masterpiece. Some of the remarks made by your fellow troops in the game will have you 
 not so much feeling like one of the good guys, but more like a grunt who just wants to do his job, 
 trying during the cannon-firing chaos to get himself perished. When and if you do decided to shut 
 the game off for a bit, you''ll feel like you finished a tour that earner you the right to come 
 home and see your sweetie.
  
  Even if military FPS games aren't your thing, stellar, nearly flawless games definitely should 
 be. I won''t say rent it, because you'll than immediately feel the urge to buy it. Then again, 
 there's always that Lair game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- 10
  Sound- 10
  Gameplay- 10
  Value- 8
  
  Call of Duty has always been the best First Person Shooter availableand it looks like it always 
 will be.
  
  The new modern setting is genius and the graphics and sound alone makes you drool at this game. 
 The graphics are amazing and are the best I have ever seen. I haven't even played this on an HDTV, 
 so I do not know the full capabilities of the game. The sound is top-notch with bullets flying 
 everywhere, your teammates shouting to back up, to the enemies screaming in pain, it is all expertly 
 done. 
  
  The story is the best in any FPS game. You actually make a connection with the characters and at 
 one point I was shouting for one not to die! There aren't any cut scenes and the story is told 
 through the briefings, which is just right for this sort of game.
  
  The game itself is fast. Frantic, relentless and never stops pounding bullets your way. It is atmospheric 
 and makes you feel like you are unbeatable when it all pays off, which is exactly the same in online 
 play. The rankings system is really good and pushes you to keep going through the different multiplayer 
 modes to improve.
  
  The only negatives to the game are that the story mode is very short and the deadeye accuracy of 
 the enemy grenades. But the incredible online mode makes up for the short single player campaign.
 
  
  This is by far the best first person shooter ever made and it will really take something special 
 to beat it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimi_da_iceman2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my PS3 I made sure I got this with it! I loved it from the moment I played it. 
 The story mode is really fun and has a good storyline too. Probably the best thing is the range 
 of diffuculties, if your not too good at these games then Recruit will suit you perfectly or if 
 you are a Top Shooter then even Veteran will challenge you! However it is a very short story mode, 
 I was a bit disappointed when I completed it within 2 days. 
  I didn't play online straight away, but once I did I loved it. Once you get some decent weapons 
 on you, you can really kick some ass!! I had been playing Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas just before 
 I went online, and one feature I would COD4 too have, is that you can dress your own character. 
 I suppose that would mean you would have to take out the teams but I think it would be worthwhile. 
 Another thing is on RSV you can make your own public game, which I think is also a very good thing, 
 because sometimes I only want to play with my mates but I also want to earn some XP!
  Even though there are things that in my opinion could be better I still think this is one of the 
 best PS3 games there are! If you have a spare 40 pounds lying around, go and get COD4 straight 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty returns, but to an unfamiliar setting. This is Modern Warfare, all the Nazis, Panzers 
 and yes, even Hitler have gone and have been replaced by UAVs, Middle-Eastern terrorists and Nuclear 
 warheads.
  
  The campaign mode sees you play as a US Marine in one part, and as a member of the SAS in the other. 
 You go between the characters as the story unfolds.
  
  The story in the game is fantastic and deep. Cutscenes are extremely well presented and put together, 
 the main gameplay within the campaign connects seemlessly between the cutscenes. The game is incredibly 
 atmospheric, its one you should really turn the volume up on your television set, the sound, graphics, 
 animation, every aspect of playing the game is just amazingly detailed and deep.
  
  Of course, online is where its REALLY at.
  Call of Duty 4 is, in a nutshell, the greatest online 
 experience you will every have.
  
  Everything about online is amazing. So many weapons, perks and challanges to unlock and complete. 
 Even when you have done so, you will not get tired of playing online. The many game modes will 
 keep you coming back for more. It truely is the most comprehensive online game you will eveyr play.
 
  
  Simply put; Game of the Year 2007.
  
  --Dave --
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pythose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. The game has a movie feel to it while keeping the intense war gameplay. 
 COD 4 is a well needed refreshing (re) start to the stale first person shooter war genre. I have 
 played this game on both Xbox 360 and PS3. I can't tell a difference between them. They are both 
 equally fun, there is no extra content for either console (that i am aware of) , and the graphics 
 are the same. If you say differently then you are just nitpicking. Online is where this game truely 
 pwns. Games start up fast and continue with that theme through out. Bar none this shooter will 
 keep you tied up for hours if you play it on veteran . This will hold you over until titles such 
 as HAZE and Resistance 2 are released. 
  
  The only Downfall of this game... well in my opinion there arent any. Im not a hardcore game analyst. 
 I'm just worried about getting what i paid for and i would have easily paid over the asking price 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is the newest game to the series. This game takes you to the modern warfare and 
 get's rid of that world war two crap. Anyways, this is by far the best Call Of Duty ever made. 
 The graphics, sound, storyline, everything is amazing. Let's start with the graphics. You pretty 
 much can see every little detail on every gun, building etc. It literlilly blew my mind. Okay, 
 lets go to the storylline. Your name is "Soap Mactavish" and your a recruit into the army. Well, 
 anyways you go through a series of guys taking down terrerists one by one. The multiplayer and 
 online play is very fun too. There's a wide verity of weapons and different maps and game-plays 
 you can choose from. So, if you are looking to update your Ps3 system and get a new war game, I 
 would definetly have to say Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is the way to go. Thanks for reading. 
 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewalsh69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is one of those rare games that draws you into the game from the story straight 
 away and it forces you to complete the game. however this isn't too hard as the single player life 
 is just a few hours long.
  
  although short it is briliant with great grafics, great voice acting, great gameplay and great 
 action. the sum of the game is worth more than its parts making this game briliant! the story is 
 extremely good and the gameplay never feels tired or used before throughoutt the game.
  
  the true beauty of cod4 is its online features that lets you fight in huge battles with your comrades. 
 this legtens out the life span of the game by many many hours (or days depending on your love of 
 games or online connection) .
  
  online is must for this game and those without broadband will find it hard to spend 70 on a short 
 game. but the life of this game (and really most others) is how you play it. try the harder difficulties 
 collect everything you can and you will definitly see the moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighStakes24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  it took me a while to get online with this game after i beat the single player campaign but im 
 glad i finally did, its ABSOlutely addicting, i played till 3 in the morning and just could not 
 stop. The things you can unlock, the levels are just big enough. The only problem i have with this 
 game is the short campaign, but my biggest complaint i seem to have problems getting into a game 
 quickly, i mean 1,5 million instal base, i figure i should have no problems jumping in games. But 
 with that complain said, the game is visually stunning, the sounds is absolutely amazing, you feel 
 like you're in a crazy grenade throwing non stop gun shooting, it takes a while for your not to 
 be so nervous at the next of a turn yo ucan die, but thats waht makes the game that much more fun. 
 I highly recommend this game to anybody, non shooters fan even, this game might turn you over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendangagain
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I have always wanted to play a perfect war simulation game, ever since my parents would by them 
 for me. No FPS has ever really won my heart, that is until Call of Duty 4. COD4 is a state of the 
 art FPS, from capaign mode to the online play, Call of Duty is flawless. COD4 online is amazingly 
 thought out. The gamerooms are easy to join, when you create your own party you can invite friends 
 in a matter of seconds, and when you get a kill you feel like you have truly accomplished something 
 unforgettable, that is until your next kill.
  If you have played a previous Call of Duty game and were let down, go and pick up a copy of Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare to help get you feeling good again. Call of Duty 4 is an awsome sensation 
 you can't explain until you have truly experienced it first person. COD4 is like going to war and 
 having unlimited deaths. You get a adrenilin rush the entire time you play.
  Gamers everywhere have fallen in love with COD4, and I think you will to. I rate this game a 10.0 
 for it's amazing online gameplay, top of the line graphics, and the best way to spend 60 dollars.
 
  Brendan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  The graphics and sounds of the game is outstanding. I just love this game. It is so much fun. The 
 single player campaign are somewhat short. The level design is made in such a way that within the 
 linear mission there are several alternate routes. This makes it possible to replay the missions 
 and try a different strategy. This is really good. 
  
  One of the more irritating parts of the game though is infinite spawns. Your adversaries just keep 
 on coming so you have to move forward at some points or you can find yourself out of ammo and irritated 
 that the wave of enemies never stop. This is a minor flaw though.
  
  There are a wide variety of weapons in the game. Once you have disposed of an enemy you can pick 
 up his weapon and use it. The missions are different almost all of the time so you don't feel like 
 you do the same mission all of the time. You get to shoot enemies from an aeroplane, a helicopter, 
 a car and of course while moving on foot. You also play as an American or a British soldier so 
 there are different weapons and environments to play through. 
  
  The multiplayer is awesome. While the single player campaign is under 10 hours long you can easily 
 spend 100 hours on multiplayer. There are a wide variety of game modes that gives you a lot of 
 different challenges. Speaking of challanges, there are a lot of challanges that will get you xp 
 points when completed. By completing them you move faster up the leveling ladder. 
  You also have a lot of customization alternatives. The ability to create your favorite weapon combinations 
 and a lot of perks to go along you really can customize the weapons according to your style of 
 play. 
  
  So after playing through single player on medium and hard and 90 hours spent playing multiplayer 
 I strongly recommend this game. It is the best game of 2007 and it will last all the way through 
 2008 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahammut125
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has probably at one point or another played a Call of Duty game, if they're into FPS games. 
 And everyone knows that they always involve WWII battles. Well, this time, COD takes a different 
 spin, and modernizes, putting the player in the middle of a fictitious battle to stop a group of 
 men from nuking the world.
  
  The game is amazing from the get-go, and you find yourself wondering if it is real or not, because 
 the graphics on the game are simply amazing. All of the environments and weapons look realistic, 
 and if the other characters look a little strange, you don't need to worry, because most of your 
 time will not be spent looking at them.
  
  The campaign may be short, being beatable within a few hours depending on difficulty, but the fun 
 does not stop there. This game comes with great multiplayer, whether it's split screen or online, 
 you will find the hours passing by without you really noticing.
  
  All in all, this game is definitely a must buy for any FPS fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theidcguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  COD4 is the best shooter game out there in my eyes, single player is kinda short but in that 4 
 - 5 hours of playing there is a lot of action going on so u wont really have a break in the battles, 
 thats one the best parts about it but thats my opinion, another good part about single player is 
 how ur not in one infantry unit ur in two different ones and the weapons in the game r more in 
 our day and age. While u play the game u'll instantly see how real everything looks like the gun, 
 the people u fight against and fight along side, the more it feels like ur actually there and how 
 realistic the bullets hit others.
  
  Now the multiplayer in COD4 is awesome! 4 player split screen! i personally like the online better 
 cus online its no like u just mindlessly go around shooting ppl for nothing, u actually lvl up 
 to unlock guns, perks, attachments etc.. the new thing in the online is creating a class where 
 u can choose ur primary gun, side arm, special item, and perks! the more u lvl up the more stuff 
 u unlock (create a class being one of the things u unlock) , the game doesnt just stop being fun 
 it actually becomes even funner.
  
  So if u love action - shooter games, COD4 is a game u should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing Call Of Duty 4 for the Playstation 3. First off I am disappointed the PS3 version didn't 
 have a Collector's Edition. I ended up getting the Xbox 360 Collector's Edition anyways but still 
 the DVD and the Picture Book would have been a nice addition to the Game. Not that it needed anything 
 else. Call of Duty Franchise's first endeavor at modern day warfare as opposed to World War II 
 setting is a good one. As a first person shooter there is nothing really new but what they did 
 they did it very well.
  I'll start with the graphics. The 720 setting is great to look at. While it still very crisp and 
 clean at 480, you would want the highest setting possible just for the viewing pleasure. People's 
 faces are detailed nicely. The touches with the bullet ridden walls done by players is standard 
 but the exploding cars a nice feature. The night vision mode would make even Paris Hilton proud. 
 
  The clarity of the battlefield sounds is great. The echoing of shoot outs and explosions can be 
 distinguished quite clearly. You can even measure to some degree the distances of those battles 
 from the sounds. The zing and wisps of bullets grazing your head make it quite life like.
  Single player campaign is not as long as I would like but it serves more of a tutorial for the 
 online portion of the game. The fictional story is somewhat believable with cut scenes setting 
 the tone for the required stages. Arcade mode once unlocked is passable. One part I enjoyed a lot 
 was the mission using the AC-130 Spectre Gunship, An awesome piece of hardware.
  Now the part which really makes this good game great is the multi player. The levels and the achievements 
 is numerous and challenging. It forces you to try to use every weapon in the game's arsenal. The 
 game servers gives you accessed to the same modes as most shooters like Free for all killing , 
 plant the explosive and the standard Capture the flag. Hard core mode is just a more difficult 
 setting.
  Even if you don't have internet on your PS3 , there are enough good aspects of the game to enjoy 
 it. I highly recommend this game for both single player and multiplayer. This game was one the 
 top games released in 2007, try it out and you'll easily find out why
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is the best game of all time; quality wise.
  
  I have been playing video games for a very long time. There has been numerous games that have made 
 me say "wow". Such games as Super Mario 64 on the N64. Grand Theft Auto III on the PS2. Ghost Recon 
 I on the XBOX 360.. Halo 3 on the XBOX 360. Among these mentioned games and a few others that I 
 can not think of right now, I think that this game is above them all in the sense of quality; WOW!!!
 
  
  It is very rare that I play a game that makes me slow down my pace in order for me to look at the 
 environments. The result has been unnecessary kills against me. The story is superb. The graphics 
 are ridiculous; as in superb. The countless change of scenery is surprising and very well made. 
 I heard that the single player campaign is short. I find it just right considering that I am playing 
 it on hardened level and am almost complete with the game. I had it on the highest difficulty but, 
 it was very difficult to deal with so, I brought it down a notch; not that I could not handle the 
 difficulty but I did not want to use a lot of profanity as it is not my style.
  
  I can not understand how anyone can rate this game less than a 9. I am giving it a 10 based upon 
 what I have seen so far in the single player mode. I think it is superb. Considering that some 
 of my fellow reviewers make their own points and, probably are justified. So, in fairness to them, 
 I can accept their rating of less than 10. However, anyone else that gives this game less than 
 a 9, I am not sure if they know what they are talking about.
  
  P. S. I apologize for not providing more details of the game itself as I know it is what a reviewer 
 should include in a review. But, I think there is no need for me to provide more details. I think 
 you should experience it yourself and make your own judgement. I do not think that you will disagree 
 with my point of view. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRXgamer93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  WHAT were you doing while you played this game, and where were your brains. The campaign is amazing 
 too short though, but never the less amazing, the player reviewers that gave it a 5.0 are well 
 without hurting anybodies feelings umm (tight wads) why do you only rank it on the campaign, saying 
 that it was too short HAA this game was A multiplayer shooter get it through your minds well no 
 much to say except get it and cherish it forever I still have legends of the dragoon, and FF7 still 
 in good condition. You get my point oH And the join game in online is having problems idk wats 
 going on msg me if you have this too oh and PSn id is elsniper93 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward have gone on record to say that the 360 version of Call of Duty 4 had a smaller team 
 of less experienced programmers than the PS3 version.
  So, on that basis this PS3 version should dump all over the 360 version.
  But it doesn't.
  
 If ever there was a game which acts as proof that the PS3 is a dog to program for this is it.
 
  In short the PS3 had a bigger team of more experienced programmers and they produced something 
 that looks exactly the same as the 360 version.
  And, due to a much smaller install base, won't sell anywhere near as many copies, too many PS3's 
 being used as stand alone Blu-Ray players which explains the pitiful attachment rate of the PS3.
 
  There is little to tell the two versions apart, what one gains in textures the other gains in 
 lighting, the PS3 version can handle more players in an online game but if you're counting the 
 number of other players mid game then you're letting your team down.
  If you ignore the fact that you can clear the single player mode in a days play, and that enemies 
 respawn until your team moves forward and onto the next checkpoint/objective you'll find a quality 
 game with enough replay value to keep you busy until you're confident enough to attack the online 
 modes.
  Moving to a modern day setting hasn't had any detrimental effect on the gameplay either, the weapons 
 feel right, they sound right when you fire them and the night vision is superb.
  In fact the one thing that lets the game down is the AI of your team, in games like this you always 
 feel as if you've been given Forrest Gump's battalion to fight with, pinned down from both sides 
 they refused to let fly with a few shots at one side which would have enabled me to take a few 
 shots and a run at the other side they just sat there waiting for a miracle to happen.
  In another occasion I was told to move to get a better shot at an enemy position, but following 
 the directions to the letter meant I was moving closer and closer to another enemy position and 
 opening myself up for an easy kill.
  Whilst the two versions may look identical, and for the most part play identically as well, the 
 PS3 version is let down by the controller, the Sixaxis just isn't made for games like this, or 
 any other game really, as its just too lightweight, it doesn't sit in an adults hands well and 
 feels too much like a kids controller and the lack of rumble means that you can fire away all 
 day and not feel a single judder of feedback and that alone is a reason to pick up the 360 version 
 if you own both consoles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuzco92
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the 
 greatest game ever!!! the greatest game ever!!!!!! the greatest game ever!!! the greatest game 
 ever!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gocanes222
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Holy Junk, this game is so good. I gave it a perfect 10. If I could I'd give it an 15. This game 
 is just that good. This campaign is a litle on the short side but it doesn't fail to excite. It's 
 got everything from sniper missions, to nuclear explosions, to sad but happy ending. It looks wonderful 
 in 1080p and plays just as well as it looks. Its multiplayer is even better. Its extremely fun 
 and fast paced. The create-a-class makes the game soo intresting and soo much fun. Then the idea 
 of unlocking prestige mode after you level to 55 makes it even more fun. This game is good good 
 great excellent spectacular the best I think i've ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games for the PS3 and I think the game of the year for 2007 hands 
 down. The single player is not very long but the multiplayer and online play make up for it all 
 the way! Call of Duty has some of the best graphics I've seen for a video game yet. It makes you 
 feel like you are in the game almost. It is definately a game I think everyone should play. It 
 is a must own. The original Call of Duty games weren't all that great but Activision and Infinity 
 Ward really came through on this one. One of the best features of Call of Duty 4 I think is the 
 sound. The game has excellent sound and all the weapons and vehicles in the game sound really good. 
 It also has really solid gameplay with few flaws which is why I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has made all of these World War II games and we know that they are out and not as 
 fun. The multiplayer is one of the best around and you shouldn't miss it. The downfall is that 
 the offline single-player campaign is brief.
  
  Now on the campaign side of single-player is that it is extremely short but it is filled with excitement. 
 But you know that they say, it's quality not quantity. And that is what this game is all about. 
 You may beat this game in under 4 hours on easy modes but on hard modes it can be really really 
 frustrating and hard.
  
  As I stated earlier that the quality is amazing,&nbsp; and&nbsp; the story is told from 2 different 
 views. You play as two different people. One&nbsp; from the US Marines and the other from the British 
 SAS. The campaign starts off great and just sucks you in because of the intenseness of it. You 
 can't&nbsp; stop playing.&nbsp; The campaign starts with you&nbsp; aboard a helicopter&nbsp; with rain 
 pouring rain which looks absolutely amazing, and you are over an ocean and see a huge ship. The 
 mission starts out with you and your teammates&nbsp; rapeling from the helicopter which looks incredible 
 and when you drop down and your teammates just just go blazing on unsuspected enemies inside&nbsp; the 
 control room. Then you and your teammates will will just push&nbsp; your way through this place 
 with many drunk, sleeping, and unexpected soldiers. Then&nbsp; you will make your way through the 
 ship and after&nbsp; an explosion goes off and you have to get out of the ship, this is an even 
 more incredible part with the ship leaning one way and the screen just like that and water pouring 
 in, pots and&nbsp; pans and other stuff just rolling down the hallways and you&nbsp; just making 
 off the ship. Your heart just pumps almost making you have a heat attack. Then you just have to 
 sit your controller down and just stop and think, "What the hell just happened? That was bad ass." 
 You have never seen anything like this in a game before ever.
  
  The HUD (heads&nbsp; up display) is straightfoward and simple which is good. It has a compass and 
 tell you to go from one point to another, but it isn't that simple to get there. You will go from 
 Middle Eastern countries from going through house after house and seems like it will never end-in 
 a good way. You will find a terrorist leader, who will get his ass kicked. You will be in a ghillie 
 suit and make your-stealthly-through tons of enemies and tanks just coming a couple of inches away 
 from you. It makes your heart just pump faster and faster just lying on the ground and have the 
 armed forces walk right past you, just waiting if they will see you or touch&nbsp; you. So the campaign 
 is something you will hopefully play numerous times, and&nbsp; yes it has plenty of replay value 
 even though the campaign is really short.
  
  Although if you're looking for the longness of the game, just hit up the multiplayer. With up to 
 18 players in a game and 16 maps. There are numerous game modes which includes team death match 
 and free-for-all deathmatch which is everyone against everyone and many other game modes.
  
  Some great additions are added to the online as if you get 3 kills in-a-row, you will get a 
 UAV, which is all the positions of the enemies on your radar for about 30 seconds. If you get 5 
 kills in-a-row, you will get to call and airstrike where a map pops up and you can choose the position 
 at which the bombs are to be dropped. And lastly if you get 7 kills in-a-row, you can call a helicopter 
 to just fly around the area and just drop people like crazy and it will stary there for about 3 
 minutes or until it is shot&nbsp; down, which is hard unless you carry an RPG. The maps are made 
 from the maps fromt the single-player.
  
  You will gain experience points for your rank. Your ranks will depend how good and how long you 
 play basically. The higher rank you get, you will get more perks. Some perks are pretty awesome. 
 But some make you made when they are used on you. Like the martyrdom perk which lets you drop a 
 grenade every time you die so the ones around you die. Which it is cool when you have it, but when 
 it is used against you, it gets annoying.&nbsp; You can get other great perks as juggernaut, which 
 it gives you more health, and last man standing which when get killed it puts you on the ground 
 and lets you have that last chance with a pistol to get that final kill or two before you die or 
 get that extra bullet put into you to finish you off.
  
  Now to the graphics which are some of the best out there. The characters look as real as ever which 
 you can see every strand of hair from beards to hair. The environments are crazy with crater holes 
 from bombs and walls destroyed and the stone laying all around it. It has awesome texture and shadows. 
 The sound of the game is awesome as well. The guns can be heard from far away and they sound so 
 realistic. The voice acting is amazing as well. The music is great live you're in a movie. This 
 amazing game can run at an amazing 1080p.
  
  Altogether this is a great game and shouldn't be missed. You should buy this game and play all 
 day because I know I did. The single-player is short but can be played numberous times. Don't miss 
 out on this game, especially the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanquail57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best in the series, they finally decide to kick out of the World War II scene, 
 and they do it in a bang, the story may be short, but the graphics are amazing, the sound is amazing, 
 the AI themselves. Amazing, and the online multiplayer is great, although it does sometimes get 
 annoying that you cannot look for games and have to be matched up at random, it's great how you 
 get rankings, and can unlock more content the higher you rank. For instance, if you were to achieve 
 Corporal, you would unlock another online multiplayer game. Although the online for this game is 
 great, the one problem with this is the Normal multiplayer, it lacks Co-Op mode which has always 
 been a favorite, and allows only Death matches, which can get boring from time to time, none the 
 less this game is a master piece, and makes you look forward to Call of Duty 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesonhorses
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed was the graphics on my plasma tv. It looked so real, I was just amazed 
 at the quality and detail the game had. When I finished the story mode I told all my friends and 
 family about it. Then I played online. The online play is so fun, you can customize your own weapons. 
 You can put scopes, silencers, and other stuff on your guns. The maps are great to play on. The 
 only bad thing in this game is the story is short. If you dont have this game you realy, realy 
 need to get it, it will just blow you away. i would realy give this game a 9.4. When Call of Duty 
 5 comes out, I hope that would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deezkhara
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I do not care what anybody else thinks about this game, but is darn-well did blow my mind! I cannot 
 see a flaw in this game. Not even a minor one. Not even a teeny tiny atom sized one. Let's begin 
 with the gameplay. It is addictive and very realistic, made me feel like I was there with the red 
 screen when I was injured, movement when I was injured, realistic features added specifically for 
 where I was and more. If you don't know what I mean by that, I mean that a ship hit with bullets 
 and is sinking in a storm actually rocks, and so the lightings and shadows change, and so the screen 
 turns, and so your character moves and acts accordingly with a disabilty to shoot since he is running 
 for his life!
  
  The graphics were excellent, things looked realistic to make this game even better. There was a 
 lot of texturing and great lighting, like things actually looked wet and the floor actually looked 
 3D and it simply rocked my world on HD!
  
  The best aspect of this game, was the highly addictive, highly playable, highly respected multiplayer! 
 The are over ten maps which can fit up to 18 people. The rankings system gave me a reason to play. 
 It made me want to play to unlock new guns, new gun attatchments, and do challenges to unlock even 
 more things like perks and whatever else. This game is fully packed with unlockables, not to mention 
 the many different game modes. Game modes on multiplayer are very fun and I wouldn't have given 
 this game a 10 without them. Thinks like sabotage for serious gamers and old school for classic 
 style gamers.
  
  Whatever you want from Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, whether it be gameplay, graphics, multiplayer, 
 unlockables or anything else, I guarantee you it has it. Best game I have ever played in my life ( 
 overtook Metal Gear Solid 3 on December 25th 2007) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGNS_GRMR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  COD4 is a REALLY good game, i've never seen such graphics since i played uncharted: drake's fortune, 
 and that was hot stuff. you have a reeeaally big range of weapons to take in use, and prototypes 
 of weapons that will maybe get made in the near future, and the soundeffects is incredible, until 
 now the only bad thing i've noticed is that the game is too short, but instead of having a long 
 game that is boring, i think its better to have a short game which is fantastic. 
  
  its a great online game too, you can create your man from scratch, and get more things as you go 
 up in rangs.
  
  overall its a great game thats worth playing,
  
   10.0  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is one of the most intense, engaging, adrenaline filled experiences you can have with videogames 
 today! 
  This is a game with virtually no flaws. The graphics are magnificent. The voice acting is amazing. 
 The story keeps you hooked all through the game and is inspired by the state of the world today. 
 You can relate to it. It's realistic. The characters, for this type of game, are surprisingly well 
 developed. You really make a bond with them. They watch your back and you watch theirs. 
  The fights are hell! You feel like you're really in it with bullets flying over your head. You 
 hear your fellow soldier scream: "Grenade!!!" and your heart starts racing and you try to just 
 find cover while under heavy fire! Wow! 
  The only problem with Cod 4 is its length. Its short but every moment is filled with tension and 
 action! There aren't dull moments, no filler levels, it's all fun from start to finish! 
  The multiplayer adds to the life of the game. It's immense and challenging and makes CoD4, overall 
 a long game that will keep you hooked for hours and hours. 
  You simply can't afford to miss this game. You'll never forget it. It's a classic! A masterpiece! 
 Play it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  So Infinity Ward created Call of Duty that involved WW2. Then they created Call of duty 2. They 
 leaved the other Call of Duty games to Treyarch until they decided to take the series a step further. 
 Then Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was made. Some hardcore CoD fans may have thought this has 
 to be the worst move in the series but... boy were they wrong. It turned out to be the best move 
 ever. 
  
  Story: The story is an average story. Someone wants to kill millions of people with nukes and it's 
 you're job to stop him. So you play as a British S. A. S and a US Marine. Together you guys stop 
 the "big" terrorist. There is one small climax as you play the game. The story is an average of 
 5-6 hours depending on you're difficulty. But even though it has a short story it has a wonderful 
 multiplayer. I'll tell you more about it later. 
  
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really breathtaking. The very first mission was just marvelous. I could 
 not see any better graphics. 
  
  
  Sound: Just like any other CoD game the sound is gorgeous. Enough said. 
  
  
  
  Replay 
 Value: So the campaign is pointless to play over and over again. but thanks to multiplayer you 
 will put a good number of hours into this game. So let's talk "Perks." Perks are a special ability 
 that your class could have. Such as UAV jammer which makes you not show up on the enemy radar if 
 you shoot or the Iron Lungs which makes you hold you're breath for a long period of time so you 
 can steady your gun when you are sniping. There are alot of other perks and you can have up to 
 3 perks. So you are going to want to juggle it around so you know which perks suits you're class 
 the best. Not only perks you could have and customize but you could customize your own gun. You 
 choose from assault rifles, sub-machine guns, sniper rifles, and light machine guns. You could 
 even choose your own handgun. You could then customize it by simply unlocking laser sights, scopes, 
 and camouflages for you're gun. But you have to unlock them. Any little thing you do you get XP 
 points. You use them to level up. The more you level up the better guns you get. Then there are 
 vehicles. But you cannot drive them. However you could call them in. When you get a 3 kill streak 
 you get a UAV which shows you're enemies on you're radar. 5 kill streak and you call in an airstrike. 
 7 Kill streak you call in a helicopter and it does all your killing for you. Even thought you can't 
 drive vehicles the game is carefully balanced.
  
  
  So in conclusion the game is worth the $60.00 you pay for. This is one of those games you will 
 not stop playing for a month. When I got my PS3 i chose this and Madden as my first 2 games. and 
 I 'am happy i chose this as my first game. I highly recommend it even though you aren't a Call 
 of Duty fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the fourth game in the main Call of Duty series and the third 
 made by developer Infinity Ward. Its combines near perfect single player, with a deep multiplayer, 
 maybe one of the greatest of all time, and puts in together with excellent game play, graphics, 
 sound, and a fun factor that is off the charts. Modern Warfare is the first game in the Call of 
 Duty series that does not take place in World War 2, some may call this crazy, but they were proven 
 wrong when Call of Duty 4 became arguably the best in the series. We all know Call of Duty 4 is 
 amazing, but just how good is it?
  
  Let's start with the game play. Modern Warfare combines a near perfect blend of single player and 
 multiplayer. The single player takes you on an amazing, albeit short ride, that takes you from 
 Russia to an unnamed country, combining all out shooting, to stealth elements, this game has everything 
 a shooter fan could want. The AI is great, and actually helps you, unlike many other games where 
 they just get into your way. And it's not some super hero soldier story either, some characters 
 don't make it out of this game, and the ending is sad and shows you the true toll of war. This 
 game starts off with a bang that doesn't go out until after you beat it. There is a downside, this 
 game will only take you about 5 or 6 hours to beat, but has a high replay value, so it's not all 
 bad. But with such a short single player, how does this game last you a long time?
  
  The answer is the multiplayer. One that if you get into can last hundreds of hours. This is probably 
 the best part of Modern Warfare. And is one of the deepest and greatest multiplayer modes of all 
 time. There are about 10 modes to play in here, and almost 20 levels to play them in. All of these 
 maps are very good, and balanced. There is a ranking system, and as you promote, you unlock everything 
 from different modes to play in, to new weapons. There are tons of challenges that if completed, 
 give you camouflages for your guns as well as scopes. But probably best of all are the perks, in 
 this game, you pick three perks for your class, everything from longer sprinting distance to increased 
 bullet damage, to last stand, a perk where if your shot down, you can sit back up, pull out your 
 pistol and try to take your enemy with you. These perks add to the game play, and that's saying 
 something when it's already this good.
  
  The icing on the cake that is Modern Warfare are the graphics. The graphics in this game are amazing. 
 Everything from particle effects to explosions to a blur effect when aiming down the sights in 
 your gun, this game looks fantastic. If I had one complaint it would be the character models, sometimes 
 they don't look as amazing as the rest of the game, but that's a weak complaint when you get into 
 this world because of amazing graphics and effects. 
  
  Finally, we have the sound. There aren't many memorable songs in this game, but they blend well 
 with the situation you are in. This is probably the weakest part of this game, but I'm not saying 
 it's bad. No, this game has great weapon noises form gunshots to grenades, this game does have 
 amazing sound, it's just with a package so good, great sound is the worst part of it. 
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is simply amazing. When it comes down to it, you 
 can't get a more perfect blend of single and multiplayer components. The single player is amazing, 
 the multiplayer is amazing, the graphics are amazing, and the sound is amazing. This is simply 
 an amazing game; from start to finish the single player is as intense as all the other Call of 
 Duty's, and then some. Fun, intense, sad, funny, amazing, classic. They don't make games like this 
 anymore, actually, they never have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerSultan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I am not denying that this game is good, but it is nothing more than a cop-out that Activision 
 pulled. The first Call of Duty and the UO Expansion were innovative shooters that became wonderfully 
 popular right away. Then, Call of Duty 2 and 3 were released with little to no improvements in 
 the game. They were premature, and people quickly lost interest. Consequently, the game makers 
 didn't earn the money they expected. 
  So, we now have Call of Duty 4. The world loves modern warfare and everything that goes with it. 
 But, if I wanted to play SOCOM, then I would buy SOCOM. COD 4 brings little to the table that is 
 new and refreshing. The soldier classes are still the same. The environments are the same, and 
 even the gameplay is the same (with the addition of small extras like "last stand") . With a series 
 like Call of Duty, I expected a revolution in the modern shooter, but I was sadly disappointed. 
 
  When the Call of Duty series came to the world of next-gen, I was expecting a game that was epic 
 beyond belief. Sadly, all I got was a PS2 game with improved graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielpat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  well this is my review on call of duty 4 and the first thing that game to mind where awsome graphics 
 and i dont even use hd i couldnt believe the graphics and the animations where really fluid too 
 you get to goto a wide amount of well made places and use different weapons i thought that it was 
 nice that you started every mission with a new weapon but there wasnt enough variation in enemy 
 weapons and i also hate the overusages of grenades other wise it was fine i have to admit though 
 soe levels where a bit repetetive and i hated the bog levelsbut i thought it was other wise fine 
 i also thought the chernobyl sniper mission was the best when you run through that old building 
 i was like wow any way the main story aside once you complete the game you geat arcade mode which 
 is a bit weird and you can unlock loads of cheats to prolong the single player as for the multiplayer 
 it was okay but the main attractive feature of this game is the single player but its a wee bit 
 short but then again the game makes up for it in the long term this is one fps you should buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game worth buying!
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are amazing, they make you feel like you're actually in the 
 middle of a war.
  During gameplay you use alot of different weapons and gadgets, in a variety of of different ways 
 (for example: Attatching C4 to the back of a tank, Stabbing someone with your knife, using the 
 chaingun or grenade launcher in a helicopter, etc...) .
  
  The games single player mode is said to be short, but i say that it is a good lengthed single player 
 mode, especially with the plot it has. the single player mode allows the player to engage in several 
 different activities that the Online mode doesn't (for example: operating a gun in a helicopter, 
 extra-long ranged snipering, hunting down a specific target, etc...)
  
  The games Online mode is one of Call of Duty 4's greater traits. not only does it allow the player 
 to interact with other online player's through the use of a headset and in-game play, but.... it 
 also has a ranking system were the player can gain experience by: killing other players, finishing 
 an online match, or completing a challenge. By gaining this experience the player can be promoted 
 to higher levels, this allows the player to unlock: new weapons, new online match type's, new perk's 
 for customisable weapons, new things to do in the online lobby, etc.... Also by completing challenges 
 the player can unlock weapon accessories, like; Scopes, Silencers, Camoflage, etc... All of which 
 can be used in the 'Create a class' section of the online lobby, were players can create and name 
 their very own weapons.
  
  This game is a perfect online and single player shooter, i strongly reccommend this game to anyone 
 who is interested in shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FernadoCR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  i've never played a game like CoD4 for ps3 is the most amazing and extreme FPS game, i haven't 
 tryed it in other system like pc or xbox 360, but i think it has to feel the same thing. its a 
 really immersive game, and all the time ive spent to date playing that game was very useful and 
 funny. hahaha. i think that other FPS like delta force or other war-based games is not as good 
 as CoD4.
  im sure that if you play it you are going to think the same as me so, try it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 modern warfare is a first pirson shooter in the modern age . it has a wide 
  RANGE OF GUNS FROM PISTOLS TO SNIPERS and all the guns are very realistic and are best used inzoom 
 mode because without it you usually miss the online mode stands out with amazing graphics and flowing 
 gameplay as you play to imkprove your rank which gets harder as you go on. the single players took 
 me 6 hours on regular which is short but it was all fast not full of cut scenes this is the ultimate 
 online game and the singlde player doesnt fall far short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterb32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  it is easy i have completed is buy it is still a very good game if you find it hard i then you 
 must suck at it because i have comepleted call of duty 3 as well all you need to do in the last 
 level is go in to a car kill the ofther car that are coning by and then your car is blon up and 
 the you get hit by a rocked and that guy that is a head of the hole thing he kills gas then the 
 capten gives you a gun you kill that guy and kill the guys who is with him and that is it done 
 so dont run from the rockeds that r coming u because that is want u need to do if you dont you 
 have to kill the men after your car is destrod so get hit by is that all i need to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doggy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a huge bound for Infinity Ward, and for all first person shooters. Call of Duty 
 4 has a great single player campagin, were you play as a S. A. S. soldier, and U. S. Marine. It is 
 a pretty short campagin but makes you feel much more satisfied than any other first person shooter 
 that I have ever player. Both the characters you control are on one main mission, to stop a huge 
 terrorism threat. And as the story unfolds at a pretty fast rate you get more into the game and 
 don't want to put down your controller. But Call of Duty 4 isn't a 10 just because of the story, 
 the main thing that sets Call of Duty 4 apart from any other first person shooter is the gameplay. 
 Its simply amazing, the grahpics look like you are really there, and the A. I. are smart as heck, 
 but besides having amazing grahpics the game has really great sound effects. You get to try out 
 several diffrent weapons through the story mode, and they all feel like they are actually capable 
 of killing your enemys, even your normally weak secondary weapons feel like they could wipe out 
 all of the terrorist in each mission. 
  But besides having a thrilling single player campagin Call of Duty 4 unleashes probably the most 
 addictive multiplayer system to date. Utilizing a highly appreciated ranking system you get experience 
 for almost everything you do, and it really feels like you are making proggress unlike games like 
 World Of Warcraft where it could take a good 3-4 days of playing for a few hours to level up just 
 to find that you weren't reward with anything that great at all. And the perks and weapons you 
 unlock really just set you up to unlock the next set of weapons and perks. So overall Call of Duty 
 4 is easily a 10, and hopefully other companys will use it as an example to build their games from. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bEnOiT92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is a great game overall. Being this is my first call of duty title i am very impressed. This 
 game is better than other call of duty's because you can relate to this game more than the others 
 because it takes place in modern times with modern and up to date guns. The game play on this game 
 is incredible the online is amazing and the single player is good but a little short on lower skill 
 levels. The controls are easy to get used and each gun feels different. The sounds are amazing 
 each grenade sounds different and when you shoot a gun it makes you feel deadly. Although the character 
 movements feel a bit stiff i can deal with it. Overall i would recommend this game to anyone who 
 loves shooting games with a little bit of thinking needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfbascomb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  I currently own Call of Duty 3 on PS3 and that was such a boring game! I couldn't stand it. So 
 I was unsure about buying Call of Duty 4.
  
  I was in Town so I went into my local Game Shop and saw the words "MODERN WARFARE" leaping out 
 at me from the shelf. I thought "oo, that looks like a cool new game". Then I saw "Call of Duty 
 4" and my heart sank. Still, I wasn't put off. So I picked up the box and skim read through the 
 blurb on the back. It looked completely different to COD 3 and I noticed that the game itself was 
 made by different people. I thought that it couldn't do any harm if I tried out COD 4, even if 
 it was bloody expensive! I reluctantly parted with 49.99 of my hard-earned cash and set off for 
 home.
  
  Now the game itself was absolutely AMAZING. I had great fun playing the role of a British SAS troop, 
 a US Marine and the then-Lieutenant Price. I had so much fun playing it. The only complaint I have 
 is that there isn't enough material in the game to keep people occupied for a substantial period 
 of time. I completed it in about 5-10 hours of playing. It is far too short and there's not enough 
 playing time for me to sink my teeth into. They say it's quality not quantity ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta0004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Single Player
  
  The single player mode of this game is short but sweet. You change between two guys who are fighting 
 in the Middle East or in Russia. Somehow their mission is connected. The story will hook the player 
 until they finish it, and the ending is a very good one. You can play trough five different difficulty 
 modes. Besides doing the missions, you can also find the 30 Intels scattered through each map.
 
  
  Online
  
  The online experience of Call of Duty 4 is very good. It includes a variety of weapons, lots of 
 ranks, lots of maps and different game modes. You have five different classes of weapons named 
 Assault, Sub-machine Guns, Light Machine Guns, Shotguns and Sniper rifles. After you reach a certain 
 level, you get to make weapon classes. Put in a weapon of your choice and a variety of perks. You 
 can also add attachments to your selected weapon.
  
  Their are also challenges. Weapon challenges give you experience points and attachments and camouflage 
 for your weapon. Other than the weapon challenges, there are 5 other kinds of challenges unlocked 
 after you reach certain ranks. These only give you experience points.
  
  Prestige mode is unlocked after you complete level 55. You get to rank up again and you get a new 
 sign next to your name. Their are 10 different prestige modes. each time you go prestige, you give 
 up your perks, weapons and challenges.
  
  Their are also some bad thongs about CoD4. Their are host end game errors, some maps tend to lag, 
 and at the moment the leader boards are messed up. Also, it takes a while to get into a good game
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklinuxmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Review of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  By : Darklinuxmaster
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  First of all this is a squad based FPS and you usually are the character "Soap Mactavish", being 
 a different character doesn't affect game play what so ever. The great thing about this game is 
 that you can snipe, and the graphics are so good and when you snipe it is really accurate. The 
 sound is nothing special, it just sounds like your average FPS music. But the controls and graphics 
 are great. If you played resistance and you wanted more than this is the game for you, there is 
 the awesome ability to shoot through walls and "weak" structures. Some things you can't shoot, 
 which will make you want more, but overall this is a great game!
  
  ----Graphics ----
  10/10
  The graphics are great, so far the best graphics I have ever seen in a video game.
  
 
  ----Control ----
  10/10
  The controls for this game are great, they make it easy to switch between weapons, grenades, ect.
 
  
  ----Music ----
  9/10
  Very basic sound, nothing really that special, but overall it is good.
  
  ----Campaign ----
 
  9.5/10
  There is a great variety of missions in this game, I like the mission where you have to be stealthy 
 and snipe. But some levels they are kind of hard and there are quite a few guys to kill. 
  
  ----Overall ----
  9/10
  Everything is great except the fact you can't do friendly fire, 
 which would make it more realistic.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Feel free to add me as a friend :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stageman12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest shooting games i have ever seen. I can't think of any games that even 
 come close to it .The campaign is the only downfall. It is way too short and kind of easy, but 
 it makes up for it with the online play. It's just amazing!!!!! The campaign is still great just 
 a little too short. I just started playing online and i already love it . for those who would like 
 to play with me, my id is pixelassasin. id love to play with anyone. I am on alot and be glad to 
 help someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemineni
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  One of best addictive game with true real world elements seen all the over the game from middle 
 east to the old Soviet union world integrated into the virtual environment of this game.
  
  The single player episode is really short but the true fun is in the multiplayer mode. I am a newbie 
 to the multiplayer gaming environment but after playing in COD4 I realized what I lost all these 
 days for ignoring the multiplayer tab in the selection menu.
  
  The online game is one of the first best experience. You can choose a whole lot of weapons as you 
 go on unlocking the challenges. The multiplayer is based on how you play the game with brains and 
 use your environment as if you are part of it.
  
  You just cannot come up in open and keep on shooting at your enemies before and another guy comes 
 and blows your head away. You play the multiplayer game as you play in the real world.
  
  Thank you activision and infinity ward for giving such a wonderful game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harwood-15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I won't spoil this game during the review but I am going to be completely honest.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is awesome. I couldn't get enough of it!
  
  I was a bit wary at first because 
 I am only used to First Person Shooters on the PC so playing CoD on a console was something new 
 for me, but it was so easy. What helps is that with CoD, it's a fresh story and it's set in current 
 events, so you get that feeling of being there... well I had that feeling.
  
  A short review I know but there's not much to say about it. CoD is seriously awesome, the only 
 thing that lets it down is how short the Campaign is, I got to the credits in about 4 and a half 
 hours and I was expecting more but it doesn; t ruin the game as such. That's where it loses the 
 .5 on the rating. If the Campaign was... double what it is, it would be a straight 10 and I would 
 be a very very happy gamer.
  
  Worth the money for sure and can't wait for the next one. Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outer_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  OMG!!!! This game is AWESOME!!! In my personal opinion, i think this is the best first person shooter 
 game ever! And here's why:
  
  -Awesome and realistic graphics;
  -Very realistic weapons;
  -Awesome story (though the single player mode is kinda short and they 
 could have put a co-op mode, so that's why i didn't give a perfect rate) ;
  -Great gameplay;
  -Great sound effects;
  -Awesome online mode with tons of unlockables;
  
 -Awesome controls;
  -Great sequel (in my opinion the best of the sequels) ;
  -Great soldier classes (in offline and online multiplayer only) ;
  -Great ranks (in online mode 
 only) ;
  
  And many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many more!
  So here you have 10 reasons why you should have this game. Now go buy it or you'll have wild dogs 
 chasing you every time you go outside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Playing this game is one of the best gaming experiences that I've ever had in my life. Crank up 
 the volume, and enjoy it. I think that the campaign mode is one of the best that I've ever played. 
 The story is amazing, it really immerses you in. I could say that almost everything in the campaign 
 mode is scripted, so every explosion, every enemy, every shadow, is very well calculated and contributes 
 to make this experience unforgettable.
  
  The graphics are amazing, maybe this game is in the Top 3 of this generation. Also, the sound is 
 incredible, specially the sound effects and the voice-acting.
  
  The multiplayer mode is really good, with a lot of different modes, a good levelling system and 
 a lot of customization options.
  
  I don't give this game a 10 because of the short length and some problems with the multiplayer 
 mode, but I really recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oumir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  i loved the story, cpt. price was really cool. the thing about the story is that it was to short 
 and that made me sad when it was over. anyway the controls were great to use and the feel of the 
 game just right. the enemy death sequance was cool, your AI group was great and feel real to work 
 with. also the online play was great, felt like the old COD games, with a new look! i have to say 
 this was a fun game over all. so if you havn't, go buy this game as soon as possible! oh man! this 
 thing is saying that i have to write more and i've said all i wanted to........ uuummmm ok! well 
 lets see if this enough....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyfon_Gump
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. It has great online play, a somewhat short but great campaign, and amazing 
 replay value. I would actually give it a 9.6 and it would get higher if the campaign was longer. 
 This game is definitely the best shooter of the year and just completely blows Halo away. The controls 
 are great the graphics are good but i can't say much about that because I don't have a HD TV but 
 looks good for SD. The online play is definitely some of the best of all time. The unlockable weapons, 
 perks (skills in a way) , and upgrades gives a player something to work for. Best all around game 
 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 100% beautiful. The game looks goregous throughout from the nuclear explosion all the 
 way down to Captain Price's walrus mustache being in your face saying "ON YOUR FEET  
 Everything in this game looks great, not much else I can say.
  
  Controls: Perfect. Nothing could make these controls better... not even a cover system. Everything 
 feels intuitive and well placed.
  
  Sound: It sounds better than a girl on a hotline. The gun fire is perfect, the voice acting is 
 rendered perfectly, the explosions, etc... are awesome. This game blew me away with sound.
  
  Gameplay: Fanfrickingtastic. The downfall, which I want to get out of the way first, is the 
 lack of co-op and length. The game is short (5-7 hours?) but that can be compensated by keeping 
 it at a difficult level. Although the game is short, it is explosive, engaging and incedible.
 
  
  The characters are developed perfectly enough to make you feel attatched to them, the story is 
 done through the eyes of a soldier -- which makes it seem incomplete but it actually is well done 
 in the sense that as a soldier you have a job to do -- not a newspaper article. In the middle and 
 at the end the story will absolutely blow you away and having you staring at the screen with your 
 mouth open. Dorky, I know, but true.
  
  From the first mission on you are thrown into explosive levels that make you feel engulfed by the 
 action. Then in the middle there is a couple of missions that slows the pace as you go back in 
 time as Cpt. Price before he was Captain and play through his time as a sniper. Then from that 
 point on you go back to being engulfed by levels of extreme action -- the mix up here is well done 
 and placed perfectly.
  
  Multiplayer: The perk system is innovative and fresh. It allows you to choose whether or not you 
 want a rocket launcher or you want to drop a grenade after you die... need some claymores? Whatever 
 it is you want you have to choose -- because you have limited options. Pretty sweet setup. 2-4 
 players offline can play MP, as well.
  
  The best I can say about this multiplayer is Halo 3 has been dethroned.
  
  Conclusively, the 
 game is incredible. The two minor shortcomings of campaign length and no co-op are greatly overcome 
 by great gameplay, controls, sound, graphics and a story that is a little vague but engaging enough 
 to keep you captivated. Screw renting it, buy it. It's worth every penny.
  
  GS gave this game a pretty low score, imo. 96/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is overall WAY better than it's preludes, but strays very far from the World War 
 formula. Fortunately, this one did it right. The graphics are superb, better than I have ever seen 
 in my whole life. The single player is fun, and the multi player is very fun.
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: So, the first time I played Call of Duty 4 was at a New Years Eve party, and I am 
 a Wii person, I didn't like Ps3 at all until now. When we put the disc in and saw the menu screen, 
 I knew this game was going to be awesome game and an awesome experience, and what do you know, 
 it was. All the weapons and classes. Your sure to have a blast with this game.
  
  
  
  
  Cons: First, let me start with the controls. You use the R1 button to fire, R2 and L2 throw 
 grenades, one analog stick to move and one to look around. What pisses me off the most about this 
 game is the analog things. Say you are guarding a objective, and an evil guy comes up to you. You 
 can't change your thumb to the right analog stick in time, and you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Ok im just going to dig in and say this game has revolutionized multiplayer like never before i 
 mean WOW......
  
  But first off the single player and the fact that people are saying its way too short ... Are you 
 serious, the people that say that ie. Mr. ex Editor Geff Gerstman he states in his review of this 
 game that '' The singl player is almost shockingly short '' i ask you Sir how long did u play it 
 for all day???
  I admit yes this game is short compared to most but its multiplayer certain makes it worth 40.
 
  
  Ok the story of this game has alot put into it, the depth of it is uncanning as you play as two 
 man countrys America and the UK and basically you have to stop a bunch of Russian Terroists.
  
  Now the Multiplayer.....
  
  OH MY GOD the multiplayer actually revolutionisis the online 
 FPS as everyone expects for every FPS to come out with this much upgrades, perks, unlockable weapons 
 and much more when playing online.
  the only problem i had with the game was not the shortness of the single but that i got raped by 
 like level 50's when i had just started ( and i brought this game 4 days after it came out ) , i 
 would of also liked to see a few more maps but im sure infinity ward will be out a downloadable 
 patch that contain a few more which is good.
  
  The one main thing i hate about this version of the game ( PS3 ) becuase i have it on both systems 
 is that it takes almost rediculasly long to get into a game of team deathmatch and then the hosts 
 leave so it ends the game straight away and that has happened to me like 5 times in a row. However 
 i also hear infinity ward is working on a patch to stop this so this wont be a problem for long. 
 
  
  Game developers take note at COD4 this is how to make a kick A** game and also this is how to make 
 a game just as good on the PS3 as the 360.
  
  THIS GAME OWNS........ The end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  The firsts Call Of Duty games were not really my type of game, because it wasn't interesting me. 
 You know another World War 2 shooter. I prefer to play other games than shooters. But!! When I 
 saw all of the good critics of Modern Warfare, I said ''Well, I should try it once'''. So once 
 in a video game shop, I saw it at 59.99 and I bought it because of my instinct. And god thank you 
 my instinct was good.
  First of all, I just wanna say that stop telling ''Oh, the game is too short.'' Yes the campain 
 is short but did you allready noticed that shooters are always short. And now I'm telling my oppinion, 
 if a shooter was long, it would be boring at the end.
  
  Now let the real part of my review begin.
  The graphics and the sounds are one of the best that 
 I saw for the Ps3 and maybe the best. The explosives effects and textures are well done. What is 
 also made well is the reproduction of the weather. When you saw the rain falling on the ground 
 of on the grass, the sun and night colors. The sound effects are superb! When you have a great 
 bass system and the optical plug you'll see that when you hear a airplane dropping a bomb, the 
 sound is incredible.
  The caimpain mode is really cool. There is a prologue and three acts wich there is a few missions 
 in each and you take place in the game in the skin of two soldiers that are placed in different 
 mission. Like there is one that is a kind of stealth soldier and the other one is a real soldier. 
 The missions are really well done and the animations too. There is one thing that I was really 
 impressed in, the loadings. When there is loadings, there is a little animation that explains you 
 where your mission will be, so that is really great for me that hates long loadings. There is something 
 else that I want to mantion, its that there is at the beginning of the game, you take place at 
 a president that is going to be executed and I just wanna tell you that this little mission is 
 really awesome.
  The multiplayer mode is divised in two parts: 
  - Split Screens: It's exackly like a Halo party game. It's really great and personally, I prefer 
 this game that Halo. 
  - Online: This is where the best part of the game takes place. You play against a multitude of 
 other players to many different kind of challenges. There is deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Sabotage 
 and many others. Trust me it's the best mode and if you don't have the opportunity of playing online, 
 dont buy this game or buy it if you are a really BIG fan. 
  There is lots of things that you can unlock in the online mode, for exemple your level, more you 
 play and play well, more your level will be high and you can unlock little challenges and modes 
 to play in.
  
  So in a few words, this game is one of the best games I ever played so go buy it right now or rent 
 it if you really don't want to have it. But something is sure, its that its worth playing.
  Thanks for reading this review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is just simply amazing!!! It could very well be the best FPS ever made so far! In 
 my opinion, COD4 is even better than Halo 3, which is hard to believe! This shooter has many tremendous 
 features! First of all, Call of Duty 4 has the best graphics of any FPS i have ever played in my 
 life! Every single thing in the game looks life-like and the combat is very realistic! The game 
 also has a very solid story and gameplay throughout the campaign. It also is movie-like! As a bonus, 
 Call of Duty also offers online play! There are many different game modes online and you can also 
 create your own class and decide what weapons to carry! You can even meet new people and add them 
 to your friends list! However, online can feel kind of cheep sometimes since it only takes a few 
 spray of bullets to kill you! Overall, It is a must buy if you love FPS! You won't be disappointed 
 once you purchase this awesome FPS! Call of Duty 4 rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgordon2191
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game was great. Incredible graphics, the controls fit perfectly, they modernized the 
 game with new weapons but managed to keep that call of duty feel of the game. The game is not at 
 all short like some people say if you play it on the correct difficulty level. Also, I really liked 
 the ending! You'll know what I'm talking about when you get there.
  
  
  Now, for the multiplayer. When you are actually playing the game, the multiplayer is great: hardly 
 any lag , load of different game modes, and the ability to be promoted and unlock more weapons 
 and challenges. But finding a game to play in is HORRIBLE! Unlike many multiplayer games, there 
 are no servers so you have to pick which game mode you want and then wait for the game to place 
 you in a game. This can take forever because if it doesn't place you in one it will put you in 
 a lobby and it will say, "waiting for 5 more players" that hardly ever come. So you basically spend 
 a lot of time exiting and starting all over several times until it puts you in a game wih more 
 players.
  
  But overall, this game is excellent. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhbc1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4, is the fourth installment in the Call Of Duty franchise, most asscoiated with WWII.
 
  But this game is far from WWII shooters.
  The story brings you smack in modern age, with modern dangers. 
  The Graphics are mind-blowing, 
 with every detail done to pure perfection, the lightening and extra effects truly set the stage 
 for the intense storyline to take place.
  The sound is overall well, but sometimes can be a little jumpy and scratchy in places, but this 
 is un-noticeable.
  What is noticeable however is how short the single player mode seems to be, but this is a case 
 of the game being better than it was prepared to be, meaning that once you complete a mission, 
 you will immediately opt to play the next, and the next, so it is possible to blast threw half 
 the game in one session.
  But with some truly brilliant online modes it is likely that this game will be mostly absent from 
 its case.
  We truly are far from the 1940's... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a fantastic game that you really need to play the single player is short 4-6 
 hours but it's really intense every single minute that you play the single player is so intense 
 that in the end you forget that the game was really short but now the multiplayer is perfect every 
 minute that you play and kill solders the game will rewords you the game keeps you playing online 
 every single minute that you spent playing is fantastic the good thing is that you can either play 
 for 30 minutes or 6 hours and you will have that great game experience. Now the graphics the graphics 
 are great is one of the best looking games in the PS3 is just mind blowing is just like the sound 
 the sound in the game is just plain perfect. If you have a PS3 you should really check this game 
 out you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is basically the greatest shooter I have played all Year. The single 
 player although very short is VERY VERY fun and there is a decent story to it. The only down side 
 to Single player is its short play time its probably 5 to 8 hours and leaves you wanting so much 
 more. But Multiplayer takes this game to a whole level higher this games multiplayer isn't your 
 standard pick a class and play game but you create your classes out side the game, each with its 
 own weapons you unlock and "perks" or special abilities such as dropping grenades when you die, 
 extra grenades or quieter movements which causes this game to have more pre game stratagy then 
 others. This whole system raises the online shooter to a new degree. I say this game is worth the 
 60$ and more It is the GAME OF THE YEAR PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colestanley
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding, truly outstanding. first of all, the best i've played of the series. The only problem 
 is that the story's a little shorter, but that's no biggy. It's truly a work of art, not only because 
 of it's breath - taking story. But because of the online play. the online play truly shines through 
 the fantastic story. There are a number of different levels to play through, and a couple of soldier 
 classes to choose from. But after you get to level 10 or 11 ( i really can't remember what level) 
 you get to make your own soldier class. and get to choose what weapons you want. and you get even 
 more weapons available as you get to the higher soldier levels. I used to always play resistance 
 fall of man almost every day online until i got this game. and after i started playing this game, 
 i realized, Resistance Fall Of Man doesn't have **** on this game. So now that you've read this 
 review, you probably want this game. And i suggest you buy this game. There's alot more to tell 
 about this game, so you should read some other reviews too. So remember GO BUY CALL OF DUTY 4 MODERN 
 WARFARE NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunzyMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is one of the must have titles for any console system and there has been alot of 
 fuss surrounding the game.
  I got the game for Christmas (only five days ago) started up my sleek ps3 and started to play the 
 main singer player mode, all good so far, wtf I have completed it. and just like that I felt I 
 had no need to play the singer player mode again and felt cheated.
  So what this then, online play against other people lets give that ago, great until you notice 
 your playing the same boring maps over and over again, something pittyful like 10-15 maps and of 
 which only 5-6 of them are any good what a blo*dy discrace.
  On to the controls, Its very good and very simple to learn and pretty much would you are expecting, 
 no surprises but also no losses.
  The computer A. I is not all to smart, many a time I have thrown a grenade around the corner only 
 for them to carry on standing there doing nothing and it seems they just keep comming and comming, 
 small rooms seem to hold 30 soldiers and there equipment, crazyness ! 
  Another thing with the A. I is they seem to like hiding behind things smaller then themselfs any 
 normal person would think I can been seen and Im going to get shot in the head but not these A. I 
 guys they will hide behind barrels with there heads popping out of the top or stand half in the 
 door ways thinking ill never be seen, work is needed on the A. I me thinkz.
  
  Online is a good laugh, many modes to choose from, free for all is the one for me good for 23kill 
 ownege streak, server its self seems alot of the time a little slow and you left waiting in the 
 lobby for it to connect and then it redirects so you become the host of the game and your then 
 still left wating in the lobby for players to arrive so either way you waitng quite a bit.
  
  Weapons are also good but I personally would have liked to see a few more.
  steyr aug
  
 g3 sg1
  Ps1
  magnum or some other revolver
  sa80 for the British :D
  Nothing major still some nice guns on the game.
  
  
  Its all pretty good apart from the lenth 
 of the single player missions and the limited amount of maps and decent maps at that on the online 
 multiplayer modes, really lets it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDORADO
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a first-person shooter that has broken the boundaries of WWII 
 from other shooters. It is a great game that has stunning graphics and amazing sound. The multiplayer 
 is also great, but the one player story mode is quite short. In online play, you can customize 
 your soldier by giving him a class such as "sniper." You can also unlock different "perks" to give 
 him an edge against the competition such as extra explosives or sprinting longer. Your soldier 
 also grows with experience. You get experience from completing challenges or defeating enemies. 
 Although, the story mode is still interesting. You get to play as Sgt. "Soap" McTavish, a British 
 SAS troop and Sgt. Paul Jackson, a United States Marine Corps Recon soldier. One astonishing feature 
 that is hard to overcome in video games is that you get connected to the minor characters like 
 Captain Price, Gaz, Lt. Vasquez, and SSgt. Griggs. This is a great game that should be played by 
 all. The game gives you a "I'll never forget that feeling." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uneek_808
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  for you gamers who are on a tight budget like how i am and need to know if the games you are buying 
 are worth the hard cash to spend? well fear not cause this game either your buying it new or used 
 is worth every dang penny! CoD4 has great story that that will keep you playing and multiplayer 
 that'll keep you coming back for more. 
  The story has a great way of keeping in the game like making you feel like your their in a real 
 war movie ( for those with big open imaginations!) and in a way makes you kinda care for the characters 
 that you play with through out the game. Keeps it exciting for start to finish! And man what a 
 finish! CoD4 has quite a bit of OH SNAP! moments that are great, never a dull moment... well for 
 me anyways. 
  Graphics are top notch with amazing details. Sound effects are fricking awsome! ( makes you feel 
 like your their if you have surround sound and volume cranked high!) Replay value is awsome with 
 great multiplayer that never gets old because of the challenge and level up system that the games 
 uses. for example you start off with a basic M4 and if you get so many kills with a M4 you can 
 unlock a add-on for that weapon that you can mod and enhance to help making kills easier. 
  Game difficulty I would say is moderate. but has different levels of difficulty ranging from Recruit, 
 Regular, Hardened to Veteran. On the plus side I guess the game is also user friendly casue in 
 the beggining it makes you go through a real short exercise and the game helps to choose you level 
 of play. so if you suckass at the exercise it'll tell you to go recruit but if you totally rocked 
 on the exercise it'll tell you to go hardened or verteran.
  All in all CoD4 was worth my hard earned money. and I enjoyed every single minute of it. the only 
 gripe i have about CoD4 is the short story mode that lasted i would say 5-6 hours but the multiplayer 
 sure makes up it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Get ready to do your duty as Soap Mactavish in the latest installment in the Call of Duty series 
 and by far the BEST. Call of Duty is such an excellent blend of everything you would want to find 
 in a next-gen FPS game, great gameplay, incredible graphics, AWESOME online play, and one of the 
 greatest first person shooter campaigns that I've ever played. Call of Duty 4 defines Modern Warfare.
 
  
  GRAPHICS === 10/10
  Simply put, this game has incredible graphics. Throughout most of the game, you will find that 
 the graphics are nearly photorealistic and will make you feel as if you are really in the environments. 
 The cities are well-designed and just seeing the barrage of bullets flying everywhere in beautiful, 
 crisp HD is truly enough to make you feel like you are taking part in the war in the Middle East. 
 The photorealistic environments aren't the same every time either. You will travel through lush, 
 green grass, cities filled with enemy terrorists, enemy military bases, snowy plains, dead-grass 
 areas and more, and each of these are masterfully created and all share the same wonderful graphics. 
 Overall, the graphics are among the best graphics ever seen in gaming, aside from Crysis, and is 
 on the level of games such as Oblivion and Uncharted. 
  
  GAMEPLAY === 10/10
  The gameplay in this game is simply a BLAST. I've never played a shooter where I don't mind dying 
 at all. The campaign is the most entertaining campaign I've ever played; it's a picnic just to 
 travel through these awesome environments and shoot down terrorists with you're AK-47 Grenadier, 
 switch to a Javelin and blow up some tanks, plant and detonate some C4, snipe some terrorists down 
 from afar and even man the turret of a helicopter or the gun in an airplane and take down huge 
 numbers of troops. As I said earlier, dying isn't a downside in the campaign. If anything, it's 
 a chance to play even more in the awesome world. Compared to other shooters, the campaign can be 
 quite difficult in the hardest setting, and you might find yourself trying certain missions over 
 and over. But it never gets boring or frustrating; death is near seamless and quickly respawns 
 you at the last checkpoint. There are many checkpoints throughout each mission, so death doesn't 
 hinder your mission to extremes and run up the time tremendously. The campaign is ACTION-PACKED 
 and every second of it is fun. You do everything from heavy fire-fights to using heavy armor-breaking 
 explosives to an assassination mission, which is one of the best missions I've ever played in any 
 shooter. Though the campaign is quite short, the online play is pretty much limitless fun. You 
 will find a thriving and great community and nothing but good times every time you get online, 
 which adds even more to this already awesome game. 
  
  SOUND === 9/10
  The sound effects in this game are excellent. You can hear every grenade fall, every bullet shoot 
 and every tiny explosion in great detail. The solid sound in this game helps to further immerse 
 you in what is already an incredible warzone. Flashbangs are always great as well, as they will 
 temporarily blind you and make you completely oblivious to all sounds until the effect wears off, 
 only for the sounds to quickly build back up to reality. There's nothing like being in the middle 
 of a bomb-ridden street in the Middle East hearing the sounds of weaponry that this game has to 
 offer.
  
  STORY === 9/10
  The story of this game is great. The first "modern" CoD and it's done great. You play Soap Mactavish 
 in the Middle East as you wind your way through multiple different objectives, mostly dealing with 
 weapons of mass destruction. The story is revealed nicely and has a few somewhat obvious twists, 
 but is a very solid story for a shooter either way, and you will enjoy it all the way until the 
 end. 
  
  REPLAYABILITY === 10/10
  This game is a bottomless pit of replayability. The missions in the campaign are so enjoyable that 
 you will want to replay them just to experience them again. Enemy intelligence is scattered throughout 
 the levels, giving you another reason to replay them. Online play is immersive and a complete blast 
 and has a thriving online community. This is a game you could easily spend months of spare time 
 playing.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  SCORE = 9.6/10 
  This game is one of the best first person shooters ever made, and easily one of the top next-generation 
 games. It has everything to offer, from immersive environments and sounds to an excellent online 
 community and huge replayability. Call of Duty 4 is a game that can have you playing for hundreds 
 of hours if you so choose to, and is truly the definition of Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4. Brilliant.
  
  I would just leave this review at that but I thought I should tell prospective buyers a bit about 
 it although I think every man and his dog will have this title by now!
  
  First off, the story. Engaging, with realistc characters (thank you for doing decent English accents 
 Immersion!) , a great storyline and an extremely good looking variety of locations in which to battle. 
 The inclusion of both the SAS and the Marines is great and moving from one to another is seamless 
 as their missions are interlinked until both forces eventualyl join towards the end.
  
  Multiplayer is the best of any PS3 game out at the moment, buying this game is like getting 2 for 
 the price of one. An excellent story which rivals some story mode only games, and a very well thought 
 out multiplayer which has everything you could want and more! 
  
  A must have for anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  I cant even say how great this game is. Well first off the graphics are the best that I have ever 
 seen in a video game they bring alot of realism to the game and alot of features that are in this 
 game are not in any of the previous Call of Duty games.
  
  One of the features you can shoot through wooden doors, wall, tin whitch brings alot more realism 
 to the game. Having more Modern day guns have brought more funs to this game aswell.
  
  For those who Havnt yet play COD4 you play a soldier in 3 different squads S, A. S, U. S. M. C and a 
 sodlier that has been sent into the Middle East. You have to fight you way through a War that is 
 based on the one that we are expireiencing right now in Iraq, Aphganistan and so on.
  
  The only thing with this game is the short Campaign mode. But its that good you can play it over 
 and over again without getting bored of it. And if you do get sick of playing Single player you 
 can go online and play against other people from around the world.
  
  If you havnt yet played this game go get it. its great fun and you wont regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj5105
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is an all-out amazing game . My favorite genre is shooting and thats mostly what i play and 
 this is by far the best shooting game ive ever played ,maybe even the best game period. This game 
 has amazing game play ,graphics, and basically everything you want in a game and more. The campaign 
 mode is pretty short but there so much more to do once you beat the campaign like playing multiplayer 
 ,arcade mode, collecting intel, and more. Once you beat the campaign mode the first time you unlock 
 a mission called "the mile high club" where you fight in close combat on an airplane. Overall this 
 game kicks butt and i give a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapso
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Finally some one has got the guts up to create a MODERN game. the game offline is very good, your 
 first mission is to get some infomation of a sinking ship and get out alive. 
  through out the game you face many tasks like shotting down enemy helicopters, blowing up tanks, 
 crawling past enemys in your camoflage, disarming bombs, shooting enemy out of the back of a car, 
 and of course KILLING HEAPS OF ENEMY!
  
  after you finish the game you have a secret level unlocked you have to save a cervillian in a hijacked 
 plane you make your way to the back and have 1 shot to kill the hijacker and save the cervillian, 
 then you jump out the plane and freefall to safety, also after you finish you unlock the ability 
 to to any level and cheats.
  
  although it is very very good it was very very short it took me 5 hours one day and 2 hours another 
 day. 7hours all up.
  
  Online is VERY VERY GOOD, the best online i have ever seen, i used to play GRAW2 and i got CoD4 
 and found out it is WAY BETTER.
  in online mode you are working towards getting your rank higher then when you complete level 55 
 you can choose to go to PRESTIGE mode witch basicly takes you to level one and you loose EVERYTHING 
 all your wepons all your rank but you do get new badges, personally i have done that 5 times and 
 im just staying on level 55. 
  it is not hard to gain rank and you can only lose rank if you TEAM KILL.
  
  overall a 10/10 
 effort! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaiThFul066
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game has the best online gameplay I have ever experienced. 
  
  The Good: 
  -Extremely good graphics: High detail, everything is well designed
  -Great gameplay: 
 Damage is very realistic. When a grenade lands near somebody they DIE, they don't continue to stand 
 there and shoot you. Gunshot and splash damage is very good, headshot kills (like all good games) , 
 Chest shots kill (not on 1st shot except sniping) . Enemys fall down and can shoot you if not completely 
 dead.
  -Online: AMAZING, too much to list!
  
  The Bad: My only complaint is that when you're online and you view your friends it doesn't say 
 if they're in a game or not, and you can't send them a message. 
  
  Other than that one minor thing (which will probably be fixed soon) this game is the best shooting 
 game out there. GET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: posterr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great FPS for any console/platform right now, especially ps3 in my case. The 
 game includes a great single player campaign with simply amazing graphics throughout. However, 
 it is the multi-player aspect that thrusts this game into the must-have category. The whole achievement 
 system online is great and gives players something to strive for as they increase their levels 
 and rankings in the network. COD4 has excellent replay value for hours of gaming pleasure, A +++
 
  
  The only thing that could have been included to improve this game would have been be a split-screen 
 online mode (so your friend can play online on the same console) as well as a coop selection for 
 the single player campaign. 
  
  Nevertheless, an excellent game guaranteed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I can barely put into words what this game features.....
  the graphics, first of all, are the best I have seen in a war game. I cannot get enough of how 
 amazing they appear.
  The game is also very detailed there are soooo many little details that just make the game look 
 like many wars have taken place in many scenes... everything is in so many pieces, and you can spot 
 about every piece, if that helps what I am trying to explain.
  The online is even better than I imagined. Its like a freaking real war. The adrenaline and suspense 
 can get extremely intense (especially on single player..... my hands started sweating at level 2)
 
  There are however a few questions that could lead to even better gameplay in the future.... for 
 example, you can easily shoot any bullet through a thin wall, but why cant you shoot an rpg through 
 it....
  Anyway, this game is the best of right now, and I advise you give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okstate91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  An amazing online frame-rate, great graphics, extensive weapon options, and the comraderie of playing 
 with other people is what makes this game great. It is the first game in the CoD series that I 
 have played and it is not a disappointment. I could only ask for a more extensive clan networking 
 system and the ability to play with four people on your system in an online game. But despite the 
 lack of these features that have made games like Halo 3 so prevalent, in my opinion it is still 
 the best FPS ever. If you have a chance to buy this game, just do it. 
  A few interesting features added in CoD4 were Kill Cam and Prestige Mode. Kill Cam ceases the inevitable 
 "There is no way that guy hit me!" It shows the opposing player killing you in there view. Prestige 
 mode gives you further goals in the online mode. I personally don't use it because it seems ridiculous 
 to lose all of your weapons 10 times and have to win them all back. It might be exciting for you 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I just laughed when I seen Mild Mikes review. Yes the campaign was DAMN SHORT but still was fun. 
 He obviously does not have online.
  
  But most the action is found in the online play. There is just so much to do online. HArdcore more, 
 Old school, Sabotage, DOmination, Tdeathmatch, deathmatch..... and so and on..
  
  The perk system is great and weapons a realistic!! I really enjoy the maps and the graphics are 
 indeed excellent. The challenges always make you keep going. Whats good about this game is the 
 fact that the PS3 version has better graphics compared to the 360. It looks stunning! There are 
 very minor frame rate issues when some airstrikes occur. Other than that it runs smoothly. A must 
 buy game for any FPS fan. However if you dont have online... you will not enjoy it at all.
  
  9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is absolutely amazing. It was worth every single dollar i spent on it and i reccomend 
 it to EVERYONE who reads this review. Trust me this game is a MUST HAVE for PS3 and certainly worth 
 your money.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  This game is everything a game should be. It has absolutely stunning graphics and visual effects. 
 The voice acting is excellent. The game is just fully loaded with action- explosions, bullets flying, 
 missiles, flying a warplane and releasing rockets onto the many tanks and enemy forces below. The 
 missions are absolutely action packed from sneaking through enemy lines in a ghillie suit to escaping 
 from Missile Launch Facility in the back of a Jeep. The controls are so simple but yet so effective. 
 Online Mode is simply INDESCRIBABLE and is just plain fun.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Campaign Mode is much too short lived but is easily made up for with Online Mode.
  
  So as 
 you can see this game is EXCELLENT and overall i give it:: 9.5/10!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyBags80403
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty4 is definetly the best game to date, nothing can top it. the story line is immensly 
 and amazingly fun, it makes you feel like you are really in the middle of combat. And the idea 
 of stealth in this game is like no other. Even though story mode is fun, the online is what keeps 
 me coming back for more and more. If a game doesn't have good online, I don't get the game because 
 that is what makes the game last for so long. Call of Duty is a buy, and if you don't get it you 
 are definetly missing out ona great game. I have played Halo 3 before and this much, much better 
 than Halo. I own this game thanks to old St. Nick, and it rocks my socks off. If haven't scored 
 this game already, give it a ten. I am so glad that CoD4 moved to modern day combat and it is the 
 best game in the serid by far, no contest. Remember this key thing..... BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has stunning visual and sound effects accompanied by the perfect story. You play 
 both the British S. A. S and the U. S. Marines. What I have noticed is that the S. A. S. missions are 
 more fun because you only have 3 other guys helping you against like 300 enemies. The Marines, 
 on the other hand have the missions where your combat skills are tested, but still fun.
  
  The major downfall of the game is that the single player is EXTREMELY short. I just bought my PS3 
 and a copy of C. O. D.4 on Dec. 26 and beat it the next day. It only took me about 7 hours to complete.
 
  
  Although the game is short, the multiplayer makes up for it because of its many features. I don't 
 have online yet but I've played it at a friends, just to check it out. The game doesn't end bad 
 either, you get a fun bonus mission and the most important thing, there are collectibles in each 
 level, the enemies Intel which are laptops, that open up cheats like infinite ammo.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is one of 2007s best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is Superb Modern first person shooter ! It lives up to its name. It has made its 
 transformation for World War 2 to the present day with spectacular results. The graphics are stunning 
 even tough I wasn't playing it at High Definition and very intense battle. There is never a dull 
 moment in Call of Duty 4. With a interesting storyline behind it which puts you in a believable 
 storyline. You play from the eyes of a SAS and U. S. M. C. officer. The thing I missed about Call 
 of Duty 4 on playstation 3 was the use of the sixaxsis option, that was in Call of Duty 3. I don't 
 really describe to much detail into my reviews, but I will make a final verdict. Call of Duty 4 
 is amazing, but short. I mean I'm not really a good first person shooter player and I finished 
 it in two days! But boy was it great! I would also recommend playing the previous versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  .Call of Duty 4 has everything, from outstanding gameplay to beautifull gorgeous visuals that will 
 take you by surprise.
  .Sound effects are awesome, and make you believe you are in war, as well as graphics.
  .Its true 
 that single player campaign is short, but delivers beautifull action and take you in, we can say, 
 that COD4 is one of the games that make you feel protagonist.
  .Storyline is awesome and easy to follow
  .Multiplayer is da bomb, and has 18 maps and lots of 
 customization options for weapons and grenades.
  .In conclusion, COD4 is one of the best shooters, and one of the best games out there, and its 
 a must have for all gamers and platforms, call of duty 4 shines, and combines stunning visuals 
 and smooth great gameplay, and a lovely addictive multiplayer.
  .You know should be heading to gamespot and order a copy, you wont regret it, TRY IT!!!
  
  
 AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan121121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  In all my days I have never seen a game as amazing as this, except for morrowind, that was a beauty. 
 anyway here we go.
  
  the graphics are freakin amazing. thats all there is to it. explosions, gun shots and characters 
 are all very well done.10/10
  
  The gameplay is intense fast but short, But the online options make up for this. Could have done 
 with a longer campaign. 9.5/10
  
  the sounds put you in the thick, they are very good, the only problem is I hate the noise of the 
 flash bangs :| Immersing you right in the action is what they meant to do and they certainly provailed. 
 9.5/10
  
  Multiplayer is one of the best I have seen on a game, with 55 levels to advence through it is sure 
 to keep you busy. My only problem is that it takes me a while to find a game.10/10
  
  Value - 10/10
  
  Overall - Simply amazing, would reccomend to anyone who owns one of these 
 systems. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _MysTesO_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare, though I am not familiar with any other games in the Call Of Duty 
 series, I can honestly say that they just won another fan, I was a person before this game who 
 did not like FPSs but COD4 changed that for me. This game had great weapons, physics, A. I., and 
 graphics, boy did this game have great graphics, I really felt as if I was on the battle field 
 with Soap MacTavish, and Paul Jackson. This game has many great features, besides its story and 
 online, it has arcade mode. The online though is what really sets this game apart from other FPSs. 
 Its so organized, complex, and easy to use. What is also great is the ranking system for the online 
 play. With abilities to create your own class of weapons, and the customization for each weapon 
 is surprisingly deep. I definitely recommend this game to any FPSs fan, Call Of Duty Fan, and most 
 importantly to anybody who is looking to enjoy a great video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colombian_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok so everybody knows that the game is a little bit short but thats ok. Quality over Quanity. BTW 
 THERE IS AN EXTRA MISSION AT THE END OF THE GAME IF U WATCH THE WHOLE CREDITS . Graphics are great 
 in 720p. There really is barely any flaws. Only little ones are mabey having to reload to much 
 but you hardly run out of ammo so its ok. Online play is so much fun. You will find yourself playing 
 it more than the regular campaighn since its so short. Just get this game. You will not be dissapointed. 
 Way better than the the previos COD games. I cant wait for COD5. Its gonna be so much better. I 
 personally believe it deserves the game of the year award. Havent played mario party but i doubt 
 its as good as this game. Hopefully cod5 will have more missions. Ranking up online is really fun. 
 Better guns and perks. Create a class is pretty fun too. JUST BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I got Call of Duty 4 for Christmas just 2 days ago. Unfortunately, last night at 2 in the morning, 
 i beat its single player campaign. I just hated how it wasn't just a tiny bit longer. But that 
 doesn't matter now. Because Call of Duty 4 is so awesome, i think its the best Call of Duty ive 
 played ( I haven't played Call of Duty 3 yet) . Its beautiful, intense, has a great selection of 
 weapons. It also has a movie like feel to it. My only complaint on the game other than its shortness 
 is the inclusion of dogs to kill in the game. Some of you might find this fun, but i just hate 
 to see dogs suffer. Luckily, you don't have to fight them much in the game. Call of Duty 4 is awesome, 
 one of the best games ive ever played. If Infinity Ward ever makes a Call of Duty 5, i hope they 
 make as superbly as they did in Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheefyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I've had Call of Duty 4 for over a month and I've come to the realization that it is the best first 
 person shooter that PS3 has to offer and that it is significantly better than Unreal Tournament 
 3. I wanted to wait until UT3 to write a review, so I could make a definitive stance on which game 
 is better. COD4's online is great and with the new patch getting into matches is quicker than ever. 
 Moving up the ranks of Prestige gives the game a real reason to play for hours. it is highly addictive 
 and definitely worth the 60 bucks. Most of the maps are fantastic except for a couple like Downpour 
 and Wet Work.
  
  I like many other PS3 owners truly thought that UT3 was the game that was going to set PS3 apart 
 from XBOX 360, but I was wrong. The makers from Epic claimed that this game was better than Gears 
 of War, but they were far off. There is a fun factor when playing but there are no rewards for 
 winning. COD4's online gives you a reason to keep playing and winning so that you can move up. 
 I personally believe that Warhawk is a better game than UT3. 
  
  I don't play COD's campaign mode much but when I did play it I found the story mode to be fantastic. 
 It is lively and exciting, but COD's multiplayer mode is as good as any game out. COD is defnitely 
 a game that all PS3 owners should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bletz129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and the multiplayer is a lot of fun. Their are cool little things like being 
 able to shoot through walls and going up behind people and slitting their neck.
  The mulitplayer is sweet for this game, probably the best I have ever seen. The maps for the mulitplayer 
 aren't as good as some of the other call of dutys but they are still a lot of fun.
  The campaign mode is short but their is so much in it that even though its short its still fun.
 
  All in all this game has the best graphics on any ps3 game so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsodentalspy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Before I bought the game I had really high hopes for it: game critics had praised the game and 
 it's graphics, tho I had seen some screens from it and they looked like... They seemed to suck.
 
  
  SO, I bought the game and tried it and, boy, I was disappointed! The textures literally suck (ed) 
 and the fact that there was NO MOTION BLURR just felt so unrealistic and awkward after playing 
 games like Halo 3, GoW and R6: V. I started playing the single player and I've so far got thru of 
 it on Hardened and Veteran. It was the most difficult game I've ever played, and the fact that 
 the enemies are so robot-like and some parts there will be an infinite amount of enemies if you 
 don't proceed feels as annoying as possible. Your enemies can easily kill you from 30 meter while 
 running or in a half a second as they come around the corner on Veteran. The single player campaign 
 was really short and dull in it's own ways. The story was just weird because it evolves around 
 killing the same dude twice!! Even if you shoot the guy to the head with 50 cal. sniper, he'll 
 still be alive.
  Unlike Halo 3 there wasn't any heroic moments in the game and that's just a let down. And I mean 
 I'm not biased cause i suck at cod 4, no way! My Kpd is fair 1.66, My F. N. G. time is 14.35 and 
 I even played thru the last aeroplane hostage-things on veteran which was as nerve breaking experience 
 as possible.
  
  Multiplayer, the real backbone of the whole game! CoD 4's multiplayer is one of the most addictive 
 multiplayers I've ever experienced. The perks and weapons are as perfectly balanced as they can 
 really be. And there's really no classes which is very good. There's still one little problem: 
 CoD4 doesn't support split-screen online or co-op.
  
  One of the few best things about the game is the weapons. The weapons are decent looking and they 
 feel really good. Especially aiming down the sights feels just right and the sound that comes when 
 you hit someone/something is very satisfying. Even the realoding animations are very cool.
  Other good things are the controls and the sound.
  Controls: very intuitive and sharp and sound 
 is just excellent. That's just about that.
  
  And now, the worst thing about the game: graphics. and when you consider the fact that the game 
 has been praised for it's graphics I'm just SHOCKED! Well yeah it's "BLAZING FAST 60 FPS!" and 
 nice lightning it doesn't make up for the textures. It really seems pretty good from a distance, 
 but up close even from 2 METERS the hell starts to brake loose. Some poeple argue that "Why to 
 look at anything from up close? You shold just 0play the freaking game!" It's just that do they 
 ever USE COVER? Or just prone? On the higher difficulties you have to constantly go into cover 
 and wait for your helth to regenerate so you'll be seeing a lot of awful textures around you. And 
 most of the things even look horrible from couple of meters so that's it's just weird that the 
 graphics are praised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you havent already, go buy this now! This is not only one of the best sequels of 
 a game, but also ( along with resistance, warhawk, and UT3) some of the best multiplayer components 
 i have ever seen. Being able to call in an airstrike, find out where your enemys are, and send 
 in a helicopter to hunt down your enemys, its just great fun. Being able to rank up in so many 
 categories adds tons of depth to the game. The perks are a very nice addition also. The sound of 
 this game is incredible. the guns sound so realistic, voice acting is pretty good, and the over 
 communication beteween squads is really cool. The graphics, wow, what can i say about the graphics, 
 how about, the best ive ever seen? yeah that fits. these graphics are SUPERB. the shadows, the 
 textures, lighting, everything. All in all, this is one the best multiplayer first person shooters 
 ive ever played. personally, i find warhawk a little bit more fun, only because of the added vehicles 
 and huge maps, but that is also a third person shooter, so lets just keep to the categories. Overall, 
 lets all be happy infinity ward is back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drag00n91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare one of the most expected games of this year but does it live up 
 to our expectations?
  
  Well what do I think? I think it really does, the other Call of Duty games was great and I think 
 I played the campaign on the first one about 5 times. But when the secund and the third games came 
 out WWII was outplayed so I didn't even buy the games. But this game feels like a whole other game 
 exept for the need for aiming that isn't as usefull in other first-person shooters. This game has 
 pretty much it all. Great soundeffects that really makes you feel vonorable when the bullets flyes 
 over your head. This game also features great voice acting and a great story that is very short 
 but is heavy enuth too make you wanna play the game again. And the photo-realistic graphics and 
 a great hell of a lot addicting multiplayer makes this game the best first-person shooter ive ever 
 played. So if you have a Ps3, Xbox360 or a good PC that can support this game I really recommend 
 you to buy this game. Don't download it because that will spoil the great kinda levelbased muliplayer 
 experience you can get out of this game.
  
  (I'm sorry that my spelling is very great but I hope you understand it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolo7070gs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  YES! A new Call Of Duty! This one is bad to the bone. Great detail of the weaponry and the online 
 gameplay gives a feel of accomplishment as well as handing out a daily dose of butt-whoopin! I 
 can't put the game down!
  
  Single player has a great story and the cut scenes are fantastic. From gameplay to cut scene the 
 transition is flawless. If the game were just a bit longer in the single player mode I would be 
 more satisfied with that aspect of it. However, the online gamin is a whole other story. Different 
 types of online gaming and the leveling system is great. I feel like I have moved up in the COD 
 field when I get a promotion to the next rank. And then with that rank a new set of options to 
 tweak the game play. 
  
  Lots of running and gunning, great detail in weapons and gear, lots of fun and highly addictive. 
 Great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyholmes
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has finally come to their senses and realised that although World War 2 is a great 
 genre; it has been played out, exhausted if you will. Yet you can tell this from the title, that 
 Call of Duty has gone modern and completely ditched the whole world war two things and as many 
 people think it has therefore made a vast improvement. Not only by offering something new to all 
 the eager PS3 players out there as well as for other platforms but also by having some of the greatest 
 graphics, gorgeous game play, sinister sound and magnificent multiplayer ever seen! The only catch 
 is that it is quite short and for most people it will take a mere six hours to complete which for 
 40 is a little dodgy, isn't it? Well no, not with this fast paced, shootathon, for if more was 
 added they may have over done it and it would not be as great as it is at the moment for although 
 it is short if it were longer would it be filled with nonsense? As well as this there is a way 
 to half counter this short story and that is by raising up the difficulty and after that check 
 out the multiplayer of course! 
  
  However due to the story being short it seems the developers have filled it with drama worthy of 
 a blockbuster film for a realistic and believable story is told with engaging characters, sickening 
 action and death and many different scenes that will suit almost any war players ideas. Whether 
 you are a sniper, a heavy gunner, a stealth guy or whatever you will find levels that require these 
 skills. There are jaw dropping moments when you will realise how dark the series has become after 
 you realise this is all about nukes and such moments when your crew attack a ship and shoot sleeping 
 men. It really makes for a realistic and touching play.
  
  Obviously it is not all about the story, game play does feature!!! And the game play is obviously 
 great! Offering a variety of thrilling and unexpected moments to set out drama pieces the game 
 play will draw you in even if you are just sat in your P. J's on your armchair, it will feels if 
 you are in the SAS tracking down terrorists. This could be a good or bad thing but in this game 
 the sheer realism and excitement make it fun to shoot guards, terrorists, mean old men and even 
 savage guard dogs- see what I mean about variety?
  
  Although as I have mentioned the single player campaign is variety filled it is again very short. 
 So head over to multiplayer! Instead of a lame tag on this has been very well designed and you 
 will find yourself fighting upto 18 people online over 16 great maps. As well as the normal modes 
 you find in any multiplayer shooter there are original ideas and perks which are like RPG effects 
 that power up your character although levels of effects do not mean you are more likely to be killed, 
 it really adds just more variety. These addictions provide even more fun for this great multiplayer 
 and great game in general. 
  
  Throughout the whole game you will still have time to stop in the centre of the battlefield and 
 look around in awe at the lifelike graphics that really redefine the shooter. Smoke and light effects 
 are used greatly with top notch presentation, creating eerily realistic scenes of modern warfare- 
 get it MODERN WARFARE- sorry very bad joke! Combining with the graphics is an average yet satisfying 
 soundtrack that helps to build up the tension in certain moments such as when you are in the ghilli 
 suit! Altogether the game is very great and to be honest I would give it 10/10, it is great on 
 all platforms yet on P. C's and PS3 the graphics are slightly sharper. Although on P. C's you will 
 need quite a powerful one to run it well! 
  All in all it is wonderful and I would give the storyline 10/10, graphics 10, sound effects 10, 
 value 10, replay 10, and the sound (music not effects) about a 7 as the music works well yet is 
 common action sound. All in all brilliant as well as being a great sequel, great story, great sound 
 effects, great multiplayer, great fun to play, great controls, great technically and also at some 
 points something so great happened that I wanted to whip out my camera and take a shot. As I am 
 trying to get across the game is... urh... GREAT!
  
  Thank you for reading this and if you agree with this review then please make that known by agreeing 
 with it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: franchise811
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is unreal..... actually no it is the realist game you can play today. The graphics are 
 great, and the story mode makes you feel as if you are in the war yourself. but the multi player 
 is the key factor in the game. 360 fans concede how halo is the only game with a brilliant multi 
 player, however, call of duty 4 has THE BEST multi player option hands down. it feels real, and 
 you often find ur self jumping out of your seat to avoid the on coming bullet fire. the reason 
 i believe that the multi player is better than halo's is because halo is a game that is based on 
 fantasy, and the guns, grenades, armor, crazy jumping ability, and feel of the game are just too 
 fake. but COD 4 is almost real. My friend bought this game a month ago and never played it, so 
 when we went to his house we put the game in just to try it, and we ended up playin' for almost 
 4 hours straight. this could be the best game for the ps3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daishogun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Now let me begin by saying this game should be bought if you have a 360, PS3 or a PC because damn 
 is it Good! 
  
  First up, the single player campaign may only take about 5 hours to finish but boy is it good. 
 A fantastic story line (which i ain't ruining) and action packed, high quality missions make this 
 one to remember.
  
  But the main reason i think this game is so great is of course the multiplayer! It is so deep and 
 intuitive that in my opinion it kind of rivals Halo. The lobby system is great, the servers however 
 are usually packed so if you have a PS3 you might not get that high end online stuff like on the 
 360. The multiplayer is made even better with class creation, leveling up and best of all the perks. 
 The perks are awesome and are unlocked as you level. These perks are like special powers and contain 
 things like stronger weapons, extra ammos and on-death skills like dropping a grenade! (This is 
 very useful) :)
  
  In conclusion I must say this is a game which brings not neccesarily new things to the genre, but 
 it does do all the big and little things perfectly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is great for a number of reasons. The first being that it is a unique storyline 
 and it gets away from the much played out theme that is WW2. So it is a bit of a breath of fresh 
 air to a genre that has been drowning in the recent mass of WW2 games. Secondly, it is great because 
 it has very high production values it is a deep game the story is highly developed and there is 
 a real sense of knowing about the characters there is a great depth in the missions. Also the way 
 in which you fight those missions also varies. There is a lot of things that will keep you coming 
 back over and over again. The graphics are superb and they really shine on a new HDTV. Also the 
 score and the sound is remarkable it immerses you inside the game. The voice acting is superb and 
 it really makes you be able to tell which character is speaking and when. The game is also technically 
 proficient it hardly ever slows down even in the midst of some very intense firefights. These firefights 
 are some of the most intense one ever to grace a game such as this. There are a few negatives how 
 ever to what is otherwise a superb game for example, the dogs that attack you in the game are overly 
 difficult and annoying so I would like to see them removed from any future addition to the game, 
 also the main problem with the single player campaign is that it is too short. It is over before 
 you know and as a testament to how well the game is written and designed it leaves you wanting 
 and you want more. So in conclusion, Call of Duty 4 is a superb game that can be recommended for 
 almost anyone, so here's hoping that Call of Duty 5 isn't too far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  To write this review, I was scared... Scared of Donn't know how to write a good review for this 
 FANTASTIC Game of the Year ( In my opinion ) .. 1st of all, I will review the single player Mission 
 game... 
  
  1 word says it all Unbelievable.... the single player campaign is as good as the multiplayer game 
 only it is control by AI .. BUT do not underestimate the AI .. It is damn smart and not push over 
 and waiting for u to kill them... They will run, avoid, duck, throw grenade and hide depending 
 on wat gun and where u are hiding. For newbies, most probally u will cry and go for Walkthrough 
 to play all the mission... I not mean it ..... this game can be 1 of the hardest game on the world 
 u will ever play for FPS if u play the highest difficulties..
  
  2nd would be the multiplayer mode... 4 words say it all OMFG.. (for those who don't know .. try to 
 ask ur friend or msg me ) The game provide u with endless fun and enjoy to ur system.. U will not 
 regret for buying ths game, juz counting on the MULTIPLAYER mode only.. Its best to play among 
 friend and othe on9 ppl.. The choice of gun .. is like a house of GUN... Gun which u will never 
 c b4.. 
  
  The good thing about this game is their Graphic and Story in Single mode.. the graphic will make 
 u rub ur eye , to see is ur eye was block by some kind of real image or is it on the game.. the 
 graphic wil make u drop ur jaw multiple time with so many on screen moving but the game still remain 
 smooth with 60frames per second and the environment and shadow are so real... The story .. I cant 
 say it in all.. so i will juz make it short... EPIC.. 1 word say it all.. It is so gripping and 
 exciting ... u wll feel juz like watching a movie....
  
  On the bad  
 Is Kinda NOTHING and i mean NOTHING is wrong with the game . It provide u with more than 100 hours 
 of gameplay with the multiplayer.. Is juz like endless....... To sumarize the whole game "This 
 is The GAME OF THE YEAR".. The End. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  My inaugural review and game played for that matter on the PS3 may ruin me for reviewing future 
 games on the system. Call of Duty 4 is flat out the prettiest game I've played on a console, hands 
 down. The smoke and lighting effects in the game are great, as well as the water, rain, and other 
 elements you deal with.
  
  The story is fairly strong as well, as this is something that could very well be on the front page 
 of a news paper in the near future. A middle-eastern extremist has overthrown his country's leader 
 in a bloody coup. This country also has access to nuclear weapons. It's up to you to help the USMC 
 and the British SAS prevent a nuclear holocaust.
  
  Like it's predecessor, you will play multiple characters throughout the game. The story transition 
 between the SAS and USMC is smooth and makes sense, which is something I couldn't necessarily say 
 about Call of Duty 3. You never really understood why you were being put in someone else's shoes 
 then, whereas here your mission objectives co-mingle a bit, especially towards the end of the game...
 
  
  ... Which brings up Call of Duty 4's largest weakpoint, and that is that the single player campaign 
 is over way too soon. It's an engrossing story, and you can't wait to get to the next mission, 
 but then boom, it's over with. The single player campaign probably will take most gamers no more 
 than 10 hours to finish.
  
  Luckily there's online multiplayer mode. This mode will keep you playing the game pretty much indefinitely, 
 as you'll not be able to get enough of the gorgeous graphics with just the single player. Multiplayer 
 is loaded with features. There are several varieties of game including your standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture the flag, but then some unique modes like sabotage where there's a 
 bomb in the middle of the field and you must use it to blow up your opponent's base.
  
  In addition to the numerous modes, you've got the rank and perk systems as well. Your rank allows 
 you to perform certain actions in the game. This includes being able to create a custom class for 
 your multiplayer enjoyment as well as earn different weapons, upgrades, and perks. The perk system 
 is the newest, and in my opinion coolest, addition in this version of the series. The perk system 
 allows you certain special powers to aid you in mowing down the enemy. You're only allowed three 
 active at any given time, and only certain perks are available in certain slots as well. Some of 
 the perks you can get are "Extreme Conditioning" which allows you to run for a longer distance 
 before being forced to walk. "Last Stand" is a personal favorite as it allows you to take a couple 
 last pot shots with your pistol at the jerk that shot you up if he didn't land a fatal (read: head 
 shot) blow. There's a slew more for you to discover as well, so customization of your online persona 
 is great even if you can't change your outward appearance.
  
  This is by far the greatest version of the Call of Duty franchise. Were it not for the extremely 
 short single player campaign, and at the moment a limited choice of multiplayer maps, this would 
 make a must own game for any PS3 owner. However, those shortcomings knock it down to a rating of 
 "Worth Owning" and a numeric rating of 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaoFly
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  http://callofduty4tournaments. com/ f f f hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h jh jh jh jh jh an an ana 
 na an ananana ana na an ana na ana an ana ana na na ana anan an an n an an an an anananan na n 
 an an a n an an an an anana na na na nan n an an a na e we we w ew ew e we uy yp yo yo o yo y oy 
 oy oy oy oy oy oy oy oy o yo y y oy oy oy oy oy oy oy oy oiy oy oyo yo yoy oy ooy oyo oy oyo oy 
 o yo y yoyoyoyooyoy oyo y oy oy oyo yo yo yoy oy oy oy oyo yo yo yo yo yoy oy oy oy oy oy oy oy 
 oy oy oy oyo yo yo yo yo yo oy oy oy oy o yo oy oy oy o yo y oy oyo y oy o g A Y AG A Y GA Y GA 
 Y GA YG AY GA YGA YGA YG AYG AY GA YGA Y GAY GA YG AYG AY GA YGA YG AY GA YG AY GA YGA YG AY GA 
 YG AYG A YG A YGA Y GA Y GA A IMi mI M iM Im iM Im I Mi mI Ma g ay ag ay aG AY A G AY A Gag D Od 
 od OD Od Hti AS HTi s ht i s to u r n eY M A N E N T t o u n RY N RYTKDJHDJ DJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Played the original COD and thought that was pretty awesome for a "Historical" shooter, mind you 
 the "Kill Cam" from the Multiplayer side was rather novel!
  Playing COD 4 and MAN is it intense!
  Three installments covering WW2, it's refreshing change 
 to see this one set in Today's world. So far the story behind the singleplayert mode is going right 
 off!
  Extremists, British SAS, USMC, Nukes... What a cocktail!
  Haven't played online yet because I am waiting for Christmas Eve which is when my ADSL connection 
 gets put back up to full speed!
  (went over my Download limit... AGAIN!)
  Seeing a screenshot with The Kill Cam is enough to say COD 4's Multiplayer has got the fun times 
 from the original!
  
  If you love epic action games...
  
  Then seriously guys... Get into COD4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PA1N_K1LL3R
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is better than any other first-person shooting game, even more than Halo... this 
 one is more realistic, and the graphics are addictive... also, don't forget the sound effects. XD... It's 
 an awesome game for a starter in the PS3 family, even though I'm more of a fan for racing games, 
 like the Gran Turismo series, but now I'm totally hocked to this game... I can't wait for Gran Turismo 
 5 to come out... They (producers) should DEFINITELY make a movie out of this game, because the plot 
 of it and all of the action that it's involved in it, this should won at least some Oscar's and 
 become the bestest movie of the year XD. They should eliminate those guns that are a pain in the 
 butt because they make one to waste time on reloading... Ugh!... that's the only thing I didn't like 
 about the game, and there's only one gun that bothers me... for the rest, I just love them all, 
 more than Halo :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeTW
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 ! One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 v One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 vvv One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 vv One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 is the best FPS to hit the PS3 since Resistance: Fall of Man but Resistance still gets my 
 vote for best FPS to date. COD 4 is to linear, in fact I found at many points all you have to do 
 is run to the next checkpoint to avoid enemy fire, even on the hard difficultly level. This is 
 some what disappointing; I would like to see more of choice how to attack certain areas instead 
 of being forced to attack from the front with the rest of the unit. 
  Yes the graphics are great, the recoil and gun fights are sweet, and the flow of a battle can be 
 almost life like if you really get emotional about games. The story is interesting and entertaining, 
 the supporting cast of the campaign mode is help full, yet not annoying unless you wander off path 
 to look at a tree or something 
  A key highlight of this game is the Multiplayer, and I will admit it is the only reason I actually 
 purchased the game. Loading a game takes only minutes, you customize your kits, and being a veteran 
 of Battlefield series I rather like the adaptation of the kit configuration to your game play. 
 The challenges are a nice touch to goals in multiplayer matches. 
  Over all COD 4 is a good game, worth buying for yourself or that FPS relative that has a fast enough 
 internet connection. If not buying at least rent it for a few days and beat the story mode. 
  
  The Good:
  -Cinema game play
  -Graphics
  -Various Weapon options
  -Bullet paths and 
 Recoil Action
  -Personal Multiplayer Goals
  
  The Not So Good:
  -Linear Game Play
  -Short Story mode
  -Press "R2" To Throw Grenades Back 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petrivdw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Great; just to short. If you dont have internet how will you enjoy the rest of the game. Multiplayer 
 options offline ?. Is there a way to play in multiplayer against some bots like counter strike 
 or not. I tink this is something to have a look at. Not all of us can affort to play online. But 
 this was a great game sound, look, gameplay, everything was spoton. I hope that in the future they 
 will make the gameplay much longer for just as you get into the heart of the story and gameplaty 
 then it is all over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game in person, I couldn't believe how good it looked. Graphically, it shows 
 the true potential of a "next generation" system. The visual effects during the single player mode 
 are simply amazing to look at. In fact it took some time for my eyes to get used to what was going 
 on in front of me. Recognize this game for its visual detail, effects, sound and fast paced solid 
 action during the single player and multiplayer modes. The PS3 handles it all so well on a consistent 
 basis. 
  
  There hasn't been a game with this kind of visual mastery to this date: and I must stress "to this 
 date" as I am sure there is much more games with stunning visuals on the way. The future of videogames 
 will be very promising with games like COD4. 
  
  The single player mode didn't bother me due to how short it was; Conversely, if you can't get your 
 PS3 online, this could be a problem. It takes about 4-6 hours to finish. Still, I enjoyed the pace 
 of action and the dark story plot. I don't think it needed to go on any longer. 
  
  I must say though, I thought that there were some issues when it comes to the multiplayer side. 
 The perks are great, and the game modes are packed thick, but there is too much lag at times because 
 there are no dedicated servers. The lobby could have been done a whole lot better. I really like 
 the way Warhawk has their server list set up, and was hoping COD4 would have something similar. 
 With no server list waiting for a game can take really long at times. Waiting for people who agree 
 on a map can be frustrating. Some of the maps are not as strong as the dominant ones everyone likes, 
 it would be great if it were a little bit easier to stay away from some of them. This is something 
 I know many people have spoken up about. Some dedicated servers would have helped instead of the 
 game selecting a map for you.
  
  
  At the end of the day COD4 is still a solid shooter, the best in the series. It is definitely worth 
 the purchase. I really hope that a patch will come along and fix up the lag issue during online 
 multiplayer; it would help smooth out the game play during multiplayer tremendously. Maybe they 
 can fix that lobby up with the patch too
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  GUNS GUNS GUNS, and all in the name of your countries army, go own some terrorists for sake of 
 your country, or your arcade mode high score, basically to put this game down in short it is one 
 hell of a damn good game, just a bit of shame that single player is a bit short, but online makes 
 up for it, this game rules in nearly every way, in fact it's so good , I've got a question for 
 you, why are you sitting here reading this review when you should be playing COD4? and if you don't 
 own it go buy it NOW!!!!!!
  
  Then go online and own some noobs, and make sure you jump back afterwords, or they'll own you, 
 you'll figure out why when you get it, online or offline this game is still purel excellent, a 
 definent must buy, now as I was saying, GO BUY THIS 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The world of tactical shooters hasn't been very good to us on the PS3. Sure there was Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2 and Rainbow 6 Vegas, but my impressions of both those games fell a little 
 short of my expectations. In short, the controls and gameplay on those titles fall well behind 
 their PC counterparts.
  
  Then along comes Call of Duty 4. Now this is more like it! As a long time PC gamer this is honestly 
 as close to the quality and gameplay experience I expect from a tactical FPS. Controls and animation 
 are fluid, running at a good framerate. Graphics are not drop dead gorgeous (I think the native 
 resolution of this game is less than 720p) but there's more than enough eye candy for most discriminating 
 players.
  
  The story could be described as cinematic. They really 1uped Ubisoft's Tom Clancy games in providing 
 a diverse environment and winding storyline that can keep you on the edge of your seat at times. 
 This is not a bland shooter that stays the same the entire length of the game. Some realism is 
 thrown out the window with the number of hits your character can take and the sometimes nearly 
 endless wave of enemies that seem to come out of nowhere (hence the "semi-tactical" label) . Still 
 what counts most is the fun factor, and COD4 delivers in a big way.
  
  The only flaw with the game sadly is that the multi player servers are taxed to the point where 
 you will be waiting literally for 5 to 10 minutes just to get into a game. This is nearly unacceptable 
 for me, as I only have a few hours a day to play and I can't be sitting there waiting for something 
 to happen. Patches and upgrades to servers were promised so I'm going to reserve harsh judgment 
 until they have had a chance to catch up to demand; I chalk it up to "growing pains".
  
  This is a must have title for PS3, don't make the mistake of missing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this one short.
  
  COD4 is an excellent game. The single player is short, but outstanding in play and story. It brings 
 the player into the game. It is one of the greatest shooters to date. 
  
  I've played it on 360 and ps3, the 360 version is a little better. I base this on the controller, 
 it just feels better with the 360 controller, and the multiplayer, xbox live's works better than 
 the psn. 
  
  This game puts Halo 3 to shame. The multiplayer is better and the single player is definatly more 
 satisfying. 
  
  My online complaint:
  Everytime i try and play online with my ps3 version, i can NEVER find games to connect to. I have 
 tried many times and usually have to give up and play on my roomate's 360. This is a big complaint, 
 but the game is so good I still gave it a good score.
  
  Summary:
  If you want a fps with an immersive story, great mechanics, and flawless gameplay, this is it. 
 The multiplayer is topnotch and more than makes up for the short campaign mode. Definatly worth 
 the 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getter_Robo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of the COD series for the console. Adding modern weapons freshened up the game 
 and the array of missions that you will encounter are far more creative than before. 
  
  Since this is close quarter combat, there are no vehicles that you will drive and the majority 
 of the fighting is on foot. The story elements are terrific and the action plays out right in your 
 face. The addition of excellent visuals and sound effects adds realism to the surroundings and 
 immerses you in every mission. The weapons and the realistic recoil are also as awesome as ever.
 
  
  On the multi-player side you are given a few basic weapons to start, with no special attachments, 
 but you will unlock these as well as new weapons by playing and acquiring experience points. The 
 fact that you can try to accomplish the numerous goals within each weapon and by doing certain 
 things during gameplay was a nice addition.
  
  There are 16 maps to play in and hopefully more can be available through download.
  
  The only 
 negative things that really stand out, and this is a little nit picky, is that a few of the single 
 player missions are very hard on the hardest mode. You will restart them over and over and the 
 men on your team will hide or won't fire their weapon while you take a barrage of fire and the 
 enemy is literally 5 feet from you.
  
  On the multiplayer side the majority of the maps are good size but some could be a little bigger. 
 When you get good at certain weapons you can actually take out someone effectively with an assault 
 rifle as opposed to a sniper rifle. Their is an issue with parties getting disjointed from the 
 players, games lagging and weird handshake issues that results in a game getting dumped. Hopefully 
 the new IW patch that has just been released will fix this.
  
  All in all the game is superb, the online is fun and keeps you wanting to play over and over. Get 
 a party of people together and join a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjbelucky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Amazing. What can I say about this game? The first player acting is amazing with intelligent AI. 
 The graphics are second to none, the story is interesting, the use of the controls and the camera 
 angles make this an addictive an amazing game. When you start online, you can access the basic 
 weapons but as you progress, through rank and complete challenges you can access new weapons and 
 new skills. Moving up in rank is easy enough yet still keeps you hooked, as your always only a 
 few point away from the next rank and the next sniper rifle or next perk.
  
  The maps are a good size, and there are a various types of games to play from free-for-all to team 
 sabotage and domination. This game is for every person, if you like to hide away and sniper at 
 people or if you like doing a Rambo then you can pick up your rifle and go gun hoo. As with all 
 new games your able to shoot through thin walls, destroy the environment, blow up cars or even 
 call in helicopter and air raids.
  
  This game is a must have for all, who enjoy war games.
  
  The only slight draw back to this 
 game is that you can not enter vehicles. However the way the game is produced and the way the maps 
 are designed You don't miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The anxiously awaited game Call of duty 4 is here. Here are some positive things to know about 
 this game. Great Multiplayer that gets really addicting with non stop action. An amazing single 
 player campaign with arcade mode which is good for replay value, amazing graphics, and tons of 
 weapons with the ability to customize it. Here are some bad things that I found about the game. 
 Short single player campaign leaving you for more, the multiplayer is laggy in rooms, and the constant 
 host ending the game. Call of duty 4 has a deep multiplayer which can be played for months, but 
 they should have made the singe player campaign longer for us to enjoy. Playing the first level 
 of call of duty 4 was one of the best, things are happening when you don't even expected. So I 
 rate call of duty 4 a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  WOW! What a good game. When i heard there was a new COD, i just though, EH, another WWII shooter. 
 But when i saw the gameplay at E3, i knew i had to get it. I mean, ive tried the other COD's and 
 i didn't think much of them. But i tried the multiplayer at a friends house and i was hooked. The 
 graphics are good, the music is sparingly, but that's the way it should be, the gameplay is great, 
 though it would be nice to be able to jump higher, the single player is pretty good, and the online 
 is amazing. So, aboot the single player, it's really fun, very challenging, and has a really cool 
 level in which you are in a gilly suit. But that's the worst part, somehow. The online.... so basically 
 there's about 10 different games to play, and when you kill enough people you level up, and get 
 new weapons, new add-ons for weapons, and can create your own class. If you want an awesome online 
 experience, buy this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  I'm not an online player, so I am only commenting on the single player campaign. I just finished 
 that and it seemed to go by a little fast even for my tastes where I normally like a quick game. 
 I must say, I had a great time playing it. The check points are perfectly spaced so you don't feel 
 frustrated by having to replay the same section over again. And the difficulty was perfect for 
 me on the normal setting. I really liked all the different game variety too. The firefights were 
 very intense, and the bombing mission from the plane was a welcome change of pace.
  
  And i have to say I never experienced death in a video game quite like this either. Very emotional 
 and moving.
  
  But the way the game rushes you thru made it seem to go by too fast. It needed just a couple more 
 missions, as I don't remember COD3 going by this fast. If it would have had a few more campaign 
 missions I would have rated it higher as I said before I'm not interested in online play.
  
  In summary, would be much better at $30, which is what I picked up COD3 for. As it is now, 
 $60 for an 8 hour single player campaign seems a bit much, even though I thought it was great and 
 would definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  We all love Call of Duty (with the exception of CoD3 possibly) . But we all knew that we were getting 
 tired of WWII. Then comes in Call of Duty 4. Does the word amazing mean anything to you? Call of 
 Duty 4 is one of the best games i've ever played and a candidate for my GOTY award. There is just 
 so much about this game that is awesome.
  Let's start of with the bad though, just so that i can get that out of the way. The campaign is 
 like 6 hours longs. There, we're done with the bad. However, just cause the campaign is short doesn't 
 mean its bad. Oh no, its probably the best campaign out of any Call of Duty. Every level leaves 
 you in awe as you see all that is going on around you. A new addition to Call of Duty 4 is the 
 inclusion of attack dogs. I consider this bad just cause they are a pain in the ass. But it doesnt 
 make the game bad though. Also, from playing this game, its all too clear. Modern Combat was the 
 way Call of Duty should have been all along. Now, theres not really much to say about the single 
 player besides that since it is very short but lets move on to what really makes CoD4 get that 
 9.5: the multiplayer.
  Wow. Call of Duty 4 online is just so unreal. Everything about it is awesome. For starters, we 
 have the standard: ranks. You can go from level 1-55. Pretty standard. But wait, once you get to 
 55, you can go into prestige mode and start all over again and head for 55 again. Reached 55 again 
 have you? Go for prestige mode again and so on and so forth. All in all, i believe that there's 
 8 levels of prestige. Talk about replay value. Next up, another somewhat standard things, parties. 
 You can make parties and invite people to join you. Once you have friends in your party, you can 
 start again together and go on from there. What about if someone on your party didn't connect? 
 Invite from game. Pretty much, its very easy to play with your friends on CoD4. Other new additions 
 are challenges. You have a set of challenges that you can complete to gain experience points to 
 rank up and to unlock new features for guns. There are tons of challenges and it will be quite 
 some time before you beat them all, trust me. Also, Call of Duty has always let you select your 
 class of weapons. Call of Duty 4, lets you create your own. You can create your own classes choosing 
 primary weapon (Assault rifles, Sub Machine guns, Light Machine guns, Shotguns and snipers) , a 
 side arm (3 pistols and the desert eagle) , and a series of perks that you can use to your advantage 
 while playing online. These perks include things like the popular, Last Stand which lets you stay 
 alive on the ground after you have been shot to what should be a normal kill and get a couple last 
 kills with your side arm. Theres also Claymore x4 which will give you 4 starting claymores and 
 stopping power which significantly increases bullet damage. There about 30 perks to choose from 
 so do so wisely. However, the coolest additions to CoD4 online are what happens when you get kill 
 streaks. After 3 kills, you can call in a UAV that will reveal your enemies positions. After 5 
 kills you can call in an airstrike to take out your enemies. After 7 kills, you can call in a helicopter 
 that takes out enemies for you and adds to your kill streak. Things get insane as you are always 
 shout to your teammates, Look out Airstrike! Shoot down the chopper! Now in terms of graphics, 
 CoD4 is quite solid sporting some pretty nice looking visuals. Not the best out there in my opinion 
 but still very good ones. The sound like in all previous Call of Duty's is top notch. There are 
 also leaderboards that let you know Score, Wins, Kills, etc. All in all, there is no excuse for 
 not buying Call of Duty 4, especially if you are a big shooter fan. Call of Duty 4 is one of the 
 best shooters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  A Little Insight
  I am going to have to admit i have all the call of duty games except one and they are great, but 
 they were all based in WW2. I am not dising ww2 but it seem that the gamin era was stuck in a ww2 
 craze, until now infinity ward decided to make a modern version of Call of Duty.
  
  The Good:
  This game has an awesome online mode and intense fighting on and offline. The graphic 
 are very good, and the sound effects are great
  The weapons details are really good. The Bad:
  Not much bad about this game, but the story line 
 could have been longer and if you play this game on recruit or regular it seems to be way too easy
 
  
  Conclusion:
  It seems that infinity ward's decision to break the ww2 craze was really successful. We have been 
 stuck in that era for way to long and i am glad that one company decided to take a step into present 
 day warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonman46534
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Man oh man,, im happy to say that i have had so much fun playing this game, despite all these fps's 
 that have been flooding our next gen systems. But im sorry to imform you guys that the next installment 
 of call of duty will be moving back to ww2. yes its true,, Infinity Wark is not making it either,, 
 its the trearch or whatever that company was that made all the crappy call of duties before doing 
 it now,,, i dont know what to say ,besides get this game cause its all going downhill from here. 
 I say anyone who loves this game should boycott the next one if it goes back to ww2,, as a matter 
 of fact,, i plead that infinity ward make the next instatllment,,, its only right since they made 
 this one so great,, imagine what they could do to the next one,,, its so disheartening that activision 
 would do this,, these big company's are all about money,,,,, i hate it,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADP0311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is, in my opinion, the best game to date for the PS3. Great graphics, great sound 
 effects, interesting and realistic story. It's a fast paced first person shooter with tons of character, 
 and its character goes a long, long way. Although some reviewers have criticized the short length 
 of the single player campaign, its intensity and high quality more than made up for that minor 
 shortcoming. The online mode is very deep and well thought out, containing a good degree of customization 
 options and real-world weapons, as well as a good variety of maps and game modes. 
  
  I only have two minor negative comments to make. First, in regards to the online mode, a lot of 
 the maps seem a little small for the pace of the game, which sometimes makes the gameplay feel 
 like complete mayhem (which isn't really a bad thing because its still a lot of fun) . Second, is 
 that I wish there was a method of taking cover behinds walls or objects similar to that of Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. I sometimes found myself wishing that I could more effectively fire from cover. However, 
 the game's overall high quality makes these two minor gripes easy to overlook.
  
  If you own a PS3 and are a first person shooter fan, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. If 
 you own a PS3 and aren't a FPS fan, you should check this game out nonetheless, it may just change 
 your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rehino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best shooters ever created and i have ever played. It has great graphics 
 which rivials some of the best out there. The gameplay is fast and furious leaving you wanting 
 more and more. The single player is very solid. It might not be super long but you will play it 
 more than once, its that good. Online multiplayer is awesome on this game. You will be able to 
 create classes after reaching a certain level, which will allow you to play the style you want. 
 The multiplayer is very deep and has alot of variety. Simply put the single player plus the multiplayer 
 makes this game a very strong candidate for game of the year and one of the best shooters available 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalgamer22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game IMHO is one of the most amazing games I have ever played. The gameplay may be similar 
 to other Call of Duty's but it's still a great game. Single Player Campaign is a little short, 
 but I am not disappointed, how ever short it is, the gameplay and story made up for it. Online 
 is awesome as well, a lot of fun moments playing online, right now getting in a game takes a while, 
 but a patch is coming soon, the ranking system and unlockables add so much to an already good game. 
 And the graphics are good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndrliang2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very short, however I think its worth it. The Single Player is well thought out, not 
 repetitive, and very intense. However, it doesn't justify spending $60. The game isn't really innovative.
 
  However, that paired with easily the best online component this year makes this the best in the 
 series. The online is nearly without lag, is good with parties (not the best though) has microphone 
 support and a solid matchmaking. Yet best of all it has ranks and unlockables. These unlockables 
 give your character things to make him unique and can improve your weapons.
  It doesn't revolutionize anything, but I think is the best game I have played this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolGuy6654
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has been innovative in the over-played genre and the team behind Call of 
 Duty and Call of Duty 2 has finally learned that the WWII FPS genre is over played and the FPS 
 needed a new spin. So Infinity ward has developed one of the best FPS in recent memory. Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare and as the subtitle suggests this is not another WWII game is takes place 
 in modern time. 
  Now let's talk about the story. The story in CoD4: MW is all fiction but takes bits and pieces 
 from real world events. You play as two people, one in the British SAS, and another in the Us Marines. 
 You start as a SAS member going through training to get used to the controls and such. Your first 
 real mission is on a ship where highly explosive materials are said to be, and you are sent in 
 there to retrieve them. As soon as you find the materials you find out two MiGS are near the ship 
 and you have to get off as soon as possible so you just grab what you can. This part is most likely 
 the best pat in the game, because soon after you find out that MiGS are on you tail they attack 
 on the ship and you are on a mad rush out of the ship before it sinks.
  You camera is tilted for added effect and water is rushing in from everywhere and pipes bursting. 
 At the end of the mission you make a leap of faith on to you heli-copter as your captain, Captain 
 Price, save you as you are about to fall.
  When you are playing as the Marines you are in the Middle East and find out that a key political 
 figure has been assassinated by Khaled Al-Asad, the mastermind you have to stop.
  Later in to the story you find the SAS and Marines are getting closer and closer together and evetually 
 working together. The marine to play as eventually get killed and from then on out you only play 
 as Soap McTavish, SAS, and last kill of the game is made buy to in a dazed state with a pistol throwen 
 to you but a fellow solider.
  You as Soap are the only know survior but and Call of Duty fans know Captain Price always come 
 back.
  All in all the single player is short but good experince with a little bit of replay value with 
 the unlockable arcarde mode where you play the whole story ove again and get points for kills. 
 There are also "cheats" for getting enemy intel but nothing to spetactual, until you find all of 
 them and unlock infinite ammo.
  The single player is just the start of it. The online is where CoD4 shines. The weapons are the 
 best in a game yet, and yes they are just normal weapons but that's what makes them great. Also 
 there is like powerups called perks which you unlock, along with guns and chalenges, by leveling 
 up and XP.
  The Call of Duty franchise has came a long way since call of duty and this if for the good. This 
 is Definatly my vote for Game of the Year 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biocide69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I have had COD 4 since it first was released, and for a long time was only able to play the single 
 player mission, du to a lack of high speed internet. My only complaint with the game is that the 
 single player is way too short. It feels like you start the game and bam your watching the closing 
 credits. Sure maybe 6-10 hours have passed in that time, but with such a good story, and imersive 
 gameplay. You really don't get a chance to fully take in the whole game. Mostly because you ducking 
 behind a bearrel or something as bulletts and RPGs are bouncing and streaming across you nose. 
 Ha Ha, good times.
  But now on to the meat of this latest installment. The Multi-Player. Un-flippen-beleavable. Rarly 
 have I seen any lag during online play. The graphics hold up insanly good. The sound is still as 
 intence and sharp, as the single player. and of course the really is nothing like fireing a RPG 
 into a snipers camping site, and seeing the little yellow "+5" show up on your screen.
  Speaking of the "+5" as you make kills, assists, caputer and return flags... ect and so forth. You 
 gain experiance points, theis are accumilated to unlocking other Multi-player features. things 
 such as Perks wich upgrade certon aspects of your characters, and also unlocks new weapons and 
 attachments for those weapons. While you can't us every perk or attachment for each gun at the 
 same time, this does help to balance out one perk form another. but on the other hand helps to 
 agment your own abilitys or give you a little pick up in areas that your skills might be lacking. 
 
  So inconclution, COD4 is a great game and is a definant must have for anyone you like shooting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyoboy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Graphically, this game has no peers. The sound pops and the gameplay is set at just the right level 
 of difficulty.
  
  While the single player mode is short-lived and has a rather uneasy ending, it's a great story 
 and easy to become immersed in. To my knowledge, there are few games that are so detailed and ambitious 
 in providing something new .
  
  The on-line play is also outstanding, with significantly less server difficulty than Warhawk or 
 Resistance. COD4 is the kind of game that makes you want to call in sick, kick back in your PJs, 
 and veg-out in front of your tv. Within minutes of getting this game home, it quickly became my 
 favorite fps for any system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampirejack
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I had to give this game a 10. The single player campaign was immersive and ingrossing, albeit short, 
 but EASILY overlooked. I couldn't put the controller down from the moment i started it. I loved 
 the voice acting, the pacing of the missions, and the story. Parts of it were touching, others 
 were just badass. lots of replay value.
  
  I've played many shooters, and i must admit, my favorite shooters were always PC-oriented (using 
 a mouse rocks) , but this game BY FAR has the best Console Controls i've ever experienced. Air-tight, 
 precise and quite fun.
  I was a bit hesitant to purchase yet another FPS for my PS3 because developers are really "whoring" 
 out the genre because it's a safe return for their investment. While i still await more truly unique, 
 yet also satisfying games (mostly rpgs) I tip my hat to this wonderful game. Perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  hey chainblade here to again reveiw yet another game
  
  ok the gameplay
  single: very good very suspenseful at times overall good gameplay
  
  multiplayer: not as fun 
 as single but still very satisfing kills and new customization options that are awsome
  
  the story first off took me by the arm as i knew it was going to but i didnt know it would hurl 
 me onto a ship crawling with enemy troops
  the beginning was a very nice kick off
  
  now i dont want to give it away but ill tell you there are some artistic moments in this game ranging 
 from laying in the grass or looking at a destroyed environment there is no end to the cool scenery 
 
  
  i dont wana say to much 
  just but it its really fun and worth its time
  
  -chainblade
  
  i feel kinda disappointed in my review it didnt seem very different
  or stand 
 out like i wanted it to oh well -CHEERS!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Tired of seeing the same old places and same old things from the beaches of Normandy circa 1942? 
 Well Infinity Ward is right there with you. Feeling that their popular World War II franchise is 
 turning a bit stale, they thought they might take a new approach to that oh so tired out series. 
 Ripped straight from the day's headlines, Call of Duty 4: Modern warfare puts you right in the 
 thick of battle as it is today, not as it was 60 some odd years ago. It is arguably the best representation 
 of a modern day war zone that you can play on a console today. The game has dramatic lighting for 
 a truly realistic feel. The audios and visuals poured through this title are awe-inspiring and 
 make you hard pressed to think of a game that delivers them better. Rolled up with excellent gameplay 
 mechanics and implementation, Call of Duty 4 puts you as close as you can possibly get, or want 
 to get, to the real action.
  
  The dev. team has really gone all out with this one. They have poured detail into this game much 
 as you pour water in a glass. And you know how you can fill it so high that it has a little rounded 
 look at the top? Well that is how you can think of level of attention given to detail they have 
 put into this game. That is they used as much of the power available to support little things that 
 they could without overflowing and making a mess of things. The ability that they have shown in 
 being able to harness the raw power available in the PS3 hardware is first of its kind and hopefully 
 a trend setting as well. You will notice everything from the dialogue during combat from your squad 
 mates to the ricochet of bullets off of your cover, to the casting of shadow though out open levels, 
 there truly is no better first person shooter for this console then this one. 
  
  So what about the game itself? Aside from boasting a nice multiplayer package, it does have a single 
 player campaign that delivers a satisfaction unparalleled all be it a short one. The combat spins 
 off of two main characters, the first being a British soldier by the codename Soap. Under the lead 
 of Captain Price, you make your way through the equivalent of a tutorial level to teach you the 
 ropes before being thrown right into some shady business upon a boat. After a bit of action as 
 Soap, you then take the role of Jackson, one of America's finest from the USMC. As you would expect, 
 you see many a combat zone with this guy including many times when you find yourself being shot 
 at from all directions. Even though the story here is shorter then most, it does deliver on a level 
 that surpasses any in the genre. It is no cakewalk either. A lot of times you will find yourself 
 pushing upon a dug in enemy to get to some point before some timer runs out. These timed parts 
 can be extremely frustrating. Throw in an unreliable checkpoint restart mechanic and you've got 
 yourself a recipe for throwing controllers, if you are so inclined to do so. At any rate you can't 
 help but feel like you accomplished something when finally do finish the campaign.
  
  Any way you slice it, this is one intense experience. Whether it's storming through a TV broadcasting 
 station, crawling through tall grass between enemy troops, or jumping across a collapsing bridge, 
 this action packed game will fulfill its promise to deliver modern warfare to you and even though 
 the campaign is short, it is still fun and full of great times worth playing through again, perhaps 
 in arcade mode where you are rewarded with points for your efforts. The only snag in the otherwise 
 solid gameplay is the failure of the game to recognize checkpoints, sometimes you have to start 
 a few checkpoints back from where you should have started, of course if you don't die you won't 
 have to worry about that. All in all the game is good and delivers an experience that is "Above 
 and Beyond" what is expected, making it a 9 on my ten point scale. So what are you waiting for? 
 Go get yourself a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward does it again. Call of Duty 4 is the best game is the series up to date. In fact, 
 this game is GOTY worthy. I think part of what makes it the best game in the series yet is the 
 fact that it's 'Modern Warfare'. All of the previous COD games have been WWII based, so it's nice 
 to see that the franchise is finally moving forward. 
  
  Just like it predecessors and most other FPs, COD4 has a single player campaign. While it really 
 only takes 4-6 hours to play through it, it is a very high quality campaign, and it is also powerful, 
 touching, and moving (surprising for a war game, eh?) . It is also intense (typical for a good war 
 game) , but this particular campaign just might be one of the most intense ones I've ever played) . 
 The campaign is also very challenging, so the difficulty might also increase your playing time. 
 Overall, I would give a 9/10 to the single player. 
  
  Call of Duty 4's major strength is its multiplayer. It is deep, intense, and engaging, and will 
 really keep you entertained for months. There are plenty of modes and maps to play through. It 
 may be difficult at first, though, to get good, but after a few games, you'll be having a blast. 
 I would give COD4 multiplayer a 10/10. 
  
  On a more technical note, COD4 is an amazing achievement .The graphics are spectacular, and so 
 are the sound effects and voice acting. I would give the COD4 graphics a 9.5/10, and the sound 
 a 10/10. 
  
  You will be playing COD4 for months. It's really that good. And it deserves to be a GOTY candidate. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  After the last Call of Duties this one stays on the path of perfection. 
  This game is every mans wish for a war game. 
  In every New Call of Duty there is new content 
 and new stuff to do. 
  Multiplayer is amazing cause that's the most important thing for this game to keep it alive. Without 
 the multiplayer option, this game won't really last long so keep in mind to use the Wifi that is 
 provided on your ps3 system! 
  The only negative thing about the game was the short single player campaign. For a First person 
 shooter it should have more stuff to do and more missions to accomplish its cool story. But yet 
 again the thing that backs it up is the cool multiplayer. 
  Other than that, the game still lives up to its title and will keep scoring big in the market for 
 sure.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewb15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4s campain is very fun and has the best graphics i have ever seen so far. The only 
 thing that isnt perfect about this game is that there is no co-op campain. The online multiplayer 
 is the funest and best multiplayer out there. It even beats halo. The online has a very good reward 
 system with weapon unlocks and gametype unlocks. and it also has challenges that you have to do 
 to get extra xp or unlock scopes. I have played it for about 48 hours and im just starting to use 
 a different weapon. this game never gets old and is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcheva
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Best game for ps3 as yet. I love everything about it the online is great the gameplay is great 
 the guns are great. Only thing that really bothered me was the missions where to short you get 
 to the end and your left wanting so much more. 
  
  The online play is great its a bit discouraging when you start out at a lower rank because your 
 get owned every 2 seconds but once you level up quite quickly thats when the real fun starts happening. 
 My personal picks for online game modes would have to be search and destroy and team hardcore. 
 Because they take it to more than just a one on one free for all shootem up. 
  
  I think it would be hard to improve on this game it is easy to sit and play this for hours on end 
 and not even realize. 
  
  Should be number 1 on your Christmas list. if you haven't got it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLL_SuiTed
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  i havent finidhed story yet but about online...
  
  Halo has absolutly nothing on this XboX fan boys! 
  
  ive only rented this but i know im getting 
 this for christmas but the 1st day i rented i played it for 2 and a half hours straight and it 
 felt lik only 10 mins. what makes this game amazing is the combination of great weapons and amazing 
 game modes too! i think Sabatage is the best mode where u have to get to the bomb before the other 
 team and arm it at there base. weapons make sense in the game unlike other games. here the rockets 
 have either 1 or 2 shots and are harder to get kills with so there are really no ultimate weapons 
 in the game. ther are also alot of cool features like create a class, Perks, challenges, and other 
 little fun things like throwing back an enemies gernade at him.
  
  overall if u lik shooters online ur just Mising the best online game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This was my first call of duty game, and let me just say that I would really like to play the others. 
 Initially I ignored all the hype about this game, thinking it was just one of those over-rated 
 first person shooters (halo= great game, but way over-hyped) . Aside from the great graphics, gameplay, 
 etc. you will find a lot of little details about this game that really make you say "wow". For 
 example in one mission you play as a sniper, and when your commander tells you to shoot the guard 
 in the tower he will actually tell you "hey your looking at the wrong tower" if for some reason 
 you look at the wrong one. I could say a lot that has already been said about this game (the graphics 
 are great, the gameplay is great, bla bla bla) , but I will spare you the time and just say that 
 if you like first person shooters, and you like great storylines, then definetly buy this game. 
 If your sketchy, then play it safe and rent it. You won't be dissapointed in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is a winner in every department. Graphically it is certainly the most impressive looking 
 FPS on any console right now, and the sharpness and variety in textures is incredible. Every map, 
 weapon and character model looks brilliant with only the odd dodgy texture chucked into the mix. 
 Gameplay wise the game is awesome too. COD 4 has perfected the art of shooting in this genre, with 
 bullet detection and world destruction feeling perfect and supremely smooth. You shoot someone 
 in the head, they go down; it always feels tight and there are no aiming issues whatsoever. Theres 
 a lot to do in this game, even though the single player campaign is a bit short. For example, there 
 are four difficulty levels, 30 collectable items which unlock crazy cheats and an amazingly deep 
 multiplayer aspect. As you play online, you gain XP which unlocks new weapons, perks and other 
 cool stuff to experiment with. There are also online challenges to complete which will keep you 
 busy for weeks on end. This all adds up to make one of the best games I have ever played and something 
 everybody has to try. Better than Halo 3, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finly
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  It's improved in aiming, no doubt, and the only thing i think this game is vehicles, in mp to be 
 exact, there is a helicopter mission in sp, but it was annoying imo.
  
  The weapons work great, especially in multi-player, because of the level system, and customization. 
 The multi-player isn't the only upside to this work of art. Single player is more intense, fast 
 paced, and overall more fun then the other CoD games. Interactive scenes (Not Spoiling) make the 
 game more fun, and actually slightly frightening at times.
  
  The graphics I give a 10/10, though one or two things i noticed look a little wierd, everything 
 is beautiful though.
  
  
  
  Gameplay is an instant 10/10 for easier aiming on a console, great improvement from the other CoD, 
 and (at times) sorta smart AI on Normal (I find pc to be easier for fps, but my computer can't 
 run newer games)
  
  Replay Value 10/10
  Multiplayer, is AWESOME
  SP - Is fun every time
  Lan - Is just great
  
  Its got more to offer than CoD3 in replay 
 value.
  
  
  The Psychics are very neat, I love the fact that if you shoot a guy in the knee he keels over, 
 not mention you can shoot through stuff like wood, or other material, Which a lot of fps games 
 ignore.
  
  I REALLY recommend this game on any console. 
  
  Only downside is lack of vehicles, which i can live w. o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychadelichaos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  graphics= amazing
  gameplay= solid as steel
  sound= perfect
  value= moneys worth & more
  
  this is the best fps i have ever played in my life, and ive played 
 quite a few. 
  multiplayer is very addictive and will make you keep coming back. single player wasnt too short 
 like people say took me around 7-8 hours but its very replayable and extremely intense. when your 
 playing cod4 campaign, stop shooting for a second and just listen to what your hearing. it sounds 
 like a real war right? it never gets dull for 1 moment. the Price mission just blew my mind. 
 
  absolutely buy this game or go back under your rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  it's about time........ About time that the long drawn out and out played war of WWII is finally 
 coming to an end. Infinity Ward is finally taking that step out of the WWII franchise and is creating 
 something entirely different. It will be intreasting to see how Infinity Ward creates a story line 
 that ties in with it's fictional WWIII setting. So far the game looks good. This game is high on 
 my priority list for this holiday season. I love how they switched to modern warfare and not WWII. 
 I read a preview in a magazine and their vision for this game was the perfect model of what I thought 
 a first-person shooter ought to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  no doubt i love this game multiplayer is great and the single mode even though its short its worth 
 it... hopefully the guys who make this please make more and a little longer please... this game 
 is so much intense i cant even let go and eat something the gameplay is great graphics are perfect 
 the AI is just to way smart and it just won't stop from that the fun never ends it just keeps going..... 
 thanks i enjoyed this game and i will keep this as one of my collection i wont trade this at all......... thats 
 all i can say this is just makes the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well ask u guys know, the single player is short, and after i've played it, it indeed is very short. 
 But i still have to praise COD4, because it's totally action packed. Not only that, i find the 
 best about this game is the Variety it offers, from breaching, to Granade launching on a helicopter, 
 to much more.
  
  And Even when you play as ground, there's many things to do, every mission is unique in it's own 
 way. something that impresses me is the camouflage, in one of the mission, i just couldn't believe 
 me being camou can get pass 8 tanks and over 20mens.
  
  Alright to move on, ill again, praise the voiceacting, it's really great especially when u get 
 your mission briefing, it doesn't look like a game but a hi-def movie, the kind of cinematic experience 
 is really on of the few i've seen. 
  
  Comparing this with titles like resistance, MOH etc. it definately is one of the best. well there's 
 a trend for more FPS nowadays, u can skip them but not this. The short campaign mode is being made 
 up by the great storyline, fast-paced action.
  
  Well the other half of the game is of course the online play. unfortunately for me, i'm not able 
 to find matches too smoothly. But once i'm in, it's nothing less than single player action. Even 
 better if you're in a clan, all the cooperations and communication via bluetooth makes the game 
 real realistic.
  
  Pros:
  -Fast-Exciting paced action
  -Weapons does realistic damage
  -Great sound, both voices and weapon
  -Grea visuals, one of 
 the best!
  -online is quite deep
  -online rank requirements isn't high
  -Lots of things to unlocked upon completion
  -makes use of headset
  -lag in online is virtually 
 inexistance
  
  Cons:
  -short storyline
  -Enemies respawn till u reach their location
  -online isn't too organised
  
  All in all, expect a follow up from Infinity Ward, this COD 
 title is now Deadly i would say. i dare not imagine what would i expect in COD5, COD4 is really 
 one of the GOTY contenders.
  In terms of replayability, multiplayer, it's like an all-in-one package.
  It's just a game u 
 MUST buy if you're a FPS fan, it really amused me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  ok... CALL of DUTY 4 is incredible and AMAZING. game for the ps3..
  ( the game is a incredible experience for the NEXT-GENERATION of FPS ) .. 
  ok on to the GOOD 
 the Graphics r incredible and AMAZING & the weapons r to AMAZING & COOL the AI sytem is incredible 
 experience for the players & the STORY is incredible for the NEXT-GENERATION of CALL of DUTY the 
 SOUND is great to and the controls r to great 
  ONLINE is AMAZING..& the game is WORTH the MONEY$$ OVERALL the game is AMAZING & incredible for 
 the CALL of DUTY players & FPS TO ( a great experience for all )
  and CALL of DUTY 4 10.10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goliath98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow. I haven't beaten the game but I'm far eneugh to make a jugdement. I love the multiplayer 
 mode. Its very addictive. I also like the the online play. Infact, I mostly play online but it 
 takes a long time before you find a game to join and it can get very annoying. The greaphics are 
 great, the gameplay is addictive and so is everything els. It's by far the best First person shooter 
 for the ps3 to date. The guns are great and the cool special abilities you get depending on what 
 gun you choose.
  
  I give this game a 9.5 because of the annoying online gameplay that takes for ever to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has long been about the Military Glory days of World War II. It is something about 
 World War II that inspires the whole "duty" part of serving, killing the bad guys and Americans 
 rushing into save the world. It not only gives the American audience a sense of pride and strength, 
 but its damn fun for everyone to save the world. But in today's society, people are looking at 
 the world in a different light, evil might not be as evil as you think, and good intentions can 
 mean the deaths of millions. With the War in Iraq going on, Serving because of "Duty" seems a little 
 lost in translation. So the people at Activision decided to change coarse and make Call of Duty 
 4 have Modern Warfare in it, and what is more modern nowadays than a war in the middle east? Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes us into an imaginary world of what ifs. What if an Osama Bin Laden 
 like Russian took control of a Middle Eastern extremist organization to destroy the beast in the 
 west (America) , well it's an alternate universe sure, but it's not a completely concocted script. 
 The very storyline, graphics, gameplay, all of it serves one major purpose, to present an accurate 
 representation of Military Warfare in the present age, which in the end, creates a realistic hell 
 of a good time. 
  
  Call of Duty Modern Warfare has a very theatrical storyline, reminiscent of such great movies as 
 Black Hawk Down, or Saving Private Ryan. From the moment you start the campaign you play the newly 
 enlisted British soldier called "Soap". From that point you fight through the title screen to the 
 point where you meet the next playable American Soldier. Without giving away the storyline, you 
 as a playable character will see your friends and allies wounded in battles. The Base gameplay 
 sets itself in the Middle East, playing through what appears to be a "War on Terrorism" Which lends 
 Call of Duty to presenting the correct logistics in real modern combat. Beth Bailey, a History 
 Professor at Temple University, describes in her article "The Army in the Marketplace: Recruiting 
 an All-Volunteer Force" the purpose for the Military to accurately present warfare to gamers. "because 
 they were painfully aware of how badly the military fared in current public estimation. Of necessity, 
 they accepted the marketplace model, but not as it was envisioned by the free-market theorists. 
 They understood that they had to compete for young Americans. But they were certain that a sufficient 
 number of eighteen-year-olds would not join the military, particularly in the wake of the Vietnam 
 War," (1) . It is clear that most young Americans would rather steer clear of active duty. With 
 the draft now illegal for the Army to do, The Army had to resort to other means to enlist new soldiers. 
 With the Army creating commercials and movies, the Army now tries to use games as a medium of advertisement. 
 First person shooter gamers tend to fit the age group of 18, meaning that for the Army, there is 
 a group of incredible resourceful independent "soldiers" who already know strategies and how to 
 aim. The Army just needs to put a gun in their arms and presto, a new soldier. The only way the 
 Army can convince gamers of such is to accurately present real warfare to them, in a semi subliminal 
 glorified light. Using an Altered story line directly from the headlines creates a sense of realism. 
 When isn't there a crazy religious extremist thinking about using a nuclear warhead? That's what 
 the Call of Duty soldiers need to solve in campaign mode, despite the fact that the campaign mode 
 has no Co-op, that does little to take away form the full enjoyment of going along you Artificially 
 Intelligent Friends.
  
  The gameplay at first seems like a lot of normal First Person Shooter. You have a target so you 
 either shoot at it inaccurately from the shoulder, or you hold the gun to your face and shoot with 
 extremely accurate fire (if you have a dot scope) . So it plays like most tactical shooters of today. 
 But what makes the game play incredible is that, This Feels Real! The Enemy AI is incredibly intelligent 
 and can pin you down and throw grenades at you. So these "bad guys" know where you are and no barrel 
 or wall will hide that fact from them. But its not just the Enemy AI that makes the game feel real, 
 this time, Your Allies are Smart too! That fact seems to be seriously lacking in most FPS games 
 of this genre. So if the Enemy chucks a grenade at you, if your friend is near by, he'll toss the 
 grenade back at them (that's if you don't react fast enough of course) . While playing through, 
 you'll actually be able to "get to know" your allies in the game. Creating the military friendship 
 boding time we all see in Band of Brothers or Saving Private Ryan. Call of Duty also brings physics 
 and life into the gaming world. If you shoot through a thin plastered or wooden wall, your bullets 
 will go THROUGH the wall! Gamers no longer need to deal with the indestructible barrier. If you 
 know an unsuspecting target is on the other side. Just shoot at the wall, either the bullets or 
 the shrapnel will kill him. The downside of this is of course, the enemy can kill you a lot quicker 
 too. While playing this game, you WILL die sooner or later and need to respawn at a check point. 
 If you have ever thought that you could survive if you just popped out form behind a wall and starting 
 shooting everything you saw, think again, this isn't Halo. The people at Activision knew that they 
 needed players to think like a real soldier, selling the idea of thinking militarily. You could 
 flank your enemies so you start shooting them form two sides, or you can throw a flash bomb to 
 blind your enemies before you rush and quickly kill them. Once you finish the campaign, you get 
 a good feeling that it's over, despite having killed numerous people, you have saved the world 
 and now you get to go home. Soon, you realize that you have been home the entire time. That is 
 the kind of realism that the creators of Call of Duty have successfully created. War is bad, as 
 is killing people, but there is a certain satisfaction when you hear your allies calling "Tango 
 Down".
  
  The Graphics are one of the main sellers of games in the new "High Definition" age of technology. 
 As more technology comes out, presenting more realistic movies, the gaming industry strives to 
 present the most realistic games. Call of Duty 4 on the Box that it is sold in, is credited by 
 Game Informer of being, "The most Photo-Realistic video game We've Ever Seen." This is a very high 
 honor to give a video game. But when you consider that firing a sniper round, you need to consider 
 wind velocity, the crescent shape of the earth, as well as your jittering hand, that is a lot of 
 realism without even considering graphics. Each blade of grass is fully realized, and smoke that 
 actually looks like real smoke. There are points in the game where I question the graphics of the 
 game for reality. Night vision is handled beautifully in the game, the Sound and music score has 
 a cinematic style not unlike the rest of the game. At no time in the game do you disconnect with 
 the gameplay or story. During loading sequences, it shows a small television news report on the 
 world as soldiers fight it out on the ground. The graphics are such that they can only be seen 
 to be described correctly. There is really nothing else words can say to describe the full realism 
 of the game short of showing clips, pictures and actually interacting with the game. 
  
  If the Graphics are so realist, Story line so compelling, Gameplay so involving, why does the public 
 not hear a lot about it? Call of Duty has appears on Fox news, praised for having photo-realistic 
 graphics. Also praised by IGN for being, "One of the Deepest Online Shooters of All Time". Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare currently ranked number 1 on Gamespot. com site for most looked at games, 
 is the current worlds most accurate representation of modern combat. With the Army using games 
 as a new recruitment medium, Using Call of Duty to sell the idea enlistment is extremely promising. 
 With Call of Duty's roots in World War II, its evolution to modern combat show that the same glory 
 and sense of "duty" still applies in the modern age. Though our enemies may not be as defined as 
 "Nazi", enlistment is surely an opportunity to adventure, friendship, freedom, and duty.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an incredible game that combines the best in graphics, physics, and gameplay 
 into a convincing representation of modern warfare. I would recommend Call of Duty to anyone looking 
 for a Great First Person Shooter. Without a doubt Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare should be on any 
 gamers list this Christmas. With its accurate military campaign style, cinematic style storyline 
 pulled right off the headlines, and photo-realistic graphics, purchasing Call of Duty 4 is only 
 short of actually enlisting in the Army.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  As previous call of duty games were set in the old fashion WWII that we have all come to love, 
 activision finally takes the 4th series of the call of duty franchise and steers it in a new direction: 
 Modern day warfare. Activision pulls this off with ease as its online system with ranking system 
 against the world and friends makes this a copy to keep hold off. Tonnes of unlockables of weapons, 
 perks, attachments and other types of matches to play in. All your details are recordedfrom the 
 bullets that hit your opponents in team deathmatch to how many games you win and lose. All of these 
 data are then ranked against the world and makes it worth fighting to get to number 1 (well try) . 
 The perks system is additional traits for you to make it more of an advantage over your opponents 
 to kill them first before they kill you. Such examples are the martyrdom and UAV Jammer perk. Martyrdom 
 a preferred perk by call of duty owners see that when they are killed, a grenade is dropped in 
 order to take revenge against the killer. UAV Jammer puts you at an advantage where your opponents 
 cannot see you on the map and makes it easier to sneak up behind them and stab them in the back.
 
  
  The game supports bluetooth headset where online players can talk between each other on the same 
 team to organise tactics and provide back up. That is, unless you have the perk 'eavesdrop' which 
 allows you to listen to enemy communication without them knowing. As you rise up the ranks, weapons 
 and additional attachments are unlocked for you to try and master. Playing online with your friends 
 or communicating with them is alot of fun especially when you save them from getting killed! In 
 addition, there are a wide selection of maps toplay on all unique and different from each other 
 - leading to ones you like playing on and ones you hate. Some take harder to get used to but making 
 that ultimate decision in which gun suits which area plays a significant part. The weapon adn rank 
 system are balanced as the available perks and weapons dont make it easier to kill them ( in such 
 cases yes) but mainly a major advantage when you find that killer combination in weapon customisation. 
 
  
  There are different types of soliders you can play as. This includes: spetsnez, S. A. S, Russians 
 and americans. The maximum amount of online players in a game is 18 in 'groundwar'. Also, when 
 you reach a certain rank level, create-a-class is available for you to customise your classes to 
 pick from during the game and personlise thm to how you play. Onlne has alot of features to keep 
 you occupied for several months at least. It really is a true next gen game. 
  
  Single player puts you in different situations of soliders from different countries such as the 
 american and british. Although the game is short, i have prolonged single player to over a month 
 and hardly touching single player as i spend most of my time online. However, for serious gamers 
 it will roughly take about 15 hours continous play on veteran. The levels are action packed and 
 busy all the time to really get the sense of a real war going on. Certain levels require tactics 
 instead of running in and killing people, thanks to the clever AI which works fantastic. Such as 
 hunting you down if you decided to leave the area waiting to be killed by you. Certain levels use 
 the night vision googles which make a trully unique experience not covered as well by other first 
 person shooter games. Levels require different objectives so it doesnt feel repetitive and the 
 introduction to the campaign is very different and a surprise for the gamers who just got it. 
 
  
  Controls can be adjusted with several choices and voice volume online can be reduced if youd rather 
 just play online and not hear your teammates talk. All this makes this a true masterpiece besides 
 some obvious features missed. Multiplayer is a let down since you cannot shoot AI controlled soldiers 
 but just who your playing with. Support for 4 players removes the experience of creating a hectic 
 experience offline. Also, online doesnt support multiplayer so its only 1 player online. 
  
  However, you can forgive these (most of them) by the stunnig visuals of the game, the great 
 gameplay that activision suck to with a revamped presenation menu and visual display. Gameplay 
 is awesome with a kill cam online when you get killed to show how you got killed. 
  
  Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare is a superb game that fits true to the next gen game title. You'll 
 find yourself spendin countless hours online with the great replay value and excitement from the 
 hectic game online which provides a great challenge that beckons you. Dont miss out on this great 
 game that shows of most of the PS3's capabilities. Th best call of duty game activision has released 
 so far and a great contender for the best first person shooter overall. 
  
  Thanks for reading. 
  
  PSN: Veteran8701 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KdR_Hayabusa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game specificly for multiplayer but since there WAS a story. i still went and played 
 it. it was a very very deep story and yes it was short and i liked it like that. because i was 
 too excited to go on multiplayer
  and from 1-15 it was fine but then from 15-26 it got werid...
  i got dced from the game and it 
 brang me back to my ps3 menu screen once... no idea what that was but i was in the middle of a 
 game but i didnt care because i was getting my butt whooped for a good reason. the team placement 
 computer thing was SOOOO off...
  it cant be more off. its like there was 3 lvl 50+ and 1 lvl 40 and 4 other lvl 20 and below. and 
 then it was 8 people.. and the placement system thing put all the lvl 50+ and that lvl 40 in one 
 team and ALLL the lvl 20 and below on other team
  the score was 240-750 EXTREAMLY unfair.... unlike "resistances" it has a good team placement system. 
 very fair and even. and the next game after that ownage. i thought it might change party to make 
 it fair but the systems gave us the SAME people then i just exit that lobby because i had enough 
 of that. and it was not just one time. it happen like 4 times already... the weaker people always 
 get the weaker people. and the higher lvls always get same team as higher lvls. 
  they really should fix this party system
  but thats not the big problem... 
  THE BIGGEST problem 
 with this multiplayer searching game thing... it TOOK like 5 mins + just too look for a game sometimes. 
 it gets very fustrating. i bought this game for the multi and its failing on me. i was expecting 
 the multi like "reisistances" its much faster and its more better set up in resistances . if they 
 could fix these 2 huge problems then this game would be the best shooter ever
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_devil91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Where to begin?
  
  Infinity Ward's first attempt at capturing modern warfare rather than WWII warfare can only be 
 said to be a complete success. Whether you're playing the single player campaign or multi-player, 
 you will have a ball playing this game. On that note, I'll talk about the single player mode first.
 
  
  Whilst it is definitely a short campaign, it is extremely intense. You'll find yourself engulfed 
 by unbelievably realistic firefights, ducking in and out of cover and shooting as many bad guys 
 as you can. The realism of these battles is spectacular both visually and aurally. The graphics 
 are superb and the sound is so real you cant help but feel like you are holding the gun. Although 
 short, the single player campaign is well scripted and extremely exciting, leaving you feeling 
 like you've accomplished something when all is done.
  
  The multi-player modes on this game are incredibly diverse and a heap of fun to play, meaning that 
 you will continue to enjoy this game long after you've completed the campaign. Whether you're playing 
 online or via split screen you'll find yourself playing for hours. The maps are well designed and 
 in enough quantity to suit everyone. The maps also suit several different types of games, so you 
 won't find yourself playing the same type of multi-player game on one specific map.
  
  Create - a - class is perhaps the standout feature of multi-player. It allows each player to have 
 his or her own very distinct type of play, as do the classes that are already provided. These classes 
 give players a host of different abilities, whether that be faster sprint speed, dropping a grenade 
 when killed, or even getting a couple of shots off at an opponent after you've been downed by an 
 opponent.
  
  Overall, this game is extremely well done and it could be argued that this is the best title on 
 PS3 to date. It remarkably shows off the PS3's capabilities and is in a class of its own in terms 
 of First Person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_illest101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is actually the first call of duty that i played, i'm not the biggest fps fan but 
 my cuz rent the game so why not try it
  it is safe to say that it's one of the best fps ever made.
  
  gameplay: nothing too special 
 about it but it plays extremely well, so much action going on screen it's outstanding
  
  graphics: even if u can see some flaws, the game is drop dead gorgeous i think it's the best looking 
 game i ever saw 
  
  sound: the music is quite good and the sound effect are extrememely well done
  
  except if 
 u are a fiend of online gameplay u should only rent that game not buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  this was one of the first fps games I have bought and it has defiantly set high standards for me. 
 Although the single player campain is quite shore it is very well written (as far as shooters go) . 
 And 4 different difficulty levels also lengthens it a little. the controls are solid and the graphics 
 are amazing. The best part of this game is the online multiplayer. It has 18 different game types, 
 lots of challenges and cool weapon upgrades to keep You playing. My only problem with this game 
 is that if you are online and a server error occurs or you get signed out of psn for whatever reason 
 you lose all your online profile data that has been updated since you stated playing earlier. Thie 
 really pisses you off if youve been playing for a few hours and lose your data and have to start 
 off from where you were at 2 hours ago. ( this doesnt happen on campain so no matter what that 
 will work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypnotoad8128
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty was one of the more fun first person shooters released back in 2003. While the genre 
 was nothing new, it did add in some features that gave it a bit of individuality amongst the glut 
 of WWII themed shooters. Call Of Duty 2, while enjoyable just felt like more of the same but with 
 a polish graphically.
  
  By the time Call Of Duty 3 had come along the series had become stale and boring to me as many 
 games do in today's environment. Even a new developer couldn't belt anymore out of this festering 
 dead horse.
  
  So now we come to Call Of Duty 4. Infinity Ward are back in the developers seat and the quality 
 is definitely up compared to the previous incarnation. Realising that they couldn't beat anymore 
 out of the WWII dead horse, the first course of action was to change the game to a modern day setting. 
 Good choice!
  
  Now I have to say, this is actually my first attempt at giving a FPS game a go on a console. Normally 
 I find them more playable on the PC with a mouse and a keyboard over a controller, and happily 
 I can report that the controls on this one are pretty good. A bit uncomfortable at times, but good.
 
  
  Personally I think the greatest thing this game has going for it is it's compelling storyline. 
 Much like the original, Call Of Duty 4 revolves around a gripping centralized plot and you take 
 control of various characters from both the U. S and U. K . through the game to it's final outcome.
 
  
  One thing I love about the single player mode of this game is the palpable and intense sense of 
 fear in certain missions. There are times, especially in the Pripyat sniper mission that really 
 suck you into this game. Hiding from approaching troops who are walking INCHES from you for example. 
 You just don't get that in thuggish multi player blast-athons.
  
  If I do have to criticize the game, AND I DO! It's that Call Of Duty 4 is criminally short! It 
 seems a sad state of affairs in this World that developers are favoring good graphics and multi 
 player capabilities over good value in the single player stakes. Now many people would say, "Oh 
 but the multi player in this makes up for it!" Well I personally don't give a shit about multi 
 player and neither do a lot of other people, plus, that is the common excuse I'm always hearing 
 lately for a lot of games that are either rubbish or decidedly average. So immediately the value 
 of the game drops for me. If I only wanted to PLAY a multi player game, I'D BUY A MULTI PLAYER 
 GAME!
  
  Call Of Duty's brilliant single player campaign was over and done for me in just 4 hours on standard! 
 Pitiful. Even with the difficulty ramped up a notch it was done in about 5 hours. So far I haven't 
 been able to complete the game on the hardest difficulty level yet.
  
  After playing about 20 multi player games, I will say that the multi player aspect of the game 
 is very well executed. You have your typical death match and team death match modes as well as 
 various objective based modes. Sure, it's nothing we haven't really seen before, but it's executed 
 well.
  
  There is also a arcade mode available in the game once you complete the campaign mode in single 
 player. But this to me reeks of desperation on the developers part because they know that they 
 haven't given you a lot of value in this package, so they just slapped this feature into the game 
 to appease themselves.
  
  Maybe it's the fact that I remember times when a game used to give you good value with 20-40 hours 
 playtime for your money. Or maybe it's just that today's generation accepts mediocrity willingly. 
 Even with all the hype, Call Of Duty 4 falls short for me. Call of Duty is an excellent first person 
 shooter with a compelling storyline and quite excellent controls for a console shooter, but is 
 it the best game in the series? Quite possibly. But the fact that it's single player mode is so 
 criminally short and the fact that the game costs AU$119 makes the game lose points in my book. 
 A LOT OF THEM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Graphics: I thought Ghost Recon was the best looking game on PS3, then Call of Duty 4 came out. 
 WOW! This game looks incredible. Every detail is painstakingly thought out; from the blades of 
 grass to the bricks on the building, the way this game looks totally immerses you. Crank the sound 
 up and it's like you're there.
  
  - Sound: Stunning surround sound via Dolby Digital. Sit tight, and you'll hear the enemy approaching 
 with pinpoint accuracy. Great music/score too; fits perfectly with the game. Music intensifies 
 as the mission progresses... perfect.
  
  - Gameplay: Perfect. This gameplay should be a model for every first person shooter. Single player 
 game is far too short, but the online modes more than make up for this.
  
  - Weapon Selection: lots of choices from a variety of firearm categories. It's all here.
  
 
  - Online Layout/Concept: tons of game styles, and an excellent point/reward system. It's simple 
 and easy to use. The points system gets you hooked fast, as your performance get you perks, such 
 as new weapons or "power ups" such as improved bullet damage or invisibility on the radar. Overall, 
 this online mode rivals Resistance: Fall of Man as the best on PS3.
  
  The Bad:
  - Online Mode connection issues. First I'll note that typically my online connection is great. 
 Resistance: Fall of Man works perfectly. Call of Duty on the other hand... sometimes it takes 10 
 minutes to connect to a game. It's seems the Free-for-All mode takes the longest. You try connect, 
 wait a few minutes, nothing... then exit and try again. It's very frustrating!!! Whatever system 
 they're using for the online mode doesn't work so well. If it wasn't for this problem and the short 
 single player mode, the game would be a perfect 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fr33DoGG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I have Oblivion and Rainbow Six Vegas on PS3. 
  
  I don't like spending money on a lot of games so I just buy what is really good.
  
  I played 
 Call of Duty 3 on PS3 also, and it was good.
  
  First time I saw pics and videos of Call of Duty 4, i thought it was just like
  Call of Duty 
 3 with newer weapons and new missions.
  
  but, this game is more than that. this game is just incredible.
  
  graphics, gameplay, sound, 
 story, everything is TOP CLASS.
  
  if you like shooters and you have PS3, buy this game.
  
  I've played a lot of shooters on consoles like PS2 and Xbox 360,
  and this is the best. and 
 by the way, it runs at 50-60 fps all the time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thugnation101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  It was a blast to finally play a game for the Playstation 3 that support all aspects of greatness, 
 and the inclusion of a very intuative multiplayer is just an added bonus. Although, the story is 
 not long it is a very deep and imersive experience, and must be played through in order to get 
 the most out of the game. Graphically, CoD 4 is a masterpiece. It is so pretty that it almost hurts 
 my eyes. On to my favorite part of the game, is the multiplayer. It took me a while to get used 
 to having to level up to play the more massive game modes, perks, and weapons but this makes the 
 game feel fresh every time you level up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saleen_s7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but it isn't perfect. As far as single player.. I haven't even finished it yet 
 but it's extremely good so far (think I'm close to being finished) . Now multiplayer on the other 
 hand... split screen mode has no where near all the options of online mode. Can't do split screen 
 online (like you can in warhawk, even though it's not ranked) . And the worst part... I think... 
 is the fact that there is little to no interaction with other players. You can't view their stats, 
 send messages, invite to a game or party unless they're already your friend, create actual clans 
 with a leader and in-game message board, offline friends list, clan members list, recently played 
 with list, IT TAKES FOR-FREAKING-EVER to connect to a game, there aren't separate squads for mics, 
 and you can't mute people. Resistance had all these things that Call of Duty lacks. Although this 
 is an awesome game... it's just like... get in and play, and don't worry about who you're playing 
 with, and don't make friends online... unless you want to write down the name, back out and add 
 them to your PSN friends. But even when I just really want to play... it takes 10-15+ minutes sometimes 
 to connect to a game. I've fallen asleep waiting a few times. And when you get in, there's no guarantee 
 that the host won't close the game. So this game really needs to be tweaked to be perfect... But 
 still... cool game. And different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infectedshrooms
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  well call of duty 4 modern warfare has been out for a little while and i would like to say yay 
 yay yay yay oyeah oyaeh oyeah yeah son yeah son yeah son. while i own you if you want to play against 
 me my psn is theST1FFmiester. i respect move that the makers made the risky move from world war 
 two game to MODERN WARFARE. g g g g r r r r e e e e a a a t t t t i am getting it for xbox soon 
 and ill compare the seperate system. i highly doubt the winner will be xbox because ps3 has such 
 a sharp and bright definition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPlodT
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is it. Shooters can't get any better than Call of Duty 4.
  With outstanding graphics, perfect combat system, immersive campaign (it ain't that short as people 
 say) , awesome multiplayer and impressive gameplay, CoD4 really deserves the 10.
  You won't stop playing it once you get the game strategy. Multiplayer has its problems when finding 
 a room on ps network, and thats it, the only problem of the game. When you get into the room it 
 has no problems.
  The multiplayer has many unlockables that many will think that is unfair when they get to the game, 
 but it just owns, as it keeps you playing and playing to get better weapons and acessories and 
 to reach higher levels and unlock new game modes and challenges.
  NOONE, I said NOONE that buys it will be disappointed with it. If you are then you really hate 
 shooters.
  I really can't say anything bad about the game, beside the sad multiplayer "find a game" system.
 
  Just play it and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickinsondr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely the best FPS ever by far. I just got done beating Rainbow Six: Vegas and 
 I thought that game was great. Well this game is even better. Graphics are amazing. The AI on this 
 game is realistic. With cool cut scenes as you are loading each zone it gives you some really cool 
 info for all those the military buffs out there. Stuff like the specs of your favorite tanks and 
 aircraft. Things like that. It has a believable storyline. Multiplayer is awesome. All I can say 
 is that if you love FPS, if you loved RSV, then this is definately the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewrxman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was a great game. A lot of people will tell you that they didn't like it because it 
 was too short. They might be right to some degree, but the single player was so immersive that 
 you felt like you were there. 
  
  My favorite mission had to be the sniper mission that you had to do. It was very cool because you 
 were behind enemy lines and you had to stay hidden and work with your partner. Then at the end 
 you had to take out a target from 900 meters away and you had compensate for the wind or just take 
 of a shot and hop it curves at the target.
  
  The single player campaign will take about 8 hours, but you will feel like you played something 
 special when you're done with it. The multiplayer is also very good. This is another strong suit 
 to the game. In multiplayer you can make a soldier of your own with create-a-class. You unlock 
 it once you've reached a certain level in multiplayer, but you get to choose what gun your guy 
 is gonna have, you can even put a camo paint over it, your side arm and your perks. 
  
  Perks are a nice feature because it adds a rpg element to the game. You can only choose three and 
 they range from your guns penetrating more to not being seen on the radar and even dropping a grenade 
 when you die so you can take out the guy who killed you when he tries to steal your gun.
  
  Overall this was a very great game and i suggest anybody who likes shooters to try this game out. 
 The single player is short, but executed well and you will keep playing the multiplayer for days 
 after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the game last night. The AI of the team mates is terrific. They really help and make 
 the "feel" of the combat situations more realistic - and they act like you would expect a well 
 trained team to. Variety of weapons is great - my favorite was the sniper rifle. The RPG's and 
 anti-tank weapons were also fun. The dogs make for great enemies. The checkpoints were very frequent. 
 The story created a great atmosphere and sense of urgency. Definitely the best game I have played 
 in the last 12 months. Totally addictive - totally immersive. An absolute grand slam. 
  
  This is truly state of the art 21st century entertainment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  When we learned that Call of Duty 4 would be featuring modern warfare, leaving the WWII era behind 
 we were excited. Then we saw some videos, we were baffled. Finally, we played the game and we were 
 astonished. Call of Duty 4 is what you expect it to be and more. As the name implies "Modern Warfare", 
 your going to be in a modern setting basically around the world. Using modern weapons (yes the 
 Ak-47 is in there) and facing modern threats with modern graphics.
  
  Gameplay: The game is strong whether you are playing SP or MP. The Single player starts of nicely 
 giving a excellent impression of the game. And it starts of just like all Call of Duty games start 
 of, by taking a training session. You will initially be working as a soldier for the British forces 
 and later on with the US army. Using a wide range of weapons from snipers, assault rifles, sub-machine 
 guns etc. The missions are fast paced and very intense. You will be going around the world including 
 the Middle East and Russia to take down threats or just save some guy. Like all the Call of Duty 
 games you will have a cut scene where you are able to look around. The Multiplayer and online is 
 just as strong as the SP and even more fun. Addictive is the word that comes to mind. The online 
 features up to 18 players. But that's where the problem comes, when you choose the option so that 
 you can search and join a game it takes sometime before you are admitted to the game. You will 
 be waiting 3 to 4 minutes with medium speed internet and even more if you have low speed. Otherwise, 
 the online is awesome, you have many different promotions and ranks. As you get kills and basically 
 experience you gain in rank. The system is similar to Resistance but much faster. In one game you 
 can be promoted 2 to 3 times. As you gain ranks you acquire more modes of play and weapons, accessories 
 for the weapons etc. As for the game itself you have enough weapons that you won't feel limited 
 at all. Samething with the modes, there's many different kind of modes. Maps aren't a problem either, 
 lots of em that you won't feel limited there either. They're the ideal size as well, you won't 
 need to be looking all over the place to get in on the action, seconds of running will get you 
 where the bombs are goin off. The game's pace is pretty good too, get in kill as many as you can 
 and die. If you're a little more careful you can get some major killing sprees. Getting killing 
 sprees will unlock the option of calling for air strike and using a helicopter to kill those bad 
 boys. But sometimes you may encounter problems of freezing and lag. Though it's a rare problem, 
 but one that's annoying. The controls are just like most fps games. R1 shoot, R2 grenade, O crouch 
 etc. Though the running control is a little annoying with the L3 button, your hand sometimes slips 
 of. A cool feature is that when you die you can see the replay of your death through the person's 
 eyes. You can also customize you weapons, by adding small attachments that you unlock like Red 
 Dot, silencer, grenade launcher etc. These customization is an option you unlock called Create 
 a Class. All in all, the gameplay is fun and addictive with a great pace, the faults are not consistent 
 but rare so you won't hate the game.
  
  Graphics/Visuals: Well, I already made it clear; the graphics are some of the best you will see 
 for a long time. Whether you're online, in a cut scene, or playing the story, you will be impressed. 
 As you look at a scene you will see a lot of things going off with smooth quality. For online the 
 maps have been detailed to utmost descriptions, from foreign language graffiti on walls, to the 
 cockpit of a crashed airplane.
  
  Closing Comments: In conclusion, COD4 is one of the best games of 2007, basically GOTY. The gameplay 
 is almost perfect, the graphics are breathtaking and overall its one intense experience. Though 
 it has some problems that are evident, and it may not appeal to all gamers but it's a must have 
 if you like any kind of shooter games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiderjoey3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Finally a good 1st person shooter that isnt resistance don't get me wrong but i was gettin pretty 
 tired of resistance's gameplay but now COD4: Modern Warfare is out PS3 fanboys can actually finally 
 get excited about their ps3 again now i know that COD:4 also came out on the 360 too but this will 
 satisfy the PS3 fans until gta 4 and metal gear solid 4 comes out and this game should bring bring 
 back some hope among the playstation fans. Now im not really a hardcore game player but the first 
 time i played COD:4 online i was hooked. Even if you dont have online play the offline campian 
 is, in my opinion, much better than the backtracking of Halo 3. Sure the campain is short (you can 
 beat it in about 4-5 hours) but it has one of the best sniper levels ever in a game you are literally 
 laying down on the grass as about 20 guys walk right next to you it is one of the most intense 
 moments in gaming history. this game ranks right up there and might be better than halo 3. Oh yeah 
 i almost forgot watch the tim & eric awsome show great job! it comes on adult swim at 12:15 on 
 sundays. peace!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo_1989
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Another Call of duty game comes along this time with a twist its modern warfare. About time the 
 Call of duty series went into a more modern setting, previous Cod games have really impressed me 
 in the past especially Call of duty 2, Call of duty 3 was good but was too much like the 2nd but 
 with better graphical power.
  
  Lets get one thing straight if you're looking for a game to really show off your new bought Playstation 
 3 Modern warfare is it the graphics are nothing short of 
  perfect. Games are getting more real life as time goes on and this is the best example yet of the 
 truth of hell on earth warfare.
  
  The single player campaign is very good with a great variety of missions one includes the hell 
 of the shadow of CHERNOBYL and is a very dark and grim example of the tragedy there. Most missions 
 include total chaos with huge shootouts on the open battlefield.
  
  The Ai and the way the soldiers react to certain situations are just the way real soldiers would 
 do in real life, because the Ai is so good this means that Cod 4 is a very tough nut to crack and 
 gamers will find plenty of entertainment but will not find this game easy despite the game only 
 has around 5 hours of gameplay which is a disappointment.
  
  Overall i found Cod 4 a very good game if a little short but you will get your moneys worth.
 
  
  SHORT REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Let's start off with the graphics. It's when you start to notice things like the way a building 
 casts a shadow onto your gun or seeing the smoke dissipate from an exploding frag grenade, you 
 know attention to detail was a strict requirement. The sound is spot-on throwing you straight into 
 the heat of battle and swearing that you were right in the middle of things when you hear a missed 
 bullet whizzing past your head. Or giving you a rush of satisfaction when you hear one of your 
 rounds give off a padded smack into the chest of your enemy. The controls are tight and responsive, 
 improving an already close to perfect button configuration and feel. The single player campaign 
 is short but sweet. It gives you the chance to play out nearly every modern warfare situation you'd 
 want to whether it's simple ground combat to stealthy sniping missions to circling around in a 
 plane while dropping punishing rounds of ammo at unsuspecting tangos below. Nothing seems redundant 
 or over the top impossible. Every time a mission ends, a part of you wishes there was more but 
 knows that anymore would only taint an already perfect dose of action. The multiplayer is where 
 this game is at. Spanning a huge array or customization options, this game boasts hours upon hours 
 of possible scenarios based on the equipment loadouts alone. Each weapon, perk, and attachment 
 was categorized with careful thought not to allow a player to become unstoppable after they've 
 attained a certain level. Careful choosing is needed when you're building your character. And if 
 this is not enough, you can try any 1 of the 16 modes. Everything from your standard deathmatch 
 and free for all to Search and Destroy, Domination, Hardcore, and Old School; just to name a few. 
 And even then, if after all this, you're still getting a little bored, you can level up your character 
 to 55 and choose to give it up and start it all over again to earn 1 of 10 levels of Prestige. 
 So 55 levels, 10 times... enough replay value for you yet? All in all, I've never been so engrossed 
 into a FPS and can't see myself stopping for quite sometime. Perfectly balanced and highly addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammakane10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4: modern warfare sees the franchise move out of world war 2 and jump 60 years into 
 the future, to the present day, and what a move that has turned out to be.
  
  first up the single player. it starts brilliantly, with a mission on a sinking cargo ship, where 
 you must recover information about nuclear weapons. no spoilers, but the mission "all ghillied 
 up`' could be one of the best missions in videogame history, and many other missions will have 
 your heart pounding. there is also a feature that lets high calibre guns shoot through walls, and 
 though this sounds like a recipe for disaster, it works brilliantly. shame single players way too 
 short.
  
  but the single player, though briliant, is not where the bulk of the game is. online, this game 
 is the best ive ever played. behind it is a brilliant perk and weapon system, where you unlock 
 upgrades for your weapons by using them, and unlock new perks and weapons by leveling up. this 
 will have you eagerly awaiting leveling up, where you wil unlock new weapons.
  
  online the maps are brilliantly designed: there are no turrets (they are very powerful, only a 
 few shots to kill you) in places where the gunner isnt vulnerable, and the levels are made so the 
 action is always in one or two places, and after a couple of hours play you will know where these 
 places are. the maps seem perfect for snipers, but in reality you have to be very good to survive 
 as a sniper, with machine gune firing in bursts being relativly accurate.
  
  call of duty 4 is a brilliant game, and even though the single player will have you wanting more, 
 the online modes will keep you shooting terrorists for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The single player in the fourth installment of the Call of Duty franchise plays and feels like 
 the rest. You almost always fight alongside fellow AI mates, quickly respawning if killed. The 
 fancy quotes that appear onscreen after getting killed are still there. The hectic car ride battles 
 are even retained. All of these features have time warped into 21st century warfare. 
  
  Instead of roller coaster firefights in just WWII jeep rides, you can also experience the action 
 from the view in Blackhawk helicopters, all amidst sandy Middle East scenarios. There's also scenes 
 that take place in Eastern Europe. And trust me, there's plenty of action to go around here. 
 
  
  What essentially prevents Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare from being superb to just good/great is 
 the tasteless and unexciting online play. I applaud the developers for giving us an excellent ranking/rewards 
 system in addition to the beautiful graphics, but unfortunately the Call Of Duty series hasn't 
 taken much of a big leap with its online component. It's essentially a disorganized run and gun 
 game. The Killcam mode has it major drawback in the fact the enemy already knows where you are 
 so you have to keep moving. Every 5-10 seconds you die and have to respawn. This is not fun at 
 all in my book. Simply put, it's overly fast paced. I can deal with UT but if the game setting 
 is in a modern urban warfare environment I would expect some decent, slow paced strategy to play 
 out. Oh well, I guess it's just not my sort of thing.
  
  Another eye opener is the lack of usable vehicles. Still none, Infinity Ward? That's a poor decision. 
 Also no proper server lobby/list? Another poor decision as well for first person shooters.
  
  The final nail in the coffin is the short single player. When I say short, it's short. Play 
 this game in either easy or veteran difficulty, you can zip through this game in 5-7 hours, possibly 
 less.
  
  Unless you're a diehard Call of Duty player, this game is a rent. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  COD4, glad to stop fighting Nazis first off. But my god was this game short. It took maybe 4-5 
 hours. The story line was great, the graphics were great, gameplay was great. Why stop? Does anyone 
 care anymore about the single game players? I played online for several hours just to squeeze a 
 few more bucks out of it, but really it's just the same thing over and over. It's sad such a fantastic 
 game is this easy/short. If a publisher plans on making a game a 10 hour or less experience in 
 single player, either note it on the box, or drop the price of the game and charge a nominal one 
 time fee for online. If this game was $30.00, and and extra $10.00 if you wanted to play online 
 that would be fair to all. It's just a shame because what little there was, was great.
  Ok so I stupidly traded this in to get Unreal Tourney III, it was horrible, went back and got COD 
 4 and got into the multiplayer. Now I'm totally addicted. Still mad about the short single player 
 mode, but it's worth it for the multiplayer, admiting your wrong is ok sometimes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  seems the people with crappy internet connects are rewarded yet again with this very stupid version 
 of online play/hosting.
  
  Lag is so bad that at least 25% of the time while swiping someone with a knife they shoot me .. 
 only in the deathcam you don even see my knife coming out.
  
  Im using fiber to the home service and ping on most servers under 20ms .. none over 50ms and sometimes 
 its even 05ms.
  
  Lastly, you dont get near enough grenade tube attachments.. and they should blow up right next to 
 your ass if they hit the ground .. no matter what. The way it is now .. you hit the pavemetn with 
 them too close .. i guess they just bounce away or something .. cause they never explode.
  
  There are NO driveable vehicles in the ONLINE game. YOu cant kick someone for having a high ping 
 .. or saying racist slurs .. ect... and you cant even do a manual search for current servers.
  
  I myself dont want to add anyone on my friends list .. and shouldnt be forced to just to play 
 COD4 with them.
  
  Sorry .. you missed on this one .. and honestly .. the critics have been dulled by so many overhyped 
 games as late .. i guess maybe they thought this was way better ... but better than what? Shit?
 
  
  Oh .. btw .. where do those grenades go .. cause they dont blow up. How about why when im playing 
 i get stuck with laggy ass eurotrash people that dont speak a bit of english .. while they go on 
 about how shitty americans are in Iraq .. blah blah blah blah.
  
  I have no idea what people are thinking when they rate this game a 9 or 10 .. its no where close 
 to bf2 online .. not even on the same planet. Sure .. graphics are good .. but the benchmark was 
 set almost 4 years ago with bf2.
  
  60 bucks .. about 3 hours worth of play time. 
  
  And the dumbdumb that mentioned "the perks" being customizeable for your own gameplay ... watch 
 a level 30 guy v. a level 50 guy .. the 50 guy wins 90% of the time ... poor guy had to sit and 
 wide through all the dumb crap to get to level 50 .. even to "customize" to his liking.
  
  There is no support class .. no squads .. 12 men is not enough to have an enjoyable experience online 
 .. nor is 18. No revive .. no healing ... just lag lag .. showing guys killing others on deathcam 
 while shooting at the ground ... not showing anything even relevant to what really happened.
  
  So .. if youre too cheap to have a good 10mb connection or better .. you will definitely have 
 the advantage with this game .. all the people that have 768k and are playing this ... why even 
 bother? Of course you cant see what the host is using .. and if you get in the game and its chop 
 chop chop choppy .. you cant leave or you get a loss.
  
  You must be little kids if you rate this anything above 7. Gawd .. that lamborghini sure looks killer 
 (even though it has a 10hp briggs and stratton motor) .
  
  I will add ... I am a level 55 guy .. only to play it out to see if the lag problem was any better 
 .. and NOPE. You have absolute ZERO choice in where you play .. doesnt matter if you pop in a game 
 thats 210 to 0 .. leave and you get the loss anyway. Of course you didnt know .. or had no way of 
 knowing the game you just stepped into was 210 to zero .. but oh well.
  
  If ANYONE that plays this can tell me the lag issue isnt an issue at all .. they are lyers .. or 
 the ones with $10 yahoo dsl. Observe the guys getting 75 kills a game ... sure some are good .. but 
 a good portion of them lag badly ... just watch the deathcam ... in many instances it seems you 
 are dead before they even shoot .. or if you shoot it doesnt show it on the cam. That comes out 
 to about a half second latency (lag) .. which would equate to a ping of at least 500ms ... so add 
 that to your ping (which most people ping at about 90ms to 120ms .. and you have nearly a second 
 of latency) . 1 second of lag someone is carrying will ultimately give them a HUGE advantage.. because 
 by the time you see them .. they already have shot you .. while their dismal 128k upload speed tries 
 to catch up to your 10-50meg broadband connection.
  
  If they would simply add rooms of sort ... with PING CAPS and even designate each by a country 
 ... i think maybe it would help ... or even a simple thing as saying what connection teh host is 
 using.
  
  Sorry fellas ..128k upload isnt enough for 6 people to play .. hardly 18. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaHunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 sets the series in modern day for the first time. It departs from the beaches of 
 Normandy of World War II and goes into the Middle East and Eastern Europe of the modern day. The 
 game sets a new standard for the military first person shooter. It's a very dense and intense, 
 although a short, game that will have you coming back for more with its deep multi-player component.
 
  The presentation is very well done, the graphics and overall feel of the game is amazing. The 
 level of detail within the environments and character models are impressive, from the blade of 
 grass on the ground to the stitching on your gloves there is a lot eye candy to look at.
  The game play is what you would come to expect from the Call of Duty series. It's very intense 
 with bullets firing and whizzing past you. There's a lot going on in the battle field. Radio chatter, 
 soldiers and enemies yelling at each other, the game does a good job pulling you into the experience 
 and making you feel like a soldier in a bigger group and not a lone hero saving the day. You still 
 need to push a button to bring your gun up to aim it. You can try to shoot from the hip but it 
 won't do you much good. Aim your weapon will cause you to slow down so you don't want to do it 
 out in the open.
  You will find yourself taking cover behind walls or a car so slowing down isn't a bad thing. But 
 you will need to keep moving. 
  The enemies in the game are not very tough but the sheer number can make them seem challenging 
 and sometimes a little cheap. They seem to throw an endless amount of grenades right at your feet 
 no matter how far they seem to be especially on the higher difficulties.
  This doesn't hinder the single player experience though. The campaign is very short but also very 
 dense. There's a lot of ground the game covers, you will be raiding a ship, sneaking past guards 
 in a ghillie suit and chasing a terrorists son on foot. This leaves you satisfied in the end of 
 the campaign even though you will probably complete it within one or two sittings.
  The story is a very dark and gritty look at modern day warfare, which is told through real-time 
 cut scenes. Some of the cut scenes will have you saying "wow." The game does a very good job at 
 telling you who the bad guys are as well as making you hate them. You will not have any question 
 as to why you are out to get them.
  The multi-player is very deep. The perk system is a good way of customizing the game to your play 
 style. The perks are separated into three categories, which you can choose one from each. The first 
 deals with explosives like grenades, claymores and C4. The second has to do with your gun, how 
 much damage you can give or take, the speed of reloading, etc. The third category is basically 
 power ups like the last stand perk which has you pull out your pistol after you die so you can 
 get a quick revenge.
  The game types are what you would expect from an online game. There is team deathmatch, free-for-all, 
 domination, which is basically control points, Sabotage which is a mixture between capture the 
 flag and demolition, headquarters, which is king of the hill and search and destroy which has you 
 defend and destroy an objective with no respawns.
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is a game that does not disappoint. The campaign may be short but the amount 
 of things you do within the campaign along with the quality of the multi-player make this a must 
 have for fans of both first-person shooter and action games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is one Great looking Game lot of cool things in this Game you can tell they put 
 a lot of work in to the Game. The one player mode is short you can beat this Game in one day. Call 
 of duty 4 is so real its like you are right there stuff blowing up and black smoke that looks so 
 real the back grounds look so real fire fights are fun the weapons sounds real and a lot to pick 
 from. blowing up tanks is cool , in one part a nuke goes off in the city looks so real i never 
 seen that in a war Game. Have not tryed online i hear its Great online so i will have to give it 
 a try not much of a online player but i must see how it is. So if you like war Games go out and 
 buy Call of duty 4 you cant go wrong. thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidShark001
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I must be dreaming! This game is everything 1st person fan cam ask for. I was swept away by Resistance: FoM 
 and couldn't put it down til CoD 4 came out. I wasn't even gonna get it, I was checkin out Haze 
 but every one was yellin' about CoD 4. So I decided to forgo renting it and just buy it. Worth 
 every penny. Let me touch on the only bad part of the game. Too short. But thats made up for by 
 the terrific, deep, and engaging multiplayer. Even though the 1p campaign is short it can be replayed 
 time and time again just to stare in awe at the graphics which are by far the best graphics in 
 a game... ever. The gap bettween the PS3 and the 360 is officially closed. A surprising aspect 
 of the game is the story. The voice work is incredible for the good guys and its impressive to 
 hear the bad guys jabber in Russian and Arabic. In addition to this this game gives you a true 
 sense of war were you can really get a feeling for what our guys are doin in Iraq. All in all this 
 game is perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassmaniac20005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  After Call of Duty 3, Infinity Ward decided to get away from World War II video games and go for 
 a game set in modern times.
  
  I can safely say their decision to do that was a damn good decision.
  
  As always, the graphics 
 deliver. Character models are awesome. Weapon models are amazing. Overall, the graphics are amazing.
 
  
  The gameplay is intense. Sniping people never gets old. Hell, everything doesn't get old in this 
 game.
  
  The only reason why this game doesn't deserve a 10 is because it lacks co-op play.
  
  Just 
 take my word for it. This game is amazing. Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Campaign
  In my opinion, the best campaign ever in a first person shooter. You will never find yourself doing 
 the same things over and over. The battles are ridiculously intense. You feel like your actully 
 in the battle.
  
  Online Gameplay
  A very fun online game. A lot of maps, A shit load of game modes. However, it can get a little 
 boring after a while, but there are 550 ranks including prestige mode so it will keep you busy 
 for a while
  
  Graphics
  Some of the best graphics I have ever seen. Let me rephrase that. They are the BEST graphics I 
 have ever seen. Everything just looks amazing. The gunshots wizzing by, the explosions, the smoke, 
 everything looks fantastic.
  
  Story
  Amazing story. It's just so epic. And the ending is off the chain!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbrickwood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Firstly it achieves everything to an exceptionally high standard across ALL Platforms, something 
 many games have failed to do this year. And its beautiful, absolutely stunning, the best looking 
 game to date on Next-Gen consoles! and it runs at 60FPS!!
  
  
  What it achieve is Spectacular! The Single Player Campaign is by far the best FPS i have ever played! 
 Some may say its too short, but having started with 'Hardened' difficulty from the get go, i think 
 it was perfect in length. It was an intense ride and one that has to be played to be truely appreciated. 
 Never has a game captured the Intensity of War so much!!!!
  With some amazing set pieces and a number of WOW moments, it leaves you wanting more yes, but that 
 goes to show how good it is, not that its too short.
  
  
  Multiplayer keeps this game firmly locked in your drive, keeping you fighting for bigger and better 
 weapons, goals and achievements, implemented to perfection!! 
  
  
  The only negative point would have to be that getting online can take a while! hopefuly this will 
 get resolved as its the only thing holding the online experience back!!
  
  If your looking for War, this is the game, forget the rest!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: al721
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This game a simply must get for PS3. Graphics, sounds and gameplay are amazing. And to cap that 
 off, theres a whole arsenal of weapons to use. Story mode is somewhat short but every moment of 
 it is exciting, therefore making it quite encouraging and not feel ripped off. Whether its doing 
 some Stealth hunting, vehicle chasing action or just simply head on shooting, this game has it 
 all and does it effectively. The ending of the game is really fresh, well thought out and ends 
 in dramatic fashion. Online experience is great and enjoyable minus the few connection problems. 
 A ton of different online challenges to play with to keep the game constantly fresh. Lets make 
 a long story short. This is the best RPG shooter game thus far and will definitely not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This pretty much sums the game up, short, intense campaign mode, superb, awsome online. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- This game dominates in almost everything a shooter should have. Explosions are everywhere, 
 the enemies respond realistically and there are a lot of thing you can interact with. The campaign 
 is very short but fun and intense because you are constantly being shot at, especially when you 
 are in the helicopter. The story is pretty good and improved upon past Call of Duty games and lets 
 you kill a few military leaders which is fun. Although this is not the games strongest point. The 
 games online is absolutly one of the best online games ever made with ranks similar to Halo 3 and 
 you can unlock different modes and abilities the higher ranks you earn by killing more guys. You 
 can also customize your soldier when you reach a high enough rank. The weapons have a great variety 
 and all them are pretty fun to use. This game has many features past Call of Dutys lacked 
 
  Graphics/Sound 9.5/10- These are better than past Call of Duty games and very great. The graphics 
 are perfect and the Frame Rate is also great. The sound is also very realistic and the enemies 
 actually sound like their nationality. -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall this is the best Call of Duty game avaliable, a great multiplayer experience, and a very 
 intense shooter, a must own for all COD fans and a must play for all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylan9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is One of the best games that i have played in a long time. 
  
  Its Graphics are Stunning, the gameplay is... I cant even find a word for the gameplay! It is that 
 good. 
  
  The story line is just like a movie set upvery well with a very good intro and very good ending 
 with very very good presentation. VERY VERY VERY VERY! there ive gotten all the verys out. 
  
  now basically there are two sides to the game: the S. A. S and the U. S. M. C. S. T. V. X or whatever 
 they are called, the americans. and every mission you exchange between the S. A. S. and the american 
 navy. The SAS of course is much cooler because everyone of your fellow soldiers in the navy is 
 basically a meat sheild. It is actually quite funny to watch your fellow soldiers take cover behined 
 card board boxes. Yes the AI of the american soldiers is Pants-on-head-retarded, this is the only 
 bad thing about the game... WRONG! as usual you are in a developing middle eastern country in the 
 american part of the campain, and you justrun in kill all the "generic terrorist guys", and run 
 out when the country is in ruins (seems like america does that alot) . But in the end its fine because 
 Sergent Generic Jackson is nuked in the end. 
  
  Infact there doesnt seem to be anything wrong with the SAS campain... Except for the person you 
 play as's name 'soap'.... its as if his parents baught one of those name books written buy a chimpanzee 
 with parkisons disease and down syndrome.
  
  anyways, The thing i like alot was the very start were your some kind of prisoner somewhere at 
 sometime and you get dragged along and then get shot in the face with a DE. very good intro... 
 
  
  BUT OF COURSE I FORGET SOMETHING!
  The online. Fantastic. Smashing. Superb. Excellent. Sweet. Awesome. Great. Perfect. I ran out of 
 words. The only problem is that you have to unlock "clan taggs" why? Nevermind.
  
  THE GAME IS GREAT! BUY IT! NOW! YES NOW GO OUT NOW AND BUY IT OR I WILL FIND YOU!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spdykoro
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Considering all the hype this game gathered before it came out I was more than excited to purchase 
 this for my ps3. The single player of this game is good, but short, so most of your time will be 
 spent with online multiplayer. 
  
  Online multi player worked well for about a week and then I started getting all sorts of connection 
 issues. Now I'm lucky if i can even get into a game. It is very very frustrating. I spent $60 on 
 faulty software that is supposed to have the best multi player experience.
  
  Lets not forget the huge omission of online splitscreen multiplayer. If the servers worked this 
 game would be getting a 10. Hopefully a patch will be released to fix the connectivity issues otherwise 
 this would be a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  i give this game 9.5 and the only reason i dont give it ten is the singal player game is too shot 
 to be honst .this game . will get bought for the online mode . but if u dont have online dont let 
 this put u of has . ther hardden and vertan to do once u done it then thers the arcade mode which 
 i love but for the game play its the best shooter iv ever played its just so good to play the graphics 
 are best iv ever seen on any game . it fast its not easy u get to go in choppers and use the guns 
 and on a truk .u get to go on a ship .u get dogs after u u get to be the mains or sas . the game 
 looks so good is just a joy this is the best game iv played this year its even better than gears 
 of war . u cant get a better shooter than this go buy it has the best online mode for the ps3 like 
 i say its short but u will play it agine untill 5 comes out it rocks get it to day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster-tiger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  fantastic & realistic game.
  
  it worth to be played
  
  you will love it just like me 
  
  I'm not good to describe it
  
  but when you play this 
 game 
  
  you will know what I mean
  
  because the game will talk about it self.
  
  the game contain many kind of missions
  
  and you will see very good action & you will not 
 stop playing the game
  
  because you will be so eager for the next mission .
  
  I hope you like this game when you play it because you would be
  
  entertained for sure .
 
  
  Call Of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is one of the best games on
  
  PLAYSTATON 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juan99692k6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game, and is definitely worth checking out. The campaign is amazing, 
 and it is very fast paced. If you own a PS3, then this game is a must have. The online multi-player 
 is also very good. It has it's flaws, however, it's and enjoyable experience that will add many 
 more hours to the game. Some flaws: Online mode server issues. but overall the game is worth it 
 , you should buy it whenever you can!!! If you liked the fast-pace of Resistance then this game 
 is definitely for you! Forget about Halo this game lets use the latest weaponry available, none 
 of that futuristic gun stuff just real weapons from the real world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvsantos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic first person shooter. 
  
  Single player is stupendous, albeit maybe a little short. The game lives on the multiplayer though.
 
  
  Multiplayer is incredibly well balanced. There is no one way of exploiting a weapon or a crevise 
 as far as I can tell. Get an advantage with one of the perks, but lose on the other end. It's great.
 
  
  The ranking system for earning special perks and unlocking weapons add to the fun.
  
  So far my only complaint is that finding games sometimes takes longer than I would like. You would 
 think there's always thousands of people playing Team Deathmatch, why is it so hard to find an 
 open slot then? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freebird8877
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game, and is definitely worth checking out. The campaign is amazing, 
 and it is very fast paced. If you own a PS3, then this game is a must have. The online multi-player 
 is also very good. It has it's flaws, but over-all, it's and enjoyable experience that will add 
 many more hours to the game. Some flaws: Though the graphics are amazing, the textures can become 
 very bland, and flat up close. Anti-Aliasing issues, Online mode server issues. Basically, the 
 good out weighs the bad, and these problems (except for the server issues) shouldn't get in the 
 way of you enjoying the game. If you liked the fast-pace of Resistance, and the Stealth of Rainbow, 
 than this game is surely for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Call of Duty 4 was not going to be set in ww2, I felt relieved but worried at 
 the same time, this was because that although after 3 games of shooting nazi's was starting to 
 become tiresome, I still knew that it was a winning formula, and the thought of changing a winning 
 formula had me worried, but as I played it, I realised that who needs to shot nazi's to have fun, 
 because THIS is fun. The game is on the verge of perfection, due to the amazing visuals, the detail 
 in every level, and just the sheer feeling of being in a real war, and that everyhting you do in 
 Call of duty 4 has a reaction, even if that action is good or bad. The only thing that held it 
 back is that you could easily complete the game in 3 hours of solid play, but i'm just bragging 
 because this is a review, and i have to. So if your looking for a game with amazing solid gameplay, 
 amazing visuals and an ememy that is actually fun to shoot at, try out Call of Duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2blu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  this game is fresh like a morning breeze it as made a bench mark for next gen fps it has a good 
 single player ( depends what difficulty u play on) a GREAT online feature lets u customise ur gun 
 and class to slowly move in rank ... graphics are awsome even on a non hi def TV sound is great 
 i cant think of many htings wrong with the game 2 be honest.... sept u cant lean lol but that doesnt 
 make the game crap lol i rekon if u like ur fps defo hit this game up and make sure u play online 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is simply GOD! I remember when they first announced this game and 
 I made sure to pre-order this game right away.
  
  Graphics are really really good, HDTV is the way to go. It's great on SDTV aswell, so either way 
 this is a game you should own on your PS3.
  
  Story is good, not too long, but it was well worth the play. As for online mode, YOUR getting you're 
 money worth for sure. I love playing this game all the time online, I totally forgot about Warhawk 
 now, so if you want a good shooter, I suggest you pick up this copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejspeed826
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Everything in the story mode is great, one of the best story lines to pick from in a shooter game. 
 Especially with the different vehicles you can control and switching back and forth from British 
 to American teams. If there was the ability to choose your gun/scope and hide behind walls, it 
 would be one of the greatest shooters around. The vast amount of weapons and even the destruction 
 with the nuclear bomb set it above the rest. I haven't jumped into multi-player too much, but from 
 the couple times I have played, there were no issues at all. A definite must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culley1414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best first person shooter for the PS3 now. To start it off is the over-looked 
 single player campaign. Although it was a tad bit short, the story, characters, and Hardened difficulty 
 helped make this an enjoyable and worth while single player. Once you beat single player, then 
 you got multiplayer. Multiplayer is extremely in depth with a good variety of weapons and game 
 modes and an innovative Perk system. One common problem with online play however is that servers 
 for the game seem to be having a little bit of trouble. This is not a major problem that should 
 keep you from buying this game. Hands down, this is the best in the series. Graphics are stellar 
 and of course the music and sound effects are great just like all of the other Call of Duty games. 
 This game was what it was hyped up to be and I am happily satisfied with the outcome of the game. 
 Definitely worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duxhockey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This Game is The best game of the year! Great graphics, awesome sound and very realistic. The on-line 
 mode is insane. I got so addicted on-line that I got ranked up to the 9th level! I like how u can 
 get rewarded for getting higher ranks. U can get things such as add-ons for ur guns, perks and 
 game modes. Campaign is awesome yet too easy. I already beat it. It is the 1st CoD that has a split-screen 
 so u can play w/ ur friends. All-around a very good game. it is worth the money. I've been anticipating 
 this game for a long time and was not disappointed by it. Very good game Definitely a buy. Definitely 
 a 10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicetino
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an exciting FPS with great campaign and multiplayer.
  
  The story of CoD4 is set in Russia and the middle east, straying from the WW2 Call of Duty lines 
 into modern technology and fighting. You use modern arsenal throughout a story dealing with European 
 leaders taking in a man the U. S. want. The story is great and has some great turns and a fantastic 
 finish.
  
  The graphics are just amazing. On an HDTV, oooo boy they are nice. I cant even describe how excellent 
 the game looks, you just have to see it to believe it. Definitely one of the best looking games 
 out for the PS3 yet.
  
  The weapons are great as well. You get to use a wide variety of machine guns, pistols, rocket launchers, 
 grenades, and perks. Online you can even create-a-class and choose a custom setting of a primary 
 weapon, secondary weapon, grenades, and perks.
  
  Split-screen 2-player is very fun as well. You just get a map, choose your own class and go out 
 there trying to kill each other many times. In here and online you get to use an air strike and 
 helicopter after a certain number of kills in a streak, but in online you get a full radar after 
 3 kills (as without it you only see people firing weapons) . This is a very enjoyable, addicting 
 mode for people without online, or with online but with two people.
  
  But online is the pride and joy of CoD4. I'm not very knowledgable with online (my PS3 is my first 
 online console and I have only played a handful of online games) but CoD4 does stand out as a great 
 online experience. You improve up levels, getting 5 points per kill and adding up to higher levels 
 (i. e. Corperal, Sargeant) and getting more perks and weapons to create-a-class with. This is definitely 
 the finest online game I have played and a whole lot of fun.
  
  One problem I had with this game is there is no co-op campaign or online. They have split-screen 
 but thats about it for 2 people. If you could play split-screen online or campaign the game would 
 have been even more enjoyable.
  
  Despite no co-op, Call of Duty 4 is still one awesome game and all PS3 owners should play this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a solid game. The game made a good transition from WW era to 
 modern times. The acting for the characters was solid. The music fit the game as well. The controls 
 were simple to learn. COD4 is a solid FPS but not without its short comings. I found it annoying 
 that I had to earn specific ranks to unlock even modes play in. Also the lack of a medic in the 
 game in my opinion is weak. One of my biggest problems with the game arises when you increase the 
 difficulty of the game to veteran, because the realism of the game goes out the window. In order 
 to make certain you have a difficult time, the enemy get infinite ammo, grenades, and always know 
 exactly where you are. What exactly is realistic about that? The game has no two player CO-OP campaign 
 in any fashion, which is real weak considering the type of game it is. Something that is all too 
 common in games these days COD4 is short. Several other little things annoyed me for example the 
 fact that you can't breach, yet the npc do it constantly through out the game. COD4 is solid worth 
 buying if you like playing multiplayer online otherwise rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olly464
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics: woah, looks amazing, foliage actually hides you, shadows and light reflect every surface 
 with such realism that you have to think about when not even playing the game. "huh! it's just 
 amazing how much it's like real life!", quote from my father after seeing the game, hopefully commenting 
 on the visuals rather then the Ruskie I just knifed in the face. Also it runs at 60fps, which apparently 
 makes the game better, and it does, the frame-rate is nothing like I've ever seen, and whats best 
 is it carries on into the multiplayer!
  10/10
  
  Story: Interesting and modern, somehow more real then most "arab gets nukes, soldiers go in, save 
 the world" games, as there are a couple of decent twists and cutscenes that make you feel for your 
 team-mates, and really want to keep them all in tact and alive, so they have your back once again.
 
  9/10.
  
  Gameplay: Sort of similar to other COD games, but the weapons have turned from pea shooters to 
 effective killing machines, just like the soldiers carrying them. Theres a much better feel for 
 the guns, and there is such a big variety you'll actually go searching for a LMG, just because 
 you feel that peppering the enemy with 200 bullets a minute is more suitable then picking them 
 off with headshots. There isn't much variation, i. e. no vehicles to drive, but the missions vary 
 substantially, such as the utterly random but totally awesome bonus mission at the end, which sees 
 you working through a commercial airliner, shooting up all the bad guys. Again, utterly random 
 but just so awesome. The only quirk is, after playing Crysis, you really want to expand the choices 
 as to how you complete a level, it's linear. But the game does make it feel as though you WANT 
 to go the way they want you too, just because being a proper SAS soldier is too damn cool. If your 
 one of those lame people who try and "rebel" against the game by trying to kill your NPC mates, 
 and complaining because you can't run off into the distance, effectively committing suicide, then 
 you will be disappointed that this game is not for sadistic noobs. 
  9.5/10
  
  In conclusion then, although this game is short on single player, arcade mode will keep you coming 
 back, as will the amazing multiplayer. 
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronsf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is by far the best of the series. The graphics are by far some of the best I've seen to date, 
 and the sound is very realistic. One of the few complaints that can be made about this game is 
 that the single player campaign is too short. As a new father, I don't particularly find this to 
 be a downside. CoD4's campaign mode is all about quality, not quantity. I played the second to 
 hardest difficulty (I believe it's called Hardened) and made it through in about 6 hours. My only 
 complaint about single-player is that the enemies throw way too many grenades. In some levels, 
 it can be difficult to progress because a grenade lands at your feet nearly every 3 seconds. Multiplayer 
 is where this game really shines. There are a nice variety of game types to choose from, and the 
 maps are very well done. All in all, you can't go wrong with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntiMagnetic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a great game and the hype surrounding it is correct.
  The campaign is short only is you play it on easy, but if you play it on hard you will most likely 
 find that waves of enemy troops will charge at you non-stop, therefore increasing the lifespan 
 of the single-player campaign.
  
  The graphics on this game are superb. They are better than any other FPS available at the moment 
 (Except Crysis if your computer can run it) . 
  
  The online play for COD4 is great but with a few flaws. The gameplay online is outstanding. But 
 unfortunately the lobby system is a let down. I prefer being able to choose which game i want to 
 play from a list, but thats just me. Also, i think having to unlock different game modes is a tad 
 stupid. Create a class and the challenges are awesome, but you can't even create your own game 
 and have it open to the public. You have to create a private game and only people who get invited 
 may join. 
  I prefer Resistance's online game mode because you have more freedom to choose what you want to 
 play and how you want to play it. 
  
  Nevertheless Call of Duty 4 is a great game and an excellent showing of realistic and smart AI 
 that fits gracefully for this generation of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwakcookie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  However, I gave this tile a chance and OMG I was not dissapointed. Every point in the game was 
 I either amazed by the graphics or how the story is gripping. I was even sad after my copter crashed... 
 lol . And that copter scene.. quite mesmerising. However, like most people would say, it is indeed 
 too short. I wished there was more missions before I held that gun at the end.
  
  Only if war games were more like this...
  
  Just that rap song in the credits... still not 
 liking it :)
  
  
  Edit; Wow.. while I was writing this review.. one last mission started after the credits.. Had 
 to run and finish it lol 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SFFederation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best I've seen in a First-Person Shooter game because of all the guns you get 
 to unlock in online mode and all the camo you can get for the weapon and all the dumb and cool 
 challanges you can do in online mode and the single player mode is cool by the hardness settings 
 but it ended too quick for me. The final and last thing i have to say about this game is i like 
 the variety of modes you can play online like headquarters, free for all, sabatoge, search and 
 destroy, classic and many more of the online matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that all fans who enjoys shooters should experience. With its high graphical 
 output and its superior gameplay, its definitely a must get.
  GRAPHICS: Very sharp and realistic. Every little detail has been carefully integrated into the 
 game.
  GAMEPLAY: A very intense FPS, with bullets flying everywhere. 
  SOUND: Sounds are great. Voice acting couldn't be better.
  
  OVERALL: The call of duty series 
 has been on the World War 2 storyline for too long and with its current modernized version, I say 
 it was a perfect change. 
  
  BUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY 
 ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY 
 ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY ITBUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3-dee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  well what can I say.... I think I could sum this up with..... The game plain rocks.
  
  Graphics and sound- The graphic quality in this game is very nice indeed, their use of shaders 
 and textures really is very well put together, There are a few places where some of the textures 
 dont line up properly, but its so minimal that really I shouldnt have just said that !!! Right 
 from the go, you get the good old firing range and M. O. U. T storm type room takedown training, which 
 is pretty easy and pretty normal graphical and then ur on the back of a ship in the middle of a 
 mental stormy sea.. and here u can really see where they spent time getting the whole atmosphere 
 so right!!! U really do feel from the effects and camera that u r on that boat... The graphics 
 seem to lack slightly in the Middle eastern drylands, but I guess thats because these scenes have 
 been done to death, and not really improved!
  Sound was awesome I found, good voice actors (one of which used to be in the english soap Eastenders!! 
 :D ) and your weapons sounded like a weapon should!
  
  Gameplay - The controls are very easy to use and what you would expect from a shooter, but I found 
 the assigned buttons much simpler and effective than any other FPS game I have played, and I have 
 played quite a few! 
  The level design is linear but also very open, giving lots of opportunity to play how you want 
 to play and the cover is nicely placed and distributed.
  The AI really didnt get in the way the whole time, they didnt look that dumb either so thats defiantely 
 what I like to see as a gamer. Not just this but the use of dogs are brilliant in the game. They 
 put the dogs in to basically scare the crud out of ya, and it does the trick! If they dive on you, 
 the call of duty melee really comes in to its own! There are 2 mission types.... Gung ho stylee 
 U. S Marine core fighting in the middle east, and the british S. A. S stealthy mission types. I personally 
 loved the SAS missions, due to their Jumpy style approaches. Sneaking about in silence using surprise 
 as your main attack weapon. Its just great, and having known Ex SAS soldiers myself, I cn defiantely 
 identify with this style. The USMC battles are full on, busy as hell and really just a big spam 
 fest. Maybe good for some gamers, but not for me, probably because I kept dying lol.
  
  This game is a must have .... so do yourself a favour and buy the beast now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowindeler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had quite a hype and it sure does live up to it. It rocks everything 
 the developers attempted to achieve with their product. Anyone who is a fan of FPS could pick up 
 this game and absolutley enjoy it. I will start my review with the single player campaign. The 
 single player campaign does not have too much play time. Around 4-6 hours on medium and below. 
 (Normal FPS player) And for hard and above give or take 5-8 hours. The campaign though really instills 
 you with power. The AI is impeccable, it knows what is going on. There also is the case of the 
 graphics, holy smokes. COD4: MW in 1080p. Wow almost nothing compares to it. It also packs some 
 tight levels. My personal favorite is the TV Studio. Which is fairly difficulty on hard level and 
 above. 
  
  What really makes COD4: MW really shine is its awesome new online mode. They bring old school online 
 FPS'ing and synthesis it with new elements such as the perks system, gun modding, etc. I could 
 rave for days about the games online multiplayer but I will limit it to the points where this game 
 goes above and beyond a everyday shooter. Not many games can carry the graphics from the single 
 player to online. The graphics are still pristine as you would hope for. The new leveling system 
 will keep you playing with unlockables at every level. Perks are so much fun to play around with, 
 some of those overpowered such as martyrdom. Challenges keep you coming and keep you playing. 
 
  
  COD4: MW succeeds where its predecessors failed. Call of Duty is a must pick up for lovers of FPS 
 in general. It achieves a 9.5 easily. I hope infinity ward can make COD5 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game that will set the bar for console shooters for years to 
 come. Photo-realistic weapons, scenery, motions, characters, and everything in between really create 
 one of the best games I have ever played to date. 
  
  COD4 is most likely going to be under most of the Christmas trees to gamers this year. If it's 
 not already in your home console. Call of Duty is well known for its World War 2 games and has 
 really done a great job. However they got the message that 3 was enough and thus the sub heading: 
 Modern Warfare. 
  
  Thats what it is in fact, modern warfare that is. And oh boy did the guys at infinity ward go crazy 
 on this one. The details throughout the entire game truly make you believe your fighting against 
 a true with power. Infinity Ward really put their hearts into this game making it one of the best 
 looking FPS to date.
  
  The single player campaign will entice you from the beginning. You play as both Sergeant Paul Jackson 
 - United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon, and Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish - 22 SAS Regiment.
 
  While the single player campaign may end in one to two sittings, you will be left feeling extremely 
 satisfied and happy with your purchase. I wouldn't say the single player campaign alone is worth 
 the 60$ but the multi-player
  will leave you feeling very happy with your purchase.
  
  There isn't enough to say about the multi-player features of COD4: Modern Warfare. You will play 
 online against many people and be able to gain experience from each round. Gaining a certain amount 
 of experience 
  will increase your rank (who knew?) . When you reach certain ranks you are able to unlock all sorts 
 of fun things.
  
  There are challenges to unlock which challenge you to do things that will gain you more experience. 
 There are things call perks which add a whole new level of gameplay to the online mode. Perks let 
 you add cool features to your homemade classes (classes are sets of guns and perks put together 
 by you to use in an online match) . Perks can vary from you not showing up on the enemies radar, 
 to being able to listen in on what the other team is saying over the mic.
  
  Along side the challenges and perks, you can unlock new weapons, skins and all sorts of fun stuff. 
 All of this adds up to make COD4 have an extremely great replay value and I'm sure people will 
 still be playing well into next year. The single player also holds a lot of replay value as well. 
 Laptops with enemy intel has been scattered across the single player campaign. Uncovering the hidden 
 intel will allow you to do some pretty nifty stuff such as playing without a HUD or blowing things 
 up into car pieces. 
  
  All in all COD4 will always leave you with a smile on your face even if you had a bad match simply 
 because of how much fun the game really is. The weapons feel nasty. The environments and graphics 
 look nasty (in a good way) , and the game all in all is an absolute must buy. Pick up COD4: Modern 
 Warfare Today!
  
  ~Ryan ~ Firelad43 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiljoy06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Im 33 years old and not afraid to admit that i still love playing video games even at my "old" 
 age, i have two kids a 12 yr old and 2 yr old, and my 12 year old loves the fact that him and i 
 can play games together, and have fun, cod 4 is a great game that shows were the future of 21st 
 century fps's are heading and im glad that i started with an atari 2600 when i was a kid to the 
 great ps3, its amazing how far we've come over the last 25 years. and i truly look forward to seeing 
 games in 25 more years, if my bifocals will let me see them when im almost 60 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamius
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  As the review deck says, this is one of the best FPS games I've ever played, the graphics are awesome. 
 Yes the campaign is a bit short, but it's an amazing campaign with a good storyline. The real reason 
 I bought this game though, was for the multiplayer. There are so many modes and weapons that you 
 have to unlock, you just don't want to stop until you've got this weapon, but then you have to 
 get the next weapon, and so on, and so forth. I would definitely recommend getting this game, for 
 the good of your immortal soul.
  
  Hamius
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  COD4 in my opinion is the best fps game ever made, this game will kick the asses of halo3, gears 
 of war, rainbow six vegas in terms of gameplay, sound, and visuals (visuals are jaw dropping the 
 best ive seen in all video game consoles so far) .
  
  The ony problem is the VERY short single player mode. Isn't is just me? Whenever a new FPS comes 
 out, the SP mode is getting shorter and shorter. I understand that there is MP bundled, but in 
 my opinion, not all gamers are hooked up in playing MP mode. MP in my opinion (again) is just having 
 fast hands, aiming fast, kiling fast, running fast etc.
  
  What happened to the creativity part of video games? I mean, video games are like movies, they 
 are made to enertain, inspire, not just to blast the hell out of other people online to feel good 
 (and to rant) .
  
  If I knew that the SP game is super short, I shouldn't have bought this game, regardless how excellent 
 the other areas are (visuals, sound, gameplay) . 
  
  My other question, how can ubisoft and activision charge consumers with $60 for a game that lasts 
 5 hours? Isn't that overpriced? What are you guys drinking/smoking?
  
  RENT IT!! DONT BUY!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a cut above all other current shooters, and sets the bar awfully high for upcoming games 
 like Haze and Killzone 2. 
  
  I played through the entire game feeling a sense of awe. The game solo campaign is very short, 
 but it is time well spent. The "5-6 hours" (which took me closer to 7-8) , is relentless. The amount 
 of action packed in the campaign is comparable to any other shooter, there just isn't much time 
 spent exploring, looking for items, or backtracking (which usually starts to feel like filler after 
 a while anyway) .
  
  The graphics are second to none on any console. The sound is equally great and it is imperative 
 that this game be played with surround sound and a kicking subwoofer.
  
  The multiplayer is deep, as every reviewer has talked in depth about already. This is the first 
 game I have played where the multiplayer feels like a second campaign with unlockable weapons and 
 perks. 
  
  I can't recommend this game highly enough. My only hesitation in buying it was the brevity of the 
 campaign, but as someone very poignantly put it to me... I'd rather pay $60 and be enthralled for 
 6 hours than be simply amused for 12.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MildMike
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This "game" (and I use the term loosely ) has the shortest ever single player mode that I have 
 ever come across. The hype surrounding it pre-release, completely sucked me in to buying it. $120.00 
 (Au ) is way too much money to ask for an experience that is over in less than four hours.
  I think that the awards that were given for this game, must have been paid for. The most photo 
 realistic graphics everis what I think they said. Well I would say that the graphics were passable, 
 but I have seen better this year, let alone "ever". Heavenly Sword had better graphics than C. O. D.4 
 (although other aspects of the gameplay left a lot to be desired) but where was the recognition 
 for that. Whoever saidbest I've ever seen ", hasn't been paying attention. 
  The actual gameplay in C. O. D.4 was soooo boring that it couldn't hold my attention for more than 
 half an hour at a time. I had to leave it to my partner in crime to find out how short it was. 
 I mean who wants to pay all of that money, to artificially get driven around an urban war zone 
 in the back of a car ? Because that is what you will experience in C. O. D.4 among other such drivel. 
 A word of advice to the guys at Infinity Ward, get some game players on your crew, or at least 
 find out what they want before assaulting our intelligences ( and our bank balances) with more 
 of this rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: five01st
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Graphics on the game are beautiful, from nuclear explosions or just the dust particles this game 
 gets it all just right. Speed even with the graphics is awesome, all the things that have been 
 known to slow down frame rates like complex water, massive detailed foliage, and dust can all be 
 placed in a single area and the frame rate does not suffer.
  
  Difficulty settings can be changed to your preferences and are just right for all skill levels. 
 The controls are also placed smartly and are all within quick reach. The ease of the controls and 
 the responsiveness of the controls helps give the game a normal time to adjust.
  
  The gameplay can be overwhelming but it not as much as a brain assault as other games have been. 
 It's an addicting FPS that does deserve to be in every Next Gen collection of games, from the sweet 
 knifing animation to the ragdoll effects of enemies.
  
  Though the single-player campaign is shorter than normal, the quality is excellent, due to the 
 gameplay. Multiplayer, however, is an awesome experience in of itself. Although it might take a 
 game or two before expanding to the customize character option, its well worth the effort for the 
 Perks. There are three lists of perks and you can choose one perk out of each list. The basic perks 
 are open at the beginning but further experience, by kills mostly, awards new levels and new unlocks, 
 whether they be new perks or new weapons. 
  
  All in all Call of Duty 4 has set the standard for the Next Gen FPS, one many games and companies 
 will be hard pressed to reach. This game is a must buy, and is worth every drop of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcantu02
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  So far Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter game i've played to this date... it definately blows any 
 Halo game away... by ALOT!!!... i've waited for Call of Duty 4 for the longest time and i'll have 
 to say it was worth the wait... the gameplay is smooth and so detailed... being a United States Marine 
 myself... i was hell of shocked at how real this looked... and how detailed it was with the weapons 
 and the fighting in general... its pretty cool how they throw in an AC-130 mission and put snipers 
 with the guilly suits... pretty bad ass... and most games don't have the guilly suits on the snipers... u 
 also get to play with the British SAS and play as them as well... the plot is good and i LOVE THIS 
 GAME!!!.... online is way better than most games too... u jump right into the action and not as a 
 spectator waiting for the game to finish before u get to play... so that was a huge plus on my side... and 
 it loads way faster than Halo does on Xbox... hell... Call of Duty 4 looks way better on PS3 than 
 it does Xbox... i saw it for myself and PS3 blows Xbox away like no tomorrow... so i say screw Xbox 
 and the Halo Geeks... PS3 and Call of Duty 4 is where its at... no doubt about it... Oorah Marines!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  WTF???????
  
  Oh yes, call of duty may have stolen medal of honours war medals, but half the team responsible 
 for medal of honour, made this game.
  
  So i said my last review would be heavenly sword until mgs4 comes out, so i lied - SHOOT ME.
 
  
  A45X - Thats me.
  The Good and the Bad, forget that because theres hardly anything bad about tis game unless you 
 consider this as another endless 1st person shooter but in a sense it is so whats new and whats 
 old?
  
  OLD: 1st person shooter with very fluid controls and movement.
  NEW: Scripted events that throw this game into the next gen modern warfare.
  
  Graphics are 
 yet again pin sharp (Ouch) never has pain been so much fun to watch. Its the lighting that brings 
 this game alive, cast shadows, day, night, all kinds of weather and effects, dust, smoke, sun glare, 
 night vision, fire, rain, explosions. All this deatil is pure eye candy.
  
  Sound is wonderfully done.
  
  Single player not too long, but boy enjoyable while it lasts.
 
  Online is where the real fun is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroskater1015
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  This game i have to say is amazing. i have spent 10 hours online and about 4 in campaign and i 
 do not feel bad about it. it is an amazing game that has it all.
  
  
  
  the game has great sound, great graphics and above all that prolly the best multiplayer ever devised. 
 it gives you alot to aim for with the incredibly deep online mode which will keep you playing and 
 offers many many MANY intense battles where your skills are matched agianst some of the best. oh 
 yah the single player is cool too.
  
  
  i cannot put the greatness into words but just go out and buy it and see what i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward Returns for one extra round of International warfare that you all crave for...
  
  in COD 4 Modern Warfare you are pitted in a modern world full of heavy realistic and surreal 
 combat in one large dosage that should last you a while, the Campaign kicks of as Soap Mactavish 
 part of the 22nd S. A. S division you experience some training and a mission clevery titled Crew 
 Expendable sounds nice, oh it F@$ing is!!! 
  
  you will also experience some Middle Eastern warfare as SGt. Paul Jackson of the USMC, where you 
 fight in a unamed arabic country cough Iraq cough cough, you get to experience both sides of the 
 war each with its painstakingly beautiful attention to real life US and UK military tactics that 
 vary between both teams i. e. door breaching as opposed to opening the door etc... and stealthy 
 manouvers abound
  
  Call Of Duty 4 packs a lot of Kick-ass warfare into one game, as you take the Fight online for 
 Persistent statistics and ranks, here you can unlock perks and gear to make the Ultimate warfighter 
 tailored to your playstyle... Multiplayer Features plenty of gametypes and has good matchmaking 
 to keep you coming back for more every day and every hour, however you will often be paired against 
 people that are astronomically higher ranks than you, which is not much of a problem if you can 
 aim and shoot well enough...
  
  overall COD 4 is one of the BEST console FPS games this year, especially on the PS3 and is definately 
 worth the money, get into it now and hopefully ill get to shoot you in the head online in the near 
 future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Controls: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9.5/10
  Overall: 9.3/10
  
  
  The word on the street is that World War II is old, 
 boring, and played out in the realm of videogames, and this simple notion propelled Infinity Ward 
 onto their most ambitious project yet, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The team actually began 
 working on this title right after the release of their last game, Call of Duty 2, hence the lack 
 of Infinity Ward's logo on the cover of Call of Duty 3. So while they were away on their two year 
 hiatus a few things were worked on, and what it became is, essentially, the greatest game in the 
 Call of Duty series. The core COD elements remain the same and this isn't the most unique of first-person 
 shooters, but the execution is spot-on, and the intensity the series is known for remains.
  
  Since this is the first venture out of the history books, and because modern is in the subtitle, 
 COD4 contains a completely original story with fictitious characters, battles, and conflicts. Just 
 like in past games of the series you'll be playing as multiple characters, one from the U. S. Marines 
 and the other from the British S. A. S. But unlike past games, these characters intertwine with each 
 other and revolve around the same battles with a common goal in mind. U. S. and British forces are 
 sent in to stop a radical terrorist known as Kahled Al-Asad on suspicion of nuclear activity. Although 
 the story isn't entirely original, the execution of said story and the way it is laid out in front 
 of you is done in a phenomenal fashion. Sometimes watching a great movie is just as good if not 
 better than making your own. And that is why this straight-forward, action-packed, in-your-face 
 type of gameplay is still just an amazing experience. The only negative there is on the single-player 
 would have to be how short it is. It should only take around five or six hours to complete, depending 
 on the difficulty setting. But the action that takes place in that short time is nothing to whine 
 about. There is even a new element of stealth here in a game known for it's white-knuckle action. 
 One mission will have you decked out in a guille suit with a silenced sniper rifle hand. Most of 
 the mission is based on your ability to stay out of the sight of your enemy. It's really an edge-of-your-seat 
 type experience that brings some new experiences to a storied franchise.
  
  The most striking thing about this game would be its audio and visual presentation; it has always 
 been the saving grace for the series, and this just takes it to the next level. These are without 
 a doubt some of the best looking graphics seen this year. The environments are huge and luscious 
 looking, and the character models are outstanding. When you combine that with the stellar sound 
 that the series is known for, the end product is always something special, especially when you 
 equip a nice HDTV along with some fantastic surround sound; that's just magical. Just like in past 
 games the immersion is amazing and you feel like you're right out there on the battlefield fighting 
 to stop total destruction. The new smoke and lighting effects that Infinity Ward have been working 
 on are very well implemented, and it really adds a lot to the experience as a whole. There are 
 also times when the wind plays a key factor as it will blow smoke, debris, and sand all over the 
 place. This really looks nice and just helps create a life-like atmosphere.
  
  Multiplayer has always been one of the key components in the COD series, and that is no different 
 here because this rendition is fantastic. There is some incredible depth here, with nineteen maps 
 and thirteen game types right out of the box. There is a whole new rank and class system that reminds 
 one of an RPG of sorts. You gain experience by doing things like killing or getting assists, and 
 that unlocks new weapons, attachments, challenges, and perks as well as rank you up. The challenges 
 are small tasks that you complete while playing multiplayer. Half of them go by the different weapon 
 classes, while the other half are just random tasks. Getting seventy-five kills with the assault 
 rifle would be an example of one. Completing each challenge rewards you with some experience and 
 either a new weapon or attachment. Now perks are something pretty unique in the genre, and completely 
 new to the series. Perks are exactly that, small bonuses that help strengthen your character and 
 improve the over-all excitement of the game. Some of these perks include; extra ammo, faster reload 
 times, extended sprint, and faster bullets. Your character is allowed three slots, and the perks 
 are divided into those slots according to the actual ability. For instance if you choose extra 
 ammo, the game will not let you also pick faster reloads, so that is how they plan an balancing 
 out these different sets of perks. You can customize these perks according to your play style, 
 or according to what game type you're playing. Say you're about to start a capture the flag match, 
 you would probably want to take extended sprint and endurance just to give yourself enough time 
 to get away once you take the flag. Other perks of note are Last Stand and Martyrdom. Last stand 
 gives you the ability to get one last shot at your adversary. If you just so happen to get shot 
 and go down, you still have a little bit of time to pull off a shot, one last stand if you will. 
 Martyrdom is an interesting one; it really is like anti-tea bagging technology. This one drops 
 a grenade at your feet after you die, so if your killer tries to be cocky you blow that jerk to 
 kingdom come. This perk system is a great addition to an already stellar online component, and 
 the deep experience and rank system is the best in recent memory. Although the single-player is 
 quite short, the multiplayer is good enough to warrant a purchase as long as you like this kind 
 of stuff.
  
  Simply put, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have for any fan of the FPS genre. It looks 
 great, plays great, and sounds even better. This is without a doubt the best game in the series, 
 no questions asked. The single-player is not quite as long as one would hope, but the action that's 
 packed into it is phenomenal. The new stealth elements are a nice addition, and you can never get 
 tired of the in-your-face action the series is known for. The multiplayer is by far the best part 
 of this package. From the immense depth to the various maps and game types, this is truly one of 
 the best online shooters of the year. Needless to say, this is a fantastic title that shouldn't 
 be missed. It doesn't revolutionize the genre, but then again it doesn't have to. What it does 
 do is give the player and exciting ride through what modern warfare is like. In the end the game 
 is just fun plain and simple, and that's all that really matters.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupiter1333
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Ahh finally Call of Duty 4 had come and I didn't waste a second. Everything is great about this 
 game except of course the depressingly short campaign. Throughout the entire game I felt as though 
 I were actually there, firing an AK-47 and shanking hundreds of terrorists. The visuals were stunning 
 and the sound amazing. My heart was pumping throughout the whole game and I enjoyed it oh so much. 
 In my opinion I felt the ending was very good, I almost cried at the ending. But for those who 
 haven't played it yet I won't give it away. 
  
  Not only was the campaign great but the multiplayer keeps the fun coming. The many possible achievements 
 makes you always shoot for something and the customobility makes you feel different than everyone 
 else, a good thing. 
  
  Overall I feel this to be a great addition to the Call of Duty titles and I hope to see it improve 
 even more in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabber69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I am not a huge multiplayer. I do play Warhawk and enjoy it immensely. I expected much more content 
 from COD4. I didn't buy it for the MP, I bought it to rock the SP campaign. I guess I was disappointed 
 because having recently purchased Warhawk, I wanted a military shooter without having to listen 
 to and play with bunch of other dumb@sses online. COD4 came up short in that aspect. The SP is 
 freakin' awesome, it just needs to be twice as long. Rent it if you are a big SP fan, you will 
 be able to pass it by the time it is due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanleycup98
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has left its roots in the World War II era. The next installment in the series, Call 
 of Duty 4, is set in modern times. No longer will you be gunning down German's on the beaches on 
 D'Day. Now you will be fighting terrorists trying to destroy the world. We will get to that later. 
 Now onto my review!
  
  Overview:
  Infinity Ward, the original developer of Call of Duty, is responsible for CoD4. The publisher is 
 Activision. Infinity Ward decided to leave its roots in WWII and have decided to set this next 
 game in modern times. There are lots of great improvements from Call of Duty 2. These show and 
 make the game a whole lot better. There are changes in game play, multiplayer, single player, graphics, 
 and more. Story (9/10) :
  I'm sure many people were sad when they saw they were not gunning down Nazi's anymore. The main 
 villain in CoD4 is Zakhaev, a nefarious Russian warlord with links to the mob and old oil money. 
 He plans to consolidate his powers in Russia in the hopes of taking over the Russian government 
 and gaining control of the country's nuclear arsenal. However, he knows the Western countries will 
 respond if he attempts anything in Russia. Therefore, he gets his friend Al-Asad and his army to 
 attempt a coup in an unnamed Middle-Eastern country (it is unnamed to avoid any political issues) . 
 This action works, and the U. S. A. sends its Marine Force Recon to help this "unnamed Middle-Eastern 
 country's" government fight the coup. However, the British SAS aren't fooled as easy. They had 
 been keeping their eye on Zakhaev and know what he is doing. You will play as two main characters 
 throughout the game (you will play as another character for a mission) . As 'Soap' MacTavish, a 
 recruit in the 22nd SAS Regiment, you will fight in Russia attempting to stop Zakhaev. As Paul 
 Jackson, a sergeant in the 1st Marine Force Recon, you will fight in the Middle-Eastern country. 
 Later in the game, Zakhaev gains control of some nukes and fires them. Unlike the other Call of 
 Duty games, not all the characters you play as will survive. I don't want to ruin it for you, but 
 one of the characters will die. This is a huge turning point in the story. After this turning point, 
 the Marines and SAS join forces to attempt to stop Zakhaev once and for all. Single-Player (9/10) :
 
  The single-player, unlike the other CoD games, now has "Acts". There are three (or five, if you 
 count the prologue and epilogue) acts, rightfully named "Act 1", "Act 2", and "Act 3". The first 
 act has 7 missions in it, with the turning point at the end. Act 2 contains 5 missions, and Act 
 3 has 4 missions. If you add the missions in the prologue (2 of them) and epilogue (1 of them) , 
 you will end up with the total of 19 missions. You will never find yourself doing the same thing 
 long enough so you get bored. You will always be doing different things in each mission. Each mission 
 is amazing and intense. That leads us into the game play element of the game.
  
  Game play (7.5/10) :
  "The most photo-realistic video game we have ever seen!"  Game Informer
 
  "One of the deepest online shooters of all time."  IGN. com
  "The most intense first-person shooter we have ever seen."  Game Informer
  These three quotes 
 pretty much sum up what people thing of this game; intense, realistic, and deep. They are correct. 
 This game is extremely intense. I can't think of a way to describe it in words. You will feel it 
 when you are in game, with 5.1 Surround Sound blasting; with gunfire zipping everywhere you look; 
 with endless amounts of enemies pouring at you, all seemingly trying to shoot your brains out; 
 with explosions going off all around you; with squad leaders yelling commands. I don't want to 
 type too much, but the intensity in this game is amazing. When I was typing that out, my fingers 
 were about to spas out with excitement. Yea... I'm serious. Yes, I know that is weird. Hold on...*flaps 
 arms around crazily*... OK, I'm fine now. Pretty much, if you have ever played a single Call of 
 Duty game, multiply the intensity of that by 10. That is Call of Duty 4.
  The only problem I have found with the game play is the same issue that was in the other Call of 
 Duty games. It is too linear. Messages are continuously coming up on your screen saying "FIND THE 
 JAVELIN". You look on your compass and find the direction the Javelin is in. And woe and behold, 
 there is a flashing, yellow, hologram over there. Hmm... I wonder if that is what I need to go to. 
 So, you take the only way over there. Through the alley way, shoot a few guys and you pick it up. 
 Then you die. You respawn at where you get your objective. You go to the Javelin again. The enemies 
 are in the exact same place, expecting you. You have only one path to take. Once you get past this, 
 however, it is very fun.
  
  Multiplayer (9/10) :
  There are huge changes to the multiplayer in Call of Duty 4. The main differences are the ranks, 
 unlocks, challenges, and class creation. Before we get to describing that, let me overview the 
 multiplayer a bit. The max amount of players on consoles is 16, and the max on the PC is 32. However, 
 the setting can be changes to anything. Don't be surprised to see servers with 64. Now, that is 
 intense! There are also many of the basic Call of Duty game modes, as well as some additional ones. 
 The most basic one, Free-for-All, aka Deathmatch, is what the name says; every man for himself. 
 Team Deathmatch is basically the same thing, except there are two teams. Of course, you try to 
 kill the players on the other team. Then there is Search and Destroy, where two teams fight to 
 either plant a bomb or to defend. CoD vets should now about this. Also returning is headquarters, 
 where the two teams battle to control the radio. Missing in CoD2 was domination, but it is back. 
 The two teams fight to control different positions around the map. Think Battlefield conquest. 
 Those are the only games returning from previous games. Oh... what did you say? Yes, there is no 
 CTF at the time of this writing. IW has said that it is not ready yet. Hopefully it will be about 
 for *free* download later. One of the new game modes is sabotage. A neutral bomb is at the center 
 of the map, and each team fights to destroy the other team's objective. There are also some 'rules' 
 that you can apply to the game modes. Hardcore makes the game realistic; removing the HUD, increasing 
 bullet damage, etc. Old School makes you have to pick-up weapons and perks. Also, health is increased 
 and jumps are higher. Oldcore combines Hardcore and Old School modes. All of these game modes, 
 as well as variations of them you can play, will be sure to keep you busy. Like I have said before, 
 there are ranks, unlocks, challenges, and class creations. You will earn ranks as you play. To 
 rank-up, you must gain experience (XP) . You can get XP by doing most things in the game, including 
 killing or planting the bomb in S&D. When you reach level 4, you unlock the ability to create-a-class. 
 You can change things such as your primary weapon, side arm, perks, special grenades, camouflage 
 patterns and attachments. You unlock attachments/camouflage patterns for your primary weapon by 
 completing challenges, which basically are challenges that you have to complete. You gain XP from 
 these too. Your side arm would be your pistol. I mentioned you can choose 'perks'. Perks are special 
 abilities you can add to your character. For example, Stopping Power adds bullet damage. The special 
 grenade would be a flash bang, smoke grenade, etc. You can then name your class and use it in game. 
 As you rank up, you will unlock new weapons. Once you reach the level cap of 55, you will also 
 get the option to go through prestige mode. You will get your stats reset, but you will get a symbol 
 next to your name that says, "Hey, I'm awesome!" You can do this 10 times. This will be sure to 
 keep you going. There are also 16 multiplayer maps, each with a different play style. Each play 
 style will cause you to want to change your perks for each class to suit the game. Perks are the 
 key to being successful. The popular party system from Halo 2 has been implemented in Call of Duty 
 4. You will be able to join the same lobby as your friends and will be put on the same team as 
 them. This will help you coordinate your tactics and play successfully. Just one note: there are 
 no drivable vehicles in MP. If you are one of those people who enjoy speeding around the map in 
 a jeep doing hit and runs with your friends, then this is not the game for you.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : The graphic engine is AMAZING. The shadows are amazing. The effects are stunning. 
 There isn't really much I can say about graphics. If you have seen any clips of the game, you can 
 see that it is stunning visually. You will be blown away.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The sound is just as stunning as the graphics. If you have surround sound, you will 
 be impressed. The sound definitely adds to the intensity of the game. You have explosions going 
 off over him, machine gun fire the other direction, a tank rolling in behind you, helicopters flying 
 overhead with rockets shooting, and enemies/allies yelling. All these things will blow you away 
 while playing. The sound will immerse you into the game so much, you will feel you like you are 
 actually there fighting the war.
  
  Overall Rating: I have rated each section I have talked about. The ratings are as follows... Story 
 (9.5/10) , Single-Player (9/10) , Game play (8/10) , Multiplayer (9/10) , Graphics (9/10) , Sound (8/10) . 
 Averaging that up... and I get a...8.75/10... rounding up to a 9.0. That is my final rating for Call 
 of Duty 4. I recommend you get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncaKola
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I hate FPS games, but I love Call of Duty 4. The graphics are not only sharp (when displayed on 
 my Sharp) but they are consistent ; its scary how real certain viewpoints make the game look and 
 feel. Back to why I hate FPS but love Call of Duty, its short; I am an average gamer who loves 
 to collect awesome games but I have a job and a family and too little time. For anyone looking 
 to fit in a worthwhile gaming experience into a tight schedule should buy this game.
  Without spoiling the plot for those who haven't purchased it yet, the first surprising moment is 
 incredible, but the way thst the segment of game finishes is inventive and jaw-dropping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  First off, just to set things straight, this is the best game i have ever played by a comfortable 
 margin. And i have been gaming for 5 years. 
  If you guys want to get just one shooter for PS3, please, PLEASE dont just overlook this as just 
 another shooter in the Call of Duty franchise. It's not.
  For a start, This game in the series is set in the modern day, which is really the first thing 
 that hits you as you start to play, but if you hadn't noticed this even though "Modern Warfare" 
 is plastered on the box then your an itsy bit silly. 
  So, the graphics. You want to know? Ok. Running in 1080p on my 50" Pioneer TV, with surround sound, 
 i was blown away. It is frankly unreal. Haze is going to have to pull something out of its arse 
 to beat this game for graphical and sound quality. When you fire the M248 SAW, you just cannot 
 believe how good that this sounds, it feels like you are really hurting other people. Which is 
 cool, if in a slightly sadistic way. The lighting for example, just demonstrates the finesse this 
 game has had lavished upon it.
  I could talk about this for days. 
  The online modes are extensive and huge fun to play, with a vast amount of challenges on offer 
 to complete for each weapon, as well as some random ones.
  This brings me smoothly on to the weapons, which are great fun - which is good in a shooter - but 
 in a very realistic way. All of the guns are real and there are no bonus plasma rifle super cannon 
 game ruiners hiding around the corner either. 
  Buy this game, seriously, your life is a better place with this in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-g
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The campaign might not be very long but its a great story, especially the end. The FPS in this 
 game is just great, I have not yet seen a better game, yes this is better than H3, my opinion.
 
  
  The online mode is very similar to Counter Strike, but BETTER. There are great mods for weapons, 
 great gameplay, and great strategies can be put in the levels, if you're the type who likes this 
 kind of online experience.
  
  I have no bad comments about this game. I hope that all of you who have played it on ps3 or even 
 X360 appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best i've seen in a shooting game because of all the guns you get to unlock in 
 online mode and all the camo you can get for the weapon and all the dumb and cool challanges you 
 can do in online mode and the single player mode is cool by the hardness settings but it ended 
 too quick for me. The final and last thing i have to say about this game is i like the variety 
 of modes you can play online like headquarters, free for all, sabatoge, search and destroy, classic 
 and many more of the online matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best first-person shooter that I have had the pleasure of 
 playing in a really long time. 
  
  I'd like to heap mounds of praise upon Infinity Ward for creating the best single player first-person 
 shooter experience I have ever played. This game perfectly depicts the dark and visceral aspects 
 of war. Expect a couple of "Holy $*^t" moments that will leave you in disbelief as the story progresses. 
 
  
  The story unfolds through the eyes of a U. S. Marine named Paul Jackson and a British S. A. S. officer 
 named "Soap" McTavish. Battles occur throughout the Middle East and the former Soviet bloc as the 
 "good guys" seek to defeat terrorist forces. The overarching story line is the usual fare, especially 
 with the state of world affairs nowadays. However, this does NOT mean that the action in this game 
 is anything standard. 
  
  The whole world is blowing up all around you. Bullets whiz through the air, enemy helicopters patrol 
 the skies, and wave after wave of infantry soldiers block your path. The graphics in this game 
 are downright gorgeous and flaunt the power of the PS3. More impressive in my opinion though is 
 the sound. All hell is breaking loose all the time. Crank this game up on a good surround sound 
 system and strap yourself in. 
  
  The campaign is broken up into a prologue, three acts, and an epilogue. It lasts between 6-10 hours 
 depending on the difficulty setting. That in itself may seem short, but make no mistake, this is 
 a HEAVY 6-10 hour journey. Some games I can play non-stop for 6-10 hours if I really put my mind 
 into it. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had to be taken in 2-3 hour chunks. I literally felt exhausted 
 by the end of my play sessions because I felt so immersed in the world. I can't praise the game 
 anymore than that. 
  
  In addition to campaign mode and online multiplayer there is an Arcade Mode in which you can go 
 back and play the game again for points. You are timed and given points depending on your accuracy 
 and the difficulty of the game. 
  
  The weapons found in this game are pretty standard fare for the first-person genre. They're all 
 high tech and look cool. Go figure. My personal favorite weapon in the game was the Javelin. The 
 Javelin is a super badass anti-tank, rocket launcher that launches a missile high into the sky 
 before raining death upon the unfortunate target. This game controls very well and I don't really 
 have much to say about it in that regard. As far as I'm concerned, that's a good thing if we don't 
 waste our time talking about the controls. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare also employs a couple of different mini-games that add variety to 
 the typical shooter. In one mission, you board an AC-10 gunship and provide cover support to your 
 troops. This mission takes place at night and you rely on your heat sensors to differentiate between 
 friend and foe. Yes you are ridiculously powerful and yes you blow a lot of stuff up. It's a welcome 
 diversion. 
  
  The thing about Call of Duty 4's single player campaign that impresses me the most is the AI. My 
 favorite character in the game was Captain Price; the way he leads you through the battlefield 
 is so impressive. After you destroy everyone, he'll state, "Everyone on me." He'll issue commands 
 like "Stack up, cover the left flank, etc." Everything is done with such polish and flair that 
 it truly does set the bar up to another level. Your friends will more than competently take care 
 of themselves. The only thing that I would've liked for Infinity Ward to add is health for your 
 teammates. It's kind of unrealistic how they can get shot to death a million times and never flinch. 
 It would be better if they got injured and we, the player, have to heal them before moving on. 
 I think it would add a sense of realism to the game. Overall though, the AI is superb and really 
 impresses me. 
  
  The game runs at a rock solid frame rate that never stuttered during play. It also looks and sounds 
 magnificent. Although it would be nice to have an option for on-line co-op, the AI is so outstanding 
 that it's not a huge deal to me. If I had to rate this game on the merits of its single player 
 I would give it a 10. Yes, it is THAT GOOD. If this game didn't ship with multiplayer I would probably 
 have to give it a 9.5. 
  
  Online multiplayer is deep and varied. Although I ran into a number of problems at first, these 
 problems worked themselves out and now I am enjoying myself online. This is THE online FPS to play 
 if you own a PS3. There are many unlockable weapons and special abilities to be gained once you 
 get good at the game.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is hands-down the best First Person Shooter available for the PlayStation 
 3. I don't see this game being topped anytime soon because the campaign is THAT good. Killzone 
 2 has its work cut out for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdxmt57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are top notch. There are very few times were the game runs 
 below 60 fps. The shadowing in the game give the evironments a very realistic feel and look. The 
 only time i have witnessed slow down is online.
  
  Story: EPIC... that is all i can say. It seems as though you have been playing through a movie when 
 you get to the end. Some say it is a little on the short side. If you play it on the harder levels, 
 it will take much longer. It will also get you ready for online play.
  
  Multiplayer: for those of you who want a realistic online experience this game is for you. The 
 ranking system works well and leaves you with a feeling of accomplishment. There are also in game 
 chanllenges to be had to help with leveling. There have been some server issues thus far but a 
 fix is in the works.
  
  Overall: Great Game, if you like accurate war like scenarios this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  I've never played CoD1 or 2, although I heard many good things about those games. I was just never 
 into all the WWII stuf beyond Wolfenstein 3D. Now that Infinity Ward has gotten a little up to 
 date I finally found I could sink my teeth into seeing what was just so special about IWs CoD games.
 
  
  For the PS3 this is exactly the meaty blockbuster shooter that my system needed. Warhawk has been 
 a fun MP experience, but still doesn't fill the plate all the way for the FPS genre. CoD4 comes 
 with a great cinematic single player campaign and a satisfying MP.
  
  The main story follows a fictional story about a middle eastern uprising backed by a Russian terrorist 
 organization. The story follows mostly in the eyes of two different characters: a British SAS named 
 Soap and a US marine named Jackson. The story bounces back and forth on the two different fronts 
 of this uprising in order to stop the threat of the use of nuclear devices. The whole story takes 
 place in less than weeks time and feels pretty intense and non stop as it jumps from one battle 
 to the next. Each level isn't a chaotic battlefield mayhem though. The story changes its pacing 
 pretty well. Half the levels are urban warfare, and mixed in are a few sneaking missions, a few 
 missions where you are ambushed and outnumbered 50 to 1, and even a mission that is a complete 
 changeup from the FPS formula where you man the massive cannons of a gunship circling a thousand 
 feet off the ground to help the troops below. Scripted sequences, that even though they funnel 
 you or put you on rails, offer a wonderfull interactive cenematic experience. Some areas of the 
 game may seem exessively difficult in scale to the rest of the game and could require a dozen restarts. 
 Generally these parts need some ingenuity or gutsy luck and the payoff feels pretty good. There 
 were no parts of the game I felt like giving up no matter how impossible it may have seemed. I 
 agree with those who say to start on the regular difficulty. Enjoy the game's story like sitting 
 back to watch a good war movie, The harder settings are rewarding but distract from the story by 
 inevitable dying and restarting. The single player campaign does end up about 6 hours to beat, 
 so Im sure you've heard, but its meaty and intense and wont leave you needing more because this 
 meal has filled you up. Just in case you're still hungry the single player is just as good the 
 second time around on the harder settings or you can try to best your score in the arcade modes.
 
  
  For dessert the Multiplayer gives a tasty experience. It may not have the bells and whistles some 
 MPs may have now, but it has all the important stuff and a neat class feature that lets you setup 
 and balance your character to your liking. For the first time in a while I fully enjoyed a team 
 based FPS. Most of this is to do with that everyone spawns in with the weapons they already want, 
 so no one is running from the pack to get a powerup or find a weapon. The maps are done well enough 
 that a four member squad can leapfrog through coverpoints, but sometimes doorways can get crowded. 
 It is nice to know that at most times someone probably has your back, or that they appreciate that 
 you're right next to them watching theirs.
  
  Points are scored by different criteria in matches. These points level you up. On reaching certain 
 levels game modes and weapons are unlocked. For example, only free for all and team deathmatch 
 are first available. After reaching I think level 6 you unlock big team modes and point capture. 
 This gives incentive for replay and also eases you gradually into the game. It also keeps out complete 
 noobs in gametypes that they could completely ruin.
  
  Niether singler or multiplayer alone would warrant a purchase of the game, but the pakage together 
 is a worthy experience. If MP was never your thing maybe rent first to see if you like it and play 
 the single player campaign. It should only take you a day or two to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_StormRage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is another great addition to the series, but not for the single player campaign. 
 The Campaign is good and fun, even though its short lasted. Anybody that buys this game, is probably 
 buying it for the multiplayer action.
  
  The multiplayer games are intense and full of fun. You have kits again and this "perks" with them, 
 benefits as they are. But you can create your own kits to use, with the perks you want. This makes 
 the game even more unpredictable.
  
  The rank system is great, the higher in rank you get, the more stuff and kits you can use. You 
 can also unlock challenges, which is objectives so to say, you can do during a fight to get more 
 xp points towards your rank.
  
  Play the multiplayer and be instantly hooked to it. You'll keep playing till your eyes bleed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is hands down the best call of duty yet. It has a really good single player but 
 the only problem with the single player is its vary short i beat the game on the day i got it. 
 But you will want to play threw it more than once. The online mode is the best part of any call 
 of duty game and it stands true in this this call of duty. With tons of maps and modes to play 
 threw you will find yourself coming back to this game online for a long time to come. It has a 
 really cool and deep leveling system with you ranks and the more you rank up the more modes and 
 weapons you unlock. The really only problem with it online is that sometimes when you go to log 
 online you will get a message saying. "Downloading game settings" and it wont let you past that 
 to get online to play but just wait 20min or so and you will be on. There is a patch coming to 
 fix this problem so this wont be a problem for long. So hands down call of duty is the best fps 
 of the year nothing comes close to it so go buy it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshaDeus0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  yes sir hooked . It got me by the throat and it doesn't let go . a 10 an A that is !!! the single 
 player mode is easy . easy as easy grts that is. but you wil not buy the game for the single player 
 game . "i don't u wil askno u doen't u wil buy this game for it's kick as straight in your face 
 multiplayer on-line piece . .... wel i did and im still picking the dust out of my ears from the 
 desert field . i hate shotguns even more then the day before.... and i found a new friend that 
 SAW's the enemey my wil over them . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space-Q
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  The campaign was awesome and the MP mode is addicting.
  
  Playing through the SP mode is like playing through an action movie along the lines of blackhawk 
 down. It is easily one of the best games I have ever played. I would say it even out does the MGS 
 series in the whole movie inspired games genre. People complain that it's too short but I don't 
 think so because unlike most other games, it dosen't drag things out just for the sake of saying 
 it's 18 hours long. this game was pure entertainment and never got boring for a second. I wish 
 all action games were this intense.
  
  The MP mode is incredible too. but not perfect. athough the gprahpics and gameplay are not dumbed 
 down for online play they are missing a key feature in the online interface... the abilty to choose 
 which room or which map you want to play on... this is the only reason I did not give this game 
 a ten. There seems to be about 20 maps in the online mode which is a ton and the ones I have played 
 on are really cool. but that's the problem, I've had the game for a week and only have played on 
 4 different maps because I can't choose which one I want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasiman94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  This is currently the best FPS I have ever plaeyed. The Single player is stunning, short but sweet. 
 The Multiplayer is where this game really shines. The perks system is great.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Sound effects 10/10
  
  Multiplayer 9.5/10 (gave 
 it a 9.5 due to long wait time to join a game)
  
  I am virtually untouchable with a KDR of 1.63.
  
  The best game modes I think are team tactical, 
 Domination, and Team Deathmatch
  
  
  Overall is the best FPS I have ever played
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpymp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is hands-down the most visually impressive and satisfying game I 
 have played to date. I am not a huge fan of FPS's, but this game delivers the goods in terms of 
 graphics, game play, story, audio, and robust online features.
  
  The game's visuals are the best I have seen on any console - almost photo realistic, no joke. And 
 even more impressive than that, there's no annoying frame rate issues (Skate for the PS3, anyone?) - 
 though I did see one little hick-up on a few levels, but only in single instances after being re-spawned 
 back to the previous checkpoint after a death. 
  
  There is a large variety of weapons in the game, like different machine guns, pistols, shotguns, 
 grenade launcher/machine gun combos, sniper rifles, rocket launchers, and hand grenades. They all 
 seem appropriately powerful and sound great. The JAVELIN is probably the coolest weapon in the 
 game, in my opinion. You lock on to a tank, fire, and a missile shoots forward, then straight up 
 hundreds of feet, then it comes down on top of the tank with an impressive and very satisfying 
 THUD/BOOOM!!! Sweet.
  
  The single player part of the game is excellent. It manages to be extremely varied, with locations 
 like out in the ocean on a boat, the middle east, the mountains in Russia, and various indoor/outdoor 
 environments and day/night missions. You will be on sniper-based missions, squad based missions, 
 firing guns from a chopper missions, and even be the trigger man on an AC-130 Gunship. This is 
 very impressive given the fact that the single player campaign is rather short. Despite it's short 
 length, after playing through the game, I didn't feel jipped or ripped off. I felt as though I 
 played a whole 60 bucks worth of game. The story for the campaign is interesting, and the presentation 
 is top notch. This is one of the few games in which the single player mode of the game is worth 
 replaying, because there are things to find (enemy intel x30) and some of the levels are just so 
 darn fun to pay through. 
  
  As for online play, this game offers a very deep ranking system and a large variety of game modes, 
 though at first, only deathmatch and team deathmatch are available- you have to earn experience 
 to open the other modes. As you progress yourself online, more weapon packages and other customizations 
 will become available. You can also unlock "Perks" which are basically special abilities that you 
 can use to enhance your particular playing style.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a must own for anyone who owns a PS3. It's games like this that are the reason 
 you forked out the $600 or so for that shinny black box, right? At least for me it is. What a great 
 game. Its about time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveO1966
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say.... I was impressed with this game, but to me the game was kind of short. I think 
 total time I played this game was about 8 hours and boom, I was done. 
  
  The graphics were great, I love the first part where you had to board a ship. The graphics were 
 real, almost like watching an animated cartoon. If one of your bullets hit a pipe, steam would 
 come from it. Yea.. graphics were pretty good on this one.
  
  The only flaws that I notice was the rare occasion of lag, it didn't happen much and to me the 
 game was really short, before I new it , the game ended. PS.. watch past the credits to do one 
 last game, where you are on a plane and have to find and rescue a hostage, and then jump from the 
 plane.
  
  The sound was great as well. Not really that much bad to say about this game. I played the game 
 on easy, and now will be doing some hard and also some online play. The online play looks good, 
 but I had problems connecting, again this is on a PS3, so there may not be as many users for this 
 as for other systems. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one hell of an experience. Infinity Ward have made the transition from WWII to 
 the modern era seamlessly. CoD4 keeps many of the same gameplay mechanisms which made past CoD 
 games so popular, and has brought them into a new game environment. Like the official GameSpot 
 review said, this game really is better than the sum of it's parts. What may seem to be a standard 
 FPS on the surface, is actually an exciting and at times even, somewhat surprisingly, dramatic, 
 as if you were watching a film.
  
  The single player experience is, in short, amazing. Whilst ultimately it is just an FPS, it still 
 provides an action packed experience which is sure to leave you craving for more every time you 
 finish a gaming session. For example, there is always sure to be a spare grenade lying around, 
 keeping the action explosive, just as in previous CoD installments. This time however, add to the 
 grenades, plentiful supplies of C4, Claymores and even grenades for your M203 grenade launcher 
 which is attached to most rifles. However, even though CoD4 sticks fairly firmly to FPS conventions, 
 CoD4 does bring some new ideas to the table.
  
  Take, for example, a mission which sees you in the role of a sniper. Instead of simply slightly 
 altering the gameplay by sticking a sniper rifle in your hands and then telling you to shoot the 
 bad guys as in any other mission, CoD4 has you act more like a real sniper (or at least how I imagine 
 real snipers behave) . Conversely, you do not shoot everyone, and have to sneak past multiple enemies 
 in your ghillie suit. This makes for a tense, nerve wracking few seconds, as the enemies walk, 
 literally, a few short steps away from you. But CoD4 keeps the game exciting by interchanging these 
 slow and stealthy moments with fast paced sections. Although you may be lying inches away from 
 the enemy at one point, the next minute you might be sprinting across open land, just as the enemy 
 turns his back. Original moments like this are rarely found in FPS's, but CoD4 offers an array 
 of new ideas.
  
  Furthermore, CoD4 is one of few FPS's where there are dramatic moments. To say much more would 
 spoil the story, but at times the game does feel like you're watching an A grade war film, with 
 all the camaraderie that one would expect from such a film.
  
  Whilst the single player is rich in memorably moments, it is unfortunately quite short. Most other 
 reviews make a lot of this, and I do not think the game was as short as most other reviews make 
 it out to be, but it's certainly not going to take you too long to complete. That being said, having 
 a shorter 10/10 solo campaign rather than a mediocre game of longer length is arguably preferable.
 
  
  CoD4 also offers up an interesting multiplayer. The perks system is certainly a nice way of customising 
 your soldier, but they balance each other out enough so that you do not feel you keep getting killed 
 because other players have better perks. It is still usually because they are better skilled players, 
 and chances are you would have died even if they had no perks. There are also a number of game 
 modes, and you unlock more as you gain XP and move up in rank. With gameplay remaining as unchanged 
 as possible from the single player (obviously some aspects change to accommodate there being real 
 people playing, and different game modes) , when you join a multiplayer game, it is often a blast.
 
  
  But the problem often is joining the game in the first place. Sometimes you can be stuck searching 
 from a game to join for ages, a problem caused by the game not having a multiplayer lobby (yes 
 I complain about this a lot, read my blog!) . Another problem associated with there being no lobby, 
 is you cannot choose which game you join, As a result, it is not uncommon to end up in a game with 
 a horrible connection, resulting in massive lag and, in turn, death after death as your enemies 
 are actually many steps in front of where you see them. In fact, sometimes the lag is so bad, if 
 the enemy is not standing still, you may as well not bother. Overall, multiplayer is just as exciting 
 as single player, and definitely offers a lot of enjoyment, but only if you don't mind waiting 
 for a while to join a decent host, and the risk being aggravated by joining laggy game after laggy 
 game. Hopefully Infinity Ward will be able to address some of these problems in the near future.
 
  
  With a captivating single player, and a potentially great multiplayer, it's hard not to recommend 
 CoD4. It is one of the most enjoyable experiences I've had in an FPS in a long time, and I throughly 
 recommend it to anybody, unless you're ONLY interesting in multiplayer.
  
  *Edit*
  Over the last few days, the online aspect of CoD4 has been performing considerably better. Whilst 
 it is still difficult to snipe moving targets due to lag, using any other gun is much improved. 
 Even in games where I have a connection rated as dark orange (with red being worst, green being 
 best) I can compete with most enemies. In close quarters, the enemy always seems to have the jump 
 on me. Sometimes I fire a few shots before being killed, and then on kill cam I don't see myself 
 firing at all, suggesting lag. But other than really close quarters, CoD4 has been performing much 
 better, and it plays extremely well. A very enjoyable experience overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Hollywood intro, check, amazingly diverse experiences, check, excellent controls, check, brilliant 
 battle sequences, check. Call of Duty 4 delivers a throttling experience to FPS fans and steps 
 into modern form in superb style. Everything about the single player experience is slick and you 
 would be foolish to miss this game.
  
  The controls are standard FPS fare. Grenades on the trigger buttons and L1 and R1 sight and shooting 
 controls respectively. Of course it is the fluidness of the controls that really allow this game 
 to shine. Your character moves with realism yet at a fun speed to play a game. Unlike GRAW2, where 
 your soldier moves relatively slow, COD4 blends a more fast paced approach into its ingredients.
 
  
  The game has great AI, and to get the most out of the game play it the first time through on hardened 
 or veteran if you are a seasoned FPS gamer. Flanking, team tactics and the sheer number of enemies 
 you will face make it a challenging game and rewarding after every battle. They shoot accurately, 
 and on the harder difficulty levels, a small burst of two or three shots will send you to your 
 grave.
  
  Keeping every battle unique and fresh is done through the vast variety of the levels that you battle 
 through. From ships that begin to sink, to a brief nuclear exploration, to the unforgettable final 
 scene, the game never ceases to change up the landscape of the battles and thus, each experience 
 feels extremely rewarding. The amount of genuine experiences Infinity Ward manages to throw at 
 you in the campaign is absolutely remarkable. There will be many many moments when you simply say 
 wow.
  
  Part of the reason for such moments is the way the game looks. Simply put, this game will astonish 
 onlookers with its photo realism, excellent animation, and sheer carnage. The unique battle scenes 
 come to life with slick lighting effects and a striking realism that will shock you in your seat. 
 Make no mistake this game shines in the presentation department. l With stunning audio for the surround 
 sound enthusiast and jaw dropping visuals, the game manages to further immerse you into each of 
 its unique battle worn landscapes.
  
  Online play is also nice. There are a host of options to choose from, and although it is off to 
 a rocky start, expect Infinity Ward to iron out any mistakes with this title. While it may not 
 be an online focused game, such as a Halo or Unreal Tournament, heck even Resistance, it manages 
 to deliver strongly in that department and provides a replay value to the game.
  
  Overall, the game simply rocks. You will encounter so many memorable experiences throughout the 
 game that the $60 price of admission is earned in the campaign alone. While some complain of it 
 being short, it will take a while to get through it on veteran mode and oh so sweet when you do. 
 If you are holding out because you think the single player mode is too short to warrant a purchase, 
 you are missing the greatest single player adventure yet this year, and quite possibly the best 
 FPS to come out this year as well. And that includes Halo. Do not sell yourself short, BUY THIS 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilsuf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I was at first sceptical about getting this game. all of the other call of duties felt out of date 
 and boring, but COD:4 is simply amazing. With out a doubt the best game i have ever played for 
 the ps3. The single player is short but its fulfilling. this game keeps you coming back for more 
 with its very deep multiplayer. you cant ask more out of this game. the multiplayer is very balanced 
 and requires skill rather then who can get the best gun. Ranking up is challenging but not difficult 
 beyond belief. Obviously a must buy for a ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronbear138
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  If you interrupted me 3 hours into playing the campaign mode of COD4 for the first time, I'd tell 
 you that it was the best pure shooter I'd ever played, not knowing that I'd almost finished the 
 whole damn thing!!
  
  Everything about this game is better than any shooter I've ever played, but.... I feel completely 
 ripped off by how RIDICULOUSLY short it is. 
  
  I know there's plenty who will argue that the multi-player and online adds to it's value, but that's 
 not the type of gamer I am. I want to pick up a game, and enjoy the challenge of getting to the 
 distant end of the story. 
  
  Unfortunately, with COD4, that challenge never came.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I wasn't disillusioned into thinking I was getting the next Metal Gear in terms 
 of story depth and length, but geez, we deserve more than just a few hours gameplay!!
  
  Bottom line is that I love, and hate, this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! Wow! This game is so good that I have replayed it over and over and over! Ok it is short 
 but it is so powerful! It is like you are in a movie watching this amazing film! The graphics are 
 the best I have seen on a PS3 so far!
  
  The Online has no Lag but i does have a lot of Maps! 16! All different and need different tactics 
 and weapons!
  
  The only games that may be better than this in November is Haze and Assassins Creed. This is better 
 than everything on the PS3!
  
  I have compared it to Xbox and can safley say... We got the better graphics! That means that we 
 can enjoy the story to the full!
  
  On the hardest difficulty is is Very Hard! And the replay valuse and collecting theIntel will keep 
 u playing for days! Not to mention the Online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always been set in World War II untill now. Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is set in modern times where the middle east and Russia have some nukes or somthing. Anyway 
 the story is boring, lets get to the shooting! The gameplay is really good, it uses the "If it 
 aint broke, why fix it?" formula pretty much using the same mechanics as the last game but adds 
 a few more things as well. The guns are just really fun to shoot and just sound amazing, you really 
 feel like your shooting up people. The sound is absolutely amazing. From the sound of a bullet 
 penetrating your foes flesh to the screams of your fellow soldiers the sound just blows you away. 
 The graphics are some of THE best graphics i've ever seen (next to crysis) . The lighting is amazing, 
 the detail on the guns and soldiers are amazing as well, tho the water effects arent the best same 
 with the ragdolls there nothing to great. Over all this is a great game albeit short but amazing. 
 I cant wait to pick up the PC version and see how that is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyZeRViRuS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice in CoD4 is that the graphics are fantastic - then you notice that its 
 set in modern day. Its a great move to finally get away from the WW2 settings, Modern Warfare really 
 gives you the feeling that your actually taking part in this war. Firstly the graphics, the lighting 
 is great, the textures are perfect, even up close. It really helps the game achieve that sense 
 of realism. The guns are great, all do what they're meant to do, there isn't one rubbish gun in 
 there. The explosions are loud and look great, to be honest the game is perfect. There isn't one 
 thing in the game that could do with improvement, everything is as it should be, the game feels 
 finished and perfected. The story is short, one downside, but its not really a downside as its 
 so good you'll replay it a million times, and you get sucked in, its awesome. And to be fair, with 
 so much good quality put into the game, you cant really expect the longest single player campaign 
 in the world, and it doesn't need it. 
  The multiplayer is just as good as the main story mode. Infact, its better in its own ways, simply 
 for the fact that its online multiplayer, the feeling of playing with friends around the world, 
 everyone who's played an online game has had that feeling, but CoD4 takes it to an all new level. 
 In some games you see other people on your team, doing there own thing, running around aimlessly. 
 They are actually taking part in the game but it feels as if they are doing it for themselves, 
 in CoD4, its more of a team game - but not like Rainbow Six Vegas for example, where your a team, 
 you got an objective, you work th best way around as a team. Its more like you do your own thing, 
 but you still feel part of a team, and without mics too, there are guys running around doing their 
 own thing, but it doesn't look like that guys just running around aimlessly. Its like he's planning 
 something, he's got his own idea of whats going on and what has to be done, and he's doing it for 
 the team. And all this is just by looking at it. Just simply taking part in an online team deathmatch 
 and killing the other guys. Without even talking to your guys you still feel what everyone is doing, 
 what their tactics are etc. 
  Its a strange feeling, but you really have to play it to understand what the hell im going on about. 
 You simply have to play this game, go buy it and your sure to be happy with it, its money well 
 spent. Go and rent it and you'll just be craving for it more, it really is that good.
  Theres a lot more to the game, but I think you get the idea that no matter what anyone says, this 
 game is worth your money, and thats all it has to be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -L-U-I-S-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare marks Infinity Ward's return to the franchise, and its certainly 
 done a hell of a good job. Speaking of hell, this game is pure hell, its everything that has made 
 the Call of Duty name stand above most games. You [I] will [/I] be sweating your hands and get a 
 little tense while playing the game, and let me tell you, it feels good. The level of realism in 
 the game is astounding, and all at a solid 60 frames-per second.
  
  Gameplay- Please, its Call of Duty by Infinity Ward, do we really need to say anything else. The 
 over-the-top action and soldiers shouting everywhere and explosions everywhere will make any player 
 believe they're in the middel of the war
  
  Graphics- Did I say its one of the best to date? They are so gorgeous. Every obeject casts a shadow, 
 and I mean [I] every [/I] object, the lighting is truly impressive in the game
  
  Sound- The soundtrack, the sound of bouncing grenades close to you, the shouting of your comrades 
 and your enemies... this game has all it needs to be perfect in this matter
  
  Multiplayer- Multiplayer online gets even more fun. You get access to a lot of new weapons, a new 
 Create-a-Class feature that let's you, well, create a new class. You already have assault, heavy 
 gunner, demolition, sniper, and grenadier. There are 13 game modes, among those, the classic Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch and a whole bunch of new modes like Sabotage, Domination, Search and Destroy, 
 among others. All the new weapons and game modes are unlocked as you advance between ranks, except 
 for DM and TDM and the basic weapons of course.
  
  But a flaw its the community. You can't send messages in-game nor have an in-game buddy list. Also 
 I am taking too long to join a game, it takes longer than Warhawk to join a game, maybe its just 
 my connection, but many of my buddies have the same issue.
  
  Still Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare marks a new direction in the series and a new benchmark among 
 top action games and shooters and its a game no PS3, Xbox 360 nor PC player can miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardy08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  After talking with all my friends about if i was getting call of duty on friday i said yes, i got 
 to the shop, sold out, damn, i went out next morning and to my joy there it was, i got the game 
 in my ps3 and started my campaign, the training mission is the perfect introduction to the controls, 
 then it began, the first mission on the boat is the best level for a beginning of a game ever, 
 the way you are told the crew is expensible, you dont question yourself at all as you shoot two 
 sleeping soldiers. the gameplay is very tight and never slips making sure you are entertained at 
 all times, the sounds are the most realistic you will ever have the pleasure of hearing, it mixes 
 stealth and all out war very well, you will gain a better bond with the sas than you ever will 
 with the marines, the voice acting is perfect and you are truely involved in this game, the multiplayer 
 is a bit weak on the options front but it is still the best online shooter today, sorry resistance 
 and warhawk, this is a game that you must have on your console, so go out, buy the game, and run 
 that bad boy wild 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usamahussain
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I Pre-Odered this game got it on Thursday for PS3. Since i got it havent stoped playing it. Short 
 story mode but the online is even better and you can be playing online for months. 
  
  When you start the game you have to do a short 5-10 mins tutorial. And at the end of it it tell's 
 you what difficulty you are at. The faster you finish it of the harder difficulty it recommends 
 for you. 
  
  The graphics on the first few levels are ok. But after the first few levels the graphics get awesome! 
 
  
  There is a nice selection of weapons. The shotguns and rocket launchers are not very powerful when 
 they should be the most powerful. 
  
  The sound effects are awesome. Very realistic. When you are out side and F16 jets fly over you 
 the ground shakes a bit and is very realistic. 
  
  That was just a quick 10 min review. 
  
  Overall it's an awesome game would recommend to anyone who like's FPS's (First Person Shoter's) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I wasn't expect CoD4 to be this good, I know it will be a good game, but not like this. 
 then I got this game and start to play it, and be shocked to my very senses that this game is totally 
 awesome !!! the graphics of this game is insane, consider how many highly polygon objects moving 
 in a scene, with high quality textures, and still can be run at 1080P at 60 frame rate per second 
 !!!! it's unbelievable man, this game is so smooth, there's no slow down or any screen-tear when 
 you moving around or when in a very chaotic setting. I swear to God, this game is PERFECT !! graphic-wase.
 
  sound of this game? needless to say, it's as awesome as always, CoD always pull this one out.
 
  gameplay, I'll said this is the most smooth shooter I've ever play, I mean, 60fps..... it's no 
 way to get anymore smoother than that, it's the finest !!
  control layout is intuitive, you'll feel like you are really controlling your every movement.
 
  this game offer varieties os online play, you will spend a lot of time with your friends playing 
 online, and it is FREE, it's awesome !!!
  and, as some of the review said, this game is short? I'd NO. this game is not short, well, I won't 
 say it's long of course, but it's not short at all, the length of its singleplayer campaingn is 
 just right, not too short, not too long, I think they balance this very well.
  there's no way to describe this game until you play and see for yourself.
  CoD4 is definitely 
 the most amazing shooter of this year, so PS3 shooter fans, what are you waiting for ????? go out 
 and buy this AWESOME game !!!!!!!! you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrprez11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! The single player is great, not too long or short, and the multi player is 
 AWESOME! Lots of people said that the single player campaign was too short, but I'm not a huge 
 fan of long, drawn out shooter games, so these levels are the perfect length and difficulty, they 
 are ultra-intense. The multi player is the best that I have ever played. It makes halo look like 
 kid stuff. The ranking and reward system makes you want to keep playing and playing and playing. 
 You just can't wait to get to the next level to see what kind of new stuff that you can use. There 
 are also a bunch of challenges that can be unlocked, these add another dimension to the game and 
 gives you something to work for other than just a number and rank. The ranks in Call of Duty 4 
 are also way more intensive and awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breetel01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  So this game is just down right awsome! I Mean great story mode, Amazing multiplayer, Very smooth 
 gameplay, More then worth the money. Honestly if i knew how perfect this game was i would have paid 
 eighty bucks for it. The graphics are the best PS3 game graphics as of now. And will most likly 
 be for i while to come. I have been looking for that PS3 game that would keep me playing for a 
 long time. And stop blowing my money on games this was it this was that one that would keep me 
 for a very long time. And online lovers the online is WOW!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregc767
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game moves well beyond the others in the series. It is a must own for anyone who enjoys first 
 person shooter games. The graphics are a major leap forward from the previous incarnations. When 
 hooked up to a stereo system the sound quality is phenomenal. I recommend this game as a must have 
 to anyone shopping for a great gift to any gamer. I personally enjoy the multiplayer options that 
 are a part of this game as well. The ability to play up to four players at once on a single system 
 makes for a lot of fun when it is time to get evil with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilch10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I got it on Thursday and ever since I haven't put it down. A+++ game. The single player campaign 
 is not the longest i have played but it is the best for sure. Great story and the game play is 
 superb, not even to mention the almost better than realistic high-definition graphics. This game 
 is a must buy! The multi-player is also top notch, offering a tiered character selection/ create 
 a character option. As you gain Xp you unlock different options that can be used in the On-line 
 function. Also the game offers a system link mode (LAN Party) where you can have four people per 
 ps3 on the same network playing head to head. If you haven't bought it yet you defiantly need to 
 considering purchasing the best modern combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare Review (PS3)
  
  Call of Duty has always been a great first person franchise. Although COD3 is was considered weaker 
 than COD2, because it was developed by Treyache, COD4 returns to its root. COD4 was developed by 
 Infinity Ward.
  
  This game has the best console graphics to date. The game looks absolutley stunning.
  
  PROS:
 
  -Near-Photorealstic graphics - your jaw will drop
  -Fun gameplay - this game is a great mix between realism and fun... its never so realistic that 
 it isin't fun, but its never out of the realm of realism.
  -Multiplayer - This is were the game shines, this is one of the best multiplayer games ever.
 
  -Sound - weather its the music, soldier audio, or explosions, the audio is superb.
  
  CONS:
  - Short single player - the single player is short, but its a blast. approximatley 7 hours 
 to beat the game on Normal difficulty
  - Respawning enemies - takes away from the realism, sometimes when your attacking a house you'll 
 drop a crap load of grenades, but the enemies will still be there.
  -Minor glitches - the mp at the moment (NOV 11, 07) , has some major glitching problems, but they 
 will be fixed.
  
  Overall this is the must have game of 2007. I highly recommend this game to anyone, not just FPS 
 fans. AAA game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Excellent, terrific, bloody brilliant, superb, top of the tree, the best in the series, way in front 
 of any yes any 1st person shooter ever made.
  
  What else can i say.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  sound 10/10
  
  
  Call of duty series was and 
 still is the best world war 2 shooter games out there but you have to hand to the makers to give 
 up on the world war 2 theme and concentrate on a all out modern game and they got it spot on at 
 first attempt,,,,,,,,,,,,, the makers infinity ward should be awarded medals for what they have 
 done 1stclass 1st person shooter THE DOGS BOLLOCKS
  
  
  READERS: ONE THING YOU CAN ALL DO IS PAY INFINTY WARD SOME WAGES AND ENJOY ENJOY ENJOY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 IT"LL BLOW YOU AWAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredroO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  If I could use one word to describe this game, it would be "polished." I've only played the single 
 player, but I've never experienced such an immersive battle experience. 
  
  The graphics are, perhaps, the best on earth right now. Granted, I'm playing on an older SD tube 
 TV, and one complaint about console games like these is that its hard to see enemies and hard to 
 differentiate objects from people. Even playing at low resolutions, the game is amazing.. and I 
 can see everything just fine. It feels like a battle simulator for the military. I just can't wait 
 to play on my fathers 40 inch HDTV when I go home for Thanksgiving. 
  
  While it is rather linear by design, I've never really been lost as to where I need to go. The 
 battlefields are so detailed that there is a lot of open space, but not enough to get lost in.
 
  
  I'm a long time Counter-Strike player since 1.0. I've never found a better FPS experience and still 
 prefer 1.6 over the newest fps games. However, this game on the ps3 console may give it a run for 
 it's money (finally) . While it may not have the tactical components, the gaming experience is TOP 
 NOTCH. That is all, this game gets a PERFECT!
  
  My only regret is that I don't have a good enough PC to play this game on, as I do prefer the mouse/keyboard 
 controls for FPS games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is truly a masterpiece. The single player is the best First Person 
 Shooter in a War Game to date. The visuals of this game are amazing, as everyone and everything 
 around you comes to life and captures you into the gameplay. Not only is the single player a blast, 
 but the online multiplayer is twice as good. The new ranking system is unique in so many ways, 
 where you start with classes (Assault, Sniper, etc) and gradually get higher in ranking to the 
 point where you can customize your class for the type of player you are. The only let down is, 
 is that you can't customize the physical appearance of your character (clothes, camo, face, etc) . 
 The gameplay is so smooth, and it keeps you wanting to play for hours and hours. With such life-like 
 visuals, compelling graphics and addicting gameplay, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the greatest 
 in the Call of Duty series to date, possibly the best War Game to date, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  
  Having been gripped by COD 2 since its release on the 360, and not so but the follow up and generally 
 crudy CoD 3, I was please to see Infinity ward back in the game with CoD 4. Finally abandoning 
 the trenches of WW2 for the modern day, and ongoing, conflict in the middle east. I temptered my 
 hype for the game after my disappointment of Halo 3 so not to be let down should CoD 4 not live 
 up to expectations. Which it unfortunatly hasn't. What with the recent, and very good, FPS' releases 
 like; The Orange Box, TimeShift and of course Halo 3, CoD 4 had to be something really special. 
 Which saddly it isn't. Its good do not get me wrong! But thats all it is, 'Good'. The take on the 
 middle east theme has been done already with the utterly brilliant GRAW 1 and 2. You often have 
 little flash backs to these games whilst playing CoD 4 with dialogue or action sequences almost 
 lifted from the GRAW series. The visuals and sound as you would expect are steller and really throw 
 you into the warzone. However the game playing itself just feels a little lacking and doesn't really 
 have that cutting 'edge' or tension of GRAW. CoD 4 is by no means a bad game it just lacks something 
 which is hard to note, it doesn't feel like the game offers anythig new so to speak. Maybe the 
 recent saturation of FPS' that I mentioned have lessened the effect, who knows. The multiplayer 
 is great, if slightly deadly, and at times a bit to ruthless for the newer game player. If I had 
 the choice after playing TOB, H3, TS and CoD 4 my money would go to TOB everytime with TS close 
 behind. The world is a dangerous place at the moment and there have been many conflicts to recount. 
 Hopefully IW will return to WW2 and focus on the other aspects of the conflict rather than just 
 Mainland europe or the easy target of the middle east! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good i got it for the first day and only left my TV when i had to go to the bathroom... Oh 
 yeah its that good. This games singleplayer mode is very short... wait i forgot the multiplayer is 
 so good iv'e only played 2 lvls on singleplayer =] . So what im saying is if you like first person 
 shooters go to your local walmart, gamespot or ebgames or whatever and GET IT NOW.
  
  But if you do not have a online connection or your not able to play online i would say dont get 
 this the singleplayer mode lasts like 5 hours. So if you cant play online its really not worth $60. But 
 if you do have online it should be worth $70 =P
  
  
  
  PS: Iv'e only had this game for like 2 days thats why my play time isn't very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ascary5
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is superb, looks sweet plays awesome and again it looks sweet... ok maybe they 
 should given us a bit more freedom but what I really do "not" like is the "log in bug'' when you 
 go on line ( downloading game settings..............! and that's it nothing anymore...) They suggest 
 you restart everything, but still this works rarely! it seems that they had and still have the 
 same problem on the X box 360 and so I think it s a shame that they still did not repair it! after 
 all they have been having since January to fix the problem! but overall Great game with some thrilling 
 action and beautiful scenes!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Theres really hard to find shooter game which dosent copy other. But now u have found it, call 
 of duty 4 has everything what u would expect it to have, and even more.
  This could be the best game of 2007, so far its chances are high. If u didnt like COD before, neither 
 did i (exept COD1) , but now u just have to get a copy of this fantastic game. You are put into 
 a battle like never before, theres many effects like smoke, flash, hard weather effects etc. 
 
  If u arent much into a singleplayer, dont worry, theres plenty to do in multiplayer mode. COD 
 4 uses old cover system, not the one what we have used to see in games like Vegas and Gears of 
 War. But this is just a little disadvantage. 
  Graphically, oh boy, how i like those effects, very good textures, very detailed environment, characters 
 also very well done.
  Trust me, When i say that you cant go wrong with Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDNBellicose
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics store is very good game play is to get a handle of love the game only negative ended 
 to soon. Rent or buy it definetly buy it. The Storie basically pits as two guys a brit and a marine 
 trying to say the world by killing dirka dirka and commies scum. The beginning of the game is one 
 I sets the tone for action packed game the doesn't stop and when it is over you I kind of sad. 
 The part in the game I enjoyed the most was being a sniper and get to shoot the big dawg gun. So 
 have fun with game I know I did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is quite simply THE best game currently on the PS3 and certainly in the top 5 on 
 the Xbox 360 and PC.
  
  Graphically, it is second to none on PS3. I have COD 3 on Xbox 360 and that is a stunner. COD 4 
 has it beat. 
  
  The single player game play is as normal in COD games and is great fun and hard. It's a joy to 
 play.
  
  Multiplayer is superb and they have improved it with a large number of types of game t play. With 
 the addition of custom classes which is a great idea, the better you do the more skills, power 
 ups and weapons you unlock. 
  
  There is an online ranking system which works well and encourages you to play further. 
  
  
 The online maps are great. Large and detailed. Great fun to play.
  
  I downloaded the PC and Xbox 360 demo's and I can't see any differance in graphics. So which ever 
 version you pick you are really on a winner.
  
  A top game that must be in any serious gamers collection, go and buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: is0lati0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Wow. What a fantastic game. This could be the years best game. If it was up for nomination, it'd 
 have my vote. Even though the campaign is quite short, it's still and entertaining and full of 
 combat. There are no levels where there is a lot of talk, it's all about combat. This First-Person 
 Shooter is a great add to your collection, and even though if you weren't a fan of the previous 
 'Call of Duty's', this one will soon get you going.
  
  The weapons in this game are awesome. M4A1's, SMG's, AK-47's, whatever gun it is, you won't be 
 dissapointed with it's capability and destruction it can cause. The C4's, fragmentation, smoke 
 and flash bang grenades, have excellent particle graphics when it explodes, so every part of the 
 action in this game, will make you feel like you are in this game, battling off terrorists.
  
  If you finish this game early, don't forget it's impressive multiplayer. There is a huge range 
 of levels and weapons to choose from - not to mention creating your own class, customising you 
 weapons, and organising your grenades. With Primary guns, you can attatch silencers, grenade launcher, 
 etc. And with Secondary guns, you can attatch silencers, laser sights, etc.
  
  You can also change the colour of your equipment to your surroundings. AKA camoflaging. I also 
 loved the mission where you are with your friend in a ghillie suits and blend into the ground where 
 your enemies can't even see you. Incredible new feature. The ENV (Enhanced Night Vision) or just 
 plain Night Vision, is also a new feature... heck, there are many new features, but i'm just mentioning 
 a few ;)
  
  Anyway, this is my review for Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare, and if you're looking for a game with 
 combat, graphics, gameplay or a great online, pick this game, buy it, add it to your collection, 
 and you WON'T be dissapointed.
  
  -is0lati0n. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icey05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  While the game overall was good, big gun fights, lots of content, pretty much all the good things 
 people are saying about the game.
  
  but I think they could have done alot more with it. there are alot of small touches that games 
 like GRAW2 have done that although they are small, made the game more enjoyable.
  I also thought the explosion animations, as well as other things such as the way glass breaks when 
 you shoot it, were a little dissapointing.
  a game with huge gunfights like this, when things blow up you expect them to pack a bit more of 
 a punch.
  best example was when the gunships where blowing up the building while you protect the war pig 
 they fire all these missles, you expect the building to be blown to hell, but the result is rather.... well 
 half assed. a tiny explosion and lots of dust and smoke.
  the shadows are also VERY regid in SD.
  
  i have played alot of FPS games, and having to look 
 through your site for the majority of your gunfights is somewhat.... annoying.
  
  although this is all coming from someone who is playing the game on a SD tv.
  this is all just 
 speculation from my experience of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  First things first I have logged in about 15 hours on this game so far and I have completed the 
 single player mode.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER:
  The single player is farely short but has a fun and realistic gameplay. You will feel like you 
 are really fighting as you run through alley ways and dodging RPG's.
  
  GOODs:
  -Cool training lets you know what difficulty you should play
  -Gameplay makes you feel like your 
 there
  -Good storyline though a bit confusing at times
  
  BADs:
  -Single player is farely short and could have been longer
  -Swaping from SAS to USMC units gets 
 you a bit confused
  
  
  Online Play:
  The online play has to be the best ive ever seen in a game. It is so close to being perfect but 
 there was a little thing that made me a little mad which was the fact that you can message anyone 
 online (in other words you would need to go back to the XMB) .
  
  GUNS:
  There are a large amount of guns that are currently issued weapons. All being unlocked at different 
 lvl's.
  
  Assualt Rifles like the M16, M4, AK, etc... (about 5-6 in all)
  SMG's like the MP5, Mini-Uzi, P90, etc... (about 5-6 in all)
  Shotguns there are 2 of them
 
  Demolition stuff like basic grenades, rpg's, and C4
  Snipers like the M40, M21, M82A1, etc... (about 4-5 in all)
  Pistols like the M9 and Desert Eagle 
 (4-5 in all)
  
  GOODs:
  -Ranking system is perfect with the right amout of XP to get to the next rank
  -Lots of gamemodes
 
  -Lots of currently used guns
  -Graphics are just as good if not better online then in single player
  -Perks are a really cool 
 feature
  
  BADs:
  (*NOTE* this didnt make me mad but may make other gamers mad)
  -You start off with only two gamemodes (but can quickly unlock more)
  -You start off with only 
 a few guns (but can quickly unlock more)
  -You cant put a clan tag up on your name till lvl 12 (about 2 hours worth of online gameplay)
 
  -You cant message people on the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_fawcett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  To date one of the best shooters i have ever played. The single player portion of the game has 
 such a good story and depth it will feel more like a movie than a game. VERY intense game. The 
 graphics and cut-scenes (which you still have control of your character in) are amazing. One of 
 the best part is there is no loading screen! The multi-player is addictive and fun, much like halo. 
 You have many different options to choose from. also a cool ranking system. If you like shooters 
 or any call of duty game you need to pick this game up. you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredrichards3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Activision have done it again!!, using the name of their already successful franchise they have 
 taken a different direction this time, opting to use the modern day setting instead of the WW2 
 theme we are all use to seeing in the call of duty series. Throughout the single player campaign 
 you play between two military camps from different countries working towards the same objective, 
 which is (what do you know it) seizing nuclear weapons from radical Islamic terrorists in the middle 
 east. I won't give too much away, other to say that the single player campaign is very exiting 
 and hardly can be classed as repetitive due to the type of mission you are on and the weapons you 
 must use. In each level you will be constantly working with a squad that work very well together 
 throughout the whole game ., which in many respects is very similar to the previous COD games and 
 early medal of honor games. The single player campaign is not very long but it does not need to 
 be, there is enough quality action to keep you satisfied which will surely lure you back maybe 
 a 3rd or even 4th time around. The longevity in this game is really in the multi-player online, 
 where you have to earn ranks to unlock special weapons, kit classes and online playing modes. This 
 is a very nice touch that gives you something to shoot for, while also giving the player a lot 
 of satisfaction in the process. Graphically this game is first rate, the physics in the game are 
 solid and the environments look and feel a lot more solid than many other fps counterparts. Each 
 map has a uniuqe look and feel to it as well, which is great becuase no one wants to look at the 
 same eye candy all day. My only critisism is that this game is a little light on the anti-aliasing 
 in some areas which could have been improved, but this is very minimal and nothing to lose sleep 
 over. In summing up, if you love a good fps I can't stress enough how great this game is. Even 
 if your not a huge fan of the first 3 call of duty's I still recommend you give this game a look 
 as it passes on very little from it's predecessor but enough to keep existing COD fans happy. The 
 playability of this game in my opinion is way advanced over existing fps like Resistance Fall of 
 Man and GRAW. COD4 has really risen the bar on what a fps on a console should be, and at this stage 
 future releases like Haze and Killzone 2 have their work cut out for them if they plan on matching 
 or even bettering COD4. Don't miss this one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noahcycle12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has finally raised their own bar, leaves Germany behind and does a great job in the 
 process.
  
  The most amazing thing about this game is its level of character detail. CoD4 leaves the fumbling 
 idiot A. I. s behind and never looks back. Both the enemy AND the friendly A. I. are all amazingly 
 animated. Every single character moves and reacts with a life-like manner IN a life-like manner. 
 Friendly units will advance from one set of cover to the next and not just simply run and then 
 sit either. You will feel as if they are real people just by watching how they all move and react. 
 Even split second choices can be seen. For instance, if an enemy throws a grenade next to a friendly, 
 if that friendly has time or no choice but to do so, they will grab the grenade, throw it back 
 and take cover again. You can really see the level of military advice and tactics in the movements 
 as well. All soldiers fight and move as a team and surprisingly they will be just as happy to help 
 you as any other of their brothers in arms. I have had a dog tackle me and just before it finished 
 me off, an allie shot it and ran up to make sure it was dead and I as ok. This isnt a big deal 
 in cutscenes, but this was during flatout gameplay. Its hard to describe just how real this game 
 seems when it comes to characters, so you will just have to see it for yourself.
  
  Overall:
  
  Animation - Is amazing! More like watching instead of playing and you always see 
 something new.
  Gameplay - Is very fun. It can be frantic and even difficult on Regular difficulty mode. Is never 
 the same thing over and over. Every play is different. Large amount of realistic feeling weapons.
 
  Graphics - Looks incredible. The overall detail brought to the table is impressive.
  Innovation - Very High. All or nearly all movements are motion captured which offers a visual feast 
 rarely seen in other games. High amount of interactive environments and objetcs. Weak walls break 
 away under constant fire, thin materials can be shot through, cars can be destroyed, etc.
  
  CoD4 offers the perfect amount of reality and video game and will keep you on your toes.
 
  
  It would take too long to tell you all the good found in this game. If you like shooters or if 
 you even like action games, you really need to play this game.
  Although it is rather short, the time played was made very well and you will be hooked start to 
 finish.
  
  *Difficulty Note - Playing on Regular can be difficult from time to time through out the game, 
 but there are two levels above that for hardcore players that think they can actually survive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwenaellp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  we all know that first impressions are the ones that really count, remember you boss the first 
 time you saw him/her and that will stick in your mind for a very long time.
  I have only played Call of duty 4 on PS3 for a couple of days, but I have to say that it has been 
 a long time since a FPS has impressed me that way.
  It is truly and in every sense of it a next generation game console,
  The introduction and the 
 opening scenes make you feel that you are in a movie and when someone at Sony said few years ago 
 that the in game graphics on PS3 would be of the same quality that the cinematic scenes on the 
 PS2, I am starting to understand.
  It gives a different level of realisms when pushed to a 1080 resolution on my LCD TV you fight 
 your way through the streets of a Middle Eastern city and hear with amazing clarity the sound of 
 my assault riffle firering at my enemies.
  With Call of Duty 4 I can now say that I am finally playing new generation games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weimo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is by far the best game for the Ps3 and anyone who has one needs to buy this game. 
 I have never seen a game with such realistic graphics that are in cod4. The sound of the game is 
 just as good. If you have a stereo hooked up to your system, it makes the game a lot better and 
 more realistic. All of the other Call of Duty games don't even come close to kind of game-play 
 that you get out of cod4. Besides from the amazing graphics and sound, cod4 has a story that gets 
 you hooked from beginning to end. Unlike the other Call of Duty games, this one isn't based on 
 any war that has happened. So not only do you not know what the outcome of the war will be, but 
 the way the story unfolds keeps you guessing until the last minute of the game. Cod4 requires fast 
 reflexes and patience in order to finish the game quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smunch3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Socom and Halo, there are few good vehicle combat games. Sure Warhawk could fit in there but it 
 is not the same caliber of game.
  
  Weapon choice is weak, but after hours of playing becomes more abundant.
  
  Graphics are near 
 the highest quality with some issues related darkened rooms.
  
  Sound is terrific. However, I can tell you from experience that an M16 sounds like a pop gun in 
 real life and doesn't have the punch they make it out to here but it wouldn't be as much fun.
 
  
  I haven't had a chance to play clan action yet, but then most people are just running around like 
 chickens with their heads cut off even in team cooperative missions! Oh well, learning curve.
 
  
  My biggest online complaint is the inability to select the exact perameter's for a game you want 
 to go into, it is a little hit and miss. You can design your own room but you can't find one with 
 out building it exactly to specificiations.
  
  The headset is a little buggy, not always dependable and I use two different blue tooths but there 
 always seems to be a problem.
  
  I really can't find an equal to this game. Socom is as close as it gets!
  
  I like it a lot....
 
  
  the_bighouse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjhean
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I've had this game under surveillance for a couple of weeks now and I must say the wait has been 
 worth it. At first, I didn't think this game was going to good at all, I didn't have any high hopes 
 for it. But the more I checked into it and watched videos, read about it and such, the more I wanted 
 it.
  
  And now, it is finally here. The gameplay is so intense that you almost drop your chin. I really 
 love it the first minute I wrapped up the plastic from the case. The graphics is just amazing. 
 I'm so up over my ears about this game and it is without a doubt the best game I've played on Playstation 
 3, so far that is.
  
  This is absolutely running for the 'Game of The Year' title. I got my copy today and have only 
 played the game for about two hours or so, but I can say that I will not change my mind and this 
 is something that I have waited for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spdstr406
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  lakdsjf dlkfjdkl; fj sl; jkasdl; asdklfj sdl; kd lasdjfl; ldafj lasdk lajk asdlf asjdl asl asldj asldkj 
 asdlkj asldkj asdklj asdl jasdl sadl asdlfj asdl asdlfjasdl; sl; jsdla lsda a asdl fasdlfjsd slad 
 sd al dk asl sdlkfj asdl fjkasd asdl kasd sadl asdlk ;dl ad l; sdl alasdk aslfjksdalfk; jsdak sdl; fksdl; asldlj 
 jfjasd; kdfkja ldkfjdf jd dj djd dkdk ssl s slsls sosowow ls lsls lowos slsowls sosls soslsos s 
 sosls os ls djd jd j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j jj j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmxbrigade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game has made me lose a lot of sleep and I've only had it for 2 days. Every minute has immersed 
 me in constant offline action bundled with intense and gratifying gun battles. i urge anyone who 
 has ever picked up a PS3 controller to go out and buy this game! The class creation adds a lot 
 of variation in the style you attack the enemy. I cant wait to get out of work so i can go spend 
 another 10 plus hours owning n00bs aplenty. if anyone actually reads this review and also own the 
 game, add my psn=bmxbrigade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacknitrof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics and textures, you think you are in a movie and a great one
  Realistic game play with great natural controls
  A. I. is the best in the serie, do not miss the 
 ennemy because he will not miss you. Your team mates are not so helpfull but it is ok for me, I 
 love te do the job myself.
  Large choice of weapons
  Sound is great ,realistic and immersive
  The online play is so good with many interesting features, you 
 can upgrade and unlock almost everything
  If you loved all C. O. D. games, you should buy and enjoy this one also
  Refreshing to be somewhere 
 else than World War 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SheilMan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the Call of Duty series since the original Call of Duty. When I first 
 heard about Call of Duty, I was immediately extremely excited to get to see this game, as it was 
 the first game since COD 2 to feature the work of Infinity Ward. I was blown away! This is hands 
 down the best Call of Duty game yet, and I bought it, I don't buy games very often, because nothing 
 is good, but this game beats out all the rest. Graphics are amazing as is the gameplay. The only 
 problem I see with it is the length of the single player mode, only about 5-6 hours long. This 
 was the only disappointment. But, overall, this game was amazing and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikin69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  good good goodgood good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good the beasts 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cas533
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, Modern Warfare is awesome. The graphics really show what the PS3 can do. They are 
 crisp clear and very lifelike. Movement is smooth and realistic. The wife walked in and thought 
 I was watching a movie. The audio and sound track totally rock. Running full surround it really 
 makes you feel like your in the combat. The superior graphics and audio put you in the action in 
 a very compelling way. The storyline, all though short in first person is very riveting and keeps 
 you even deeper in the game. The game in single player definitely keeps you wanting more but the 
 game play is so smooth and exciting you wont complain. Multiplayer is awsome. Even though I haven't 
 unlocked many of the perks the new system of play is really enjoyable. My only complaint is there 
 already seems to be some server issues, even with the limited number of players the first night 
 there where sever disco issues and the in-game chat was not working real well with allot of noise 
 and no connects. All this aside this is game that I will be playing for many many hours to come. 
 You have to add this game to your Collection. Activision did it right with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLDIER103
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad, awesome, right now i don't know wat i can think of to say about this game, Good 
 graphics, everything you can imagine about a shooter game, COD4 MODERN WARFARE is the best game 
 that Infinity Ward hhas developed so far in the COD series, the bad thing is The campaign is much 
 shorter than the original shooters out there, but i can't deny that this is the best game, but 
 i can't wait to get it in two weeks, so until then, well c u all later in cod4 Modern Warfare, 
 so well that is all that i can say for right now
  PS: add me as SOLDIER103 or THC_US-SOLDIER14 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willerbee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Didnt know the single player was so short but even still THIS GAME IS  
 Tight graphics, frantic realistic firefights, the latest hardware... SWEET multiplayer and I don't 
 even like multiplayer GET IT NOW U loserssssssssss or you will be taken to outside and publicly 
 flogged. If you already got it play it and sit and wait for assassins creed n kane n lynch like 
 the good little gamers you are. Didnt know the single player was so short but even still THIS GAME 
 IS  Tight graphics, 
 frantic realistic firefights, the latest hardware... SWEET multiplayer and I don't even like multiplayer 
 GET IT NOW U loserssssssssss or you will be taken to outside and publicly flogged. If you already 
 got it play it and sit and wait for assassins creed n kane n lynch like the good little gamers 
 you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is another great from Activision ( they make som heck ov the games) But its really short and 
 its kind ov easy.
  
  CoD4 is nice beautiful game game, strong multiplayer, Decent story but Its not very hard and Its 
 VERY short. The multiplayer is so great that i cant evn name all the stuff u can do there , u get 
 Ex, by som stuff, etc. The story takes place in WW2 bt the campaing is Dreadfully short. The level 
 deisagin is nice the blow effects ar well made. Theres another problem with the game , thats its 
 not so hard ( FOR ME) its great and all but when u shoot som1 very fast , the ebemi hust dies and 
 u frow a grenade dey ar already dead.
  
  Its a great game but its too short especlly when ur playing lik a maniac trying to kill evr1. The 
 single campaing might be short but the multiplayer is just great. Its a fun and entertaing game 
 with a great gameplay. CoD4 is like all the Call of duties, but its a great game but if exepect 
 something new u may not really lik it.
  
  Overall its a fun cool game but exrimly short , dey coold hav made it much longer but u still can 
 enjoy the multiplayer and u cant go wrong with dis game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing. Sound quality is great, like they actually ripped it from real battlefields. 
 The storyline is realistic, almost scary even. The action is intense. There is nothing about this 
 game that is noticably flawed, other than it's short campaign. However, the single player is one 
 to remember and is the best so far. I highly recommend this one, even if you aren't a fan of the 
 Call of Duty series, because I know I'm not, yet the 4th installment left me wanting more. The 
 multiplayer is like most others around, as you play and rank up and unlock more and more goodies 
 and bragging rights, of course. Still, the multiplayer is well executed and will keep casual and 
 hardcore shooters alike, immersed for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STruCxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Note to Gamespot. com
  
  FPS vs FPS
  
  COD4 vs HALO 3
  
  ARE YOU TELLING ME THAT IN ANY WAY HALO IS BETTER THAN COD4?
  
  my rating: Halo 3 (still not 
 next gen quality, its the name) 8.1 SCORE
  my rating: COD4 (first time I notice next gen power) 9.0 SCORE
  
  This is truely the FIRST 
 NEXT GEN game that is displaying the processing power... AND I LOVE IT!
  
  COD4 is better than:
  
  Graw2
  Rainbow Six
  Halo
  
  I'M STILL CONFUSED WITH GAMESPOT 
 REVIEW OF HALO 3 (9.5) VS COD4 (9.0) ****
  
  lol microsoft bonus? lol I can't find any other reason why gamespot rated this way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 could be the greatest war game of all time. Infinity Ward produced one of the most 
 exciting and most immersive warfare games ever produced. I couldn't put it down and now, while 
 I'm at work, I'm even dreaming about COD4. The single player campaign leaves you to play as two 
 friendly groups, the British S. A. S and the U. S. Marine Corps. During the game you'll be switching 
 back and forth between the two all while trying to complete the same objective, saving the world 
 from terrorists. During the single player mode you'll be engaged in some of the most intense battle 
 situations ever put into a video game. At points the fire fights will be so loud that it becomes 
 almost impossible to hear your A. I. teammates and even yourself think. Infinity Ward seemed to 
 have made these sense pounding fights this way to try to make you hesitant and nervous. There were 
 a few times where I got so flustered that I just charged at the rival army. Needless to say I died 
 before I even got 15 feet. But that's what this game is all about. Testing your patience and FPS 
 ability. During the fire fights in single player mode you won't be able to control your teammates 
 movements and positions. But this is actually a good thing. Because your teammates are controlled 
 by the CPU, you won't have to worry about them being in optimal fighting positions. The A. I. does 
 a fantastic job of protecting your butt, and they are the perfect compliment to your run &amp; 
 gun tactics. They also use the weapons they have. What I mean is that some other games your CPU 
 teammates will have a pretty sweat arsenal a their disposal but they never use it. Whereas in COD4 
 they will use frags and they will use their sniper rifle. For example, in one of the stages we 
 (the S. A. S and I) were fighting in a city location. There were two rival gunmen on a roof across 
 the road and while I was being pinned down by them my S. A. S teammates tossed a frag and killed 
 them. That is exactly what a human teammate would do. As a matter of fact as I was trying to move 
 after they threw the grenade one of the killed opponents fell off the roof right next to me. What 
 detail, what a rush that fire fight was. The visuals of COD4 are beyond good, they border on perfect. 
 This game is not to be played on a standard definition TV. COD4 is a must play on a HDTV with surround 
 sound. I popped COD4 in my PS3 last night on my 50 inch plasma and was completely blown away. The 
 level of detail and the level of presentation are unmatched. The warriors on screen run like humans, 
 they fight like humans, and they even die like humans. The animations are so plentyful that you 
 will probably never see the same death twice. The physics of COD4 are unquestioned. The physics 
 make the fire fights so real. For example, during the Sins of Our Fathers mission I was running 
 quickly across a parking lot, as I was running a Russian UltraNationalist popped out from behind 
 a dumpster, then BOOOOM!!, I hit him with a blast from a shot gun I picked up. But when I popped 
 him, he crumpled up into a ball and yelled at the same time adding to the realism. It was absolutely 
 amazing.
  
  The online feature of COD4 does not feel like a add on, it feels more like another $59.99 game 
 that comes with the single player mode. As a matter of fact, if Infinity Ward had put the online 
 feature on another disk and asked me to buy it for $59.99, I would. It's that good people. It will 
 probably be the most played multiplayer this year and maybe even next, There are a ton of maps, 
 and they all will play to people's specific strengths. If your a player who like to run and gun, 
 these maps are for you, if you want to snipe players and get as many head shots as possible these 
 maps are for you, if you like tactical and strategic play these maps are for you. The ranking system 
 is fantastic, but the customization of your player is where it's at. No more having to play as 
 the same player as everyone else. No more having to play with the same weapons and the same tactics 
 as everyone else. Here you will be able to customize your warrior to the way you play. If your 
 a heavy gunner, a sniper, an all around type, or a pure rifle man then COD4 will fit your play. 
 But the best thing is that it actually works. For example, I was playing as a sniper last night 
 and while I was playing I ranked up and my sniper rifle was also ranked up, meaning that I could 
 shoot through walls with more speed. So on my next multiplayer contest an opponent was standing 
 behind a wall. While it might have taken me more than one shot to take him down last time, it only 
 took me one. Perfect.
  
  There are only two things that I wished were in the game. I wouldn't exactly call these problems 
 but they would have been pretty cool to have made it in the game. First, the game should have been 
 longer. You can get through it in about 6 or 7 hours. It took me almost 7 hours yesterday to play 
 through the single player campaign. But because of the unbelievable play and outstanding visuals 
 and story I can live with a short game.
  
  The feature I wished that would have been a part of COD4 is the Take Cover system that was in Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. There are some many close quarters gun fights that being able to take cover in an instant 
 would have been perfect. But that is the only problem I had with COD4, and even then I had to look 
 for it. Call of Duty 4 is the most intense warfare game I have ever seen. It makes mince meat of 
 other games. Infinty Ward not only created the perfect war game they raised the bar for all other 
 FPS games of the future. Who the hell wants to shoot aliens or creatures when you can fight human 
 like armies with modern real life weapons? Blowing up some made up troop carrier is nothing like 
 killing a real life tank with the Javelin weapon. BOOOOOOM!!
  
  BUY THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoongates707
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY 4 IS ONE OF THE BEST SHOOTERS IVE EVER PLAYED AND THE MULTI PLAYER IS OFF THE CHAIN.... WHEN 
 U STAY UP ALL NIGHT LONG GAMING WITH OUT GETTING TIRED YOU KNOW CALL OF DUTY IS THE SH... ALL THE 
 BIG GUNS AND SPECIAL EFFECTS THAT PACKED IN CALL OF DUTY PEOPLE IS GOING TO GO CRAZY FOR THE GAME 
 LIKE ME... CALL OF DUTY 4 IS A MUST HAVE FOR THE 360FANS AND AS WELL ON OTHER PLATFORMS.... IF U 
 DONT HAVE THE GAME GO OUT AND GET YOUR COPY BEFOR ITS TO LATE..... BECAUSE IM ALREADY HOOKED ON 
 IT.. I PLAYED ONE DAY AND WOW IM AT RANKM 21 ALREADY .... ... TDxWHKxSPOONGATES.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwjh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Summary: smooth and gorgeous graphic, totally immersive experience especially in the heat of battle, 
 well-designed storyline that makes the game not just running and gunning, but feel involved.
  
  At some point of the fighting, among flying bullets, bouncing grenades (and lots of them!!) , 
 I actually felt like fighting for my own life. AI teammates in the field with you with motions 
 and behaviors that are very life-like such that made me felt really bad when I mis-fired at them.
 
  
  This is the game that you can't miss if you like realistic FPS games, especially if you're interested 
 in the multiplayers. However, but be advised about the short single player campaign pointed out 
 by all the reviews out there. Regardless, you must experience the game yourself!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  i know the review says that you need to have a certain amount of letters to write aboutthis game 
 but all i have to say is that this game is great , great , great , great this is a must have game 
 for the playstation 3 their is no doubt in my mind if you love first person shooters you would 
 love this game. this is better than halo 3 an i have booth systems its just a game that truly makes 
 me feel like im a marine lol. the game is short in single player mode but if you love online play 
 boy oh boy this is great online an for finishing why havent you stopped reading this an gotten 
 to the store to pick a copy up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetah13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  You would be crazy to not get this game if you're a fan of shooters. Makes all other games coming 
 out this month seem pointless. Keep playing this game! I can't even begin to explain how hopelessly 
 addicted I am to this game. Don't wait and go buy it as soon as you've got the cash. If you think 
 this game will just be like every other CoD, then you are very, very wrong. This is so much better 
 than the other 3 in the series. This game should get 10 from everyone. Every single detail in this 
 game is perfect, especially online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing in every regard Graphics Sound Gameplay and its value. SIngleplayer: 
 Its fun while it lasts its not very long but i have been replaying Missions sence i finished the 
 game. It goes between 2 soldiers and your basically goin around blowing stuff up and killing alot........ alot 
 of people tryin to kill you Multiplayer: Now on my Xbox 360 i got Number 2 and 3 and played em 
 NEVER did Multiplayer until i get this on my PS3 i play its Multiplayer for atleast 2 Hours and 
 then i say to myself holy crap this is so damn fun! It is a very well made Game that should be 
 checked out to Diehards and new commers buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmouth1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  This game straight up blew me away the moment the campaign started. This game is gorgeous people! 
 You will get to go and do a variety of things in the campaign. The greatest parts are the ones 
 that stray from the main parts. There are two specific instances that come to mind: a sniping mission 
 where you actually take into account wind, humidity and even the earth's rotation, and the other 
 when you get to use infared imagining to shoot out of a plane. The campaign is very well put together 
 in all areas but sadly lacks the playing time since you can breeze through it easily in an afternoon 
 session. Probably between 4-6 hrs. What's there though, makes it worth it and is re-playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeterman23ny
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  Nuff said, buy it and buy it now! Best graphics you have ever seen on any system including the 
 best rigged system ever made guaranteed. Great gameplay and online is amazing! Get it! BLA BLA 
 BLA 100 word minimum, bla bla bla, I said all that was needed to say, bla bla bla, its worth $60, 
 its worth $100. Go get it, go get it, why oh why have you not gotten it already. BLA 100 words 
 yet, nope not yet bla bla bla call of duty calls duties into calling cards and says hi to the duty 
 that was once called the warfare of modern day society bla bla bla this makes no sense and now 
 people think this review cannot be trusted cuz they think I am crazy when in reality I do not care 
 what I am saying any longer I just want this 100 word minimum to go away. There, is that 100 words 
 now? Let me check, if not there will be more nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lombre12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  i think call of duty 4 is the best among all the call of dutys that infinity ward has made. its 
 graphics on the ps3 is better than the xbox360. ok i have to admit that i am a ps3 fanboy so all 
 of you xbox360 fanboy dont get pissed off. although its single player campaign is short but its 
 sweet. its multiplayer is the best of all. finally they didnt make another world war 2 game. world 
 war 2 games are amazing when they make it about 4-6 games about the history but when they about 
 18-28 games its gonna bore us (us is meaning to gamers) . so irecommend to all of the people who owns 
 a ps3, xbox360 or a pc should buy this game. thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboboklashaur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't even want to waste time listing all the sweet reasons you should be owning this game right 
 now. Amazing single player story and gameplay, the online is the funnest online I've ever played 
 with any game, and the graphics beat out Lair for the best graphics on the system in my book, or 
 hell any system for that matter.
  
  If you like tactical shooters you're going to love this game. If you hate tactical shooters, like 
 I do, then you'll still love this game. I'm gonna be frank and say that I flat out suck at tactical 
 shooters. Halo was the kind of shooter I was good at because you just run and shoot and call it 
 good. I have to take the time now though to think ahead and strategize, and be careful where I 
 go and not just turn corners and think I can win with guns blazing. Again, this is an amazing game.
 
  
  The sound is spectacular, and as I said before, one of the better stories on a shooter I've come 
 across. Short, sure, but it's a hell of a trip while you're there. The obvious lasting point is 
 the multiplayer, which is phenomenal. When I had my 360 I got into the beta and had the advantage 
 of playing it early, and to be honest I was skeptical, but the actual game blew the pants off the 
 beta multiplayer. I can't praise this game enough. The only reason I don't give it a 10 is the 
 length of the single player campaign, so in actuality my score for it is more of a 9.8, but you 
 catch my drift. Go buy this now, and then let's get online and show those terrorist noobs who's 
 boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoostedSupra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This by far the best FPS I've played since BF2 for the PC. I was extermely impressed by the visuals 
 and the sound effects. The amount of detail in this game is unbelievable, I can't even put it into 
 words. I've played COD and this is by far the best move they made. The PS3 version runs perfect 
 in 720p HDMI, no problems like the rumors floating around the internet. I believe lighting and 
 other problems are due to those people using Standard Definition TV's.
  
  The multiplayer is highly addictive and had me playing for hours on end. Loading is very quick 
 and the maps are beautiful, just wow. Ranking up isn't hard if your a veteran FPS and quick to 
 react. I recommned this game for anyone that owns a PS3, it's the best release game yet.
  
  Also, having MIC's online helps a lot. People, please remember to lower your TV volume as the MIC's 
 are always LIVE , it will develop an echo on the head sets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaRail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The second half of the campaign is absolutely awesome, variations of sniping, assaulting and being 
 stealth past enemies. The first half was the only bad part of this game, it is definently repetitive. 
 The most exciting part is multi player. You start off with a small arsenal and unlock different 
 game styles (In my opinion Sabotage is the most fun of game modes) . When you start ranking up you 
 get better weapons and effects. There are 4 basic types of classes. But later you unlock a customizing 
 soldier kit and you can change your camo, effects, weapons and so on. For those who are wondering, 
 it is MUCH better than Call of Duty 3. GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  You can believe all the hype that Infinity Ward's shooter had leading up to it. Call of Duty's 
 first plunge into 'modern' era, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is truly a masterpiece of a game.
 
  
  PROS:
  The graphics are hands-down the best I've ever seen
  The single-player campaign is immersive
  Non-stop action in single-player campaign
  Wide variety 
 of weapons
  Online mode is a blast -- one of the best online shooters around
  Customization and ranking up online is a challenge
  One of the better first-person shooters I've 
 ever played
  
  CONS:
  Single player campaign is too short
  You will die a good amount of times in the campaign mode
  No online lobby! (PS3's fault, I guess)
 
  
  If you have a PS3 (or a 360 for that matter) , GET CALL OF DUTY 4 TODAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I got this nov. 5th and i have been playing it for a day now so i went to my friends house who 
 had 360 and i am thinking about trading this back in and get the 360 version since i have 1 but 
 dont let this be a downfall and its not fanboyism i have all 3 consoles anyways. The single player 
 is great i loved the AI though the single player was only 8 hours the multiplayer has great features 
 and is a very deep game online this is a great game but iam looking forward to seeing which verison 
 of this game is superoir dont forget about PC as well =) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjonnyringo72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  First off the game looks great with amazing detail. The game play runs smooth with no frame rate 
 problems. The gunfights are really intense. The campaign mode is great but the online multi player 
 gets even better. Each mission has just the right difficulty while still maintaining its fun factor. 
 The franchise made a good move pushing the setting into a more modern age. The control are also 
 set to make this game as fun as possible. There is none to almost no loading screen so there's 
 no need for long and unnecessary waiting. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must buy game, if 
 you haven't got it yet, hurry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futurecardinal
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  No joke this game should definitely be the game of the year... It makes Halo look like **** The 
 graphics are better than any game ever and takes full advantage of the PS3 cababilities. Im not 
 sure if I will ever stop playing it. Not only is the multiplayer amazing but the campaigne mode 
 takes you for the ride of our life! This is a must buy for every PS3 user!!! Even though there 
 isnt a lobby system once you join a game in multiplayer it is just a matter of seconds before gunning 
 down your opponent. every one of the maps are well built and allow great areas to battle. It is 
 not hard at all to rank up and because there are soo many unlockable items it makes it worth your 
 while to try your best. My advice is to.... Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenharmsel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Having picked up the game I got started directly in multiplayer, so I don't have much to say about 
 the single player campaign yet.
  
  The pace of the muliplayer is well thought out. You initially start with very few options as to 
 your weapon loadout and abilities. Once in the game, my first impression was that it was very slow 
 paced. Your character does not move quickly, but rather moves at a very tactical pace, which frames 
 the entire experience very well. This is not a game where you run around wildly, rather you move 
 from cover to cover and have to be very careful about clearing rooms properly and keeping an eye 
 out for enemies in war torn landscapes.
  
  As you play you gain points for kills, assists, completing game-type objectives, and completing 
 various challenges (like get 25 headshots with a certain sniper rifle) . These points go towards 
 your level, and higher levels unlock more player options, weapons and abilities.
  
  Rounds aren't incredibly long, and the maps are very well designed for the target game size. There 
 are usually wide open spaces littered with random pieces of cover that fit into the motif of the 
 level. There are also usually blown out buildings and alleyways to sneak through. All of the maps 
 offer terrain that will let you practice different styles of gameplay, whether you want to camp 
 a location to snipe and the move once you get a shot off (there are plenty of sniper nests, you 
 don't get stuck in one the whole game) , or you want to prowl through alleyways for up-close combat. 
 And the ability to change your loadout each time you die means you can practice different styles 
 many times during a single round.
  
  The one downside that kind of irks me is that there is no support for splitscreen online play. 
 This basically means that I have to play by myself or hand off the controller to someone else if 
 they want a turn, but you can't sit down with a friend and play online at the same time. It's a 
 shame really that this isn't standard by now.
  
  Bottom line: The multiplayer is awesome and offers a lot of challenges while rewarding your game 
 play with more interesting elements as time goes on and you get better at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InFurnace
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Ill confess that Im not a huge FPS fan, I prefer 3rd person play. That said, Call of Duty: 4 
 is all its cracked up to be, and a little more. The story line is very well laid out, with more 
 than a few twists. Its told from multiple perspectives, which is a welcome change from the usual. 
 The battles are quite intense at moments. I often feel like the new guy on the teams (which really 
 you are) , and that I would surely be toast, were it not for the vets that Im teamed up with. The 
 combat in this game pulls no punches. Sometimes you can do everything right, and you will still 
 die. There is a very nice selection of weapons, but thankfully, no sci-fi ray guns, or boomerang 
 bullets. Its strictly off the shelf boom-sticks, which is also nice.
  
  The online component of the game is also a blast. For the first few hours, be prepared to die. 
 A lot. I was able to work my way up to a 1.1 kill ratio on the last few games I played, and every 
 once in a while, I actually killed a few more times than I died, but that, I suspect, had something 
 to do with luck. I dont want to give you the wrong idea, the multiplayer game is loads of fun, 
 but again, the combat is quite brutal. As you gain rank, you are allowed access to new weapons, 
 and camo patterns for same. You also gain access to certain perks, like increased accuracy, or 
 stopping power. By unlocking certain achievements, you gain access to attachments for these weapons. 
 For example: execute 25 kills with the MP5 weapon, and you are allowed to attach a reflex scope. 
 The more achievements you unlock, the more attachments that become available, like silencers, laser 
 sights, etc. All of this of course, makes the online play even more addictive.
  
  Call of Duty: 4 is a great game, and a good buy for anyone interested in combat simulation games. 
 Its also a must-buy for any fan of the FPS genre. Go out and grab a copy. Youll likely find yourself 
 online, empting a clip of 5.56 into my back, or perhaps you may just see my MP5 dumping bullets 
 into yer face!
  
  -if
  
  psn: SgtPage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. If I had to sum it up in one word it would 
 be: Revolutionary. This game is a must have for anyone with a PS3. Great visuals, sound, story, 
 gameplay, online,... the list goes on and on. Great work by Infinity Ward by delivering a great 
 game that didn't skimp on the development of one of the systems.
  
  I like how they do the in game videos by placing you as one of the main characters and you are 
 seeing it from your perspective. EXCELLENT!!!
  Anyone saying this game is not good on the PS3 is either blind, stupid or both which equals FANBOY.
 
  
  Just my 2 cents. I need scissors. 61! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gimpy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  The game opens up with an intense beginning. I thought for sure it was just the 'highlight' of 
 the game, but I was let down.... The following levels were just as intense if not more! The lighting 
 is A+, the textures are A+, the action is non stop, and the frame rates..... WOW!!! This is one 
 of the smoothest FPS I have seen. The one thing so far that the game is lacking would be a lean 
 button for those pesky corners, but you can run and gun a bit so the lean feature is not a neccessity 
 but it would be nice.
  
  1080p users: I noticed that the game was playing in 720p when I first loaded it up. The box states 
 that the game supports 1080p, so I was very confused. I went to the display settings icon on the 
 PS3 menu and set the display to only 480p &amp; 1080p rather than 480p, 720p, 1080i, 1080p. That 
 fixed it, now COD4 plays in 1080p! (aquios 1080p LCD, hdmi, ps3)
  
  I strongly recommend purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game with a lot of new things to go around all call of duty games where fun but this one 
 is by far the best. Are the graphics better? - Check 9.0 out of 10, I give it a 9 because the ps3 
 graphics can handle so much better and because the system is so powerful it doesnt deliver the 
 full graphical capabilities, but it does look better then COD 3.
  
  How is the Game-play? - 9.5 out of 10, it's as smooth as a babies bottom theres maybe 2% of the 
 time you'll get a little nudge because of the sudden fps jump but it's very rare and the Gameplay 
 is close to perfect.
  
  Any cool wow factor things that will really make me say sweet or dude thats awesome? - 10 out 
 of 10 if you thought just the combat and guerilla warfare it self was fricking awesome you are 
 right it is but they give you more you can rope out of helicopters and see many beautiful animations 
 as well as cool textured explosions you'll be going threw the game 80% of the time with your jaw 
 dropped and saying wow!
  
  Sound effects 9.5 out of 10 - well if you watched saving private Ryan or black hawk down or we 
 where soldiers it's almost like watching a movie when you play this great game some times you want 
 to duck your head because you think a m4 just shot right over you and almost hit you in the forehead, 
 only problem again maybe 1-2% of the time it will crackle a little bit due to the major fps change 
 because of the great textures and visual design.
  
  Overall 9.5 out of 10 - why although the game is damn good it is not perfect it's close but no 
 cigar 99% of the time it's completely smooth 1% of that time it might nudge a bit they could of 
 made it to a point where it's smooth flawlessly and not just almost perfect but that in it's self 
 would only bring it down to a 9.9. only downside of this game is no coop mode which is a big command 
 in todays gaming industry with all the online play and headsets but besides that this game is 
 a definite buy the multiplayer will keep you occupied for a while as well as the single player, 
 but all in all this game is gold and you will be happy that you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. After CoD3 was so terrible I was skeptical about purchasing this 
 one. Well, the original developers did this franchise justices. This game is flawless! You get 
 completely involved in every single aspect. This FPS is light years ahead of ANY fps I have played 
 on ANY platform (this game puts Halo 3 to shame) . The controls are smooth, the aim system is perfect, 
 the sound is fantastic, the graphics are exasperating. Don't bother renting this game or readings 
 dozens of reviews, this game is a BUY IT NOW. I used to only play WWII shooters and wasn't a big 
 fan of modern shooters (Rainbow Six, Battlefield) but after playing this game, my perspective has 
 COMPLETELY shifted. This game is a BUY BUY BUY. Now for multiplayer... holy crap! It is AMAZING! 
 The menu navigation is smooth, finding friends is flawless, the perks are sweet, ranks are awesome... I 
 have no complaints about multiplayer. If i HAD to complain about something, it would be the length. 
 I beat the campaign on Regular in about 7 hours or less. But of course it will take longer on harder 
 difficulties. But the story is amazing, and at times, your jaw will drop due to story twists.
 
  
  So, get off your computer and buy this game... NOW!
  
  Gameplay - 9.5
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  
  Sound - 10
  
  Value - 9.5
  
  Tilt - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsveg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Best FPS for any console I have played. Resident Evil 4 for the Wii is a close second for me, BUT 
 this game has superior graphics, A. I., controls and gameplay and is second to none when it come 
 to photorealism. Sure TF2 is an addictingly fun game. But CoD4 is just as good for its realism 
 that I rated it so close to perfect it hurts. My only and most sincere complaint is minor. I had 
 some issues in trying to figure out what's going on and who's who in major fire fights. Nevertheless 
 I am sure this is just part of the learning curve. Online play is also spectacular. With many things 
 to unlock through achievements (both consoles) and a variety of maps and enviroments its sure to 
 keep you stabbed between the cushions of your sofa for hours on end.
  
  I could'nt be more seriosu when I say if you are wasting time reading my review when you could 
 be playing this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero1017
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG style system. 
 The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW!
  Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG style system. 
 The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW!
  Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG style system. 
 The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW!
  Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG style system. 
 The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW! Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG 
 style system. The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW! Amazing graphics, Amazing sound on a good surround sound system, great online RPG 
 style system. The framerate is FLAWLESS, soo smooth!
  Get it... NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  It's about time........ About time that the long drawn out and out played war of WWII is finally 
 coming to an end. Infinity Ward is finally taking that step out of the WWII franchise and is creating 
 something entirly different. It will be intreasting to see how Infinity Ward creates a story line 
 that ties in with it's fictional WWIII setting. So far the game looks good. This game is high on 
 my priority list for this holiday season. I love how they switched to modern warfare and not WWII. 
 I read a preview in a magazine and their vision for this game was the perfect model of what I thought 
 a first-person shooter ought to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  gameplay 10/10
  
  graphics 10/10
  
  sound 10/10
  
  value 10/10
  
  tilt 9/10
  
  Gameplay: stunning. the multiplayer is addicting and the single player campagin is stunning. 
 no other call of duty game has been so good. awsome guns machines and eveything else. there r better 
 games than this but overall its the best shooter and i am truly stunned. the multiplayer is the 
 best part. it has the best shooter multiplayer ever!!!! 10/10 for sure
  
  graphics: the graphics r also very amazing. this game has 1 of the best graphics ever!!! everything 
 looks so realistic and perfect. in 20 years these graphics would still be considered good. 10/10 
 for sure.
  
  sound: also very amazing. the gunshots and sound were so realistic. it makes u feel as if u r in 
 a reaL WAR.
  
  value: ud still be playing this game 5 years from now 10/10
  
  tilt: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has proven that it knows what it is doing when it comes to FPS action in WWII settings, 
 however it opted to take on the modern age of warfare with its newest installment...... and I am 
 happy as hell they did.
  
  The graphics and fluidity of gameplay is great, the sounds are booming, the online mulitplayer 
 is fantastic, and it really feels like an epic experience while you play the game.
  
  The single-player story is jumpy, and you feel like an inadequate add-on instead of the star for 
 most of the game. You will also die if you don't follow a set path, often by an enemy one-hit killing 
 you after the room has been called cleared (which is completely unforgivable to me.) But those 
 are really the only complaints I have with the game, and most people won't notice it, being as 
 they will solely be playing this game online...... and I don't really have any beef with it at all 
 on that front. You have different classes of soldiers to pick from, and the online voice support 
 is in full swing. Although the announcer can be annoying as hell sometimes, expect to hear UVA 
 ENROUTE about 900 times in 2 minutes.
  
  Still, fun game, great multi-player, and it is about time you get to use some modern weapons in 
 a FPS of this calibur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger35010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played since the console wars started, I'm not saying its the 
 best single player but a game capable of dragging you off halo3 and upgrade to ps3 CoD4 is way 
 worth it. The ps3 does look better when I compare it to the 360beta but basing it on that is kinda 
 unfair seeing how the finish copy is run on blu-ray. Anyways, its a great game not matter what 
 console just dont play it in standard def with no surround sound... kinda beats the purpose of owning 
 a nexgen console. This is a must buy for anyone who plays online, offline, or never played at all 
 I promise you will be hooked. Its my 4th day now and I haven't turned on my 360 to play halo ITS 
 THAT GREAT 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
