-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clive Barker's Jericho
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/clivebarkersjericho/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeously creepy visuals and sound.
 Jumping between teammates makes for a lot of variety.
 Some tense, exciting firefights .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Horrifically confined level design leaves no room to maneuver.
 Lame final boss caps a stupendously awful ending.
 Long animations and visual effects leave certain characters far too vulnerable in battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 571 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Mercury Steam
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor level design poisons Jericho's awesome but unrealized potential. 

  Clive Barker's Jericho is an inconsistent first-person shooter, alternating between moments of 
 pure, atmospheric greatness and irritating design paradoxes that suck the fun out of the gameplay. 
 For every incredible set piece -- a battle in a Roman gladiator arena, fearful attacks by ghostly 
 children -- there is a frustrating sequence that puts every shortcoming in the game proudly on display. 
 There's a lot going on, and sometimes it comes together exquisitely. More often, Jericho's various 
 elements get in the way of one another, creating a game you'll love one moment and hate the next. 

           Hows about a kiss?      

  Horror writer Clive Barker's touch is most evident in Jericho's overall sense of impending doom. 
 The time-traveling narrative takes you to a number of eras -- World War II, ancient Sumeria -- and 
 all of them are wrapped in a demonic haze of darkness and dread. The architecture is brooding and 
 imposing, shadowed corners look like they could harbor something truly sinister, and soft ambient 
 lighting brings it all together to make for a cohesive look. The sound design is equally sinister, 
 with the quiet, pulsing soundtrack and the sound of dripping water making you wonder what you might 
 be encountering ahead. That isn't to say that Jericho is a truly scary game. It's incredibly dark 
 (you'll get good use of your flashlight) , often intense, and always a little eerie, but you'll 
 never jump out of your seat. It's a Gothic paradise, and as a study in pure atmosphere, it succeeds 
 in spades.  

  The story itself never really takes advantage of all this thick, fearful ambience. The setup is 
 pretty awesome on its own, though. In the beginning, God didn't create Adam and Eve -- He created 
 a sexless being known as the firstborn. Turns out that whole experiment didn't work out too well, 
 and the thing got locked away in an alternate reality, where it occasionally gets too bored and 
 tries to escape. The secretive Jericho squad exists to shove the firstborn back where it belongs. 
 Too bad the script itself is just a thin slice of nonsense, featuring far too many hokey one-liners 
 ("praise the Lord and pass the ammunition!") than good taste allows. And just when you are finally 
 getting into it, the game ends with a lame boss fight without answering any of the main questions 
 it raised. Leaving room for a sequel is one thing; creating a story that literally goes nowhere 
 is something else entirely.  

  Your own character, Ross, can jump from one member of Jericho squad to another, which sets up the 
 game's most intriguing -- and successful -- mechanic. At any point, you can take control of any of 
 the remaining six members of the squad, and each of them handle quite differently from the others. 
 First of all, they come equipped with different weaponry. More importantly, most of them have two 
 special skills at their disposal, from Cole's ability to slow down time, to Delgado's knack for 
 setting foes on fire, to Church's enemy-paralyzing cloud of blood. At first, it's tough to remember 
 which squadmate possesses which weapons and which skills, but the game does a good job of introducing 
 you to the powers one by one, and eventually it becomes second nature.  

  That isn't to say that every character is particularly useful. Church's rooting skill and Cole's 
 time-slowing ability are possibly the most useful powers, since they give you time to act. Jones, 
 on the other hand, only gets an astral projection skill, and it's rarely helpful outside of some 
 of the game's puzzles. You'd think with six different unique characters to control that Jericho 
 might be spreading itself too thin, but while that is true with other elements in Jericho, the 
 different skills give you a lot of variety without making things feel schizophrenic. The characters 
 you aren't in control of at any given time are governed by the game's semiadequate artificial intelligence, 
 and you can give them rudimentary orders to stay behind, fall back, or move to a specified location. 
 But this is where Jericho begins to stumble -- big-time.  

  As the game progresses, you will at first be ready to deplore the teammate AI for dying so easily. 
 You can revive downed teammates, but there are times when you spend more time reviving than you 
 spend shooting guns and performing awesome powers. Yet on its own, the AI isn't half bad. Teammates 
 run for cover when possible and use their special abilities on their own. But what good does it 
 do to program the AI to take cover and flank when the level design features almost nothing but 
 narrow corridors and confined rooms? The reason that your teammates look like they are bullet fodder 
 is because they simply have  nowhere to go . You'll watch as teammates go down over and over again, 
 simply because they are all stuck in the same tiny space.  

  Then, add to the mix the game's most annoying (and annoyingly common) foes: demons that explode 
 upon death. The things lumber along quickly and take down any nearby character when they fall. 
 And, like most of Jericho's supersturdy enemies, they absorb a good number of bullets before they 
 die. On its own, it's a perfectly legitimate enemy design. But in a game with six squad members 
 and the most claustrophobic levels ever devised, it's the opposite of fun. You'll watch in horror 
 as your entire squad goes down at once and you are powerless to stop the violence. Why would you 
 create an enemy that needs to be taken down from a distance, in a game that doesn't let you distance 
 yourself? Maybe it's meant to be a challenge, but in reality, it's just imbalanced and cheap. We 
 suspect it's all done under the guise of being "tactical," but this is no tactical shooter. Enemies 
 just mindlessly traipse toward you, so the extent of your tactics is switching between characters 
 to use their abilities in tandem.  

  And that's the way of Jericho: design elements that are fine on their own, and a disaster when 
 combined together. Slow strafing speed doesn't have to be bad. Slow strafing speed in a level when 
 the exploding monsters continually respawn, and you are only playing as Delgado, is murder. Then 
 you have the pretty animations and special effects. They look neat, but some effects, like the 
 10-second fiasco you have to experience when you revive someone as Rawlings from afar, get in the 
 way. The action leaves you vulnerable for so long that it's better to just run up and use the standard 
 revival skill, letting the AI handle Rawlings (though unsurprisingly, he is almost always the first 
 character to bite the dust) . There are a number of effects like this that take their good old time, 
 which would be fine if you could get yourself out of the way to perform your powers and enjoy the 
 corresponding visual display.  

  When the levels open up, you can see how great Jericho could have been if it had just been given 
 room to breathe. A spectacular Crusades era boss battle and a series of battles in a Roman arena 
 are perfect examples, and had the entire game followed suit, it could have approached greatness. 
 There aren't enough of these moments in Jericho's eight hours of gameplay, but when they arrive, 
 they hint at loads of unrealized potential. In fact, it is your ability to see the potential behind 
 the missteps that will determine how much you like Jericho. This is, without a doubt, a love-it-or-hate-it 
 kind of game: easy to love for the occasionally awesome and intense firefight, easy to hate for 
 its wide array of frustrating design contradictions.  

           Ive got a headache this big      

  You'll get essentially the same experience regardless 
 of which version you play. All of them look great and run smoothly. The textures in the PlayStation 
 3 version look a bit cleaner than those in the Xbox 360 version, though the lighting in the 360 
 and PC releases is a bit more foreboding. But they all feature relatively long loading times between 
 levels, which will make you thankful for the story snippets you can read during them. And none 
 of them feature any kind of multiplayer mode, so once you are done, unless you want to relive the 
 experience at a higher level of difficulty, you are done for good.  

  Jericho is both a triumph and a disaster, and not a lot of games manage to be both of these at 
 once. Frustrating, exciting, inconsistent, linear -- these words and many more describe the various 
 elements of Clive Barker's Jericho. If you've got a high tolerance for gameplay annoyances and 
 like the feeling of imposing dread and claustrophobia this corridor crawl provides, by all means, 
 give it a shot. If you like tight shooting mechanics and smart level design, you'll want to steer 
 clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I was surfing on a PS3 forum where I saw a Jericho's topic opened with posts made before the 
 game's release and I felt the duty to come GameSpot and write a review at this (almost huge) crappy 
 game.
  
  So, let's start with the hype that was generated before the game's release, it was promised a great 
 horror game, full of action, with a great story, gore rated M and bla bla bla, all those beautifull 
 things the media say. After reading so many marvellous things about the game I got excited and 
 so anxyous for the game to came out.
  
  When the game came out and I started to play it, quickly I get really mad, because I didn't bought 
 the game that was promised. First thing, the game's difficulty is null, you only need a good aim, 
 because all the puzzles and obstacles you face are solved by a good samaritan squadron mate, yes, 
 and more than that, when you are going to start to think in what to do he has already said what 
 do you have to do. THANKS HOLY MATES!! THANKS!! Then the HORROR, where is it? Ok, I get it... they 
 were talking about your mates IA that is HORROROUS in combat, they are really dummies, more like 
 CS bots at Very very easy mode... They are dying every second, they are worthless against the enemy 
 and more, sometimes they just get in front of your aim. So, in resume in combat you are going to 
 see all your mates dying and the priest, that has the ability to ressurrect, ressing them (or dying 
 too) while you get are kicking some dummy monster butt... So at this time I start thinking why 
 the hell this game is rated M, must be only of the wine-coloured blood, because even a Teletubbies 
 game can be more harder! The last thing I have to say is the poor and OMG story that the game has! 
 The main character of this game "dies" at the beginning of it and you are put in the control of 
 his spirit and with his spirit you can get in any of your mates body to control it, ok, this is 
 consistent, but the true story of the game is totally confusing, out-timed and has no sense!
  
  Dont buy this game, it will be money thrown at the garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is one of the most Underappreciated FPS' released in quite a while. This 
 game had a fun character switching shceme, An immersive, Kepp you guessing sort of story and alot 
 of fun, If all very similiar, Enemies and bosses to fight.
  
  Good Points
  - Pretty good graphics
  - A fairly lengthy single player campaign
  - Cool story and weapons
 
  - Easy to use character switching control scheme.
  - Good sound design.
  
  Bad Points
  - No multiplayer, or Local Co-op.
  - Final boss was a let down.
  - Little variety in enemies.
 
  
  The story, by writer Clive Barker, was immersive and never let you guess what was going to happen 
 next. Each character also included a fun, easy to use special ability, aswell as a collection of 
 unique weaponry which made every battle different. Some button pressing sequences also helped to 
 break up the action, and kept the fighting exciting. As my first PS3 game, I had fairly high expectations 
 for Jericho, and was not disappointed. The graphics were fairly good in this game, although the 
 frame rate was a little unsteady at times. Considering this game is massively undervalued, you 
 should really take a look through the barrage of bad reviews and have atleast a play through clive 
 barker's Jericho.
  
  Some enemy variety was lacking from clive barkers jericho, but most enemies were fairly intelligent 
 and kept you guessing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I am shocked that people don't like this game. I just recently decided to give 
 it a try after playing Killzone 2 for so long I thought I would explode from it. I have owned it 
 for about a year I guess. I played the first 20-30 minutes of the game a while back and could just 
 never get into it. The controls seemed hard to master, and the game itself is pretty unforgiving. 
 All that changed after playing KZ2 though. See... KZ2's control system is so hard to master that 
 it makes Jericho feel like one of the most responsive control systems ever made. Is it though? 
 No, of course not. Its still a bit clunky, but if you are used to other PS3 FPS games you should 
 have no problem after a little while. 
  
  The squad system where you switch back and forth between different characters to make use of their 
 abilities is cool enough. Its a nice twist on just giving the one main character every single ability. 
 The abilities themselves are pretty cool too. The only thing is that there really is a bit of a 
 learning curve while you play the game, and I would expect to get overwhelmed by monsters at first 
 a bit until you get everything down. Don't expect to just run through this game guns blazing because 
 you'll be dead quick. 
  
  To me though, the bread and butter of this game is both the story and the atmosphere. You really 
 have to like this sort of thing to have the game stand out as anything different because underneath 
 it all, it is still "just" a FPS. The twisted environments, monsters, and story are what is going 
 to make you either love or hate this game. This is not a horror game in the sense of something 
 like Condemned where it is gory for the sake of being gory. This game has horror elements from 
 movies like Hellraiser, and the gore serves a purpose in this game. Things are just "that way". 
 You are in a hell and things look accordingly. For as creepy and gory as this game is, I don't 
 feel there is any sort of un-necessary gore going on at all. This game is very tastefully done. 
 
  
  Technically the game has some black marks. The graphics are good for the year it was released, 
 but its nothing revolutionary. Another problem (at least on the PS3) is the framerate can get inconsistant 
 at times. Its not as bad as a huge multiplayer battle in KZ2, but at times, it gets pretty slow 
 for a moment. Its not "that bad" though, more of an occasional irratation. The music and sound 
 in the game is all top notch, no complaints there. 
  
  All in all, if you go into Jerchio expecting an early residnt evil "make you jump" sort of thing 
 I think you'll be dissapointed. If you go into it looking for a squad based military shooter you'll 
 also be dissapointed. This game seems to cater to a niche market, people who like the 90's style 
 horror movies and books. If you are a Clive Barker fan, I can't see any reason why you wouldn't 
 like this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Firstly Clive Barker's Jericho is quite a difficult game. The bosses you encounter will take a 
 while to defeat and your teammates do not seem like they are helping you. The screen goes red fairly 
 quickly and there are not places to take cover when you need them.
  There is plenty of variety of how you can approach each situation, as you can switch between multiple 
 characters and try out not only their weapons, but their powers. Each character has 1 weapon (apart 
 from one character) which has a primary function and a secondary function. Such as the assault 
 rifle which has a shotgun secondary fire.
  They also have 2 magical powers that can be used. Such as telekinesis and ghost bullet (which is 
 a controlled bullet that slows down time and can pass through multiple enemies) .
  The enemies look menacing, and the most common ones are the most human like, which run at you all 
 disfigured with slashing knives in their hands.
  However, the big battles between you and the monsters is always ruined by the look of the area 
 your in. The level design is horribly made and offers no interesting features. Everywhere looks 
 the same until you complete the level your on then it looks the same in the next level. Horribly 
 confined and no space to take cover can add to the frustration when all your teammates die and 
 you have to revive them. What you get is a boring design of, mainly temples and with blood smeared 
 all over the place.
  If the levels were created with more artistic imagination, then this game could have been more 
 enjoyable with the gameplay. The game also finishes badly without you knowing what happened.
  
  Story- 2/5
  Characters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 3/5
  Controls- 3/5
  Graphics- 2/5
  Sound- 
 3/5
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 2/5
  
  Good Points: Various weapons and powers to use, creepy monster designs and sounds.
  
  Bad Points: 
 At times very difficult, Teammates die to easily, Really bad level design, boring and confusing 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  Jericho is a nice first person shooter. The graphics are fine and the gameplay is interesting. 
 You play as the main character, but you can move from body to body. It's cool using different characters 
 in the game as it can make things easier or harder. Sometimes you will need to be a in specific 
 person to do a certain action. The quick time events are fine and sometimes it's hard. The game 
 itself isn't easy. It's dark and pretty scary. Sometimes you may need to adjust the brightness 
 of the screen. 
  I think that this game is better than FEAR and I don't understand why GS gave is a fair rating. 
 It should have been within the 7's range. 
  The Voice Acting was done pretty well and I think the story was sort of well thought. It could 
 have been more developed though. 
  FPS fans will probably enjoy it, but as you progress through the game... it can get pretty scary 
 and then you may stop at those points. It can get pretty darn hard in the game and it's actually 
 really scary in the middle. Overall, I think this is a great scary game that no FPS fan should 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmalignancy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is a squad-based FPS from legendary writer and director Clive Barker. The plot of this 
 game seems simple, destroy the root of all evil. But as the game progresses, you go deeper and 
 deeper into a complex and intriguing story. The story, in short, is this: a seven-member team known 
 as Jericho is sent on a mission to destroy God's first creation. In the beginning of time, God 
 created the first human life but it was too powerful. Since he could not destroy it, he banished 
 his creation, and started over. But his creation was jealous of this new life being made, and decides 
 to reek havoc, plague, death, etc. upon the world. Jericho must stop this.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are something relatively new. Each of the seven members has a unique weapon 
 and supernatural power. So supernatural, that in fact, they would have been burned in the witch 
 hunts. Some of the characters are significantly more powerful than others, but they all can be 
 played with ease. Some tasks require the use of a particular character's abilities. Such as telekinesis 
 or freezing an enemy in time. When your teammates receive a certain amount of damage, they will 
 collapse and you are faced with an option. To revive them and risk your own life, or to leave them 
 to die and save yourself. But when your teammates faint, and you're the only person left, you'll 
 wish you had revived them. Some battles can end up being you vs. 100 enemies. And the enemies don't 
 die easily.
  
  The environments work well in this game. They are very creepy, dark, and the music and sound effects 
 seem to fit well. The enemies are all look very frightening, but are over-used and repeated. The 
 levels are rather large, and fairly linear. There are a few turns that lead to dead-ends, but a 
 lot of searching isn't required. The graphics are fairly good as of 2007 standards. They definitely 
 aren't PS2 quality, like others have stated. But they still could be a little better. The cutscenes 
 are all very intriguing. They aren't too long, nor too short, and they all contribute significantly 
 to the story.
  
  Overall, Clive Barker's Jericho is a fun game. It's definitely not one of the best games I've played 
 on the PS3, but has quickly become one of my favorites. Even though there are some flaws, and the 
 gameplay can be frustrating and boring at times, it is still a game that I can't put down for more 
 than 30 minutes at a time. This is a must-have for anyone of the survival-horror genre, because 
 this one nails it. Dark environments, creepy enemies, limited ammunition, and a frightening soundtrack. 
 Jericho really delivers.
  
  There is also a petition to make a sequel.
  http://www. petitionspot. com/petitions/jericho2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianmelanie
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This game tried really hard to be diffrent and diverse and sadly thats its biggest flaws. It is 
 by no means a bad game and definetly disearves higher scores from gamesppot than it got. In fact 
 this is one of the funnest shooters Ive played. But...
  The game lets you take control of a squad of six members, (seven at first but... spoiler, one dies. 
 Sorta) each with thier own unique weapons and powers. It allows you to switch at will so you can 
 pick the charcters you like best and have fun playing the game to your play style. There are some 
 great moments and the graphics are excellent, voice acting is mostly good, tho sometimes the squad 
 chatter gets annoying. The weapons are great and the powers are fun. Sounds grreat right? what 
 could be wrong? Well thats the thing... The game IMO tries to do to much. You know the old saying 
 "a jack of all trades but master of none?" that kinda applies here.
  For example, one of my favorite charcters is Church, She wields sword and pistols so shes great 
 when mobs are in close, but the thing is you never really get a chance to use her. You spend most 
 of the game using only a few charcters because of poor level design that favors certian squad members.
 
  this game falls into the "could have been awesome" category but ends up only being good. That 
 said tho, its REALLY good. I only hope sales were good because i sure would like to see a sequel, 
 if they fix just a few things this could be a great franchise.
  One last thing, there is an actual story here, AND ITS GOOD! How many shooters can say that? Even 
 if you dont like shooters its worth a play thru for its orignal story telling and wicked setting. 
 Being that you can get this in bargian bins now dirt cheap theres really no way you should pass 
 this up. Now lets hope theres a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Jericho had the potential to be a wild ride but some almost game-breaking flaws throw the game 
 to the deepest of gaming hell. The problem with Jericho is at its core, it's down to the game's 
 design and some truly awful AI so for everything the game does right, the errors at its base never 
 let it shine. 
  You control Jericho, a squad of six soldiers with supernatural powers that are sent to close a 
 breach that will allow the firstborn to pass to our world and bring death and mayhem with him. 
 The firstborn is God's first creation, even before man, and seeing how horrific he was, God locked 
 him in an alternate reality from where he now tries to escape to take his revenge. The game takes 
 place in different eras, from the Roman Empire to World War II as you try to close the breach once 
 again. You play as Ross the leader of the squad. Early on Ross is murdered and as a spirit he possesses 
 the rest of the members of the team. This means with the touch of a button you can go from one 
 character to the other. They range from the sniper to the heavy machine gun. Their powers include 
 slowing time down, sending out a fire demon to kill your enemies or being able to heal your team-mates 
 from far away. And heal them you will, all game long. You see, this is the first big problem with 
 Jericho. The Ai is abysmal. This is probably the worst squad AI ever. Here's the deal. There is 
 one enemy that when killed blows up and kills everyone around him. I call him the grenade demon! 
 So every time you see him you start to back up to get some distance while trying to kill him. What 
 does your squad do? Two things! They either stand still as the demon walks towards them and blows 
 up killing them all or, and you'll love this, they actually walk towards him!!! Seriously! 
  The whole game is spent essentially in one big corridor. The space is so tight forget about taking 
 cover or trying to use your squad commands for any kind of tactic. All enemies do is rush you and 
 because of the game design all you can do is stand there firing and firing and well firing and 
 trying to resurrect your partners again and again. The enemies take loads of damage and just keep 
 coming! Some later levels involve some sort of puzzle where you have eternally respawning enemies 
 that don't even let you think about what you have to do! This is one of the most frustrating and 
 cheap games of this generation! And then you have the ending. Was there an ending? The story by 
 Clive Barker could use some work but is interesting and actually makes you keep playing to see 
 what happens next. Well I finished the game and still don't know how it ends. You see, there's 
 no ending whatsoever. The final boss is a joke and then it just ends. No resolution for the story 
 or the characters. It's like Barker and Codemasters said: wait for the sequel sucker!!!! Cue evil 
 laughter! 
  That's not to say the game hasn't got any good things! The art style and monsters and demons are 
 amazingly creepy! The graphics are good and the whole game is a gore overdose. Its sick and disturbing 
 just like you would expect from Barker and I loved it. 
  There are little glances of how great Jericho could have been when you are in some truly intense 
 fire fights that pump up your heart and make you go "Holy Crap" when you survive. It's just a shame 
 the game suffers from such glaring, frustrating, insane flaws. Without multiplayer or even an ending 
 for the story and with such great FPSs out there, there's little reason to play Jericho. Blood 
 and guts aren't everything. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfaxD_Centauro
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Not so bad, weird ending, but whole game is cool, not bad. Sometimes in the warzone when you switch 
 character, sometimes get stuck in seconds, but that's a little defect, anyway. 
  
  Cool graphics (was playing in single TV, not HD TV, so, this have better details, 1080 available) .
 
  
  The game-play, and difficulty is kinda hard (playing on Normal mode) in some part of the missions.
 
  
  The Story is good, not bad for a game like that.
  
  Great arguments.
  
  A lot of figthing, shooting (a lot) , and melee and magic powers (like burn enemies) and diferent 
 skills for any character.
  
  The AI is not bad (was playing Normal mode, was good, so, Hard mode is better) .
  
  Nice music 
 and sound effect.
  
  Not Scary, just action. Ok, I remember one of the monsters are kinda scary, weird monster. All 
 monsters are scary but not to much like this one.
  
  Really good, if you want a Single Player game, shooter and bloody game, this game is for you.
 
  
  PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, I purchased this game two months ago, thought I had a great buy! Jericho is a game 
 filled with bugs, ugly and odd characters, the graphics qualify for Playstation 2 and the game's 
 story seems straight out of a B+ film.
  
  Frequently, while playing Jericho, characters would be stuck into walls and at one point of gameplay 
 the characters would just stand there, while they are meant to be doing an action, so the game 
 can continue. 
  
  The fire-arms in Jericho, are quite entertaining and fun. While playing with the priest, his Desert 
 Eagles can convert to dual grenade launchers while you can choose to slice your way through carnage 
 with a katana. There are loads of weapons just ready to be used ranging from assault rifles to 
 submachine guns.
  
  The story of Jericho is bland and boring, like it was from a B+ movie, just managing to scrape 
 through. The story line has slight connections to historical events in the medieval times. The 
 voice acting in the game is surprisingly good with humour and dialogue suit for the situation. 
 So, not too bad for the voice acting!
  
  The graphics for Jericho look like they are meant for the Playstation 2 1/2 since they are in a 
 balance. Its graphics are not as good as the standard Playstation 3 game but not as bad the Playstation 
 2 graphics.
  
  Overall, Jericho is a game that is not meant to be bought, or even hired. Only consider this game 
 if you have been dumped by a girl/boy friend and in need for a bland game to keep your mind of 
 your memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisf45678
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok so we all know that there was a lot of hype for this game. People really liked other Clive Barker 
 games so they thought this game would be the best yet! Well, they thought wrong. 
  When you start the game, you are introduced to a compelling, well thought out and very cool story 
 line. Once you actually get into the game... well there goes all the nice things I said about it. 
 As you have heard, the play areas are very small. You will almost always need help from your team 
 mates during battles but their AI cannot cope with the small environment and it gets confused and 
 then, of course, they all die leaving you to either decide to put you're life on the line by healing 
 them or decide to engage in a battle of One vs. 50! This flaw in the game makes it not only hard 
 to play, but hard to enjoy.
  Some mainstream gamers would buy this game just to get a scare. Ok well there is TONS of blood 
 all through the game but the only part of the game that I would say is "scary" would be where you 
 are in "Montley Crew" and you have to go down the well while that undead demon soldier thing chases 
 you down. Yeah. So the scare factor gets a thumbs down.
  Overall, the game as I said before has a really great storyline. But the game itself is awful. 
 Maybe one day they will make a sort of spin off that will capitalize on the flaws of Jericho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  As soon as Jericho was announced, and i heard Clive Barker was involved, i was so excited. But 
 when i slipped it into my Playstation3... i wasn't. And you know what, i was shocked. I was really 
 shocked how amazing this game was. The cut scene comes up, and all the characters are sitting down, 
 talking and i think it's just superb. The graphics were so realistic. So, was the gameplay worth 
 it?...
  
  Well, you soon get to grips with a gun or two, and you get to know your characters, and before 
 you know it you get to blow down doors and shoot scary monsters. The creatures you face are scary, 
 but east to beat. Gunplay can seem a little repeative, and so can the levels. Your group will die 
 in some scenes, and you can heal them. You can also command your team to do certain things, like 
 move forward, attack and blow open doors. It puts you in the centre of everything, one step to 
 far and everyone could die, and it will be up to you to fix things. Graphics are limited on this 
 game. It is developed on the characters and weapons, and not focusing on locations. The floor is 
 usally blured, and the locations are not free roming. You are set on a track, and if you don't 
 do something right, it will just carry on regardless, a big downfall for a big game of this day 
 and age.
  
  So, the plot. I think it is gripping, but gameplay gets VERY repeative, and boring. If you like 
 all action and scary monsters then don't buy this game. It does have scary monsters, and they usually 
 appear from underground. So if there is a large area of sand, you know something is going to happen. 
 Also, this game lacks boss fights. At the end of a level there is usually a large shooting gameplay 
 scene, but not that many bosses. A rent game first, but wait a bit for a pricedrop and you will 
 get a good bargain!
  
  8.0 out of 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer9191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is an amazing game that has been underappreciated. As soon I heard that 
 this game was going to come out I got really excited. The problem was that the reviews of this 
 game were a bit low and I was kind of skeptical about getting it; but a couple of weeks ago I decided 
 to go and get it anyway, and I'm am glad I did. This was a great game with a great story. 
  
  I really like everything about this game, the plot, it keeps your there waiting to see how 
 the story unfolds. The characters, each of them have there own personality; there own distinctive 
 weapons, and special abilities, which will really come in handy throughout the game. The enemies 
 really look menacing and dangerous they were all well designed. The surroundings, atmosphere, and 
 sound were all awesome, it really compliments the game. The ending was a bit sudden but I believe 
 it is because there will be a sequel coming out, and I'm hopping it does. 
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho was a great game that horror and action fans will enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Soilder78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Story- 8/10
  I think it is not only refreshing to see a horror themed game with an original story, but that 
 is refreshing to see anything horror themed that doesn't involve a little girl chasing you around. 
 So basically in this game you are the leader of "Jericho", an elite government unit that specializes 
 in arcane warfare, roughly translated to witches with guns. You are sent in because The Firstborn, 
 gods creation before human beings is trying to escape from it's prison on earth in the middle east, 
 due to the fact that god made it to powerful but could not kill his first creation. Your objective 
 is to close the breach (the breach is the link between the real world and the Firstborns prison) , 
 but that may mean more than what Jericho is told to begin with. I know that the religious aspect 
 may not appeal to everyone, but if you take it as a work of fiction and that stuff doesn't bother 
 you it has some interesting elements, which is almost a shame because they cap off the game with 
 quite the anti-climactic ending. 
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  The graphics in this game are good, the character models and enemies especially. The cut scenes 
 are all using in game graphics and you can play in 1080 progressive scan resolution (1080p) . Coming 
 back to the characters, they all look great down to the last detail and there are times in the 
 game where the enemy grabs on to you, when he is up close and personal you have to look pretty 
 hard to see a flaw. That being said there are some problems. The mouth movements didn't match up 
 to the words all that well, with mouths moving seconds after your character talks. The last boss 
 ("the firstborn" who you see many times during the game) doesn't look that great, he is basically 
 just a child but he looks much worse than any members of your squad, but that is compensated by 
 the bosses you fight throughout the game, which look great. Lastly I had some problems with the 
 elemental effects, both the fire and lightning looked obviously fake and not up to par with the 
 effects we are seeing in most games today.
  
  Audio- 8/10
  The sound matches the graphics in general quality, without so many hitches holding it back. All 
 the voice acting in the game is great, especially when the Firstborn talks, the voice is constantly 
 switching in pitch and defiantly creates the eerie atmosphere that it is trying to. The monsters 
 that you encounter all sound authentic and as bloodthirsty as you expect, my only real Knock against 
 them is you will hear a lot of recycled dialogue through out, if you stand in one place to long 
 you can always count on the same phrase getting repeated until you continue, and I got stuck a 
 few times but other than that it seems like every sound in the game contributes to the atmosphere 
 and that is something a lot of games could learn from.
  
  Gameplay- 6.5/10
  Well, atmosphere only takes a game so far and Jericho delivers mixed reactions. The game makes 
 a bad first impression, leading you to believe you will play as a leader of a six man squad, Capt. 
 Ross but, the game is split into five sections, and in the first Ross will and you will be able 
 to possess any of his other squad mates, this is were the game gets interesting, as every member 
 of the Jericho squad has unique powers and guns, adding a consistent amount of variety throughout 
 the game. You swap team mates at the touch of a button which works well considering there is six 
 of you, but at the same time this works against the game. There is six of you and the level design 
 can be unforgiving at times, being too clunky or narrow. You are outside for a good amount of time 
 and not every inside part suffers from this flaw but it happens more often then it should. 
  The core game play itself is too repetitive, and that is the games one biggest weakness, you are 
 always shooting at spawning bad guys, although there are times when you break off as one Jericho 
 for stealth or other reasons but their weren't any parts were you were puzzle solving, or your 
 success depended on you not being notice and that would have been nice. It is fun because there 
 are a variety of enemies but at the same it isn't a game you want to play for long stretches of 
 time because it is fairly lengthily. So in conclusion it can be tedious but fun at the same time, 
 you might not be all to impress but it is a good story with terrific ambiance that keeps you coming 
 back.
  
  Overall I give it a 7.5, Awesome potential hampered by repetition but if you are a fan of horror 
 shooters it is worth a buy, any one else should probably just rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was the only game I went out and bought before i went to see a review on the gamespot 
 first. This was probably the biggest mistake of my life as this game was nothing like it was hyped 
 up to be. First of all the story itself was just silly, and Clive Barker needs to back to creative 
 writing class. Second of all your characters are so underpowered compared to the hordes of monsters 
 that are enthralling around you. Those pea shooters they call guns dont do any damage, and switching 
 between characters only gives them more time to mow you down. Also the lack of progression with 
 the characters made this game get boring very quickly. You start off with every character and really 
 dont gain anything as the game progresses. This makes the time go by very slowly. I want a game 
 that makes me feel zoned out, when every time i look at the clock its another hour past. I have 
 to admit some of the character abilities were pretty cool, but the inability to have a friend join 
 you in the massacre, and the lack of online multiplayer really made this a downer for me. All in 
 all i have to say that this game could have been very cool, if given more time for the development 
 of co-op play, online multiplayer, and a better sense of progression throughout the game. I returned 
 it 4 days later for a 30 dollar trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I delayed picking this game up for quite some time because of the poor reviews it recieved. Finally, 
 I relented and decided that I need some M rated action on the Playstation 3. I don't regret my 
 decision.
  
  If you go into this game thinking that you've either rented or purchased a masterpiece, you are 
 sorely mistaken. The production values in this game are good, but not great. The enemies look great, 
 and have good animations, and while most of the enviornments look fine, some of them are lacking 
 and look a bit bland. I will break this game down in point form.
  
  Graphics - As I stated above, the enemies look great, as well as a good portion of the enviornments, 
 but some of them are bland and unappealing. I didn't find anything awful about the graphics, but 
 they certainly didn't push the envelope in any regard, and didn't achieve that "epic" look, or 
 feeling. The main thing I feel the graphics have going for them is the fact that this is an M rated 
 game, and from the mind of Clive Barker, so expect to see a ton of gore. Enemies explode and rain 
 blood and body parts all over the enviornment. One boss in particular is repulsive, and many of 
 the cutscenes are very gory. In my opinion all of the blood and gore is a positive, because I love 
 violent and gory films, and video games. 
  
  Gameplay - In Jericho, you take control over an entire squad one person at a time. You can switch 
 characters any time you like. This mechanic works out rather well, because every character has 
 a gun or special move that you will want to use at one point. I didn't find any character useless. 
 Many people will look at the name on the front of the box, and the visuals on the back and assume 
 that Jericho is some sort of first person survival horror. It's not. While the vibe in the game 
 is morbid, and at times creepy, there are no pop out scares. This game has less of a horror film 
 vibe than a sci fi vibe. The game is challenging at times, but never becomes overly frustrating. 
 As other reviews have stated, the enviornments in Jericho are rather claustrophobic. I didn't see 
 this as a negative. This game wouldn't have worked in a more open setting in my opinion. The best 
 moments in this game are the times when several enemies are closing in on you and you're backed 
 up against a wall. Sure, it can be frustrating, but I enjoyed it.
  
  Sound - There really isn't anything bad to say regarding the sound. I play all of my games in surround 
 sound. The music always fits the tone, and the voice acting is good. Not great, but above average. 
 I've heard some awful voice acting in video games, and Jericho is not one of them.
  
  Story - I really wasn't expecting too much from this game in terms of storyline. I was actually 
 pleasantly suprised. Before I proceed, I have to say that the ending is awful, and ends on one 
 of the biggest cliffhangers I've ever seen in my life. If there is no sequel, this in inexcusable. 
 This ending is one of those endings where you don't even believe it for a few minutes after the 
 credits roll. You're left there saying to yourself, "that's it?" Apart from the worst ending I've 
 encountered in many years, the storyline is above average, and the cutscenes potraying that storyline 
 are done well. 
  
  Overall - There aren't alot of choices when it comes to M rated, over the top gore filled games 
 on the Playstation 3. If you're like me, you're going to have to buy or atleast rent this game. 
 If large amounts of gore don't appeal to you, then there are plenty of other, more polished first 
 person shooters out there for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebodid
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that a Clive Barker game was on its way, I started to get exited, I've read 
 a lot of his short stories and seen his masterpiece which is Hellraiser, and I loved them. He has 
 an extraordinary imagination which rivals the likes of Stephan King and many other sick but wonderful 
 writers and producers.
  I read some previews and saw some trailers and it generally looked very scary, with gruesome monsters 
 straight from the blood processor of which is Clive Barkers mind. They were mangled, bloody, inside-out 
 and angry, very angry. I thought in my mind, Resident Evil meets Silent Hill, maybe? Resident Evils 
 gore, shooting and suspense combined with Silent Hills forlornness, its depression, and its mind 
 games. These qualities have made both of these games very unique in their own ways. Silent Hill 
 is not a guns blazing shoot-um-up with M-16s and rocket propelled grenades, no, this is a struggle 
 for life and sanity with the most dangerous weapon at your disposal being a drain pipe. This is 
 what makes Silent Hill so scary. In Resi's case, the heavy weapons with ammo packs on the floor 
 and gigantic boss battles is what makes it such a special game! Yes, this has been done before 
 many a time, but it's the suspense of not knowing what's around the corner and the gruesome, inhumane 
 enemies which made it such a great game!
  Now, back to this Clive Barker game. I thought that with the imagination of Clive Barker and the 
 backing of a decent developer, this could turn out to be a great success. 
  Now as the games was about to be released, I saw many criticising reviews saying that MSE and Codemasters 
 have messed it up, I couldn't believe it. But, I decided to get the game anyway just to see if 
 the critics were right. And in a way they were right, and in a way I think, that they were wrong, 
 and I'm going to describe why the game is equally a success as well as a dissapointment.
  First of all, it looks stunning, it is one of the best-looking games I've got for my PS3. The textures 
 are very realistic and the blood and gore being beautiful as well as gruesome. The most lavish 
 thing about the game is the creatures themselves, they are brought to life wonderfully by the games 
 engine and look like they want to kill you, they don't just stand there with a cleaver and absorb 
 bullets until the very last one hits him and he then goes through the death animation. There are 
 rag doll physics and expressions on the puss buckets face. 
  The Jericho Squad consists of 7 physic troops, all with their own special abilities. Early on in 
 the game the squad leader, Ross is killed by Arnold Leech (the games big flying mutant psycho badass) , 
 and so you play as his soul, he can settle in squad members bodies, and you can change from person 
 to person when the time calls for it. One of the members is Delgado, he is the member I mostly 
 use through the game. He is the heavy gunner, he has a kickass minigun attached to his right arm 
 and can also call forth Albani, his fire demon to give the enemies a hot surprise. The other six 
 members include a sniper, a close quarters expert, a healer and so on. It is this which makes the 
 game not scary what so ever. It is the presence of a minigun and a sniper etc. which makes you 
 feel safe and invincible and so on. But still, the game is still pretty challenging, you do die 
 quite a lot in the harder modes, but even more disappointing still, the boss battles are the easiest 
 part of the game! They have 1 single pattern to follow and that's it, shoot the sucker a few hundred 
 times and down he goes, leaving you with hardly any satisfaction what so ever. Even so, some of 
 the battles are intense, especially with the flying creatures at the side of massive castles, and 
 some are dull and repetitive, for example, the part where you have to kill ghosts of slaughtered 
 children is very boring, you have to wait 4 years before they come out of see through mode and 
 then shoot them full of around 5 clips.
  Jericho is in my eyes a very good shooter, rivalling Killzone and Blacksite but it is not a very 
 good horror game, which lets it down, it is certainly worth renting and buying for the shooter 
 fan who likes shooting meaty masses and watching them explode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe_Logan_666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game hasn't exactly gotten very good reviews since it came out. Many critisize the so called 
 bland and claustrophobic gameplay and really never give it credit for what it does best. I was 
 kind of skeptical about playing this game after reading the reviews but deciding to go ahead and 
 buy this game was a decision I will never regret.
  
  Story:
  The games strong point, obviously, considering this game was created by horror writer Clive Barker 
 who many know created the Hellraiser movies and the game Undying which was rated very highly. The 
 game starts out with the story of the gods first human creation, the first born. The first born 
 was said to be created in the image of god but do to his evil intentions and god locked the first 
 born away. When you start the game the first born has gotten free from his prison due to the help 
 of a man/demon named Leach and threatens to destroy the world. You play as the Jericho squad, a 
 secret group that deals with paranormal phenomenons. Its up to the Jericho squad to close the breach 
 in Al Khali and put the first born back were it belongs. Soon after they reach Al Khali, Ross, 
 the leader of the Jericho squad is killed and the Jericho team is sent to "The Box", which is the 
 first born's pergatory he created out of bordom. It contains dimensions that are based on historical 
 time periods such as World War 2 and The Crusades. The stroy as you can see is very solid indeed, 
 but many critisize the game for having a bad ending. The ending is a cliffhanger so its obvious 
 that there will be a second game coming out. So all in all the story in this game will have you 
 sucked in untill the very end.
  
  Graphics:
  Another of the games strong points. To put it in simple terms, the game looks amazing. Everything 
 from the characters and the monsters, to the lighting effects is simply jawdropping. The main thing 
 this game has going for it is atmosphere and enviroment which is detailed so richly. You'll notice 
 quickly that this is one dark game, literaly and figurativly. Every place you go is littered with 
 mutilated corpses and piles of guts and blood. The detail is so nice that its enough to make your 
 stomach turn. You will see rivers of blood, piles of guts, grounds made of human corpses and much 
 more. The monsters are some of the most disturbing and unique monsters ever seen in a horror game. 
 They are all mutilated and horribly disfigured which adds to the dark atmosphere of the game. Due 
 to the rich detail in charater design and lighting this game is arguably one of the best looking 
 games out to date.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is the weakest point of the game, but not necessarily in a bad way. At the beginning 
 of the game your main character you start out as, Ross, is killed. This brings in the main element 
 of the gameplay. Ross is basically a spirit and has the ability to take control of any of the six 
 Jericho team members: Cole, Delgado, Black, Church, Rawlings and Jones. Each character has a special 
 psychic or magical ability. 
  Cole has the ability to slow down time and make everyones weapons do fire damage for a limited 
 amount of time, she weilds a sub machinegun and gernads, Delgado, the heavy weapons guy, has the 
 ability to conjur up a fire spirit from one of his arms which can set several monsters at once 
 ablazeand has a fire sheild that protects him from fire damage, he weilds a huge pistol and gatling 
 gun, Church has the ablility to paralyze monsers with a spell and set almost every monster in the 
 area on fire, she also weilds a katana and machine pistol, Black is the telekenitic sniper and 
 has the ability to control her bullets and use her powers to remove obstacles, she also has a gernade 
 launcher attached to her sniper rifle, Rawlins, the preist, weilds dual pistols with customizable 
 bullets and is the major healer of teamates and health drainer of enemies, and Jones is the one 
 who can astrol project. The problem is his power is strictly used for puzzles only, but he does 
 weild a machine gun equipped with a shotgun attatchment.
  So as you can see there is much variety in who you can pick. You can switch characters at anytime 
 during gameplay. It will be very difficult to stick with one character for too long due to the 
 fact that every character has pros and cons but it should be easy to find a favorite quick.
  Since this game is a first person shooter, there has to be some good shooting to go along with 
 it. This game kind of falls a little short in this cateogory, but not enough to make it bad. Basicaly 
 you will be engaged in fire fights with a lot of enemies at a time. Monsters are very strong and 
 take a good number of bullets to go down. The game can get hard at times when your squad is over 
 powered and you all die. Your characters have no life gage. Basicaly if you substain too much damage 
 in a short amount of time you die. But if you run away and hide your health will regenerate. You 
 have the ability to heal fallen teamembers to, but when your entire squad is whiped out you have 
 to start at the last checkpoint. This can be a bit frusturating at times because your squad isn't 
 always the smartest and you'll sometimes find yourself healing alot rather than shooting but this 
 doesn't happen very often so its easily forgivable. There is boss battles in this game as well 
 and they require you to use one of your squadmembers powers in order to be defeated. The game doesn't 
 really let you figure it out for yourself though since your teamembers will almost always tell 
 you what to do, but even then boss battles can be challenging and lengthy.
  The only complaint I can really think of is sometimes the game gets a little repetitive but this 
 is easy to get over as you will be sucked in by the story and paralyzed by the amazing visuals 
 and gruesome enviroments.
  
  Overall Jericho is a very underappreciated masterpiece of a horror game. If your looking for one 
 of the most gruesome, disturbing and dark games ever, look no farther than Jericho
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  What makes this game good:
  
  - An original storyline from renouned fantasy/horror writer, Clive Barker. The man that many people 
 would say is arguably the one man that changed the face of horror forever since his appeareance 
 in the early 80's.
  
  - Theres no holds barred on the gore and violence of the game, certainly gets your Gore juices 
 going.
  
  - Awsome looking creatures and blood drenched levels to look at in ore.
  
  - Being able to switch between characters and take advantage of their specialised weapons, both 
 supernatural and conventional warfare weapons... from chain-guns, rifles and katanas... to blood 
 magic, exorcisms, and telekinesis.
  
  - 'Survival Sequences' (where you must press a series of corresponding buttons to survive a certain 
 situation) adds a nice touch to the tenseness of the gameplay.
  
  - Historical references, with a horrific 'Barker-esque' twist. Including a demonic, S. S suited 
 Nazi officer, and a 1300kg Roman Govenor whos gorged himself on bloody orgies and cannibalism... 
 nice.
  
  What makes this game bad:
  
  - Squad members A. I. can be pretty damn annoying, especially that they stand at the most dangerouse 
 spots on the cross-fire, or when they get in the way of your aim.
  
  - Squad members die on all you all the god damn time. Eventhough you have the ability to ressurect 
 them, it does get annoying when you have to do it all the time.
  
  - Ending, which I wont spoil, is left at somesort of cliff-hanger... pain in the ass when you want 
 to know what happens next.
  
  Overall ratings (out of 10) :
  - Gameplay = 8
  - Sound = 9
  - Story = 9
  - Graphics = 9
  
  An essential game for fans of Clive Barker, 
 Horror, and FPS games. Personally recommended either way.
  
  Oh and another thing, there has been word's that theres a possible sequel to Jericho, but I can 
 only imagine that if there is, it will be awile before we know for certain.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is a very fun game with a few flaws but still is pretty good. It also has 
 a great story, good gun fights, and solid gamelay.
  
  The good- great story, weapons, decent graphics but should be better for a next-gen console, and 
 its awesome you can change characters.
  
  The bad- it does have poor level design, bad graphics at times, lots of glitches and flaws, can 
 be frustrating at times, a bit freaky, and i hate the exploding aliens, it also has terrible ending 
 that makes little sense.
  
  All in all Clive Barker's Jericho is still a great game. I wouldn't suggest buying it but it's 
 a great rent for the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princezero
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Okay lets be fair the game isnt perfect there is some advantages and some disadvantages.
  -Advantages:1) nice graphics but not Stunning like u would expect from a 2nd generation game for 
 ps3.
  2) gameplay is the best i have ever seen in a horror sci-fi game
  u can use melee combos ,superpowers ,there is some times u have counter the monster when he catch 
 u which i think an amazing i agree that counter is kinda button mashin but trust me u will like 
 it in fact u gonna love it.
  3) characters works as a team which i think its cool why? coz they dont act on their own when u 
 are surrounded by monsters for example: if u are surrounded by mobs u can tell them to stay close 
 and hold positions they wont run around disobeying ur orders.
  4) while playing this game u feel like having the experience of playing a co-op game when u die 
 u get revive the team gives u good cover from monsters u feel that u are playing with people not 
 A. I.
  5) weapons are cool with creative addtions to it.
  6) story is awesome.
  -Disadvantages:
  1) while playing this game the team seems to be doing all the job for u you 
 will feel like u are doing nothin but shooting whether it misses or not .
  2) aiming and strafing is kinda slow which gives the mobs the advantage on you.
  3) graphics looks 
 like doom 3 graphics i dont know if i am the only one who feels like that.
  what i say this game is a masterpeice on my opinion and u should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronU2fan998
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Right off the top, I will say this game is one of the best (and rarest) strategy games this year. 
 You rarely see a strategy First Person Shooter, which is probably why noone seems to be playing 
 this game with any real strategy involved. The game has some of the best art direction, character 
 designs, graphic detail, and atmosphere of almsot any game this year. It's a horror novel come 
 to life (if you've read any atmospheric horror novels, and I know that's a stretch, then you'll 
 understand why the game looks the way it does) . Each character has very interesting weapon designs 
 and functions, and everyone has very unique powers that play in well with the gameplay. What's 
 frustrating is thatm noone seems to understand what this game really is, and they go into it with 
 there own ignorrant pre-conceived notions of what they think the game is supposed to be. Don't 
 forget, you NEVER play a game that is what you think it should be, it's what the DEVELOPERS think 
 it should be. It's their work of art, their acheivement, you are the one playing what THEY wanted 
 you to play, and in this case it's an atmospheric strategic based game that has an intense focus 
 on TEAMWORK and STRATEGY. If you go into it playing as one character most of the time, you will 
 lose over and over. You need to utilize every character in the game with their specific abilities, 
 taking full advantage of each. Every character has very specific strengths and weaknesses, and 
 combined they all make a UNIT. One that can overcome any obstacle thrown at them. The team AI on 
 the PS3 does a great job most of the time. What you need to realize is that you are in complete 
 control of your squad, you need to tell them where to go and when (with the directional commands 
 in the game) and that will play a large part in whether or not you live or die. This is a thinking-person's 
 game, where strategy and planning is everything. Switching between characters as often as you can 
 is how you dominate the game, giving orders as often as you can. However you'll notice with the 
 people on the internet, that they overlook those strategic elements and start playing the game 
 like they would Halo. Your teammates will die often (however on the hardest difficulty I noticed 
 the team was getting much more defensive and killed enemies more effectively, utilizing their own 
 powers more often etc.) However, every time someone dies, you need to play the game like a stratgey 
 RPG, and plan when you go to heal someone, and with which character. Don't think if your team mates 
 die that they somehow don't know how to defend themselves. If you wan't a mindless shooter that 
 doesn't challenge your brain at all (like most mindless people playing Halo and Gears of War) then 
 by all means, play those games. The level design was designed to get the player to THINK. There 
 are some (but balanced) tight corridors in the game that will make the action more intense, make 
 your blood pressure start to rise, make you actually feel fear from the intensity, much like Resident 
 Evil 4 did. The biggest (and only) gripe I have about the game is that it has a horrible ending. 
 It doesn't actually have an ending, it just leaves you hanging really, much like the sopranos ending. 
 It almost looks as though they ran out of ideas as how to end the story, and they just gave up 
 and said 'we'll worry about that in a sequel'. Now I don't know this for sure obviously, but it 
 does make one angry when they don't know what happens next, or if there will be a sequel or not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RookWolf
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worst games I have ever played... from the gore just plain being excessive 
 to the lack of character depth and emotion (I mean come on 2 squad mates are killed right in front 
 of you and you just continue on like nothing happened)
  
  From a challenge point of view this game was also just horrible, there is no sense in playing the 
 other players unless you need to beat a challenge... after like every puzzle in the game the answer 
 is shouted out in the most annoying way by a team mate, just be the chick with the sniper rifle 
 you'll beat the whole game... it's like an AWP from CS Source but it fires 16 rounds a second.
 
  
  The ending was dare I say pathetic... but I can't even say that because there was no actual ending 
 to pin the word pathetic on... there is no ending to this game... just where the developers said 
 "**** this ship it"... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker has something of a hit and miss relationship when it comes to mediums other than his 
 writing. Movie translations of his work have been... liberal with their transition to the big screen, 
 to say it generously. Much of the source material gets warped at best, completely mangled at worst. 
 However when it comes to games he needs to break in. Undying was an incredible game but it didn't 
 do as well as it should have and his second game was never even released. Jericho was supposed 
 to be the monster that made Clive Barker a force in the video game world. He should have given 
 this story to some developers who could do it justice.
  
  Jericho follows the elite United States military squad, named Jericho Squad, during their investigation 
 of the lost city of Al-Khali. An ancient entity of incredible power, named the Firstborn, is buried 
 in some sort of dimensional rift here and an insane ex-Jericho member turned cult leader, Arnold 
 Leach, is seeking to free the Firstborn from its millennia long imprisonment. Only Jericho squad 
 can stop it through the use of the magical powers that the seven man squad possesses.
  
  Each member of Jericho squad has some sort of special power at their disposal that sets them apart 
 from other soldiers. They are all mystically trained in some talent that allows them to combat 
 the occult wherever it rises. 
  
  Captain Devin Ross, the leader, is a psychic healer who can raise the dead and wields an assault 
 rifle with an under-slung shotgun. Abigail Black is the teams' telekinetic sniper who can use her 
 telekinesis to throw enemies and objects and also to guide her bullets in slow motion. She uses 
 a high powered sniper rifle with a grenade launcher. Xavier Jones is a psychic of some power able 
 to sense emotions and project an astral projection of himself to possess people; he uses the same 
 gun that Ross does. Father Rawlings is a priest who knows how to exorcise ghosts, heal your squad 
 and kill his foes with his twin desert eagle pistols.
  
  Frank Delgado is a shaman who has a flame spirit attached to one arm requiring him to keep that 
 arm covered at most times. He uses a chain gun as his prime weapon with a pistol sidearm. Billie 
 Church is a blood mage who can use her life force to damage or bind enemies in place. Acting as 
 the team scout she wields a katana and automatic pistol to great effect. Lastly is Simone Cole, 
 a hyper-intelligent reality hacker who can use her smarts to bend reality through intense mathematical 
 algorithms. Using this she can slow down time or refill your ammo via rewinding time in your ammo 
 belt. She uses a machine gun and grenades to act as support for your squad.
  
  While all of this sounds interesting, and it is at first, it all falls apart once you actually 
 start playing the game. The squad mechanics are ambitious to say the least but the game itself 
 isn't up to handling it. Early in the game Ross will die and continue to live as a ghost that can 
 inhabit his squad mates. This allows you to control any member of Jericho and use their unique 
 abilities in gunfights or to get past environmental obstacles. This part of the game works just 
 fine, it's your squad that flubs it.
  
  Stupid is the name of the AI in this game. The enemies will blindly charge at you for the most 
 part with very little intelligence showing through. This is easy to overlook since the enemies 
 come in hordes and you are desperately scrambling to reload and keep up your fire to kill them 
 off. What ends up making it inexcusable is that your party AI is just as stupid, if not even more 
 so, than the enemies.
  
  Father Rawlings can heal your squad and both he and Devin Ross can bring soldiers back from the 
 dead. You will be doing this quite a bit since your party members fight like absolute dunces. They 
 will rush up on enemies, running into the midst of a horde, or they will stand their ground while 
 the huge enemies charge at them. Trying to save them is a full time job between possessing them 
 and getting them out of the line of fire and reviving them from the dead.
  
  The worst part of all of this is that the enemies you will fight almost seemed designed to exploit 
 your squads' idiocy. Enemies that explode when they near you, or are killed, are numerous and come 
 in waves so you can expect to lose a squad member or two each time you fight them. Yet more annoying 
 is the fact that your squad has a tendency of grouping together, something that gets them slaughtered 
 by the machine gun and flame thrower enemies that prevail in the early stages.
  
  Honestly the combat is essentially broken in this game. Your squads' guns feel almost entirely 
 useless against the enemies for the most part due to how little effect most of them seem to have 
 on the enemies. Fire away an entire clip into the most basic of enemies and, unless it was all 
 aimed at their face, they likely aren't going down. Only the secondary attacks pack much "oomph" 
 behind them but these are fairly limited in usage. Sure that grenade launcher on Billies' sniper 
 rifle does great damage but it's only got one shot before it needs to reload. The only one exempt 
 from this is Delgado, who is a powerhouse. However your squad gets split up at intervals and this 
 leaves you with little control over who you really use much of the time.
  
  One place where this game doesn't disappoint is its graphics which are awesome. Not only does the 
 game look good, even on a standard TV set, but the entire environment just oozes atmosphere. Blood 
 oozing down the walls, desolate environments and a variety of time periods that clash together 
 in an orgy of viscera. The enemies look like something out of the Hellraiser movies, an obvious 
 comparison considering the source materials, but they all evoke a rather "What the hell?!" sort 
 of feeling the first time you see them screaming towards you. The boss monsters are like something 
 out of your nightmares and are quite deadly to boot.
  
  As good as the graphics are the game stumbles on the sound a bit. While the soundtrack and ambient 
 sounds are all rather awesome the voice acting is fairly atrocious. That's not to say that the 
 dialogue isn't passable and that I don't appreciate the banter that goes on between the party. 
 What I don't appreciate is the horrendous voice acting from a number of quality voice actors who 
 have previously done some great work. They really flub it here and none of the voice over is very 
 good... Well there is one exception: the Firstborn. When it speaks it isn't just one voice, there 
 are several male and female voices that speak at once, overlapping each other. This fits the fact 
 that the Firstborn isn't really male or female, it is something else entirely.
  
  Jericho definitely had some potential and a quality story going for it. Codemasters simply seems 
 to have dropped the ball as far as the AI in this game goes, killing the actual gameplay and thus 
 the game itself. The horror storyline will likely draw in a number of people, something I can't 
 really argue against. However the gameplay itself will put many gamers off and I cannot blame them 
 either. Jericho just fails when it comes to creating an engrossing gameplay experience.
  
  Score: 5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I think clive barker is one of the most experienced writers in the world. The idea that tella about 
 a creature before Adam and Eve is not a common idea that comes to mind. I think i had waited along 
 time for this fantastic game and it worthed it. I think the people that loves the game with high 
 blood and gore are fewer than spoiled people loves Teen rated games. But try to play this game. you 
 may face poor level design, the story starts good but coulden't continue well. This game has a lot 
 of undiscovered potentials that creatures couldn't work on them well. The base of story is very 
 very very perfect and i hadn't hear it before. a sexless creature before Adam and Eve, my god it 
 is fantastic!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  GameSpots review got it right on several points. The visuals and sound do deserve their respective 
 awards, they are great. The game is dark, but a little tweaking of the gamma can lighten things 
 up a little without sacrificing anything that was meant to be dark. And the flashlights work well 
 too. The sound adds to the overall atmosphere in a very good way. GameSpot also gave three The 
 Bad awards for this game, which I dont totally agree with. The Loooooong load times for one, 
 I have to say that Kevin VanOrd must not have any patience at all, since with at least one third 
 of the load screens it says to push the start button (load completed) before it has typed out more 
 of the background story! Weak Story award hummm well, it is a major part of this game, and if 
 you are a Clive Barker fan or a horror fan in general, you will be satisfied, you will want there 
 to be more too, but you wont feel that it was a weak story. More like, you wish there was just 
 more of what they did give you. Kevins major complaint that you are too confined in poor level 
 design, I only partly agree with this. There are Very Few areas where this was a problem, hardly 
 enough to call this game horrifically confined. Without spoiling the ending, Ill just say that 
 its not epic in any way, and I wish it would have been a little more drawn out.
  
  Having played the Demo, I knew what I was in store for and I was happy that I bought this game. 
 The story drew me in and kept me interested in how are we going to do what it is that we need to 
 do. As I said, the graphics and sound put the story in a great atmosphere.
  
  You have an interesting combination of Tactics with First Person Shooter with Special Occult Abilities. 
 As you play, the game does a good job of introducing you to each characters special abilities 
 and the controls of how to swap from character to character are set up very well. That is important, 
 as you may want to change from one character to another mid fight. Some areas lend themselves to 
 a FPS kind of play just rush in and gun, while others need some tactical setup. This is where 
 I think GameSpots Kevin VanOrd must have had some problems playing. Perhaps horror games are not 
 his thing, or maybe he just had an off day. He is right there are areas where you are confined, 
 but there are not that many, and yes, your team can go down repeatedly, and need healing if you 
 get caught off guard, but in those areas a change of tactics will result in a totally different 
 game experience.
  
  While there is no online play, there is some replay value. There are a number of unlockables, these 
 are background information. I have not unlocked many, but I am going back now to try to work on 
 that. Completing the game on easy or normal mode will unlock three or four. These are what I have 
 unlocked and they fill in the story with more information for you to read. You can unlock others 
 for X headshots, or X melee kills, there are lots that can be unlocked this way, and the rest are 
 unlocked in hard mode.
  
  The other reason I am going back to replay this game is to try to do things differently this time. 
 Can different tactics can be used as effectively in situations where I used others the first time 
 through?
  
  If you are a Horror/FPS fan, this game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  "Clive Barker's Jericho" comes at you like one quick morning breeze. The game quickly immerses 
 you in the deep story line and an unrestrained gore-fest before turning dry completely..
  
  The developers have created a truly dark yet beautiful looking game, filled with the majestic architecture 
 of several ancient civilizations and literally dark scenarios and levels. All of this is set, for 
 the most part, in a mythical and mysterious place called "Al-Khali." You command a seven man Jericho 
 squad (including yourself by possessing one character) trained in the arcane arts where you must 
 stop an ancient evil called the First Born. The game is well scripted with numerous intriguing 
 characters that makeup your Jericho squad mates. For example, we have on one hand Simon Cole, a 
 nerdy reality hacker. On the other, there's the lovable Father Paul Rawlings, a healer priest and 
 exorcist. All of the characters in the squad specialize in some sort of magic abilities of the 
 occult, each of them unique and dependent on the other. 
  
  Jericho's gameplay is what sets it apart from other First Person Shooters. Since the seven characters 
 have their own separate abilities, using all of the them is needed throughout much of the game. 
 In fact, the game manages to let the player utilize all of their capabilities altogether. You can 
 switch to any of your Jericho teammates. If your going for up close melee attacks, use "Billie 
 Church" with her Japanese sword. Fallen comrades can be healed with Rawlings and the leader Devin 
 Ross. Your going to need both alot with all of those demons coming at you in waves as well as the 
 game bosses throughout. Need rapid fire-power in quick succession without having to reload? Use 
 Frank Delgado with his machine gun as an arm. One rarity in other FPS found in Clive Barker's Jericho 
 are "survival events" where the player must rapidly press requested buttons to remain alive. One 
 example is where you must pass through a steep ledge and another where you battle back demons up 
 close. If you happen to die, you simply repeat the process until you complete it. The game makes 
 use of this in a perfect manner and is a nice complement to the deep story.
  
  As expected, the game is not without its share of cons:
  
  For one, the ending leaves alot 
 to be desired. What happens to the rest of the Jericho team after defeating the Firstborn? Simply 
 put, the game ends in an abrupt and frustrating manner. What further aggravates this is the poor 
 replay value. There's no multiplayer component. Not even an option for coop. Clive Barker's Jericho 
 does at least allows you to replay levels of the game to unlock character biographies. I must add 
 though that that is still not sufficient to churn out out your money for another already high-priced 
 PS3 game. Games need replay value to earn the price of 60 USD. I am forced to advise you to rent 
 the game otherwise Jericho will be thrown onto another heap of used games people play only once 
 or twice.
  
  Jericho sometimes suffers from the recurring views of the same buildings and structures. This is 
 the same complaint I have leveled against another horror game, Doom 3, where the hallways of the 
 complex on Mars were getting tiresome on the eye and overused. However, Jericho slightly alleviates 
 this by giving us several timezones: Present Day, WWII, Crusades, Roman Province and Sumeria, all 
 of them with their unique appearance of the appointed era. One small complaint (from my taste) 
 are some laughable or eye-rolling sequences from the story-driven action. One cut-scene where I 
 chuckled is where I learned Catholic Priest Paul Rawlings once had an affair with a woman. Some 
 of the squadmates tend to repeat quotes one after another as you are fighting the monsters, blatantly 
 making them look like robots preprogrammed to churn out the same garbled quotes. The team AI could 
 use some work, as sometimes they don't follow your commands quite correctly or one of them stands 
 in a vulnerable spot.
  
  To conclude, Jericho is one game where the riveting story-line and blood spattered, squad-based 
 action isn't enough to forgive it of its poor replay value and half-baked ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting on this game since it was announced and followed it's development process very 
 closely. And my anticipation grew with every bit of new information, video and screenshot that 
 came out. But, I have to say that my anticipation got truly leveled by what the final product actually 
 ended up being.
  
  First off, the story is simply killer. I mean let's face it., it's Clive Barker. God's first creation 
 went horribly wrong, and was banished, unloved and forgotten by a so called loving God. Only for 
 it to fester and grow into an unimaginable evil that taints all who have gone in search of it. 
 And now it is threatening to break free into our world. So, yeah, just good stuff. Too bad it was 
 not a movie, which I think would have been a MUCH better medium for this story. I sure as hell 
 would have been at the theatre to see it. As it is though, putting it into a game with messy, clunky 
 gameplay and cheesy voice acting makes it extremely hard to try and appreciate on any really serious 
 level.
  
  So, on to the gameplay.... or lack thereof. This is possibly one of the weakest shooters that I 
 can recall playing. The weapons are horrible and feel weak as a pellet gun, even when switched 
 to fully automatic. The overall mechanics and movement is a clunky mess, and your team AI is dumb 
 as a stick. Play Rainbow Six Vegas, then pop this in, and you will get the gist of what I mean 
 here.
  
  When in combat situations, half the time you are running around trying to heal the idiotic members 
 of your squad, while you are taking massive damage yourself. With this, combat situations quickly 
 turn into a mish mash of messy, unorginized affairs which are more confusing than fun. Just horribly 
 designed period.
  
  Graphically the game ranges from good to bad depending upon the area, meaning that some areas the 
 textures are muddy, and others they are very good. Overall, the new engine that they used could 
 use a bit more work in my opinion. The character design looks great, and the environment is very 
 dark and disgustingly appropriate for the type of game this aimed at being. In fact, some of the 
 visuals are definitely one of the (very few) pluses for this game. Too bad that the flashy visuals 
 and grotesque, over the top imagery could not save this game in general.
  
  With that, I really have nothing more to say other than that this game has a great story, and could 
 have been so much more. But, as it is, it is a clunky, weak, repetitive mess of a game that falls 
 flat on it's face from about the 2nd chapter on. And no matter how dark and cool the story might 
 be, as a game in general, Jericho is a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Yes Jericho is a very dark Game and scary and spooky sounds. The bad with Jericho its like you 
 stay in the same level for like 4hrs of play the Graphics dont change much. sometimes it feels 
 like you are going in circles. Down in a Dungeon then back on top with the old city and the Graphics 
 dont change much from the levels. So for about 4hrs of play it gets kind of old. Jericho does have 
 good battle fights and at times very tough. Your Team mates fights very well with you. And with 
 all the diffrent powers you have and Weapons and you can switch from team mates makes Jericho a 
 lot of fun. The sounds are Great very spooky and a Great Halloween Game. Over all i love Jericho 
 and yes it has some flaws but still a lot of fun. And i did buy Jericho and i am happy with the 
 Game. Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kosma7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I've managed to finish Clive Barker's Jericho yesterday. Barely a day since I bought it. It doesn't 
 mean it's that short. It just sucked me in and I only didn't manage to finish it in one go because 
 I had forced myself to stop playing at midnight on Saturday. I've played previous Barker's game, 
 Undying, ages ago. I loved it. Maybe not for the combat itself, but for it's twisted, *very* entertaining 
 atmosphere. Jericho's different. It's not about scares, monsters jumping at you when you least 
 suspect it. Not about blood dripping from a painting or anything like that. Here you see a whole 
 pool of blood, vomit and guts. And something crawling right from it. This doesn't mean the game's 
 worse. Just don't expect it to be anything like F. E. A. R. This is a dark, gory shooter with a good 
 story to it that will still keep you entertained all the way to the end. I've read some mixed reviews 
 of Jericho. People bashing it were complaining that it's linear, slightly repetitive, stuff like 
 that. Well, find me a shooter that's not linear nowadays. With some minor exeptions (Hmmm Far Cry?) 
 FPS games were always about going from A to B, shooting stuff in the meantime. And that's what 
 Jericho makes you do. And it's damn satysfying. Sure, some of the members of your squad aren't 
 useful at all (Hmm Rawlings and *especially* Jones) but two out of 6 is not a bad score. It's insanely 
 fun to run up to a monster, slash it with a katana (Church) , switch to another member to hit three 
 headshots in one bullet (Black) and end everything with a long chaingun burst (Delgado) . It's damn 
 fun when you get to do that for the first time and doesn't get boring all the way to the end. Graphics 
 wise, it's really good. Characters are nicely detailed, monsters properly hellish, the enviroments, 
 maybe not exactly the strongest point, but more than OK for me. Sound - great, especially when, 
 after a moment of silence, 6 people start shooting at once and you can see and hear a monster getting 
 ripped to shreds by a hail of bullets. Makes you smile, believe me ;)
  Story - Good, satysfying enough to make you want to finish the game to see what happens *SPOILER* 
 (Actually, that's the main issue I've got with Jericho. God damn cliffhanger ending. One more game 
 with that and I'll shoot somebody myself )
  
  Characters - heh, Mary Sues and it's best/worst, makes you laugh when you read their profiles. 
 But, it's not an RPG game after all. And, they *do* have traces of intelligence and character. 
 More than you could tell about F. E. A. R. for example ;)
  
  Overall? A really good game, sucks you in from first hour, making you want to play more and more. 
 It's pretty long (around 8-10 hours? That's a lot, compared to Heavenly Sword for example, though 
 I did play on hard straight away) , really fun to play (the interactive sequences where you have 
 to press corresponding buttons is really well implementet and fits the game perfectly) . Don't expect 
 anything innovative about it though. It's not original, you've seen much of the stuff here dozens 
 of times, but overall, it's just *really* fun to play. Hell, I am going to play it again when I 
 get a proper TV, if only to stick to different characters this time and enjoy eveyrthing about 
 the game one more time. Worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  Warning, Buy this game if you dont Mind sensless Violence.
  If you Played the Demo you will either love or hate this game, when i downloaded the demo off xbox 
 live i didnt like the demo at all, The enemys samed slow and the gameplay ie: the gun was Crap, 
 but i was curious of all the good reviews this game was getting, so i decided to check it out, 
 I was wrong, the full game is brilliant unlike the demo you get in the first level a full powered 
 Machine Gun much different than the gun in the demo
  Whn you start the game i would say go to the settings and take off auto aim, it really does harm 
 the game in terms of gameplay, most of the monsters die much quicker with about 10 bluuets to the 
 head and about half a clip in the chest, The plot is simple, you play a member of Jericho Squad 
 a Psychic/heavly armoured Team ie: a heavely armed Most Haunted team in other words, your sent 
 into a place called the oldest place in the world and your mission is to destroy what ever it is 
 down there
  The voice acting in this game is great, the best i have seen in a videogame, the graphic's are 
 great most surprising there polished quiet a bit from the xbox demo notice when you fire a clip 
 into one of those things it will look and sound and feel great.
  In the game if your team mates go wown just go upto them and press X and you will revive them via 
 psychic abilities.
  Story by Clive Barker who wrote Candyman and is one of americas finest horror writer's and is very 
 talented
  allthough all that taken into account, the game isnt very scary, the enemies dont surprise you 
 when they appear they just appear in numbers and arn't scary, when you walk through dark corridor's 
 with only a flash light it doesnt give you the chills has it did in Resident Evil or Condemned 
 and you dont feel scared when you run out of bullets and have to rely on melee attacks because 
 everytime there is a checkpoint your bullets refresh them selve's so there is no worry of running 
 out of bullets like other survival games.
  Still it's still a great game, not to long and there is lot of re-playability, worth a check and 
 is worth the money
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Recent reviews just aren't adding up, and this is another game to add to those that are getting 
 bad reviews and theres just no reason for it.
  
  The game is solid... great story, great graphics, tight controls, unheard of schemes, outstanding 
 enviroments....
  
  If you like crazy horror deep weird stories that only someone like Clive Barker could come up with, 
 then you'll be hooked to this game before the title screen even comes up. People been saying alot 
 of the enviroments are repittive and look the same, but this just isn't the case. I think what 
 the problem is, the game has a dark eerie feel, so no matter what enviroment your in, all you're 
 pretty much seeing is the light from your flashlight.
  
  The game has some pretty neat effects also, the monsters look sadistic, and you'll get your fill 
 of a variety of them. The fat bald governer would be my favorite (Which reminds me of the fat guy 
 in the movie Seven) . This game pretty much has it all, great story, great characters, comedy, drama, 
 blood, gore, and so on. Next up is the mini games, where you have to click different buttons in 
 sequence, I saw alot of reviewers looked down on this part of the game, but I actually enjoyed 
 it, they were quite fun and exciting, and you really get a chance to look at the detail put into 
 these grotesque monsters. And most were saying how you'll fail several times before getting it 
 right and you'll practically have to memorize them. Again this wasn't the case (at least with me) 
 it came quite natural, if you see a guy attacking you with his right arm, you'll want to block 
 with your left so therefore you press square, or vice versa and block with your right which would 
 be O. Simple?
  
  So if you like games like Resident Evil, Darkness, House of the Dead, This game is top notch and 
 just as good as these (Exception it being BETTER than Darkness and not quite as good as RE) The 
 Run Down:
  Graphics: 9/10 (I couldn't complain about any of it)
  Sound: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Characters: 10/10
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Replay: 5/10
  
  The only thing that 
 hurts this game is there is no replay value, if you're interested in these kind of games I recommend 
 buy (Being a Next-Gen FPS, it's actually a LONG game) because like I said, the story keeps you 
 hooked and you'll want to BEAT it. If you don't have the money then this game is definetly worth 
 a weekend rent, especially it being Halloween! And how can you pass up possessing a lesbian and 
 one of your buddies saying That's the first time a mans been in you This game has a lot of laughs 
 and oooo and yuck! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusiphur220
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  For those of us who are big into the FPS genre, there are always hit or misses when it comes to 
 this type of game. For those who are very very big into the horror genre, i. e. F. E. A. R. or Doom 
 3, this is one you shouldn't miss.
  
  Jericho has a few up down points, but overall the game is rather impressive. The game play is solid. 
 The A. I. is intelligent for the majority of the game, granted there is the rare occasion is decides 
 to become lost of confused.
  Even the A. I. for your squad has it's moments of stupidity, but that's to be expected. Each character 
 has it's own personality traits, quirks, and special gifts to add to the groups total balance.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is very impressive. There are points in the game that the tunnels or hallways 
 can turn you around, but for the most part the detail is very good. Jumping from WWII, with the 
 mortars and trenches. Even moving through to the Crusades, marching through blood and mud. I won't 
 give to much away on that.
  
  As far as controls go, they do take some getting used to. Most default FPS controllers are set 
 up with a basic melee attack and a basic reload, not so with this game. Each gun has varying degrees 
 of fire, from single shot, semi-auto, or full auto. As for melee, some characters have more then 
 one melee attack and others only have the one. Delgado and Church have secondary melee attacks, 
 while Black and Cole for example only have the one.
  On top of that adjustment, you also gain the ability to jump from team member to team member. This 
 in itself can be a tad confusing. They seven players are divided into two squads, Alpha Squad and 
 Omega Squad. Switching between players is based on two thing, who you want to play as and which 
 squad they belong to. Needless to say each squad has 3 members, and the 7th member inhabits each 
 player based on who you're playing as at that point. You can also move each squad around on it's 
 own, but for the majority of the game you'll move as one unit.
  
  Overall, Jericho has a very good storyline. Granted some of the cut scenes are very predictable, 
 some making you want to ask What the hell were you thinking here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my top picks for this years i've been looking into this game for about 5 months 
 and ill tell you its awesome, if you like darkness and all the blood and horror this is the game 
 to pick and story looks very interasting once you start playing you cant stop thats how intense 
 this game is, graphics are awesome and clean, and for FPS game this game is pretty long its about 
 10 hours of plays, i didnt beat it yet but reviews said its about that long, loving it, if you 
 think on spending 60 dollars on a game get this one until Assassin Creed comes out, you wont be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra7krz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  more credit than its getting, it shouldve gotten a 8.0 at least, the graphics are fantastic, the 
 characters memorable, and of course the controls are very tolerable. The only thing that i would 
 have to complain about this game is the AI at least in the beginning of the game. When getting 
 shot at they dont move outta the way, at all, but that changes later in the game when they run 
 if theyre injured too badly, or just finding cover. The music in this game is great, it fits the 
 mood of the game, whether ur fighting monsters or just walking around, its really creepy. Overall, 
 if you give this title a chance, you will fall in love with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzke
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is a squad based FPS set in an occult reality similar to our own. It seems 
 that your requisite madman has unleashed the heart of evil, and it is up to the paranormal commandos 
 of the Jericho Squad to save the day.
  The weakest part of this game may actually be its gameplay. The traditional weapons feel extremely 
 underpowered. While this is likely a design decision to make the enemies seem powerful, it simply 
 throws the balance off. Furthermore, the squad based commands are fairly basic, not even close 
 to the level of tactical gameplay as one would fine in GRAW or Rainbow Six. Put simply, if you 
 could care less about story and atmosphere, and just want a great FPS, there are better options 
 out there for your money.
  Still here? Good. What this game gets right, however, is just about everything else. The occult 
 powers are interesting, well thought out, and fun. The ability to switch between characters allows 
 the game to play out fairly differently depending upon who you are controlling. Perhaps even better, 
 this feature actually allows you to play the game differently. If you want to play as a single 
 character throughout, you pretty much can. There are options for sniper, close combat, and heavy 
 artillary types of characters if that is your choice. You can also choose to hop between characters, 
 linking their powers to devastating effect. Finally, you can sit back with one of the more supplemental 
 characters, monitoring the battle and only getting involved when you need to, somewhat like Final 
 Fantasy 12.
  That's right, I just compared one perfectly acceptable way to play through this entire game, an 
 FPS, to an RPG! The many ways to play this game simply add to its appeal outside of the traditional 
 FPS/shooter demo. The well designed and told story should make this game appealing to fans of RPG 
 and adventure games, who will find a play style that is to there liking.
  Graphically, the game looks very nice, with some detailed textures, and very well done monster 
 effects. The Mercury engine used in this game shows definite promise for next gen titles. It is 
 somewhat limited, however, by the fairly repetative look of the game.
  It is also probably important to mention at this point that the game is extremely linear, which 
 may severly crimp the replay value. I spent about 12 hours with the game, and that includes time 
 spent playing with various power combinations to see just what could be accomplished.
  The lack of balance mentioned earlier should be addressed with a fair warning to FPS fans, the 
 later levels of the game become almost completely dependent upon your powers, similar to The Darkness 
 .
  The well designed AI for your comrades, comibined with their excellent powers, makes the game pretty 
 easy. On normal, close to 50% of the battles could be won with you simply watching. In summary, 
 Clive Barker's Jericho is something of an anamoly. It is an interesting, atmosphereic game, designed 
 as an FPS which likely holds more appeal for non-shooter fans. If the horror themese and intense 
 violence are not a dealbreaker, I encourage everyone to give this game at least a rent, you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Police08
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I just picked jericho up and from the sec. i started playing, i liked the game. I didn't get to 
 play the demo but im not dissappointed at all. It really reminded me of FEAR (when i played it 
 on the 360) . i haven't played much of it yet (jericho) but im liking the story line, the voice 
 acting is good, the graphix are not bad at all. its a solid 8 out of 10 for me and i cannot wait 
 to get back to it. So if you like gory game with blood and alittle horror in there then Clive Barker's: 
 Jericho is for you, or if you like FPS try it out. oh and one more thing, the load times on the 
 PS3 are not long at all!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
