-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: College Hoops 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/collegehoops2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Legacy mode is very deep.
 200 fight songs.
 Captures the feel of college basketball.
 &quot;college hoops tonight&quot; show is a great addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some gameplay quirks detract from the experience.
 Players miss too many easy layups.
 Game doesn't look so hot in 1080p.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Mar 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
College Hoops 2K7 is a great pick for anyone still in the market for a college basketball game this 
 late in the season. 

  Just in time for the tip-off of March Madness, 2K Sports has released College Hoops 2K7 for the 
 PlayStation 3. People who don't follow college hoops may dismiss the game as little more than NBA 
 2K7 with a different coat of paint, but it's really much more. Sure, there are similarities, and 
 both titles share the same game engine, but it's the little things that separate the two: The best 
 season-ending tournament in all of sports, raucous crowds with crazy student sections, pep bands 
 blaring fight songs, average players who can sometimes dig deep for a special performance, and 
 coaches who actually teach are just a few of the many differences between the two games. College 
 Hoops 2K7 does a great job capturing the look and feel of college basketball. It would have been 
 nice were it released a little earlier in the season, but if you haven't picked up a college basketball 
 game yet, College Hoops 2K7 is a great choice.  

          Each school's court has lots of detail.     

  Whether you want to play a single game 
 or lead a university to the promised land, there's no shortage of ways to stay busy in College 
 Hoops 2K7. You can play a quick game, a single game rivalry, enter a tournament, or head to the 
 practice court if you need to polish your skills. Here you can practice, shoot free throws, and 
 take part in a number of drills including fastbreak, monkey in the middle, dribble and shoot, knockout, 
 and many more. Not only will you be coaching your team in coach mode, setting defenses, tendencies, 
 and substitutions, but you can actually watch the game from a coach's vantage point, too.  

  To get the most out of the game you'll need to play legacy mode, where you control nearly every 
 aspect of a college basketball program. There's quite a bit of depth here, so it can be a little 
 overwhelming at first, but the mode is user-friendly and enjoyable. There are two ways to play 
 legacy mode. In career legacy you can select from a group of small programs where you'll need to 
 establish a solid track record before getting offers from bigger, more prestigious schools. An 
 "open" legacy lets you take the reins of any team in the game. This gives you a better chance of 
 success right out of the gate -- but with the higher-profile jobs come higher expectations, so you'll 
 need to win -- and win quickly -- to retain your job. Both modes place you in control of day-to-day 
 operations such as recruiting players, hiring coaches, and scheduling your games. For those who 
 prefer the sim aspect of legacy mode, a new feature called hoopcast has been added this year. You 
 can still simulate your games with the press of a button, but hoopcast lets you set tendencies, 
 sub players, and, in general, just keep a closer eye on the game. It's perhaps not quite as user-friendly 
 as it could be, but it's a nice idea, and it should be interesting to see how it evolves in future 
 iterations of the game.  

  Greg Gumbel and Clark Kellogg host a preseason show that covers the top 25 as well as the best 
 players in the country. Near the end of the season they host a Selection Sunday show that breaks 
 down the NCAA tournament. In addition there's is a weekly show called College Hoops Tonight, in 
 which Gumbel and Kellogg break down all the big games of the previous week and discuss upcoming 
 matchups. The presentation here is a bit dated and the lip-synching is atrocious, but the content 
 is fantastic, and watching the show is a great way to keep tabs on what's going on outside your 
 conference.  

  Should you grow tired of playing the CPU, you can play with or against up to six friends on one 
 console, or you can head online to play a quick match, join or create a league, and even participate 
 in tournaments. Sadly, after spending hours trying to play just one game, we were never able to 
 connect with an opponent. Some people in the lobby reported having the same problems, but there 
 were people online playing games, so not everyone has this problem.  

  2K7 does a great job differentiating the college game from the pro game. Teams play a variety of 
 styles, mostly sticking to their real-life tendencies. Knowing when to apply pressure on defense 
 and how to break a full-court press on offense is very important, as this can often be the difference 
 in a close contest. You'll also need to be adept at patiently picking holes in zone defenses while 
 also being able to run the floor to keep up with teams that like to push the pace. As in real college 
 basketball, there's often a great disparity between the talent levels of teams, but that doesn't 
 mean the less talented squad is always destined to lose. Players have a confidence meter that builds 
 as they have more success on the court, and when it's full they'll be able to perform at a higher 
 than normal level. The new team unity feature works in a similar way, but it's the entire team 
 that gets a boost. By playing well and keeping players that are working well together in the game, 
 your team's unity will increase and perform even better. Sometimes the effect is noticeable, but 
 even when your team unity is low, you can still mount a comeback -- it's just easier when your team's 
 meshing.  

          If you played NBA 2K7 much of the game will feel very familiar -- in a good way.     

 
  For the most part, College Hoops 2K7's gameplay is very solid, thanks in no small part to how 
 much it has in common with NBA 2K7. They have similar control schemes, so you're able to shoot 
 with the right stick, take free throws by tilting the Sixaxis back and then forward, and pull off 
 crossovers and other dribbles by holding down R2 and moving the left analog stick. You can also 
 shoot with the square button, do crossovers with the circle button, and spin moves with the triangle 
 button. This works out fine, especially for people who don't like the "isomotion"-style controls. 
 This added dribbling control comes at the expense of the passing, as there's no lead-pass button 
 with the default control scheme (though, you can do lead passes if you do an icon pass, and there 
 is a lead-pass option in an alternative scheme) . Not having the ability to lead players on a break 
 leads to a lot of fast breaks coming to screeching halts as players often stop to catch a pass. 
 It also makes turnovers much more prevalent than they probably should be because passes often end 
 up behind players. Calling plays and changing defensive sets on the fly is as simple as pressing 
 a direction on the D pad.     

  There are some quirks and glitches that make 2K7 less fun than it ought to be. Casual players may 
 be able to look past most of these, but anyone who's really into sports might not be as forgiving. 
 It was absurdly easy to tie up the ball in 2K6 on the Xbox 360, and while that particular issue 
 has been fixed, it's frequently all too easy to intercept passes. Blocking fouls are called less 
 often than on the 360 version, but they're still too common. At least now you are awarded foul 
 shots when blocking is called while you're shooting. Players will often step out of bounds to receive 
 passes, and there are a number of questionable goaltending calls. Since many players in the college 
 game can't dunk, you can expect to be attempting plenty of layups. You should also expect to miss 
 far too many of them. Players will attempt ill-advised reverse layups and toss up crazy-leaning 
 jumpers that have little chance of going in. Sure, you can't make them all, but the missed layups 
 here are excessive.  

          It works, but tilt control doesn't add much to shooting free throws.     

  College 
 Hoops 2K7 looks good; however, it doesn't look quite as good as NBA 2K7, even though they share 
 the same game engine. The arenas look excellent, and there are even cheerleaders and school mascots 
 patrolling the baselines. While there might be minor differences between how the courts look in 
 real life versus how they look in the game, the amount of team-specific detail is impressive. A 
 number of real coaches have been included, which is a nice touch, though they don't add much to 
 the proceedings and there are some big-name omissions as well. The real stars of the show are the 
 rabid fans who pack each stadium. They may not look all that nice individually, but seeing an entire 
 crazed student section dressed in school colors hopping up and down and screaming like mad really 
 adds to the college basketball atmosphere. There's a lot of variety to players' animations, and 
 some of them, like when a player stumbles or falls to the ground, and any of the dunks, look fantastic. 
 A few moves look peculiar due to poor transitions from one move to the next, but these are the 
 exception -- most of them are just fine. Player models are detailed and look great from the neck 
 down, but because the developer can't use real player likenesses as in the NBA 2K series, the created 
 players' heads don't look quite as realistic. Some of them look nice, but many of them are oversized 
 or just plain freaky looking. It's also odd that players in the last generation versions can wear 
 T-shirts under their jerseys but don't on the PS3.  

  There are a few other visual problems that detract from the otherwise attractive graphics. The 
 PlayStation 3 version of the game supports 1080p, but the game doesn't look any better at the higher 
 resolution. Aliasing is more noticeable, but more importantly, the frame rate is choppy, especially 
 when using the 2K view. Dropping the resolution down to 720p smoothes things out quite a bit. The 
 game was clearly designed with HDTVs in mind, and much of the text is illegible on standard-definition 
 televisions. SDTVs also get the short end of the stick when it comes to the camera, which for many 
 of the available camera angles is often zoomed in too close. You can zoom out with some cameras, 
 but many of the most preferable ones can't be changed. Player's limbs will often pass through other 
 player's bodies, and they can occasionally dunk right through the backboard.  

          It's far too easy to miss layups.     

  A vital part of re-creating the college-basketball 
 experience is accurately capturing the sounds of the game, and College Hoops 2K7 does just that. 
 It boasts a huge number of fight songs (around 200) , and they all sound great. Not just the big 
 schools have their fight songs; small schools are well represented, too. The crowds are energetic 
 and will cheer and chant until the final buzzer. There are tons of team-specific chants from the 
 get-go, but should you want more from the crowd the all-new chant creator is sure to get the job 
 done. You can have the crowd spell out words, scream entire words and phrases, and even set the 
 chant to a drumbeat. The whole system is easy to use, and there's enough depth to the utility to 
 keep you occupied for hours. Bill Raftery and Verne Lundquist do a solid job calling the action, 
 but they repeat themselves quite often, and Raftery can get rather obnoxious. Bonnie Bernstein 
 provides up-to-the-minute updates from the floor, and she actually has some interesting insight 
 into the proceedings.  

  College Hoops 2K7 is a great game that does a nice job of capturing the look, feel, and sound of 
 college basketball. There's no shortage of things to do, be it controlling every aspect of a program 
 in legacy mode or creating custom crowd chants -- you can lose yourself in the game for hours on 
 end. It's a little late in the season, but if you've caught a case of March Madness, College Hoops 
 2K7 is just what the doctor ordered.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K7 was released a little late for the PS3 but IMO is the best solid basketball, 
 college or pro, game that has ever been released. The game features all of the 300+ schools, has 
 beautiful visuals, and incredible depth. 
  The controls for 2K7 are really quick to learn. They aren't spread all over the controller or hard 
 to figure out which button makes what happen. An awesome feature is that the game very much allows 
 a breakaway fast break, which is almost unheard of in games today, and with a flick of the right 
 analog we have a big time dunk-you-very-much. The only missing control that hopefully will be added 
 to 08 is the alley-oop. If 2K7 does have it I have not been able to pull it off and I have almost 
 160+ games under my belt alone.
  As for the career mode, it goes deep! The option is there to take control of Crap U or the best 
 of the best like North Carolina and begin on your quest to the Final Four. If you do select the 
 smaller schools, as coach you scout and recruit working for points toward end season to add to 
 your own resume. Once this is done, you play throughout your season and can either jump to a bigger 
 school or stay with the small school faithful. The game tracks many achievements such as your W-L 
 of course but also players that earn awards, get drafted, where they draft, and the recruits you 
 pull in. 
  College Hoops is by far the BEST basketball game, this cannot be stressed enough. It completely 
 outshines Live, March Madness, and its big brothers NBA 2K7 and 2K8. This game was well worth the 
 money and unless you are just interested in updated rosters, this should be the game you get. Especially 
 now since the price, which wasn't high to start is definetly worth getting now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMadSpin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  For the first time ever, when I drive to the hoop in a console basketball game, I'm pretty sure 
 that I can kick the ball out to a man on the wing for an open shot. That alone is more than I've 
 hoped for over the last few years of console hoops. However, the continually broken passing mechanisms 
 mean that sometimes those passes go to the opposite side of the court if the game doesn't intuit 
 what you're trying to do.
  
  The computer is rarely smart enough to come back and help you get out of a trap during a full court 
 press, defenders don't often close out on three point shooters enough, and the game rarely knows 
 when the best time for a bounce pass or a chest pass is. Basically, while it's easier to pass into 
 coverage than it's ever been, it's still very risky.
  
  Going for steals is a bit more realistic with the right analogue stick, but players animations 
 still don't make a lot of sense sometimes. Why a player would swipe at air with his left hand when 
 the ball is closer to his right hand never makes sense. Oh, and note to developers: if you're going 
 to include a pump fake button, then don't assume I'm not going to use it in the low post. I get 
 so tired of seeing guys take flailing turn around jumpers when I tapped for a pump fake.
  
  Props to 2K Sports for innovating the menu system as well, but I lost 3 games during my season 
 because I clicked the main menu button on accident and got no prompt asking me if I was sure I 
 wanted to exit my Legacy mode. Not a very good time as one of my players had just won player of 
 the week for the first time.
  
  Finally, the commentary is better than it used to be, but sometimes it's just lame. Bad puns and 
 rhymes, but without any of the irony that you get from the guys who do it well. Plus, true to form, 
 the sideline reporting is bogus and wooden. In all, this may be one of the best console hoops games 
 I've played, but it's the old uncanny valley at work. When everything starts working the way you 
 expect it to, the stuff that isn't working at all starts to really grind on you.
  
  Rent it, enjoy it for what it is and what it promises for the next couple of years, but be prepared 
 for a little frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaholic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Awesome. I just got a ps3 and my friends and I were looking for a good game to play so we picked 
 this one up. I don't usually play basketball games but this one rocked my socks off. We didn't 
 try to play a career with a real school seriously. We just made some custom players modeled after 
 ourselves and played a whole season for like 14 hours streight. It was insane. I love this game 
 and it owns when your playing with 5 guys on the same team.
  
  The only odd thing I might say is no matter how good we made out players it was still hard to win, 
 and we lost sometimes, but that made it fun/interesting.
  
  Minor graphics issue is the articles of clothing like shorts or jerseys coming off their bodies. 
 It might upset some people but I just thing it's funny as sin.
  
  This being one of my first ps3 games I say the graphics are super good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 13, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First things first. College Hoops 2k7 looks great! It truly keeps pace with its pro-league older 
 brother (NBA 2k7) . They do 1 helluva job with the player models &amp; not infringing on the NBA's 
 claim to player likenesses. It truly does maintain that whole college vibe (shoutout to my alma 
 mater Pitt!!) . Ok, now, on to the real. Maybe I'm nitpicking, but, when playing this game AFTER 
 having played the pro version, this feels almost like a left-handed game (no disrespect to the 
 southpaws of the world) . The controls are almost completely different, creating a longer-than-necessary 
 learning curve. True, college &amp; pro hoops are 2 separate monsters; but, it shouldn't feel like 
 the difference between american football &amp; soccer. The experience with this game will differ, 
 if you do NOT already own the NBA 2k7. Then, everything will be straight up, instead of having 
 to de-program what you know about the pro version. Otherwise, this is a great game. I thought this 
 review was written by me sooner, considering the fact that I bought this game day 1. But, oh well. 
 I wouldn't trade this in, despite the brain-flip to play this. Especially, considering this is 
 1 of the best games on PS3 to this date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 1, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a big fan of basketball games, but I picked this up because I wanted something a 
 little different to try while I was waiting for Madden and NCAA Football 08. I'm pretty happy with 
 the purchase. I spent almost the entire first two weeks that I had my PS3 playing this game. The 
 graphics are pretty good (I love how awesome the flowing uniforms look in motion) , controls seem 
 pretty tight most of the time (although I was hoping for more use out of the Sixaxis motion sensor) , 
 and the Legacy mode seems at least as deep as any football game I've ever played. The in-season 
 recruiting is insanely involved and gives you plenty to do during the week between games. There 
 are a couple little things that annoy me, though. For some reason, all the players' accessories 
 (like headbands and armbands and stuff) dissapear when the player goes to the bench, which is kinda 
 akward considering how shiny the visuals are. Also, all the players' faces look very similar and 
 they are all really ugly, same goes for the cheerleaders (they look like men) . Also, the 2K beats 
 system seems to be glitched since every time i load up the game, it unchecks all the music from 
 the playlist, which isn't too terrible considering that I can't stand all the rap and hip-hop that 
 is in the soundtrack. But I don't mind the fight songs and some of the rock/emo-sounding tunes. 
 And the camera zoom when the ball is in the paint is also rather irritating, since it blocks out 
 most of the view of the court (this camera mode can be disabled in options though) .
  
  I don't know much about basketball, but this game definitely has given me a greater appreciattion 
 for just how complex and involved the game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linden98
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  All an all this is a great college basketball game. With deep legacy mode, great presentation, smooth 
 online play, great controlls. The game have good improve player models great graphics, and the teams 
 home courts look so real. The game play is also great but it take time to get use to the tilt control 
 for the freethrows and the sounds good you get to personalize your own chants with the all new 
 chant creator in the game. And you get to experience the true college atmospher with the newly added 
 NIT, Bracketology, and a all-new weekly show - college hoops tonight. But on the down side of it 
 sometime when you watch the show it cut off in the middel of the show, and why still can't upgrade 
 your team homecourts when u win championships banner, I 'am thinking this is next-gen games u should 
 be allow to do this now. And what is up with the out - dated celebrations, when your team wins 
 they just stand there and clap. When u win tournaments it is the same thing. And what happen to 
 the crowds interaction ih the game, I thought that u would see the crowds celebrations when your 
 team is winning in the game or see them react to u losing in the game an booing, an celebrate when 
 u win just like CH2K5. All and all it is still a great basketball game for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rick_14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2k7 makes it first round on the PS3. I must say I was very impressed. The graphics, 
 while not as well done from the neck up as NBA 2k7 (but this can be attributed to the number of 
 college athletics to professional athletes) , are very smooth with jersey movement and just about 
 all animations are crisp and smooth. The minor floating jersey returns but is barely noticeable 
 by the casual gamer. The crowd looks fantastic as they jump up and down all game long while wearing 
 the home school's colors. Most of the big name coaches are well done. Even the mascots are very 
 well done as they dance and cheer off to the side. 2ksports has managed to capture the essence 
 of college basketball by creating a system where zone defenses actually work if you have any knowledge 
 of basketball, and even on moderate difficulty levels, if you attempt to play a 2-3 on a very good 
 perimeter shooting team they will burn you for it. The zone presses are also good on both ends 
 of the ball. Offenses know how to swing the ball to break the press while defenders will bait you 
 into a pass and make the interception. One caution is that this game is a basketball simulation 
 in the truest of terms. If you expect to just drive around everyone and dunk all day, this won't 
 be the case even on the easier difficulty levels. This is due to good AI and defenses that will 
 work together if you play them correctly. Free throw shooting with the sixaxis is also used. It's 
 a nice little touch that takes some time to get used to but it helps to pull you into the game 
 that little bit deeper. The college fight songs are captured beautifully and really give you that 
 big game feeling, as well as the intense chants belted out from the home squad's student section. 
 Even the commentators, while repetitive at times, do a good job of calling the action. With online 
 play with the ability to create leagues and tournaments or just hop right into a game, as well 
 as the amazingly deep legacy mode, this game could keep you busy for months on end. All in all, 
 College Hoops 2k7 for the PS3 is a great college basketball simulation with smooth and realistic 
 gameplay and is a must for any college basketball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  So the NCAA Basketball season may almost be done, but there's still one of the most exciting sports 
 events left, and College Hoops 2K7 looks to provide the only College Hoops game for the PS3 thus 
 far.
  From the beginning, the game looks great. The intro videos are reminiscient of other 2K games, 
 and that's never a bad thing. As for the rest of the graphics, they are extremely impressive, but 
 there's still something to look forward to with the capabilities of the PS3. Having said that, 
 you won't be disappointed. The controls are pretty easy, but it will take a while to start getting 
 the hang of it and moving the ball around, and that is one of the best features of 2K7. The reliance 
 on team dynamics gives the game an authentic feel, and the atmosphere of college is fairly accurately 
 portayed.
  As for gameplay, the ability to use both the Square button and the C Stick to shoot is a good feature, 
 as well as the Sixaxis controller for the free throws is a great idea.
  As for the difficulty of the game, it is very solid, with ups and downs and momentum that can really 
 impact how the game goes. Not to mention the variety of difficulty levels and sliders, the game 
 will be sure to challenge you.
  Overall, the game leaves a little something to be desired, but it is still a solid game for the 
 college hoops and even just basketball fan. If you are looking for a solid basketball sim, this 
 is the one. I give it an 8.3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K7 for the XBox 360 was, depending on your perspective, just a routine annual update 
 of a good franchise, or a tired retread. It's not that a lot has fundamentally changed for the 
 PS3 iteration of the game, but for the first time, Sony's console shows better for a particular 
 title than the venerable veteran from Microsoft.
  
  Some of the small bugs in the 360 version have been smoothed out and the use of the SIXAXIS in 
 CH2K7 is nicely done. It's a more visually pleasing game, at least over HDMI in 1080p, and I felt 
 like little things -- load times, textures, ambient noise, etc. -- were polished up a bit for the PS3 
 version.
  
  This in no way means to denigrate the 360 title, but for my money, 2K did a nice little trick in 
 making the PS3 game worth the wait and expense. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
