-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: College Hoops 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/collegehoops2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of game modes.
 Nice customization options.
 Gameplay is as solid as ever.
 Robust online component.
 Fantastic audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Once again, too many missed layups.
 Controls have gotten too complicated.
 Recruiting gets tedious and isn't helped by the poor menus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Many of the improvements are subtle, but the changes and additions to College Hoops 2K8 make it 
 the best game in the series. 

  Though its NBA franchise gets plenty of attention, 2K Sports' College Hoops series has flown under 
 the radar of many sports fans, despite being quite good in its own right. Like 2K7 before it, College 
 Hoops 2K8 isn't tremendously different from its predecessor, but it's the small changes, like new 
 gameplay mechanics and an improved legacy mode, that make this year's installment great and one 
 sure to please college basketball fanatics.  

           The sixth man will help you pull out those close victories.      

  There are plenty 
 of ways to stay busy in College Hoops 2K8. You can create your own chants, players, schools, sound 
 clips, and highlight reels, and new this year, you can create your own plays. The interface isn't 
 particularly easy to use and requires a lot of sometimes frustrating trial and error. But you get 
 out of it what you put in, and all the work pays off when you've created the perfect play. If you're 
 the sharing type you can share all this content online, or you can hoard all your knowledge and 
 use it to crush your foes.  

  There are more ways to play the game than ever. You can set up your own conference tournaments 
 and even the NCAA Championship in the Pontiac Tournament mode, or take part in the College Hoops 
 Classic. Coach mode lets you call the plays while your players execute them, and new this year 
 are the All-American training challenge and tutorial modes. Here you'll go through a number of 
 drills against well-known former college ballers designed to teach you the ins and outs of 2K8's 
 somewhat convoluted control scheme. Going through this training mode still doesn't make the new 
 passing control any less complex, since you still have to decide what type of pass you want to 
 throw by pressing a shoulder button and then a face button. But it does a good job of introducing 
 the controls -- an area in which previous 2K Sports games have been deficient.  

  Online play lives up to the high standards of other 2K sports efforts. A real-time ticker shows 
 the latest sports news, and the online front page shows college hoops news as well as upcoming 
 games and current scores. Once online, you can take part in a quick match, custom match, or unranked 
 play against a buddy, or join or start tournaments and even leagues. Our online games suffered 
 from a bit of lag here and there as well as the occasional jerk that does nothing but shoot three-pointers 
 with the same guy over and over, but for the most part the games ran fine and were enjoyable.  
 

  All of these modes are solid, but college basketball fans tend to head straight to legacy mode 
 to lead their favorite team or alma mater to glory. Once again, you can play an open legacy, where 
 you're able to take over the school of your choosing, or career legacy, where you start at a small 
 school and either lead the school to prominence or do well enough to use the school as a stepping 
 stone to a better coaching gig. The mode is quite similar to last year's, right down to the cumbersome 
 menus. Frustrating menus aside, there's a lot to legacy mode -- even more than last year. Amateur 
 Basketball Leagues (high school teams) have been added, giving you unprecedented access to scouting 
 high school players before the season starts -- you can even play their games. The recruiting process 
 has seen some changes, but they're mostly cosmetic and have little impact on how you actually recruit. 
 You'll find some players that have at least a passing interest in your school and then request 
 game tape, watch them in person, e-mail or call them, set up campus visits, go to their homes, 
 and hopefully get them to sign a letter of intent. This process is fun for a few weeks, but it 
 quickly gets repetitive and there's no way to automate the process. An odd glitch causes some talented 
 junior college players to not get recruited by anyone, thereby letting them fall right into your 
 lap. This makes it easier to get good players if you're at a lousy school, but it sort of defeats 
 the whole purpose of such a detailed recruiting process.  

  On the court 2K8 plays almost exactly the same as 2K7, with a few exceptions. Lock-on D makes its 
 way over from NBA 2K8 and allows you to really shut down an opposing player. But as in NBA 2K8, 
 this feature can be abused, as it's possible for slow centers to pretty much blanket smaller, faster 
 point guards. Also new this year is the sixth man advantage, which lets your team play better when 
 the home crowd is going nuts. It doesn't seem to affect gameplay much, but it's a lot of fun to 
 get the meter full and throw down a big dunk just to see and hear the crowd go wild. The rest of 
 the gameplay feels just like last year's: The controls are responsive and allow for great freedom 
 once you learn them, and there are a wide variety of animations. The game just feels good. But 
 there are some negatives, too: Players don't move much on offense unless you call a play, there 
 are too many missed layups, point guards go over and back too often, and there's a bit too much 
 goaltending. Small nagging issues aside, though, the gameplay is very strong.  

  And so is the presentation. Cheerleaders and mascots patrol the sidelines, fans go berserk in the 
 stands, and coaches stalk the bench yelling at their players. As was the case last year, the arenas 
 look fantastic, and even the ones that aren't exact replicas of real courts look quite good. Players 
 move realistically, and the transition from one move to the next is typically smooth. The one area 
 in which player models are lacking is their heads, which just aren't up to the same level of quality 
 as in NBA 2K8.  

           As great as the gameplay is, players still miss too many layups.      

  Amazingly, 
 College Hoops 2K8 sounds better than it looks and plays. Vern Lundquist and Bill Rafferty do a 
 nice job calling the action and are able to get excited about the play on the court without going 
 overboard. Bonnie Bernstein is out as sideline reporter, replaced by Tracy Wolfson, who actually 
 delivers some worthwhile information about what the coaches are doing. Most impressive, however, 
 are the sounds of the games. The fans are lively and deliver some great chants even if you don't 
 take the time to create your own. The number of real fight songs is staggering; even smaller schools 
 are well represented with accurate songs from their respective marching bands. Toss in Dolby Digital 
 support and you've got one fantastic-sounding game.  

  While there isn't a whole lot of fresh content in College Hoops 2K8, what is new almost universally 
 makes this version of the game better than last year's. It plays better, there's more to do, and 
 even the presentation, which was already great, has been improved. If you're not a diehard hoops 
 fan and you're still happy with last year's game you could probably take a pass on 2K8, but if 
 you love college basketball and you want the latest and greatest, College Hoops 2K8 won't let you 
 down.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: adawhi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  well since i have to waste !00 words I might as well do it here because whats the point of doing 
 this if I can"t finish it ? because i spent like 5 minutes on thinking on this and like 2 minutes 
 of like doing it by the I need something to eat like chips or something like that I know all this 
 freaky fresh like the dance squad and all but really you don"t have keep reading this because it 
 just goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on 
 and on and on and on and on and on and on and and on and on and on and on and on and on and on 
 and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patejl
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  2K Sports again brings us a strong game. Like every sports game ever made there is always little 
 things that just don't translate right from the field of play to the console or PC.
  
  Overall this game captures just about everything that makes college basketball fun. When a team 
 is getting blown out on their home court you can hear some of the crowd turn on the team and boo. 
 But when a team is winning or making a tremendous run the home growd is really into it. Every so 
 often you get a reaction that does not fit the action on the court. The same can be said about 
 the commentators too.
  
  With all basketball games my biggest complaint is that defense is either just way to crazy good 
 or just out right non-exsistant. 2K Sports, and EA Sports, has yet to find a happy middle between 
 the AI blocking every single shot and stealing every single pass or the AI just not being able 
 to block anything and couldn't make a steal. With some tweaks to the sliders you can get College 
 Hoops 2K8 close but just not there.
  
  Overall this is one of the best college basketball games out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  College Hoops 2K8 has everything college basketball is known for. its ability to capture the exhilaration 
 and atmosphere of the college crowds elevates the game to a new franchise high. It's also got all 
 of the excitment of March Madness. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, CH2K8 has all the great gameplay 2K basketball games usually have. The 
 gameplay seems to be a little different then NBA 2K8. It plays pretty much just like a college 
 basketball game should. There really aren't many additions to the gameplay, but one of them is 
 the 6th Man Meter. The 6th Man Meter fills up when the home team makes good plays or starts to 
 get on a run. The Meter even has an affect on the game sometimes. They also have added a Maximum 
 passing feature, that lets you control the types of passes you throw, but this can be a pain and 
 will slow down the gameplay sometimes, so I never even use it.
  
  The graphics in College Hoops 2K8 are solid. They didn't blow me away, but they look nice. The 
 players don't look exactly like themselves, like they would in an NBA game, but they look close 
 to themselves. The courts look good, and the crowds are ok, but they aren't very detailed.
  
  There is a creation mode in CH2K8, which lets you create a bunch of things like schools, players, 
 chants, plays, and things like that. It can be pretty fun to mess around with these things. 
  
  One of my favorite options in College Hoops 2K8 is 2K Share, which lets users upload things 
 like rosters, and other people can download them. This allows you to have every players real names 
 instead of their position and number.
  
  This years Legacy mode is just as great as it always was. You can takeover a school or create a 
 coach and move up the ranks. This year they improved the recruiting. This year, you can play games 
 in the Amateur Basketball League (high school circuit) to get a feel for the players and their 
 attributes and improve your school's chances of having them sign with your team later on. This 
 is a nice option, but sometimes it gets a little annoying to play 16 ABL games.
  
  One other great feature is the College Hoops Tonight Show, which will show you things like Player 
 of the Week, Games of the Week, Good Upcoming Games, Talks about the best teams, and sometimes 
 
  they will have special shows like at the start and ends of the season.
  
  As far as online goes, there are a lot of good features, and it could be very fun, but there's 
 not usually very many users online.
  
  This year, 2K Sports put out one of the greatest College Basketball games in a long time, maybe 
 the best ever. It's too bad that we won't get to see a College Hoops 2K9.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 9
  Overall: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bletz129
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  What I like- The 6th man is sweet and how it makes the screen shake when your shooting free throws.
 
  You actually have to run plays instead of just running down the floor and getting an easy score.
 
  The open legacy is fun because you gotta work your way up and it's not like NCAA football where 
 you get insane job offers after one year.
  
  What I dont like- You miss too many shot, more than you should.
  Its hard to score on fast breaks.
 
  The graphics are decent but nothing special
  The soundtrack sucks alot
  The announcers say the same thing alot. 
  
  The game is very hard at first and I got mad and 
 almost took it back. 
  The next day I picked it up and went into the tutorials and practices
  and played on the easiest 
 level with good teams vs bad teams until I got good at the basics.
  Then I started a legacy and just got better and now I like this game alot
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  With this being a game series that I collect, there was no doubt that I was purchasing this game. 
 This game is very sleek, sheek, & gorgeous. It follows in the graphic vein of its bigger brother, 
 NBA 2K8. Even with the created player models, it's graphically fantastic. For the most part, the 
 movements are fluid & natural. It's fundamental b-ball at its finest. However, I can never understand 
 why 2K Sports finds the need to scale back on the features from the NBA version that could truly 
 make this game great. The ISO motion is still reduced to 1 button, which does hinder the fluidity 
 of the movements. It makes it look unnatural, when you hit the ISO motion button, & the player 
 has to go through this whole cross-over sequence, as opposed to the ISO motion stick from the pro 
 version. The lack of the option to use the shot stick for free throws can frustrate the experience 
 as well. The sixaxis mechanics are still not tight enough to create a sense of consistency at the 
 charity stripe. However, it is a little tighter than last year's version. If 2k kept more of the 
 NBA 2K features in the college version, this would be untouchable. Overall, it's still a very solid 
 outing, & worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsaxon07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The addition of the 6th man is amazing and completely mastered. I liked the way EA brought the 
 crowd into NCAA Football but then they took it out for some reason, but 2K does an even better 
 job with the crowd factor. In college hoops the crowd is a big part of the game and has not been 
 in the video games for some reason but that wait is over. This game brings the crowd into it and 
 in a completely realistic way. Recruiting is still easy. The learning curve I thought was a little 
 steeper this time around than others and way frustrating at first but having played it for a while 
 I am getting the hang of it. The college hoops tonight shows still suck when it comes to matching 
 up the words and mouth movements which is annoying. Overall great game, they added a key piece 
 but there could have been more to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  My first impression of 2k8 this year was something to the effect of "Wow, now I'll never be able 
 to go back to my old PS1 or Sega Genesis faves." The graphical presentation was my first taste 
 of next-gen hoops, and it's pretty great.
  
  There are a few problems, however. First, I prefer to play with the announcers muted. That's all 
 good, but the CPU doesn't pick up on it and adjust accordingly. Throughout the game, an obnoxious 
 graphic of the sideline reporter's name will flash across the screen (and it's HUGE) . Apparently, 
 she's saying something...
  
  As far as game mech's, there are the same ol' same ol' issues from all the other 2k8 and March 
 Madness games. One difficulty level will make you snooze it's so easy, the next rung up will seem 
 like an iron lid is on the basket. The CPU gets touch fouls on every other shot it seems, while 
 you get raped and get no calls. No matter, because I think the six-axis free throw technique is 
 silly. This isn't the WII. I feel rather retarded doing a mangled free throw motion to shoot them. 
 Oh well. Once the ally 'oop is mastered, it must become a house rule that you can't use it... these 
 things have been around for years.
  
  
  As far as content, the menus could navigate a touch better, the high school recruitment league-thing 
 comes across as bloat and is rather uninteresting to me, and everything else seems to be standard 
 offerings for a college BB game.
  
  Overall, I'm enjoying the game, frustrating as it can be. Vincent Vega summed it up best: "I don't 
 know if it's a five dollar milkshake, but it's a pretty #@# good milkshake." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobomindgames
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is my first 2k college hoops game. At first i found it a little overwhelming, I had some March 
 Madness titles for my good old ps2 but this wasn't similar. It was a disaster, literally I was 
 falling on my face. To give you an idea my first game I played I was Syracuse and i was playing 
 the know nothing school of Campbell "The fighting camels" Lets just say i struggled I lost by almost 
 30 points. It wasn't because Syracuse sucked and Campbell was the next George Mason. The learning 
 curve was almost overwhelming for me. I didn't like the fact that there wasn't really a main menu 
 like the other sports games. When I played Career Legacy mode I knew my team Alabama A&M (you can 
 only chose really bad teams to start out in Career legacy mode) was gonna be a bigger disaster than 
 the Campbell-Syracuse affair that quite literally scared me away from playing anymore games. Well 
 lets just the legacy mode grows on you because it was no disaster. In the two years i was head 
 coach at Alabama A&M I lost 4 games two of which where in the Big Dance. Basically that success 
 has to go to the worlds easiest schedule and tutorial mode which summed up most of the gameplay 
 in about a half an hour. The recruiting is about what you would expect from any college sports 
 game. The new addition of the ABL for recruiting is something i find absolutely pointless but if 
 you take recruiting for your hometown team or your Alma Mater very seriously I'm sure you will 
 find something out of this. The other game modes allow you to play in quick tournaments or make 
 your own tournament but i find the make a tourney options to be somewhat shallow. The 2k share 
 is probably the coolest thing apart from the legacy mode. If you can make a chant and share with 
 everyone on who has the game and the system and you can create plays give accurate rosters, settings 
 a whole slew of created stuff you can share with all the 2k8 gamers out there. Lets not forget 
 the sixth man advantage which is full to life which is sweet because it can kill the away team 
 or kill your hopes of upsetting that top ten team in there house. Make a big play or two and the 
 home team gets a huge confidence boost which basically makes your team that much better. 
  
  It is a great college basketball title that should be bought if you are into the college basketball 
 scene. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
