-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/strategy/redalert3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Story and cutscenes are wonderfully corny.
 Fully cooperative campaign gives standard missions new life.
 Each faction is fun to play thanks to cool, balanced units.
 Vibrant production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pathfinding issues.
 No co-op matchmaking.
 &quot;New and exclusive&quot; content that isn't new or exclusive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Mar 23, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dubious claims of exclusive content aside, this version of Red Alert 3 is all good, rambunctious 
 fun. 

  Where else but in the Red Alert universe could you pit transforming mechs against bears, or decide 
 the fate of your mission by attacking floating fortresses with intelligent dolphins outfitted with 
 sonic disruptors? Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3 doesn't take itself seriously, but that's 
 what makes it fun to play. This is the most rambunctiously over-the-top strategy game to reach 
 store shelves in years, filled to the brim with laugh-out-loud cheesiness and a cheerful disregard 
 for political correctness. The PlayStation 3's Ultimate Edition makes some suspicious claims of 
 exclusive content, but more-vibrant visuals and a larger selection of skirmish maps make this the 
 preferable console version of the game.  

           Rollin', rollin', rollin', gathering no moss.      

  Here's the setup, told in a hysterically 
 overacted cutscene that could have been ripped directly from a bad sci-fi flick: Russian leaders, 
 including the premier (played by a heavily accented, wonderfully hammy Tim Curry) travel back in 
 time to kill Albert Einstein. The theory is that doing so will change the course of history, causing 
 the Soviet Union to dominate as a world power. Instead, this bit of time tampering gives rise to 
 a new threat, the Empire of the Rising Sun -- and, of course, more broadly played histrionics. The 
 whole thing is a live-action riot: JK Simmons as US President Ackerman is all anticommie swagger, 
 and George Takei scrunches his face into superserious knots as the Emperor. Then there is Jenny 
 McCarthy as Tanya, stroking an enormous toy gun in one scene, holding a sexy pose but still prepared 
 to slit a man's throat in another. Skimpy, ill-fitting costumes, blatant computer-generated graphics, 
 and bad accents -- it's all quite wonderful, with tongue firmly planted in cheek.  

  All three factions -- Soviets, Allies, and Empire -- are fun to play, and though not dramatically different 
 from each other, they're distinct enough to make each of them feel fresh. For instance, Allied 
 structures can be placed only after fully completed within the build queue (a standard Command 
 &amp; Conquer mechanic) , whereas Soviet refineries can be placed immediately and assembled afterward. 
 The new faction for the franchise, Empire of the Rising Sun, is even more flexible in this regard, 
 but it also requires a bit of micromanagement. In this case, you queue up movable vehicular pods 
 called cores that then unfurl into the appropriate structure. Additionally, most Empire structures 
 (with the exception of defensive turrets) can be placed anywhere without the fetters of a nearby 
 base, which makes them the easy choice for players who like to establish an early presence across 
 the entire map. Of course, these differences extend to ore refineries, but in all cases, resource 
 collection is more measured than in prior games in the franchise. Gem fields are gone, which makes 
 ore mines your only source of income. The method of implementation is a departure for the Red Alert 
 franchise, given that it generally means a one-to-one ratio of ore collectors to refineries and 
 a resulting slower pace.  

  Nevertheless, a slower economy doesn't make for less explosive gameplay, and each faction boasts 
 a number of awesome units to throw into the fray. Some of them, such as attack dogs and flak troopers, 
 are carryovers from previous games. But no matter whether you're using familiar units or new ones, 
 clashes are fiery and tense, especially when you've grasped the nuances of each unit's secondary 
 mode. This is particularly true when playing as the Empire, considering that most of its units 
 are more than meets the eye; they transform between two distinct states with differing strengths. 
 For example, the mecha tengu can attack infantry from the ground or do antiair duty in the skies. 
 This flexibility translates to most Empire units and makes them fun to use.  

           In this circus, your crazy units are the sideshow.      

  This isn't to say that Soviet 
 and Allied units aren't equally entertaining to use. All factions use ground, air, and sea units, 
 with many of them doing double duty in water and on land. For example, the ever-helpful Soviet 
 bullfrog can transport troops across land and water (and can amusingly spew infantry a good distance 
 with its man-cannon) . Late-game skirmishes bring the best and most fun-to-use units, such as the 
 Allied aircraft carrier, which sends a squadron of drones into the fray and is one of Red Alert 
 3's most autonomous naval units. The campaign introduces these units with style, and the size to 
 which some of its maps expand will often keep you busy across the entire map, particularly during 
 the frantic final missions.  

  No matter which side you choose, the comfortable control scheme does an admirable job of letting 
 you keep your units under control. The command-wheel system is a pleasant fit and lets you access 
 your build queues by simply pulling a trigger. There are also some welcome new enhancements over 
 the previous console games, such as an enlargeable minimap that lets you move quickly around the 
 level. You can hold the X button to select multiple units at a time as well, which makes it easier 
 to establish mixed control groups. All in all, the control scheme is intuitive once you become 
 accustomed to it, and the PS3 controller's loose-feeling triggers actually work to the game's benefit. 
     

   

  An important addition to the genre is that of a co-commander during the campaign. If you play on 
 your own, this position will be granted to an AI player of a fair level of competence, and you'll 
 be able to issue basic commands, such as holding a particular spot or attacking a specific structure. 
 There are also some contextual commands when mission objectives get more intricate and require 
 very specific actions, such as destroying a reactor or capturing a building. This addition makes 
 the largest campaign missions feel dramatic, with engagements scattered across the map involving 
 not just your own units but friendly ones as well. It also adds a bit more oomph to the light puzzle-solving 
 missions so common to the genre (taking certain units and destroying certain structures, for example) 
 because it requires the assistance of your compatriot. On the other hand, it makes the campaign 
 much easier than you would expect, seeing as how your AI comrade will usually buy you enough time 
 to rebuild if you make a costly mistake.  

           Turtle Village -- a new and exclusive map that is neither new nor exclusive.      

  
 But as with most games, it's better to add a real friend than deal with the occasional questionable 
 decisions of an artificial teammate, and Red Alert 3's most interesting asset is its fully cooperative 
 campaign. Should you go this route, your online partner will take the role that the AI otherwise 
 would, making the specific objectives mentioned above even more satisfying. It's a treat to play 
 this way, and as you can imagine, completing a mission with a real-life counterpart is more compelling. 
 However, the implementation of this mechanic is hardly ideal. In the PC version, you can at least 
 look for other players in the online lobby to join a co-op scenario; here, you can invite a player 
 only if you know his or her PlayStation Network ID, or if the player is on your friends list. The 
 lack of a matchmaking system is a disappointing design misstep, and the unintuitive interface ensures 
 that this particular feature will go overlooked by the large majority of players.  

  Competitive multiplayer may give Red Alert 3 a bit more longevity, but while other Command &amp; 
 Conquer games that have appeared on consoles included modes specific to that version, these modes 
 are absent here, leaving only standard skirmishes behind. To alleviate this absence, the Ultimate 
 Edition offers a number of extras over the Xbox 360 version, mostly video features that are fun 
 to watch but don't enhance the gameplay experience in any way. The best extra is the stand-alone 
 soundtrack option because it lets you to listen to Red Alert 3's excellent music outside of the 
 game. However, one advertised feature isn't what you would expect. According to information on 
 the game's box, this edition features "new and exclusive" skirmish maps. However, this claim is 
 misleading, given that every map featured in the PS3 version has appeared in Red Alert 3 on another 
 platform already, either in a standard edition or in the PC's premier edition. A few of these maps 
 started as six-player battlegrounds, but aside from having a couple of player positions removed 
 to support four-player warfare, there seem to be few differences between the original versions 
 and the ones that appear here. In other words, there is only the tiniest smidgen of truth in these 
 otherwise deceptive claims.  

  Yet even without any maps created specifically for this version, the PS3 release features six maps 
 that didn't appear on the Xbox 360, and on these maps and others, the online strengths and weaknesses 
 of each unit become clear. For example, should you play as Empire, you'll find that the lack of 
 early-game antiair infantry makes you extremely vulnerable to Allied air attacks. As a result, 
 immediate base harassment is all but necessary, unless you want your ore collectors and refineries 
 to face early retirement while you spend funds on tech that will unlock the necessary units. Compared 
 to previous Command &amp; Conquer games, Red Alert 3 matches are more measured, thanks to the slower 
 economy. This means fewer early rushes and greater emphasis on scouting, as well as a better chance 
 to get the most interesting units into the mix. The big game-changers here are special powers, 
 which are terribly devastating and can dramatically turn the tide of the match.  

  The overall Red Alert 3 experience is a raucous one, though the pathfinding is a noticeable and 
 annoying issue, particularly when amphibious units are involved; units often require heavy micromanagement 
 whenever there is a terrain shift. Luckily, most other technical aspects surpass those of the Xbox 
 360 version. Tropical maps are drenched in golden light, and multicolored beach umbrellas dot the 
 shores, both contributing to and contrasting with the visual splendor of exploding hammer tanks. 
 They also feature terrific water effects, and the sunlight dances pleasantly on the turquoise waves. 
 Electrical effects such as those emitted by Tesla coils also deserve particular mention for the 
 flashiness of their violent zaps. Additionally, the game runs quite smoothly, succumbing to only 
 infrequent frame-rate idiosyncrasies. There are a few oddities, such as the pixelated shadows, 
 which prove a bit distracting. On the whole, however, Red Alert 3's crisp visuals are easy on the 
 eyes.  

           The colors really pop on the PS3.      

  The soundtrack has also found its way intact, and it features a fun mix of ambient music and rocking 
 battle cues, not to mention an array of boisterous explosions. Although much of it is unremarkable, 
 there are some real standouts used during the campaign, such as a flowing new-age track used in 
 Soviet missions, and some jolly Asian-inspired themes that set the mood during the Empire campaign. 
 And what would a Command &amp; Conquer game be without fun unit responses? When special unit Natasha 
 asks if you like her scope in that thick, fake Russian accent, it's hard not to let out a guffaw. 

  Electronic Arts has a solid track record of quality console strategy games, though the Ultimate 
 Edition's extras technically don't deliver what's advertised on the packaging. Nevertheless, Red 
 Alert 3 offers so much good, crazy fun that it might just charm you into forgiving its flaws. If 
 you are thinking of grabbing a copy of Red Alert 3 on a console, this is the version you should 
 buy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:55 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating that i have playing red alert 3 for a looonggg time! and i still am!! I 
 havent always welcomed the strategy style game to my collection in fact its probably been around 
 10 yrs since i played one, but i was curious about this one!! It had a different look and concept 
 (water) which you rarely see in these games, I must add it is a positive decision to have it too. 
 It takes the manotiny from land rts, which can be a litlle repetitive. Thats not to say this one 
 isn't, it just adds different ways for the enemy to sneek up on you quitely!!
  
  The usual "cheesy acting" from a cast of many stars greets you, to take you into the game . All 
 the way through you are treated with the sometimes laughable cut scenes, which i have come to like, 
 adds a little humour to WAR!!!
  
  The style of gameplay doesnt really that far from other c&c games but the unique vehicles and some 
 nice secret powers are available to you quite early on, this only adds to the "haha!! who has the 
 bigger stick now!!" Units can pick up other units (choppers) and carry them accross, the subs are 
 really cool and most are ambvibious changing into some animal look alike!! Some of the rising sun 
 vehicles will keep you smiling and the fun factor from this game was i though surprising, as with 
 the giant samuri heads and giant robots. Normally i can get quite bored after a few days play with 
 an rts, but i was captivated to play until 4am most mornings, with the AI not being a push over 
 either. Some of the controls can be tricky (wait you pc thugs!!) and i know the tech guys using 
 pc will be stating this for ever, but you will get used to it quickly. Sometimes it can little 
 confusing as to who you are and what your objective is, sometime attacking friendly ai. Its very 
 colourful with the ps3 version being top of its class (pc close!!) , the missions compliment the 
 visuals to with varied land and water missions showing off the water effects, Years ago there was 
 a "prehistoric" similar game to this named "herzog zwei" on the genesis/megadrive (check it out) 
 i enjoyed that too!!, red alert makes this look puny (and it was big game) !! Very nice playabilty 
 and awesome "military" tactics make you feel 6 again with your pack of green berets complete with 
 parachute you chuck out the top window!! Racking up your choppers and placing them in forward **** 
 off or i'll eat you stance and watch them annialate what ever crosses them is so satisfying.
  
  With the option to change the stance of vehicles and set waypoints is quite useful, but i will 
 say that sometimes the ai controlling your other vehicles can be quite private parts!! You place 
 a drone on gaurd and it sometimes ignores all going on around it. Again this can be frustrating, but 
 some of the secondary weapons really bite, like the torpedos from the subs just obliterate all 
 in theyre way!!
  
  Skirmish mode (multiplayer) , take on a mate or go online for some serious kick ass fun!! You ll 
 have jumping spider like drones everywhere, which is very good for surprising the enemy and then 
 blasting the crap out of it!! Wait for your armies to build, then go open a can of whoopass or 
 go for the kill quickly and catch them off guard!!
  
  A good all rounder which i can seriously advise to buy. I have to say i really enjoyed red alert 
 3, and i really didnt expect to, with 3 different factions all with unique abilities and vehicles 
 (sometime maps too!!) it will kepp you sadam hussaine for all long time. Definetly worth the money 
 and time playing it, an absolute joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone2_09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  EA's clearly invested a ton of resources into researching and developing innovative ways to make 
 the real-time strategy genre viable for consoles. And they've made major strides. Unfortunately, 
 they still ain't strode enough. Command & Conquer Red Alert 3 is a top-quality RTS in almost every 
 respect, but the whole thing just doesn't work smoothly on a console. its just ment ot be on pc
 
  Red Alert 3 has many maps incorporate bodies of water. You can build submarines, dolphins, carriers, 
 and battleships, though the line between naval and land warfare isn't exactly cut and dry due to 
 the amphibious nature of many units. Vessels can sprout legs or treads and roll up to dry land, 
 and some land units can float. It adds an extra dimension, and it also lets the developers show 
 off the gorgeous water tech. i mean the water really does look real.
  over all the game is ok but it does fill a little weird with the joystick pretending to be a mouse. 
 I say rent it first but i think you will be happy with it if you like rts games!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twindan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  I'm a big C&C fan. And I have been one since the very first one.
  So here's what I think of this game.
  
  First off, Its way better than what the review's have 
 been saying.
  
  
  Controls,
  
  IGN said that the controls were difficult to deal with, and it didn't work well, and it would mess 
 up most the time, and blah blah blah.
  I think the controls are great. They are easy to get the hang of, and its easy to work them with 
 the radial menu. Its pretty posh.
  I got to say that I'm very impressed with the radial menu.
  (IGN's review bugged me. That guy 
 just whined about the control's the whole review. He's just a tard that doesn't know what the heck 
 he's doing.)
  
  
  
  Game-play,
  
  In a nutshell.... Its awesome!
  It fills my little heart with glee to build a swarm of helicopter's, tanks, infantry, and destroying 
 the Empire of the rising sun's base! (IGN said in their review that some of the textures weren't 
 high quality, and that the shadow's were blocky, and the frame-rate slow's the game down some... 
 
  Really, the textures are nice. Shadow's of tree's and such can be blocky, but who is sitting down, 
 playing an intense match against the soviet's, and crying over a tree's blocky shadow?! Not me. 
 screw that! ... And the frame-rate, out of the all the time I've played this, the game has only 
 slowed down, like, three times! It never "Slows down to a crawl." like IGN said it does. SCREW 
 THAT!)
  
  
  So, Overall, I love this game.
  And on this PS3 version, you get all those special features!!
  This is a great game that will 
 entertain you for hours. And even more hours if you are a fan of C&C. Sentimental reason's. :)
 
  
  So yeah. Now go down to the store and treat yourself to this awesome, Amazingly addicting game. 
 :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
