-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conan
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/conan/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Captures the Conan feel.
 Combat is fantastically brutal.
 Incredibly fitting orchestral soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of chunky-looking textures.
 Ron Perlman not a great fit as Conan.
 Jumping sequences are clunky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 731 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Nihilistic
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Derivative as it is, Conan is still a viscerally satisfying adventure. 

  There might not be a direct connection, but it's hard to imagine the God of War series existing 
 as it does without Conan the Barbarian preceding it. At their hearts, both are brutally violent 
 and dark tales of swords and sorcery, so it's not entirely surprising that developer Nihilistic 
 has taken extensive inspiration from God of War in developing a game based on Robert E. Howard's 
 iconic adventurer. Conan neither goes as big nor has the same high shine as God of War, but its 
 graphic carnage still packs a real visceral punch. In a way, the game's unapologetically lowbrow 
 take on D&amp; D fantasy enhances the experience.  

  The game opens up with Conan, voiced here by a decidedly unbarbaric-sounding Ron Perlman, out on 
 an adventure, battling marauding specters on a remote island while in search of a valuable gem. 
 What he finds instead is the tomb of a dark sorcerer named Graven, which Conan accidentally opens. 
 In his exodus from his magical prison, Graven strips Conan of his armor and leaves the Cimmerian 
 warrior for dead. When Conan washes up on the shore of another island, he meets up with a smart 
 and steely warrior queen with a vested interest in finding Graven and recovering Conan's armor. 
 And so the two team up, fighting their way through legions of pirates, the Stygian army, an elephant 
 demon cult, vicious beasts both real and mythical, and more supernatural forces in their hunt for 
 Graven. The story, which is told as though it were an ancient campfire legend, isn't terribly weighty, 
 even though at one point you're essentially tasked with saving the world. Still, it does a good 
 job of establishing the primal and lawless feel of the land of Hyboria.  

           This is what awesome looks like inside the brain of a 13-year-old boy.      

  Conan, 
 both the character and the game, is all about a good fight. You'll spend most of the game taking 
 on small groups of enemies as you work your way through island jungles, devastated cities, dank 
 caves, snowy mountain fortresses, and more. Conan has a light and a strong attack, and he can string 
 these attacks together into a number of different combos, many of which culminate in a beheading, 
 dismemberment, or a disemboweling. Though Conan starts off with just a single sword, he can recover 
 weapons from felled enemies, and his fighting style changes depending on what he has equipped. 
 A sword and a shield provides a nice balance of offensive and defensive abilities, while dual-wielding 
 swords allows for fast, close-quarters attacks, and large weapons like broadswords and staves provide 
 powerful and far-reaching attacks, though at the cost of speed.  

  Though the look of the weapons changes as you travel to different locations, the weapons from the 
 start of the game are no different from those at the end, so it all comes down to your ability 
 to wield them. As you kill enemies, smash treasure chests, and rescue topless maidens, you'll earn 
 orbs that can be spent on more powerful combos. These combos are always specific to one of the 
 different weapon styles, putting the decision to you as to how you want to allocate your orbs, 
 and ultimately, which fighting style you're going to favor, though there's an argument for spreading 
 it out, as you'll find different enemies to be more susceptible to specific attacks with specific 
 weapons. Your enemies' ability to block incoming attacks, and the different combinations of enemies 
 you'll face, are a big part of what makes Conan a fairly challenging game. Conan can also block 
 incoming attacks, and if you block an attack right before it hits, you'll perform a parry, which 
 creates a short window where you can execute a brutally choreographed finishing move. Some attacks 
 are unblockable, though, and in those situations it's better to use the right analog stick to perform 
 a rolling dodge maneuver.  

  As Conan recovers pieces of his armor through a series of huge, bloody boss fights, he gains a 
 number of magical powers, something that Conan isn't particularly thrilled about, though he appreciates 
 them as means to an end. At first you can turn enemies into stone for a brief period of time, and 
 eventually you're able to call down a rain of fire from the sky, a murder of crows, and more. The 
 magical energy needed for these attacks is fairly scarce, making these magical attacks most valuable 
 when you find yourself simply overwhelmed -- which, as you progress, can become more and more frequent. 

  What makes the combat so satisfying is how barbaric it is. When Conan gets shot with an arrow, 
 he yanks it out of his hide with his bare hand. When he comes upon a treasure chest, he doesn't 
 open it daintily; he kicks it in with the heel of his boot. In a pinch, Conan can chuck barrels, 
 crates, or even one of his own weapons at distant foes. The game is also fabulously inventive with 
 the savage mutilation of your enemies. One of the most basic dual-wielding moves you learn is a 
 series of downward strikes with both swords, which can shear off both of an enemy's arms at the 
 shoulders, leaving them to stand there screaming as blood sprays out of them until they finally 
 collapse -- and it only gets better from there. As Conan becomes more powerful over the course of 
 the game, attacks that would simply drop enemies to the floor turn them into exploding sacks of 
 wet viscera. It's telling that along with total playtime and the number of enemies you've killed, 
 the status screen at the end of each level also provides a running tally of dismemberments.  

 
           Crom would approve!      

  Breaking up the wonderful gore are some light puzzle-solving and the occasional acrobatic sequence, 
 and it's in these areas that Conan stumbles. The puzzles are never terribly complicated, but they 
 can be unclear, and on a few occasions you'll still find yourself wandering around after you've 
 cleared out all the enemies, trying to figure out what you need to push over or break in order 
 to advance. As nimble as Conan can be in combat, this doesn't translate to his ability to leap 
 chasms and climb up ledges; these sequences, while usually brief, are almost always kind of clunky. 

  The game's presentation can also be a little uneven. All of the combat animations and gore effects 
 look fantastic, and the game uses some nicely layered lighting effects to give the world some depth. 
 But upon close inspection, nearly all of the textures have a jagged, pixelated look to them, something 
 that's especially noticeable during cutscenes. Same goes for the sound. Ron Perlman doesn't quite 
 fit as Conan, the topless damsels in distress sound more like corny strippers, and you'll hear 
 a lot of quips from both him and your enemies repeated. On the plus side, the pounding orchestral 
 soundtrack has a wonderfully primitive, battle-march feel to it that really enhances the overall 
 experience. These characteristics are the same in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 of Conan.  

  Perhaps the biggest mark against Conan is its length. At around six hours, it's a pretty brief 
 adventure. But a good deal of craft went into making all of the game's over-the-top violence look 
 so great, and it's the kind of guilty pleasure you'll want to savor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  If you like Barbarian Savage adventures, filled with bare-breasted maidens (yup, Tts run wild 
 everywhere) , pirates, gray-white sasquatches, which also include the original medival Bad-arse 
 known as CONAN, then you will enjoy this thumb-thumpin romp.
  
  Problem with Conan, God of War came along first and its an obvious comparison. Second, the production 
 value is below par... even for a 2006 or 2007 PS3 game. And third, Conan rules and this game doesnt 
 benefit his image... but it doesnt tharnish it either.
  
  Graphics... well so, so. There are levels that look really stylish and on others, it looks lame. 
 Looks more like a PS2 game... but is not the end of the world.
  
  Gameplay... great! the gore and combo attacks are truly satisfying. It feels like Conan is actually 
 beating the livin crap out the bad guys. Conan plays like a meat-chopper... this is THE BEST feature 
 of Conan. Some people complain about the platform segments in the game... i tell you know is bullcrap. 
 Theyre not hard and yes, the camera angles are to smash the controller, but theyre pretty easy... they 
 go from extremely easy at the beginning to normal. Story... am not even gettin into this... just 
 know its totally lame... if you want to know its simple... Conan goes into an island to steal a 
 treasure, he destroys a statue, and an evil demon awakens. In the process he loses his armor, and 
 now he wants his armor back. During his search, he meets a tanned lady, which Conan in return not 
 only gives her the magic stick, but he also assist her on avenging his people as the demon that 
 Conan awoke, rampaged her town and all. So Conan gets the hot chick, his armor and hero status. 
 Theres your story... lame as a ever.
  
  Replay value... well i finished it, but am not really interested on getting all the unlockables.
 
  
  In the end, hack and slash has never been this fun, but is nothing new. Since GOW was out first, 
 and the production value on GOW is really high, this sub-par attempt to bring Conan to PS3, is 
 really not good (it could be a PS2 title) ... but is not that bad either. You will have guilty pleasure 
 with all the combo attacks and gore, but the graphics, the lame story, and the uninteresting replay 
 value simply will most than likely drive you away... then again is CONAN, the first bad-arse barbarian, 
 so if your a fan (like me) , and you like hack-slash games, get it. If your not, look away and wait 
 for GOW 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-dna
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is actually enjoyable if you can get to play it for more than a half hour before 
 one or other glitch irritates the living crap out of you that you almost fuse your controller with 
 your two month salary HD-TV.
  
  Well Conan feels a lot like god of war. only this game really isn't done as good and the story 
 isn't all that good. But on the other side its brutal with a lot of really cool moves and combo's 
 . like god of war it has killing moves where you need to press buttons in sequence to perform a 
 kill. It plays good until you get a glitch. I really don't usually mind a glitch here and there 
 but then it shouldn't mess up the pace of the game forcing a restart or freeze completely.
  
  This games graphics really are very raw and doesn't look like it belongs on the PS3 so for 
 that reason i wouldn't suggest you pay full price for this game. If you really are a die hard fan 
 of god of war then you might enjoy this game. but make sure you get it preowned
  or for a bargain price.
  
  Peace out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_blade66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  For game fans looking for something similar to God of War to hold them over till the 3rd one comes 
 out in late 2009, then this is the game for you. Controls are almost the exact same and the violence 
 is just as gory and brutal. Although it can never compare to the glory that is GOW, it still has 
 much potential to be a very enjoyable game as you slaughter your way through it. The environments 
 are very well designed and quite interactive, being able to pick up most object and burn anything 
 you can light a torch to. The jumping controls are a bit blocky and need work but executing vicious 
 combos is always enjoyable. And with so many to choose from you'll never get bored of slicing off 
 an enemies head with your shield to breaking his back over your knee. Overall it is a somewhat 
 easy but enjoyable game that any player can pickup and have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Conan falls into the category that Viking did for me, a friend recommended it, and I found it at 
 Gamestop for $15.00. So regardless of the quality, it was worth it. Off the bat, forget replay 
 value. I have no desire to ever play Conan again. But all in all Conan is an OK game. The number 
 one problem is the wild variances with diffculty. This pops up in boss fights, some ridiculously 
 easy, others incredibly hard. But where it really stands out is in the various chapters. Some enemies 
 are just right, and it takes a bit of strategy to take on several at once, others (Yeti's, Stone 
 Knight's & a few others) are devastatingly hard fighting alongside one or two punches to kill enemies. 
 The graphics will make do, nothing incredible to see here, but not horrible either. The magic is 
 basically defense only, and you'll have a hard time building up to use it more than once or twice 
 per level. The puzzle solving, if you can call it that is easy enough for a 2nd grader to figure 
 out, they probably should have left it out. All in all, if your a fan of the God of War's of the 
 world Conan is worth a try, don't expect much, but you should have enough fun to justify what should 
 be a cheap buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Ok. Conan. Before I start I will say I bought this for a measley 10 in zavvi, so I wasnt expecting 
 it 2 be great. However, this wasnt as bad as u may think. The story is weak, much weaker than Heavenly 
 Sword. But gamplay isnt bad. It is your typical hack n slash with some nice godlike powers ( god 
 of war, anyone?) rescuing partually naked women is a bit cheesy, especially what they say once 
 you have. I like the way you can pick up 2 1 - handed weapons or 1 2- handed weapon, which adds 
 a hint of strategy to the game. The obvious parts it borrows from gow is the door-opening mini-game 
 and the cannon-loading. It borrows heavily from Heavenly Swords boss battles (you would need to 
 play to understand) . You do get sick of the level towards the end of it but they do look quite 
 nice. The constant enemies will drive you mad but it is relatively fun. So basically, if you want 
 a half-decent hack n slasher then at 10 you cannot go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurupSoldr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I am not going to candy coat this game, the graphics are horrible for a PS3 game if compared to 
 the rest. The acting is not very good. But when you mix boobies and pure brutality you cant help 
 but enjoy this game. The best part of this game is the fighting, it does it very well IMO opinion, 
 sure you can hack and slash your way through but it would be no fun not to see how brutal you can 
 get with some of the combos you can unlock. A few examples, when holding a shield i can do a decapitation 
 move, you can cut people in half (Both Ways Vertical and horizontal. I dont think i have laughed 
 this much playing a game becuase the the things that happen when you kill people are just down 
 right hilarious. Its a good game if you want pure brutality and just need a break from all the 
 shooters and sports games. I would never recommend going out and buying this game for full price 
 or anything close to it i just bought it off ebay for 13$. i would say thats a good price for this 
 game. I promise if you like brutality you will love this game and you get to see boobies every 
 once in a while which you cant complain about. Like i stated its not a graphic or story driven 
 powerhouse but its fun to slice limbs off at will. Hopefully this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  CONAN
  
  PS3
  
  For me:
  
  As a longtime CONAN fan, I ate up the idea of a videogame where I could trample my enemies before 
 me and hear the lamentations of their women. This game did not satisfy such a thrill, but it did 
 deliver in the way of providing a CONAN world to explore and conquer. While it doesn't convey the 
 vast history of the character it remains reasonably true to the basics.
  
  The landscapes and backgrounds are wonderful. To stomp through them with murderous intent is brilliant. 
 However, they are much too constricting! An open ended, "Oblivion" type world is much more suitable 
 for the CONAN lineage.
  
  The enemy AI is vicious & eager to destroy you, but they're also much too repetitive and unvaried 
 in character. While the threat posed is menacing at first, that spark sputters out in an instant 
 when you realize you've carved a hundred of the same foes two levels prior.
  
  As far as the story goes, it's quite straightforward and soaking with simplistic brawny machismo. 
 However, as a guy-I did enjoy it to a degree short of exclaiming a Tim 'The Toolman' Taylor grunt. 
 (Is anyone outside of America even going to remotely get that reference???)
  
  So... massive and immersive would be two words I would NOT use to describe this game.
  
  All 
 said and done, I had a good time playing the game, but wanted a much more harsh and serious tone 
 to coincide with the adventurous nature of a CONAN experience. The Conan world should be/is wild, 
 natural and unnatural, mystical, vast, and with extremes of good and evil with many shades of grey 
 in between. This game looked to captivate on such attributes, but simply fell short.
  
  Rent it or buy it for cheap! Your call! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  when i first seen this game on television i wanted to play this so bad. but when i first started 
 playing this game. it was really disappointing. it looked yeah. the graphics were really nice. 
 other then that i don't know what to say about the good. there was a lot of gore of course. and 
 you did get to see a lot of naked chicks. when i say naked. i do mean naked. the environment were 
 okay. but they were not something amazing. to tell the truth this was a god of war rip off. i mean 
 god of war puts this game in the dirt. Conan was down right horrible. the gameplay wasn't any good 
 at all. the enemy's were just so over powered. same moves over and over. getting to the point were 
 you just wanted to throw your damn controller on the ground and say im done with this crap the 
 bosses pretty much did the same moves over and over just like the enemy s. i just really wanted 
 to get this game over. but im a gamer. no matter what ill finish a game. but this one was really 
 hard because it was so annoying. the whole game is nothing but a headache. don't waste your time 
 or your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Conan is my hero. He has been ever since I read my first Conan the Barbarian comic at age 5. It 
 was reinforced by the movie. (Only the first one, I disavow the existance of Conan the Destroyer) 
 Since that time I've collected the entire original Marvel comics collection.
  
  Now that we've gotten that out of the way;
  
  I was following this game from the first design 
 sketches. The early art and screenshots were so beautiful that my anticipation built to a rabid 
 frenzy. However, I had accidentally mixed elements with Age of Conan, instead picturing a super-game 
 where you played Conan in an open-ended sandbox world. The reality of this game, as reported, was 
 quite a disappointment, The first reviews blasted it as a God of War (GoW) clone. I didn't like 
 God of War (I know, I'm weird) so you may imagine my disappointment. I passed over this game, reluctantly 
 NOT buying it. I played the demo, hoping it would change my mind, but it didn't. It only reinforced 
 what I initially felt. Months later, I played the demo again, this time giving it more time. It 
 was better than the last time. The game had already bombed, thanks heavily to GoW fanatics who 
 felt Kratos was threated by Conan. The game had dropped in price to 19.99 so finally, I gave in. 
 A review follows, but in short... I love it.
  
  Conan is a linear-path action-platformer with context sensitive button sequences. To most people 
 this makes it a clone of GoW. In reality GoW did NOT pioneer this, that honor belongs to the magnificent 
 Mark of Kri. Similar to GoW, Conan has to face a number of huge bosses. GoW didn't pioneer this 
 either, that was Shadow of the Colossus. But Conan also has partial nudity, directly ripped off 
 from GoW.... no wait, Leisure Suit Larry... So what did GoW pioneer? Well maybe the first game 
 with a half-naked man in full body makeup who dances around with knives on chains...
  
  OK, now that we've discredited the "Conan is a God of War clone" argument let's talk about the 
 game. Conan deeply captures the world of Conan. Savvy? Playing it is very much like playing an 
 actual R. E. Howard story. For this the game excels. Now, the breakdown;
  
  [Graphics: 8.5] Graphically it is stunning, beautifully gory. Ironically the worst of its graphics 
 belong to the cut scenes, which seem a little out of place compared to the in-game sequences. They're 
 still good, just could have used a bit more work. 
  
  [Music: 10] Musically the game is art. The score is moving and powerful, and perfectly suited to 
 the dark cimmerian setting of Hyborea. 
  
  [Gameplay: 9] Play is smooth, easy to learn, moderate to master. Mastery is rewarding too, the 
 parry-kills are gory and viscerally satisfying.
  
  [Camera: 4] I cannot stress enough how much fixed cameras suck. Although this particular camera 
 isn't the worst of this genre, it is still a fixed camera and that leads to missed items, surprise 
 attacks, and general headaches. A rotating camera would have improved this game's score. It serves 
 as the only major distraction to the game's enjoyment.
  
  [Weapon Selection: 7] This game provides an excellent variety of weapons... cosmetically. Practically 
 there's only 3 plus one variant. (sword plus shield) Still, it's asthetically pleasing, just would 
 have been nicer if there was more variety in manuvers-per-weapon. Conan's a crack shot with a thrown 
 
  
  {Length: 7] I'm about 3.5 hours into it and that apparently equals halfway. Granted I'm pratically 
 running, but to be honest there's not a lot of reward to more thorough exploration, since it's 
 linear. Still, since it is linear, it's pretty much on par.
  
  [Replayability: 8] In addition to multiple difficulties the game is fun to play. It's a good stress 
 reliever to be able to pop it in and work off some frustration by chopping Baracan pirates in half. 
 I'll definately be playing this one again.
  
  [Fun: 9] As I mentioned, this game is lots of fun. The only thing marring it is the crappy camera. 
 A rotatable camera would have added so much... a zoom would have made it even better.
  
  Overall Conan surprises, and pleasantly so. I expected, from earlier reviews, for it to be more 
 like God of War, which irritated me. But Conan, while being preceded by it's contemporary in the 
 genre, remains fresh. A vividly imagined tale worthy of the Cimmerian. What is best about Conan?
 
  
  "To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to feel the adulation of the (barechested) 
 women!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pythos77
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The game isnt totaly bad its just that its so similar to god of war its almost frustrating, Its 
 like giving a heroin addict methadone. 
  Im amazed at just how many similarities there are between the two yet this one falls short of awesome, 
 Ive yet to beat the story , and so far Its fun im actualy getting into the gameplay, although I 
 can tell you that I dont care much for the story, It will have to do until I can Get My God of 
 War Fix...
  The Music in the game is good, 
  The voices are somewhat lacking or at least what connan and the "barbarians" mutter throught the 
 game
  Graphics would be realy good on the PS2, but come on people this is the PS3 here im sure they could 
 have done better.
  Gameplay is great although there seems to be some minor technical issues in regards to hit detection 
 and button mashing. Again it feels like God of war except its missing the awesomeness of the Chains 
 of olympus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  finally a conan game where you can kill everyone brutally. this game follows the god of war engine 
 with great graphics offering solid gameplay. the only problem is that the game is only about six 
 hours long and it leaves you wanting so much more as you are left thirsting for blood. the replay 
 value of the game is surprisingly high as you beat it, you can play through again with codes that 
 you unlocked beating it previously. this game is a great rental but not worth the 60 bucks we work 
 hard for. definitely 30 bucks worth of gaming. if you love hack and slash action adventure this 
 is a must have for your collection. however like i said it will leave you wanting more and there 
 is no downloadable content witch is dissapointing. so rent it first and check it and you will be 
 satisfied but dont buy unless you can find it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6
Date: May 22, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is my first PS3 game. I've been spending most of my money on xBox 360. To be honest, I'm really 
 glad I did. This title has totally smashed my believe in what PS3 is capable of.
  
  First of all I have an issue with PS3 games that don't go higher than 720p. We all know that they 
 can do better! I've seen it on Blu-Ray. Why can't all the games be like that as well? 
  
  Back to the game. The Graphics were a little "un-rounded" for a lack of better words. It looks 
 like they didn't really spend a lot of time on texturing and animation. Everything just looks pixelated 
 and fake. 
  
  The fighting, combo's and puzzles are great. It's simple to do and it looks fantastic. The fact 
 that you need to buy more moves is also something that I really liked and the fact that you can 
 master all the moves was also a great trick to make the game a little more interesting.
  
  Sometimes the game did feel a little difficult, but if you don't succeed the first 7 times, try 
 again. The end boss was a mission to complete. Sometimes I felt like just giving up all together!
 
  
  The story line is... interesting. Playing through the levels to find all the pieces of your armour 
 so you can unlock your memory as well as some awesome new magic tricks.
  
  Loading time between stages is rediculous! You can make a cup of coffee before you are to ready 
 to play.
  
  The game was okay. Lots of place for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shujikun07
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I like this game... my initial score was an 8.0, but game's fun wears off as difficulty ramps 
 up in later missions.
  
  I like the whole idea. God of War / Devil May Cry - Esque gameplay with the ability to upgrade 
 your character's abilities and special moves as you progress. 
  
  A lot of what this game does is fun, you get a lot of new moves, and it doesn't take much time 
 to kick major ass, and save hot chicks. The fighting is fluid, but not as fluid as it could have 
 been. You will run into fodder that allows you to use all of your cool new moves you've saved up 
 for... and use them well.
  
  The farther you get into the game, however, the less kick ass Conan is. Soon you're getting stunned 
 by enemies left and right, and before you're allowed to roll out of it you've had half your life 
 bar taken off. 
  
  I don't mind the difficulty, but I when I am playing a hack and slash I really want more enemies 
 that are fodder with more space between the kick ass dudes. In which case, you get to showcase 
 your badass moves, but at the same time from time to time putting more thought and strategy into 
 the mix. The problem is, the "hard" guys break up your fluid fighting and instead of strategy, 
 most likely you will just roll in attack, roll out to dodge, then roll in to attack again. This 
 takes time. It's not fun really.... and it happens a lot. 
  
  I think the biggest place you will see this is in the final boss fight. I think I had to restart 
 from checkpoints over 30 times in that fight. Taking about an hour to figure out the fight and 
 then take out the boss. It's really frustrating; even when you know what to do it's heavily timing 
 dependant... I felt like it was too much of a difficulty ramp up at the very end that you don't 
 see in the rest of the game. 
  
  The other part is the final fight makes use of way too many contextual actions that are really 
 easy to mess up (think phase 1 where you are button mashing as you take the boss down to 0% health) 
 and accidently regenerate the health of the boss. 
  
  Finally, this game is for the most part clean of bugs, but there are some glaring ones you'll probably 
 run into... I had this 100% crash anytime I tried to reload from the 2nd save point in the game 
 on the beginning island. In any case, the game is worth a play, but it can be quite frustrating 
 to finish this game through to the end. 
  
  I hope Nihilistic learns from this game's pluses and minuses and makes an even better sequel, if 
 they choose to make one that is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game used as i knew it was nothing special. I dont usually rent games because 
 i take my time to finish games and dont like to play 8 hours sessions of video games on my weekends.... well.... not 
 to often anyways. It isnt a bad game but there is so much room for improvement. It seems as though 
 it was rushed out to meet a deadline or or they just didnt want to spend anymore money on it. Anyway, 
 
  the game is, like everyone is saying, a GOW clone. The machanics are very similar. you collect 
 orbs to up your power and purchase new combos. There are a lot of cool moves that Conan pulls off 
 and watching him slice up the bad guys is fun to watch. It does get a bit repetative. The gameplay 
 seems a bit on the easy side so it might be worth starting on a harder difficulty setting. The 
 graphics is really where the game cheaps out. It all looks very clunky as mentioned in the gamespot 
 review. This probably couldve been released on the PS2 without much difference. There is not much 
 detail on the charactors or the landscapes. GOW2... and probably even GOW1 on the PS2 looked much 
 better. Also mentioned by game spot, Ron Pearlman does not pull off a very good conan. No surpise, 
 other than hellboy, he's hasnt done much good with anything. 
  
  All in all, if you like hack n slash games like me, then its worth playing but not at full price. 
 pick it up used or rent it for a week. It wont take very long to beat, maybe 6 hrs. I give it a 
 very generous 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GermanFizzle08
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  When I rented this game I knew that it was supposed to be like God of War, but I didn't think that 
 it would be a blatant copy! When I started playing I thought the combat was similar to GOW but 
 as I continued to play I found that almost all the boss battles where taken directly from GOW. 
 This upset me quite a bit because God of War is one of the greatest games/series ever made and 
 i would understand if it was like GOW but not the same freakin' game!! So if you have played the 
 first two God of War games than you will find that it is almost like it in everyway, just with 
 different character names. The only difference I found between the two was the ability to pick 
 up weapons. I would not recommend this game to anybody if it wasn't for the decent gameplay. The 
 visuals are not next-gen and the audio is only good because it has the same composer from God of 
 War. Overall this game is nothing but a copy of God of War, if you want to play this game just 
 rent it. This is a very disappointing rip-off of a great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Its fair to say that most people would best know Conan from Arnie taking the leading role in the 
 big screen debut of the brutal barbarian.
  However at the same time alot of people would agree that this game has done much more justice for 
 the barbarians legacy. Dont get me wrong, the films were still good. 
  
  The game lives up pretty well in depicting the world of Conan, as you journey through many landscapes 
 of Hyboria, fuelled with blood-thristy sword fights and mystical power known even before time.
 
  The fighting is very diverse and really keeps your appetite for blood and guts at a decent level, 
 whether you want to hack a man into 4-5 pieces with a sword the size of you, or rip a mans intestines 
 out with your bare hands.
  Theres plenty more combos and special attacks to unlock through out the game so theres always a 
 chance to experiment.
  You also have the ability to unlock mystical powers that you can use t have the advantage against 
 your foes, whether its turning them into stone, or open a portal to suck multiple enemies in, which 
 can be a real life saver.
  
  Yes overall Conan is a very decent hack and slash game, but you cant help but think that as you 
 go on throughout the game it gets pretty repetitive, which can be pretty common in games of this 
 nature.
  
  The jumping move can be pretty clunky, and the graphics arent exactly something to glare at in 
 awe either.
  
  So if your after a hack and slash game were you can experiment alot with different moves and combos, 
 dont care much about repetitive gaming and enjoy alot of blood... then its worthy for you to check 
 this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is based on the books not the Arnie films, hence the flat skulled, mulletted 
 brawler. Once that disappointment wears off you can console yourself with this violent little treat. 
 Here's a game that's earned its 18 rating with Honours. Arms, heads, legs and bits of torso are 
 flying around all over the place with some nice meaty combat. Your weapons feel like they impact 
 properly when they connect unlike say, Dynasty Warriors where you might as well be fighting sheets 
 on the washing-line outside.
  
  Most enemies can be brushed aside with ease; the only problems arrive with the swine's that have 
 learnt how to block. Bring them down with a block breaker combo or go for the super cool, well 
 timed parry and counter attack.
  
  While God of War is going to be blamed for a lot of rubbish copycat hack 'n' slashers, this thankfully 
 is not one of them. There are plenty of GOW moments with matching onscreen button prompts during 
 boss battles including a hydra, sorry a giant squid at sea.
  The best boss battle has Conan battling a huge dragon that chases him around a castle and rickety 
 scaffolding. You're forced to do a bit of platforming here but it works well and you won't get 
 killed by the camera when it lurches away for no reason mid-jump. This is a long battle but it 
 has a few checkpoints so you'd don't have to start over from the beginning if you stuff it up at 
 the last moment.
  
  There's a nice range of pointy death-sticks on offer, single handed, two handed, dual wielding 
 and spears, hell even some of the shields have blades! Conan can learn extra techniques with the 
 orbs he collects from chests and fallen foes, these techniques can themselves be levelled up simply 
 by using them. After most boss battles you are rewarded with a piece of your old armour and with 
 it a new magical ability such as freezing enemies temporarily or having fireballs rain down from 
 the sky. You don't really need these but they're handy if you get swarmed.
  
  It's not as good as Heavenly Sword but it's a hell of a lot better than the god-awful Beowulf and 
 much less stressful than the experts only Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The graphics are nothing special 
 but far from ugly and like the movies the music is suitably epic.
  
  While it'll only take you around six hours to finish, it's enough. Any longer and it would start 
 to grate with its repetitive nature. That said there's not much replay value not with the promise 
 of unlockable artwork as an incentive. Seriously how hard is it to walk round the office one day 
 with a camera and film a few staff members talking about the game? No more artwork, we've had enough!
 
  
  This is an enjoyable romp of limb-lopping carnage if you're not expecting the next God of War. 
 The well behaved camera and some great combat with immense boss battles make this a great rental 
 or a buy if you can get it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Conan being based on the stories of Robert E. Howard in the 1930's (NOT FROM GOD OF WAR) is a pretty 
 simple view of the original creation. Although Nihilistic claimed this would be "Howard's Conan" 
 they either didn't read the sorce material or couldn't interpret it right. With that said, this 
 is still a pretty good game especially if you are a Conan fan. This may not have been the game 
 you were looking for, but it's still fun to run around hacking people to pieces as Conan. Hacking 
 people up is what you will spend almost all your time in this game doing. It's good that they have 
 an impressive and varied combat system with lots of combos and stylized moves similar to the gameplay 
 of God of War and Heavenly Sword. This is also a down fall of the game. You spend so much time 
 hacking that there really isn't much time for anything else. Most fans of Conan will remember him 
 from Howard's work as very smart and cunning. Conan was also multilingual and ver agile like a 
 wild tiger. Nihilistic seems to have left out some of these key elements. The Conan we see in this 
 game is more like the Conan you would expect to see in the movies. A not so bright, clumsy womaniser. 
 The dialogue is pretty cheesy, and even a well known voice actor like Ron Pearlman can't do it 
 justice. There are many times throughout the game that you just wish Conan would have kept his 
 mouth shut. A lot of these times are in the absolutely horrible cut scenes. I almost can't bare 
 to watch them due to a very bad lipsynching job and just plain poor animation. Added to this is 
 a not so interesting storyline in which Conan uses something in which he despises. Magic. All in 
 all the many bad things about the game still can't bring down the over all experience to make it 
 a plain out bad game. The game is still very fun to play and has parts that will just leave you 
 saying wow. The bad thing is that there just as many parts that leave you saying "that's it." It 
 seems as if a great amount of time was taken in some sections of the game, and others were just 
 rushed through. In the end I still don't like the name Conan being on this game, but I will take 
 what I can get. If you like this genre of games you will like Conan, and I recommend picking it 
 up. If you aren't in to it. If you aren't then there's no great loss in skipping this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Based on God Of War, Maybe. But give it a break.
  
  I like Ron Perlman, Too. And he does just fine as Conan. 
  
  But holdup. Let's go back to the 
 first one.
  
  Based on God Of War.
  
  What is God of War but a Beat-em-up with some 'advanced' moves?
  
  How much different, really, 
 is God of War to say.... Double Dragon. Or Final Fight? 
  
  I mean, you get flashier moves. Better Graphics. Different weapons... But it's pretty much the 
 same kind of game. Go through. Beat stuff up. You win.
  
  Beat-em-up games are just that. Beat-em-ups.
  
  And I salute Both God of War and Conan. For 
 touching on more adult themes. From Suicide, to Having murdered your own family... to betrayal, 
 and sex to nudity and violence. 
  
  Thank goodness. I'm just hoping that in the future the dialogue for adult-oriented games starts 
 to evolve as well. 
  
  I must be honest. I was skeptical of this game at first, but, if you're a fan of Frazetta, Conan, 
 Action Beat-em-Up games, or plan-old nudity... Give it a shot. 
  
  It may not be as deep as some other titles out there. It may not be raising any bars aside from 
 the 'flesh' issue... 
  
  But it's not a bad game, and deserves more than just constantly being compared to god of war.
 
  
  Devil May Cry. God of War. Conan. Heavenly Sword. Final Fight. Double Dragon. Battletoads. Ninja 
 Turtles. Shinobi. Ninja Gaiden....
  
  They're all beat-em-ups. They're all similar and they're all different.
  
  I just wish that 
 the Voluptuous damsels didn't all get up like they were trained to be strippers. How come topless 
 has to mean bimbo? I'm all for nudity, mostly because i don't see the big deal. But I do see a 
 big deal about certain aspects of it... And if the trend continues, sadly we'll just see more exploded 
 heads, brains, and guts than naked people. Which is really kinda too bad. And a really strange 
 kind of social denial. 
  
  Anyway.
  I give it an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Champion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  the story in the game is pretty loose and its not particularly insteresting.
  the cutscenes are poor-quality for a next gen console, the voice acting in the scnes makes it feel 
 like you're watching a 50' black and white movie, the characters are so emotionless it can sometimes 
 be a pain to listen or watch them.
  
  there are about 50 different combos in the game and most are pretty easy to pull off, you only 
 start with only a few combos, but as you can unlock new combos with red runes, which you get from 
 defeating enemies. although there are a wide range of combos you can use, as you progress further 
 into the game, most enemies has the ability to block most of your attacks and some are armed with 
 a shield, you will need to use a block breaker and shield breaker attack in order to break their 
 guard, but there are only a few of them available, which means you'll most likely have to repeat 
 the same combo over and over again to kill them, or you can try and pull off a counter attack, 
 which is one of the best features in the game IMO, in order to do a counter attack, you'll have 
 to press the block button right before the enemy's attack hits you, then you will parry the attack 
 and a button will pop up on the screen, if you press the right button in time you will hit the 
 enemy with a violent attack which instantly kills him. there are boss fights on almost every chapter, 
 but most of the bosses are similar to each other and are easy and straight forward, there are also 
 button frequencies at the end of boss fights, most of these triggers a violent finishing move like 
 the God of War series- but without the coolness.
  
  the platforming in this game is boring and frustrating, but not because it's hard, it's because 
 the jumping sequences are so dodgy, it seems like the distance you jump is random everytime you 
 press the jump button, you'll probably end up punching your TV after thousands of unsucessful jumps, 
 fortunately, there arent many jump platforming in the game.
  
  the soundtrack is well-suited to the barbarian feeling, but the battle quotes are repetitive and 
 as i have mentioned before- emotionless, i think the developers should have focused more on the 
 sound on the weapons and other sound effects.
  
  there isnt much to do after you completed the story mode, other than playing through again on a 
 higher difficulty level, but that's rather pointless, as most of the unlockable from playing those 
 modes arent really worth the time playing through the game again. while this game is worth getting 
 for action and hack and slash fans, if your looking for an unforgettable experience for the PS3, 
 you'll be better off with Heavenly Sword 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Conan is great game though its using the same thing as god of war and a Heavenly Sword, which isnt 
 really good cause they dis game will nevr shine the same light.
  
  The game kinda of good ,and vilonnce is fine, but the voice acting isnt so great. The graphics are 
 good but still cant catch the beauty of the Heavenly Sword.
  
  The story itself isnt so intresting but if u like just mature games and just kill evryone for no 
 reason like god of war u will like it.
  
  Conan TRIES to be good as Heavenly Sword and God of war but fails.
  It has the violence Of God 
 of war but it hasnt the mingame of god of war.
  Conan is a nice game but doesnt have the Beauty of Heavenly Sword.
  
  It might be the most 
 blant game in advertising ,it is dissapoint in ways to, its short and the sound affects sound s 
 like screech
  Conan in overall is a 7.5 Gspot rated dis game fairly ,but still it can have some fun sides two 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Conan is one of those games that you play after a hard day's work, and you need to release a lot 
 of aggression. It's one of those visceral, testosterone-driven carnage-fests that are fun to play, 
 but leave you wanting a bit more for substance and story. While the story is pretty linear, and 
 the graphics are decent (but not spectacular) , I still had a lot of fun dismembering corsairs and 
 beheading archers. The voice acting is good, though Ron Perlman (who is a great actor) is somehow 
 not perfect for the role. The original score was excellent, though, and the animation was great, 
 as were some of the Matrix-esque slo-mo battle sequences.
  
  Some aspects of the game were somewhat annoying, though, I must say. Some of the controls were 
 sloppy, making the jumping action a hit-and-miss proposition, at times. Though the animations were 
 good, the textures were really flat, and the voice-syncing was way off most of the time, making 
 the end result more cartoonish that realistic. Most of all, though, some of the boss fights were 
 irritating, and the final boss-fight was exceptionally obnoxious.
  
  All things considered, I think this game was entertaining for what it was, and it definitely had 
 some fun bloody action, but some of the game-design choices prevented Conan from being a truly 
 excellent experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  If you liked God of War (I or II or both) and you do not get sick of playing it you will surely 
 like Conan.
  
  The game is basically a GOW with lower graphs and less impressive environments but it is still 
 a great game. The main theme is basically going through from scene to scene kicking people, monsters 
 and animals asses. All the mechanics are all GOW related. Similar combos, similar button mashing 
 sequences, similar interactive cut scenes, etc. 
  
  However, despite the fact it runs on a next gen console it does a very poor job on graphs if you 
 compared to GOW and considered that GOW was a PS2 game.
  
  Please do not get me wrong, Conan is fun to play, it has an OK story, really nice kills, good sound 
 and if you like Beat'em up games you will have plenty of fun with Conan. You will spent approximately 
 6-7 hours going through hordes of enemies and some good boss fights (although none of them are 
 really challenging) .
  
  The only real let down is the jump sequences in which Conan seems really dull on jumping from platform 
 to platform.
  
  Some minor frame rate issues and few moments that the game lets you go through solid walls are 
 minor technical problems.
  
  In summary Conan is a worth buying fun game but as it copied a pre-existence game from a pre-generation 
 console it could have done a better job than it did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Conan is a missed opportunity. The game has the right ingredients but they just weren't developed 
 the right way. The truth is Conan is very entertaining. You have numerous combos which have devastating 
 results on the enemies, resulting in decapitations, severed arms and numerous other "fun" deaths. 
 Conan can flip a guy in the air and cut him in half and as he falls to the floor, his intestine 
 fall out as blood gushes like a fountain. It's this kind of extreme violence we're talking about. 
 This makes Conan a fun Hack'n'Slash. However, as you advance in the game the number of enemies 
 increases dramatically as does their quality. None of them is extremely hard to kill, however they 
 gang up on you and any kind of combo becomes close to impossible. You just use the strong/light 
 combo, mashing triangle or square and trying to roll away when surrounded. It takes a lot out of 
 the game. There are also a lot of bosses. This is where things start to get messy. I like bosses 
 and these are old school. They're big and mean. They are not impossible to kill but they take a 
 long time and can become frustrating and annoying. You fight them in rounds. After you deplete 
 their energy once, you go to the next round where they have a new combo or a new attack. They're 
 about three rounds each. They also require that you push certain buttons, as they flash in the 
 screen at the end of each round which can be hard if you don't have good reflexes and don't pay 
 close attention. This brings us to the worst part of the game. The final boss is just awful. I 
 dare you not to lose your temper while fighting him. On normal difficulty it took me 48 minutes 
 to beat him. You cannot save during the fight so you must go through all the rounds at once or 
 start from the beginning, the next time. I cannot stress enough how infuriating this boss is. He's 
 hard but he's mostly annoying. He's cheap and dull and really, and I mean really, takes away most 
 of the fun you've had until that point.
  The graphics are also fairly uninspired. After you've seen games like Uncharted or Ratchet and 
 Clank: TOD, Conan really looks bad. The water is laughable; the cut scenes are stiff and the voice 
 acting bellow par. Even Ron Pearlman who is an actor I highly appreciate seems to be phoning it 
 in. The game could also be longer. It took me 8:30 hours and I'm a slow gamer.
  Still it's not all bad. The music is perfect for the atmosphere. There are a lot of maidens with 
 their bare breasts who need rescue and of course there's carnage, a lot of carnage. Imaginative 
 carnage. 
  Conan is an entertaining game even with all its problems. I'll play it again, when I want a mindless, 
 gory, fun game. If you can get pass the PS2 graphics and like bosses or are a patient gamer who 
 loves a challenge, give it a try. If you want or expect an unforgettable experience, play God of 
 War. Conan is a testosterone filled, violent, crude, game. A guilty pleasure that I enjoyed and 
 am glad to have in my collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Captures the Conan feel Combat is fantastically brutal Incredibly fitting orchestral soundtrack. 
 It is a ver nice game. I have bought it last friday and played the game immediately. I was surprise 
 by the graphics and the combat of this game.
  
  I had spent at least 5 hours on Friday night to play this game to reach stage 9. I had 2 of conan's 
 magic shield. and now conan is quite powerful.
  
  I hoping to complete the game by this week and write more review about this game. The graphic looks 
 great. I hope the producer is looking into producing part 2 of this game.
  
  I have completed the game once, and now i have unlock 2 cheats namely : Song of Death and mastered 
 all moves.
  
  These 2 cheats can really put in good use if players are facing warlords and some bosses.
  
 
  I have tried on Sand Dragon and bone cleaver. By using HEAVY ATTACKS, they can be killed with 
 just four or hits.
  
  And using Song of Death, and certain moves like Black river rage, a warlord can be killed in an 
 instant, but of cause player has to be fast enough to avoid the warlord attacks.
  
  The only regret is conan cannot block certain moves especially enemies with shields, unless player 
 is fast enough to avoid being hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't really have much to say about this game, I mean its no G. O. W. It's a fun game initially 
 that gets really repetitive really fast. Doesn't seem to impliment anything new in an action game. 
 The hack and slash concept is fun (as always) , but the levels seem very straighforward and kind 
 of dull. The graphics aren't anything to go crazy over, in fact they are quite bad for next-generation. 
 I'll admit I'm being to harsh on this game, its really not all that bad. But definetly don't buy 
 it, rent it. You'll see what I mean when you play it, as my classification states, its really hard 
 to describe this game. Just seems it's missing a lot to make a great, even good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 7
  Audio - 7
  Story/Multiplayer - 8
  X-Factor - 9
  
  As of late, the gaming world has witnessed a renaissance of sorts when it comes to Robert E. Howard's 
 famous barbarian. You've got games popping up left and right, all of them taking advantage of Hyboria's 
 unique setting and Howard's dark, bloody take on fantasy. The latest such effort is titled simply 
 Conan, and is an action adventure hack'n'slash in the vein of God of War. In fact, developer Nihilistic 
 is treading a fine line between homage and rip-off. While the game is derivative to a fault, it 
 does a number of things well enough to merit a purchase by anyone interested in the premise or 
 just in need of a decent action game to tide you over until God of War III arrives.
  
  As mentioned, the gameplay is almost a carbon copy of God of War. Not only is it brutal and sexually 
 promiscuous, you've got context sensitive button mashing as well as red and green orbs you need 
 to collect for the sake of maintaining health and magic. What's that you say? Conan using magic? 
 I can understand why this may irritate some purists, since the Cimmerian has long been known to 
 oppose magic quite adamantly. The powers here are nothing special, and even though they are varied, 
 it all boils down to the simple fact that they all allow the player to gain some breathing room 
 in a crowded fight. As such, they are easy to overlook, for better or for worse.
  
  So you go about as Conan, traversing the various lands of Hyboria in search of your stolen armor. 
 Along the way you meet up with a busty warrior princess and ally yourself, in more ways than one. 
 Sure, the story may not be much but at least it gives an excuse to hop around differing locales, 
 slicing off limb after limb. And if anything, the game is good at dismemberment. Even though Conan 
 fails to live up to the visual prowess and high quality of Heavenly Sword, it handily bests Ninja 
 Theory's effort in terms of combat and gore. The action is smooth and soaked in blood, which is 
 the way it should be. Combos are easy enough to execute that you'll end up not only using them 
 but enjoying the bloody mess they leave behind. As is customary for a game of this nature, abilities 
 and new combos can be purchased and upgraded with experience points. Also making an appearance 
 are gigantic bosses that have layers upon layers of defenses, which you need to systematically 
 get rid off before the actual death-dealing can begin.
  
  If there is one place where Conan clearly falls flat when compared to the competition, it's the 
 visual department. After downloading the demo, I was stunned to see a game circa 2007 look so bland. 
 The most disappointing part is probably the character models, which all manage to look quite dreadful 
 and artificial (except for the bare-breasted babes) . Texture work is shoddy and conveys an overall 
 sense of muddyness. In contrast, levels look quite fine and the design is competent. The game is 
 also light on any kind of visual wizardry and special effects, which further help to make the game 
 look dated. One saving grace is the blood, thankfully of which there is an abundance.
  
  The music in Conan takes many cues from God of War as well, featuring sweeping, epic pieces suitable 
 for a game of this time period and setting. It's not that it's particularly bad, it's all just 
 so average you tend to forget about it. Voice acting on the other hand is not average. Too bad 
 then that it is below average, with even Ron Perlman as Conan failing to stir up any emotions in 
 himself or the player. Couple this with the normal clangs and screams of battle and you're left 
 with a decidedly average sound world. It could have been better, but it could also have been a 
 lot worse.
  
  This review may sound a bit on the negative side, but that is exactly the opposite of what I am 
 trying to convey. Conan may not be a must-buy, but even with all it's faults and derivative choices, 
 it's a fun and entertaining game that is well worth the time and investment. Just give it a chance 
 and you may be pleasantly surprised. I know I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franchise811
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty entertaining. a lil' short, but i mean come on, its one of the first games 
 on the ps3. alot of poeple are hatin on it, but just play the game. it copied GOw a lot, but thats 
 a good thing. its very goary and thats a plus, and there is a variety of moves to use. story is 
 a lil' wack like poeple said, but i mean, the story isnt everythin. its how the game plays, and 
 it flows pretty well, so overall a fun experience that everyone should play. but rent it, cause 
 its not worth 60 bills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game for a little while, but it gets to be a little repetitive after a bit. The 
 combat system is pretty run of the mill. I wasnt very impressed with the character models and cut 
 scenes. There is a ton of violence and blood and even some naked chicks tossed in there. There 
 were a couple of funny parts as well. The game definitely doesnt reinvent the genre or add anything 
 to it, but it isnt a bad button masher. Being able to pick up almost every weapon that is dropped 
 is a pretty cool thing. I felt like there were a lot of God of War rip offs too. They followed 
 that formula pretty closely, which isnt entirely a bad thing. The soundtrack is pretty cool, and 
 the voice acting, while cheesy at times, fits in pretty well with the game. the story is so-so. 
 All in all, it is worth renting and playing for a little bit, but not much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insideous_rex
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I just want to say that I'm a big fan of Conan (not the movie) so I was going to 
 buy this game no matter what it was like. I realize that most people probably don't know or care 
 about this character, so I'm going to judge the game based on that assumption. 
  
  This isn't a bad game, just very average. It's enjoyable at first but gets extremely repetitive. 
 On top of the fact that you'll get the same 2 or 3 types of enemies throughout the whole game, 
 they're tough as hell and the game throws a ridiculous number at you. I don't mind a challenge, 
 but the controls aren't responsive enough, nor is the combat system deep enough to warrant that 
 kind of challenge. The boss fights are great though, and except for the last boss, they're the 
 highlight of the game.
  
  While Conan doesn't look bad, it isn't exactly a graphical show piece either. Again, it's about 
 average, and will probably look pretty dated a year or 2 from now. The cut scenes are ok, but if 
 you've played Heavenly Sword or Uncharted already, they'll be harder to stomach. The character 
 models aren't that great, and while boobs are great and all, most of the women look identical, 
 and by that I mean UGLY.
  
  The story is bland, but the voice acting is decent. It's certainly not going to keep you playing 
 on its own. 
  
  If you really love Conan, or this genre, and you're looking for a competent God of War clone, this 
 one might do the trick. If not, rent it, wait for it to hit the bargain bin, or just pass on it 
 all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: branzi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Wow, a game inspired to the great Conan ..... after 10 minutes of game you are disappointed.
  The puzzles are simple ad fighting is always the same.
  Also the graphics are not at level for 
 a PS3 system .... bad models and low details.
  The level boss are not difficult to defeat, you have to defeat 3/4 times but if you die the fight 
 not restart again from the beginning ... too much simple.
  This game Is nice, but i have finished the quest after 7 hours, and so is a bad copy of God of 
 War .... so, i suggest to buy other games and try this one when you find a used copy.
  
  PS: sorry for my bad english
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tick660
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything, I would like to take this moment to present one warning: DO NOT PLAY THIS 
 GAME ON THE HARD DIFFICULTY! I personally completed it on hard, and after 7 hours of excruciating, 
 cheap game play, and 1 broken PS3 controller, no matter what I tried to convince myself of, one 
 thing stood out, this game is TOUGH on Hard, just as it should be.
  
  Difficulty aside, the game has moments of pure awesome, times where you can only grin, and watch 
 the blood cascade from adversaries dismembered torsos. The control is good, but not sharp enough 
 to rival that of games like Ninja Gaiden or God of War. I'm not the kind of person to point fingers 
 and name games as clones , but Conan has some very obvious similarities to GoW, which aren't a 
 bad thing, but a show of Nihilistic's notice of superb games, while Conan isn't one, it is extremely 
 fun... Until the boss fights start rolling in. The bosses in the game are INSANE, each one usually 
 has 2 or 3 unique attacks to get your jumping in the air, or rolling and dodging away after each 
 hit, and the interactive cut scenes after the fight are extremely lacking; there is almost no payoff 
 to killing a boss, leaving the player somewhat disappointed. By far, the best moments in the game 
 are fighting the normal soldiers that sprint towards Conan to be chopped in half, or tossed in 
 the air and shanked, but about 3 hours into the game, the enemies become EXTREMELY cheap, especially 
 with the introduction of Lions and King Kong like apes. For example, you will be ambushed by a 
 group of 3 soldiers (1 heavy and 2 normal) and 2 lions, by far, the lions will be the hardest adversary 
 you will face of the group, as they will attack almost every time you try to swing at them, and 
 also in the fight many times you will resort to running around and trying to land a few hits at 
 a time as opposed to smashing them with the sick combos that make Conan truly entertaining.
  
  While Conan does have moments of extreme frustration, as the player progresses, he will attain 
 new combos, each one becoming more and more devastating, and gory, or.... AWESOME. Playing the 
 game on a lower setting can remedy the extreme difficulty I experienced, and the wow moments in 
 the game truly are WOW moments, you will be doing the combo over and over again just to show anyone 
 in the vicinity.
  
  Yes Conan does have BOOBIES in it, lots of them, in fact, there are numerous breasts in each level. 
 While this is a very juvenile thing for me to mention, it serves two purposes. First, boobies rock, 
 and second, it marks a shift in video game audiences, and makes Conan stand out as a truly M rated 
 adult oriented game.
  
  I gave the game a hard for difficulty, due to what I played it on, but it can be adjusted to suit 
 the player's skill. (The difficulty setting I used had no overall bearing on my review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomonemich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I think this game is being slandered for no reason other than everyone is obsessed 
 with God of War. Don't forget though that this is a pretty limited genre. The only other Barbarian 
 game that I can think of off the top of my head is the Mark of Kri series to which no one has yet 
 compared this game. The game play is similar, the concept is similar, the camera angles are similar 
 as is the setting. So why no comparison? Why doesn't anyone compare this to the Onimusha series? 
 For the above stated reasons, Conan could easily be compared to any game with a hack and slash 
 theme. And why are people complaining about button mashing? Do they actually have some technique 
 of killing opponents without pounding buttons? I've played the God of War series and I remember 
 mashing some serious buttons. So thats not even valid; all I can say is go buy a Wii. Now for the 
 game itself, I love the graphics. While the cut scenes might be a little choppy, I love the whole 
 barbarian feel. As a fan of the original comics and related books, and of the movie franchise, 
 I think that this game does a good job of capturing that feel. The only complaint that I really 
 have is that the voice acting seems like an afterthought compared to the rest of the game. The 
 music feels pretty cheesy at time too. The creators could have at least stolen form the movie to 
 have some intense chanting in the back ground (a la Conan theme song) but otherwise I am satisfied. 
 This game has got everything you would expect from a barbarian, even some lions thrown in for good 
 measure. And I know GoW didn't have that! So I recommend that you give it a play and decide for 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Conan is one of the most recognisable characters of our time. From the movies staring Arnie to 
 the comic books to the cartoon series, everyone knows the figure of a strong barbarian wearing 
 nothing more than a loin cloth, the inspiration for He-man. Conan is a Hack 'N Slash and a mighty 
 fine one at that. With a solid storyline and typical Hack 'N Slash gameplay its everything you 
 would expect from a Conan game on console. The main positive of the game is the theme itself. Conan 
 is the perfect character for a Hack 'N Slash. A one man army capable of crushing many enemies at 
 one time, with enormous strength he is able to lift huge stones and launch them at his enemies. 
 The first let down comes with the voice acting, the voice actor playing Conan really doesn't do 
 much for me in this game, but maybe I am just spoiled by Arnie or the cartoon's voice actor.
  
  The game plays like a typical Hack 'N Slash, you will be hitting buttons in different combinations 
 to defeat your enemies. You have a wide variety of different weapons and weapon configurations, 
 and the moves to learn for these combinations. But really you wont use half of them, the Hack 'N 
 Slash genre by definition is repetitive. While repetitive, Conan is still challenging. The bosses 
 at the end on each level require a load of skill and alot of thinking to defeat, which is a great 
 thing. But does little to make the game less repetitive.
  
  The graphics are what you'd expect from the PS3, they look fantastic. While not the greatest graphically, 
 it certainly is pleasing to the eye.
  
  While the theme and story are well mixed in with the gameplay, which makes the game so great, it 
 becomes one of the down falls. The storyline leaves no room for multiplayer co-op. I would have 
 thought the old cartoon series would have made a better game, with more characters, a stronger 
 storyline and a chance to make the game less repetitive, I can only see it as a chance gone missing. 
 The game is a great Hack 'N Slash adventure, infact one of the best I have played to date. But 
 there is still no innovation, and suffers from a lack of depth. Once you finish the game there 
 is little reason to go back and play it. It leaves me thinking what could have been. If only they 
 had of used the cartoon series as inspiration for this game, it could have been the perfect Hack 
 'N Slash.
  
  If you like Conan or Hack 'N Slash games this is a great purchase for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  If you are an action/adventure junkie who loves games within the same vein as God of War, then 
 you should really feel right at home with this game. As it definitely takes a page or two out of 
 God of War's book gameplay wise, but is that a bad thing?... Hardly.
  
  The satisfying gameplay is what makes Conan just plain fun. And while it borrows on some of God 
 of Wars mechanics, it still has no problem maintaining it's own unique identity in doing a wonderful 
 job of creating that raw, barbaric Conan vibe. The combos that you can learn are many, and do not 
 lack in in being brutally barbaric. Dual weilding sword combos, single sword combos, two handed 
 sword power combos, back breakers, head smashers, kicks punches, throwing objects, ect, ect. In 
 fact, this variety is where Conan actually has an advantage over God of War.
  
  Besides the, fun, and totally satisfying gameplay, the game is definitely not without it's faults. 
 The graphics are PS2 like, which is not bad in and of itself, but in this generation, you would 
 expect a bit more out of the visuals. Especially in terms of the cutscenes, which definitely failed 
 to impress graphically. Ron Perlman has a great voice for Conan, but his acting was just not the 
 best this time around. The dialogue and one liners that Conan constantly shouts out during combat 
 is equally as cheesy. But, the game is so satisying to play, that the flaws are easy to overlook.
 
  
  All in all, Conan is definitely a fun as hell game, with some great combat mechanics and very addictive 
 gameplay. Despite the graphical flaws and cheesy voice acting, Conan still manages to deliver where 
 it counts. If it had delivered on the other fronts as well, one can easily conclude that it would 
 have been a truly superb game, instead of just being a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Conan is great game though its using the same thing as god of war and a Heavenly Sword, which isnt 
 really good cause they dis game will nevr shine de same light.
  
  The game kinda of good but it uses to much violence, and the voice acting isnt so great. The graphics 
 ar good but still cant catch the beauty of the Heavenly Sword.
  
  The story itself isnt so intresting but if u like just mature games and just kill evryone for no 
 reason like god of war u will like it.
  
  Conan TRIES to be good as Heavenly Sword and God of war but fails.
  It has the violence Of God 
 of war but it hasnt the mingame if god of war.
  Conan is a nice game but doesnt hav the Beauty of Heavenly Sword
  
  Conan in overall is a 7.5 
 Gspot rated dis game fairly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtra1n
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  ave a bad taste in your mouth and it just made me pick up the first God of War to wash it out. 
 This game really is only good enough for a rental, if that. Sure some bosses are pretty cool but 
 I just kept thinking about how GoW did it before and unfortunately for Conan took away from originality 
 and authenticity points. Anothe thing which turned me off was the dry sexual undertones of anything 
 that involved a female character. Games already get a bad rap for not including women but it is 
 totally inappropriate and I believe detrimental to the taste of the game to constantly and from 
 the get go merely see the women characters as sex symbols. But hey, If you are satisfied by games 
 that don't have half as much story depth as overt sexual content or consider intuitive action swiping 
 a sword a thousand times than please don't pay full price for this game. Demand more quality from 
 games and play the GoW series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav523
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  this is the most  
 final boss fight i have ever been through.
  
  the rest of the game was passably fun, somewhat entertaining, hacking and slashing. i spent a lot 
 of time half remembering plots of the actual stories from when i read them 15 years ago or so and 
 trying to tie them into the plot of the game.
  
  the jumping elements were a little frustrating due to it not always quite doing what it seemed 
 like it should when you had to jump sideways to the next ledge over a death fall. sometimes it 
 would grab, sometimes it would jump sideways when you wanted to go one more ledge up first, but 
 the reset to last checkpoint was almost always right at the beginning of the jump sequence without 
 having to redo the fighting, so not a huge thing.
  
  camera was generally ok, with the exception of a couple of the later levels where you are running 
 across collapsing platforms and jumping gaps. sometimes it looked like you should jump one way, 
 when in fact that makes you fall, sometimes the camera angle changed right before or right after 
 you jumped, leaving you heading off into the abyss as the platform rotates out from under you.
 
  
  the music was good, bombastic trumpets blaring at appropriate times. seems like they took the music 
 inspiration from classic sinbad movies. worked very well for me, considering the time period when 
 the stories were written.
  
  ron pearlman might have been a miss for conan's voice. obviously they couldn't get arnold to do 
 it in his new conservative republican governator anti-violence-in-media persona, but it seemed 
 like pearlman was phoning it in. there wasn't the resonance and character he puts into most of 
 his roles. ( war... war never changes... ) other than that, the voicework was acceptable. nothing 
 real memorable, but nothing that seemed out of place.
  
  the nudity, which suits the source material both of the frazetta paintings and the stories, seemed 
 like they put in just enough to be flagged for it on their ESRB rating and increase their sales 
 on the basis of oo! boobies! i gotta play that! even at that it would have been ok, had each of 
 the maidens you rescue not come with a sorority bowhead reading of oh, where are my clothes? 
 
  
  the level bosses along the way were even reasonable. i'm not sure who decided the best way to deal 
 with action sequences in new games is to flash a button on the screan that you have to hit to proceed 
 through the sequence, as seen in spiderman 3 and heavenly sword, but we're doing it again here. 
 luckilly, we've had the same controller layout for so long, you don't have to think so hard about 
 which is the [] without looking down at the controller anymore. never seemed quite as frustrating 
 as the sandman fight in spiderman3 in the multilevel train station.
  
  then, at the end of the 6 hour festival of blood and severed limbs, you come to the afformentioned 
 final boss. 2 of his 3 attacks are unblockable. you can interupt your own attack sequence with 
 a block, but it's hard to go from attack to jump or dodge. plus you don't get a lot of warning 
 for which attack is about to hit you. and you don't always get up in time to dodge the next attack. 
 at one point i got hit with 80% health left, and died without ever getting control back. if you 
 get through that, and be sure to watch his health bar because you get no other warning so you'll 
 hit the wrong button, it flips to a hit the right button action sequence. the button you have to 
 hit has nothing to do with the action taking place, and it's random, so it's not like if you screw 
 it up once, you can remember the pattern next time. when you do screw up, he hits you for one third 
 of your health and refills half of his health, then you do the fight again. if you get past the 
 button sequence, you get a new sequence where you have to jump over big rotating arms while fighting 
 a whole lot of guys that attack faster than you can start swinging if you're using the two handed 
 sword that works best against the main boss. no indication that you should be jumping the rotating 
 arms, so i'm telling you, use whichever armor power it gives you for this round to deal with the 
 guys, then jump the arms. in the gap when the arms stop, quickly start turning the wheel, but be 
 ready for more guys and arms. then you get some but not all of your health back, the boss gets 
 all of his health back and stronger attacks for the fight sequence, a longer button pressing sequence, 
 more arms to jump and guys to fight. and again. and again.
  
  my frustration mounted from oops to that didn't work to well, fark to punching the couch cushions, 
 having to be careful not to be loud and wake sleeping family members, to honest to god throwing 
 the controller at one point.
  
  so, if you're looking for 5-6 hours of gorey gruesome fun followed by 45 minutes of  
 frustration, definately a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets talk about the Bad frist off the combat fights with normal fighters comes off slow its like 
 Conan is in slow mode at times and when you get like a wave of men comming at you kind of gets 
 old and slow paced. Heavnely Sword comes off a lot better in the fighting. The Grahpics looked 
 washed out like the back grounds of the Game. What i love about Conan is the Great Boss fights 
 just awsome. also Conan comes off like a Sinbad movie in my view. the hacking off limbs of the 
 on comming fighters and diffrent moves you can earn are very cool. The voice acting is very good. 
 Over all i love Conan the Game and sure it has some flaws but i over look them with all the good 
 and fun. And i did buy Conan in my view its worth 59 bucks. Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  gameplay 9/10
  
  graphics 9/10
  
  sound 10/10
  
  value 8/10
  
  conan is a great but hard game. its really fun but also frustrating at the same time. gameplay: 
 hard but fun, conan offers alot of intense action and good adventure. its very entertaing and very 
 fun. i enjoyed it very much. the creatures were amazing looking at were very fun to fight... even 
 if i did take a long time to kill them. the game wasnt as good as other action adventure games 
 that ive played but it was still great. better then alot of games ive played. 9/10 second best 
 part of conan
  
  graphics: pretty good. the creatures and atmosphers were very good. 3rd best part of conan
  
 
  sound: truly amazing. every thing sounded so real. i cant belive how good this game sounded. best 
 part of conan
  
  value: the value was good. you could definetly play it for a couple of months if ur bored. but 
 after a while ull get tired of it. defietly buy it though cause its definetly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schlemer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Of all the games have in both my PS3 and 360 library, this is the one that sees 
 the most action. Why, well for me its just plain fun. Now, thats not to say it is without its 
 quirks, but they are not enough to hamper the game. The game controls really well, which is first 
 and foremost. Sound (music) is good as well. The voice acting is cheese, but what do you expect 
 from barbarians? The graphics seem to be a sore spot to some. For me it works, It tries to follow 
 in the vein of the legendary Frank Frazetta (for those who dont know who he is, google him) .
 
  
  Many have complained of it being a God of War rip-off, get over it. Every game is inspired by something 
 else. Its what the creators do to differentiate their game from one another. That being said, 
 I love God of War, Heavenly Sword and Conan all the same. The are all great in their own right. 
 My only complain with Conan is the matter of voice acting. There is no reason at this point in 
 time that a game made on the PS3 (the version I own) should have this issue. Developers and publishers 
 need to not worry so much about deadlines, but quality of their titles. Its one thing if a buyer 
 doesnt like a game for its style, but they dont need the added ammo of a buggy game. Even so, 
 I still love he game and am having fun (which is why I bought it) with it. Those who love the action 
 games and Conan should not hesitate. Some may want to wait for a $30 or $20 drop, that may be an 
 easier pill to swallow. In reality, Conan is not the must have game for either system. Its more 
 in line with Tomb Raider Legends or Anniversary, good game but not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlinkFan7221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  I got this game today on the PS3 and have been playing non stop. Like an oddly-paced action movie, 
 it starts off slow and then gets intense as the levels progress. The game hides aspects of itself 
 that it reveals in later levels where the aspects become useful, unlike it's similar game God of 
 War, in which the opening tutorial basically runs you through everything that you can do in the 
 game. In the beginning of Conan, you are introduced to basic fighting, with simplistic level designs 
 that allow you to develop your skills using those basic fighting techniques only. In proceeding 
 levels, you learn advanced techniques such as using objects and the environment to defeat your 
 foes. What's particularly appealing about this game are the boss fights. In contrast to God of 
 War, the boss fights are a bit more creative, allowing you to kill the bosses in rediculously more 
 stylish ways. On a final note, this is basically the only good game on the PS3 right now, thanks 
 to almost every single October/November release being pushed to December or 2008. So, if you have 
 the dough, I'd recommend spending it because by the time the next big blockbuster on the PS3 comes 
 along, your savings will be nagging you to purchase the next big adventure in the video game universe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astlan
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  If you have any gaming skills and want a challenging game that's going to entertain you, this is 
 not the way to go. Also please do not compare this game to God of war, I would rather beat GOW 
 10 times through than touch this game. Just a bad game with no point, there are better ways to 
 waste time
  
  I was bored after the first 2 minutes, than I had to do the same thing for the next two hours, 
 fortunately I was smart enough to put the controller down. It's so bad I almost read a book. Just 
 people trying to sell a game off blood and killing. I'm all into killing lots of things, but doing 
 the same thing over and over with no variance gets really boring. A game needs to have many different 
 aspects which this has none of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbordi
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  All right.. lets get to the point; This game SUCK!
  
  from beginning to end there is nothing good, well except that you feel good sometimes when you 
 crush the heads of your enemies.
  the graphics suck.. (can't believe that gamespot says it looks good?!) .. the characters look like 
 trash. their movement is stiff and unrealistick. lots of bad textures and bad edges all over the 
 game. the enviroment looks pale and uninteresting.
  effects look bad as well.. just some cool blood effetcs.
  
  the controlls and gameplay laks 
 everything. its just terrible.
  conan moves like the hulk without legs, see where im going?!
  the controls is slow, and its not 
 doing what you want it to do. (even if you really push the right buttons) and that is really frustrating.
 
  and sometimes it does not respont right at all. (makes me wanna kill the controller even though 
 its the games foult.)
  
  the sound, music and voice acting is all dull.
  boring and non intense music makes this boring,
  just the same sound and noises all over and 
 over again.
  the voice acting is crappy! seriously is there really used any voiceactors in this game? or just 
 some people found on the street? its that bad.
  
  its like they try to be God of War, but they fail badly and end up with this piece of **** thats 
 not even worth playing the demo for.
  its a total waste of time and there is several games that is so much better than this. (for PS3 
 i would go for heavenly sword)
  
  this game is not even worth the rent so find something else to spent your time and money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja-legend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Conan really does a lot of things right. This is supposed to be a game about a savage killer with 
 a love for life and combat. And it delivers. Right off the bat, you'll be decapitating, dismembering, 
 and will eviscerate enemies at will. The ability to upgrade your moves through a point system is 
 also nice, and keeps the combat from being too repetitive. The game, unlike heavenly sword, actually 
 makes you feel like a powerful, unstoppable being. The boss combat is cool also. I have not been 
 as impressed with the boss fights since god of war. Man, this game just screams violent. If that 
 is not your cup of tea, the slightly less refined controls may put you off. They don't feel as 
 tight as ninja gaiden. But for those people who are not sadistic will be pleased to know, the difficulty 
 level is not quite as high. Yet it is harder than the cake walk that was god of war. All in all, 
 flaws aside, this game was well worth my $60. Above all, this game remembers why I play games in 
 the fist place. To have fun. And to all those technically superior games out their that feel more 
 like work to me, Conan, send them to Crom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AASthemanAAS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Very Very good game! Love the gore im into those kind of games. They need more of these games on 
 every platform. With the nonstop action and conans brutal killing off of his foes is very satisfying! 
 Keep games like this comin. I however would like to see more balance in the difficulty of your 
 enemies. The difficulty of some characters is much harder than i would have thought it would be 
 before playing the game. The removing of limbs however drew me in and i just had to have this game! 
 The environments are very detailed as well and that gives you a better feel for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bull_Of_Mors
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I hear people acussing this game of being a god of war ripoff, i think it may have borrowed some 
 ideas from it but what game hasnt done that before?. Lets get started this game can either be one 
 of the greatest hack n slash youve ever played or it can be your worst, depends on wether you like 
 Conan or not. The gameplay borrows heavly from God Of War with small puzzles and great little mini 
 games to keep you entertained instead of constant killing, speaking of killing this is where the 
 game stands out!. The violence is great and over the top with limbs coming of everywich way but 
 loose, theres great new moves and specials you unlock. And with every big boss you beat you unlock 
 another peice of Conan's choice armour. I honestly love this game except for i dont have a high 
 def tv so the lines are huge on the game lol!, but you get so immersed in the game you dont worry 
 about it at all wich is very good. It also feels like those old Lord Of The Rings game on ps2 yes 
 the Old Skool ones i mean overall its a mix between LOTR's... and GOW wich makes one hell of an 
 adventure featuring a great main character Conan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackwhitehead
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  ok this is brilliant the combo actions are realy responsive as well as the parrying. all the fighting 
 in this game will compare brillaintly with ninja gaiden
  
  the platforming part of the gaem is brillant though not as good as god of war but it is fun to 
 see what happens at the end. the way you change weapons are brillaint you can have so many differnet 
 weapons and it is fun to see what happens with all of them
  
  OMG the boss battles are like plaing a hd god of war but with conan and it's not in greece
  
 
  though this is next gen it hasn't got the best looking graphics. the characters are well done 
 but don't look as well done as heavenly sword and the cutscenes aren't as good as heavenly sword. but 
 what they did improve on is the gameplay gore.
  
  ok just to anyone this is a must buy to people who loved god of war ninja gaiden and devil may 
 cry or if you are a big fan of action game this is put simple ripping things to death saving chicks 
 with there boobs out and more death 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendo1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  This could not be more like God Of War If it tried. Developers nihilistic are shameless in thier 
 pilfering of a gaming classic, pumping the same mythology, brutality and central character into 
 this chop em up.
  Fortunately though, thats not necessarily a bad thing, Conan's similarity with God Of War actually 
 works in its a favour for two crucial reasons: a) God Of War is ace and b) we dont have a God Of 
 War game on our PS3's yet so at the moment this is the only chance we are going o get to liquify 
 hourdes of mythological bad guys with a big sword on sony's console.
  
  Conan has a solid storyline and benefits from a smooth control system (exactly like God Of Wars 
 in every way) and battle gameplay which rewards combo use with extra power and yet more deadly 
 moves. All in all Conan is a completely satisfying adventure game which fans of Kratos should take 
 a look at and everyone else should give a chance. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
