-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Condemned 2: Bloodshot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/condemned2bloodshot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gruesome and fulfilling hand-to-hand combat.
 A good number of creative weapons to pummel your enemies with.
 Excellent, grimy visuals and superb sound design.
 Evidence-gathering mechanics have been greatly improved over the original.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gunplay isn't as good as melee.
 With the exception of crime scene, the multiplayer modes are useless.
 Some attempts at variety don't work out too well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This horror-themed sequel's thrilling set pieces and bloody combat are remarkably satisfying but 
 not for the faint of heart. 

  Parents, be warned: Condemned 2: Bloodshot is not a game fit for children. At choice moments in 
 Monolith's gruesome and demented first-person horror adventure game, you'll impale rioters on rebar, 
 crush the heads of the homeless in a gigantic vise, and force the faces of far freakier foes into 
 toilet bowls. Every one of these actions is accompanied by blood-spurting visuals, shouted epithets, 
 and the slimy sounds of entrails splattering onto the floor and walls. Like a good slasher flick, 
 the game makes no bones about its controversial content; it lets you decide how you want to execute 
 each maniacal foe and then showcases the mutilation in macabre detail. If you played the game's 
 grisly predecessor, the gore should come as no surprise, though it's still impressive how well 
 Bloodshot manages to one-up the original Condemned's violence at every turn. The volume has certainly 
 been turned up.  

           Bad guy say ouch.      

  All of the vivid neck-breaking and throat-slashing action translates into equally intense scripted 
 events. Condemned 2 is, at heart, a series of fantastic moments. These individual moments aren't 
 always connected in ways that make sense, but they're powerful and memorable, and a testament to 
 the ever-rewarding nature of the jump-out-of-your-seat surprise. But a surprise is only as good 
 as its setup, and the game's finest asset is its ability to create a thick, dreadful atmosphere, 
 and then reward your emotional and physical investment in that dread with a shock and a scare. 
 You'll scour the grungiest, darkest corners of a besieged city, from a creepy bowling alley to 
 a claustrophobic dockyard. The payoff in each scenario is proportionate to the terror the game 
 so cunningly instills. Two separate chase scenes come to mind immediately and stand as the most 
 unforgettable gaming moments of the year so far, though even the less-dramatic sequences can feel 
 like a bludgeon to the brain. In the end, it doesn't matter how a magic theater and a doll factory 
 relate to one another. What's important is that each level will cause you to hold your breath, 
 only to expel it in a single gasp.  

  Somehow, Monolith found a way to fit Ethan Thomas's continuing battle with his own demons into 
 these set pieces, with mostly positive results. Ethan is as bitter and jaded as ever, and he's 
 used the bottle to bury the troubles of his mysterious past. In need of his services, the Serial 
 Crime Unit pulls Ethan from the gutter and implores him to assist them in investigating the enigmatic 
 cause behind Metro City's unstoppable crime wave. During the course of the game, Ethan unlocks 
 the secrets of an obscure conspiracy. Don't be surprised if you get a Silent Hill vibe from the 
 experience: The lines between the real world and the paranormal are confusingly blurred together, 
 and as enjoyable as the overall story arc is, Bloodshot doesn't answer as many questions as you'd 
 hope. Just when you think you might come face-to-face with the truth (and just as some major story 
 twists and a new gameplay mechanic are revealed) , you're left with a few savory hints and the promise 
 of the inevitable sequel.  

  The general anxiety is further enhanced by the most decrepit and decayed visual design in recent 
 memory. You can taste the dust in the air as you traverse Metro City's dank environs, and the rough 
 textures make every wall and object look gritty and run-down. The lighting is evocative and creepy, 
 sometimes even more so when you turn on your flashlight in the darkest areas. The stylized effects 
 that indicate a paranormal encounter are sometimes overdone, but for the most part, they set the 
 right mood and parallel Ethan's battle with the bottle. The sound is even better. The slams of 
 metal against flesh are conveyed perfectly, as are the grunts and cries of your opponents. Furthermore, 
 moments of silence contribute to the sense of fear, making the high quality of the scuffles and 
 creaks that break up those moments even more memorable. In addition, the voice acting is fantastic, 
 and the eerie, understated musical score sets the tone without getting in the way.  

           Bad guy go boom.      

  It all comes down to vivid imagery and shock value, and Bloodshot 
 gives you plenty of control over how you manipulate them. There are more weapons to play around 
 with than in the first Condemned, thanks to the inspired locales. You'll be spending some time 
 in dark alleys, where baseball bats, pipes, and two-by-fours are waiting to be grabbed and swung, 
 but even better instruments of destruction are found in a deserted lodge and an abandoned bowling 
 alley. Favorites include saws that look like lollipops, deer antlers, medieval swords, paper cutter 
 blades, bowling pins, and locker doors. A good variety of items can be grabbed and used to bludgeon 
 enemies with, but this isn't the only improvement to the formula. The basic hand-to-hand combat 
 is enhanced, and you can attack with both fists this time, using the corresponding trigger to swing. 
 You can also string combos together for more damage, and there's a terrific sense of impact when 
 your fist or bludgeon finds its target.  

  Melee fisticuffs are rather deliberate affairs. They force you to pay close attention to every 
 move so that you can block when necessary and throw in a combo when your enemy staggers. This isn't 
 always easy: Bloodshot's artificial intelligence will challenge you. Foes run and seek cover, grab 
 weapons off of the ground, and change up their attack patterns, which makes for some challenging 
 fights (and some well-earned sighs of relief when they are over) . As if this didn't make for enough 
 variety, there is also a meter that fills as your kill count rises. Filling the bar lets you unleash 
 finishing moves on your opponents. When this happens, everything moves into slow motion and a series 
 of contextual button presses tell you what you need to do to finish off your target. This mechanic 
 has been overdone elsewhere, but it feels natural here because the mechanic is an offshoot of the 
 "pull right trigger, swing right fist" controls used in basic combat.     

   

  You can also use the environment to your benefit if an injured combatant falls to his knees. At 
 this point, any number of objects will be marked with a skull, and you can drag your victim to 
 one of them, where an item-appropriate kill will take place. Drag him to a washing machine, and 
 you shove his head in. Pull him over to a blazing inferno, and you toss him into the flames. Some 
 of these kills, such as throwing an undead magician's assistant over a balcony, aren't all that 
 dramatic. Others, such as picking up a muscled attacker and impaling him on a slab of spiked concrete, 
 are insanely violent. In this case, we shoved our attacker into the rebar and pushed him flush 
 into the concrete. The rebar then weakened and the victim slid off and onto the floor, where he 
 let out a single violent tremor before perishing.  

           Bad guy go splat.      

  You'll be using some ranged weapons as well, though you aren't limited to just standard guns. This 
 isn't the game's strongest suit, given that the confined levels make it difficult to get in a comfortable 
 position for a firefight. In fact, Bloodshot's weakest segments are those that revolve around ranged 
 combat, such as a bland F. E. A. R.-inspired level that occurs in the SCU offices. Nevertheless, the 
 shooting mechanics aren't bad, and the limited ammo available to you at most times means you can't 
 rely on an assault rifle for long. You'll also find yourself lugging around a crossbow, which figures 
 heavily in a few boss fights. There's an interesting twist regarding aiming here that revolves 
 around Ethan's alcoholism. To calm your nerves, you can take a swig from a booze bottle, which 
 temporarily calms the jitters you experience when looking down your sights.  

  You'll be collecting some evidence from murder sites for Rosa at the lab again, but this aspect 
 of the series has been improved. In fact, it requires some actual thought on the part of the player. 
 In some cases, you need to use a black light to spot the pattern of blood and determine how the 
 victim was killed. In others, you inspect electrical panels, a disembodied head, and a series of 
 X-rays. You'll be pressed to answer correctly based on contextual clues (in one case, paying particular 
 attention to the story) , and correct answers reward you with a better end-level medal, as well 
 as an upgrade to show for it, such as the ability to holster a sidearm, or a boost to your health. 
 You aren't going to be doing as much forensic analysis in Bloodshot as you did in the original 
 Condemned, and it's too bad, because this element is much more interesting this time around.  

 
  For all that it does right, Bloodshot could have used some tightening up. It tries to be varied 
 by throwing in some puzzle sequences, unusual gameplay twists, and a few other odds and ends, but 
 those added tidbits detract rather than add to the experience. One case in point is a sequence 
 in which you use a magnetic crane to pick up metal meanies and drop them into a compactor. It's 
 annoying, out of place, and simply doesn't work. Another example is the doll factory level, in 
 which exploding dolls wander around, threatening to detonate any time, when all you want to do 
 is figure out the equally absurd puzzle at hand. At other times, overzealous collision detection 
 might get you stuck on the smallest object, or a much-needed prompt to grab a weapon won't appear 
 because you aren't facing exactly the right way. We could have done without some of the unnecessary 
 filler, if it meant smoothing out some of the rough edges.  

           Bad guy fall down.      

  We could have also done without the mostly unnecessary multiplayer 
 modes, though one of them isn't without its charm. That mode is called crime scene, and it pits 
 a team of SCU agents against a team of Influenced. The Influenced team hides briefcases of evidence 
 while the agents must find them, and it creates a sometimes fascinating cat-and-mouse experience 
 that makes playing on either team enjoyable. The other three modes -- deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and bum rush -- are all variants on the usual killing extravaganza, but they just aren't that good. 
 Not only is online play plagued with a lot of lag, but the calculated pace of melee combat also 
 translated poorly to a multiplayer experience. You should note that a week after release, not many 
 people are playing online, and if you're playing on the PlayStation 3, then you may have particular 
 trouble finding a match.  

  Bear in mind that if you wince at violence or get nauseous at the sight of blood, this is not the 
 game for you. It's brutal and often disturbing, and certainly not appropriate for everyone. However, 
 assuming you are prepared for the intensity of such a gory undertaking, you'll find that the fierceness 
 of the carnage is paired with compelling gameplay so that each benefits the other. It may take 
 you nine hours or so to finish up the main story, though you can return to it at higher difficulty 
 levels, or take on some of the simple unlockable challenges and compare your scores to those of 
 others via online leaderboards. But the reason to play Condemned 2: Bloodshot is to be scared, 
 to be shocked, and to explore the secrets of a slimy world where the natural and the supernatural 
 become intertwined.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  I picked up Condemned 2: Bloodshot after seeing glimpses of gameplay and a few reviews and after 
 playing the demo, I had also heard some good things about both Condemned 1 and 2 
  
  (although I have only ever played the Condemned 1 Demo, not the full game)
  
  Alot of people 
 have judged this game harshly based on what they've experienced in the demo, believe me people, 
 the demo is not even a 10th of what the full game has to offer and here's why...
  
  
  STORY: The story revolves around Ethan Thomas, an Alcoholic crime scene investigator who is hunting 
 down a dangeorus serial killer known as "Serial Killer X" The game takes you to interesting places 
 such as abandoned factories swarming with demonic explosive dolls, City Streets and buildings crowded 
 with Lunatics, Drug addicts and Rioters, A musem overrrun by Murderers and Psychopaths among other 
 terrifying, horrificly beautiful locations. 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: Condemned 2 is a First Person Shooter/Horror video Game which is more focused on Melee 
 Combat rather than Gunplay, The melee combat system is what makes the game so much fun, you can 
 crush your enemies with pretty much anything you see including Pipes, Wrenches, Bricks, Wooden 
 Planks, Sledgehammers even... *TOILET SEATS*.... Yes.... Fu****g TOILET SEATS!
  
  Ammo in the game is also pretty scarce so you're going to have to rely on melee combat throughout 
 the game, which trust me, Is NOT a bad thing, especially when the melee system is so much fun. 
 ^_^
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER: The multiplayer is also brilliant, there are four different game modes to choose from 
 including your typical deathmatch, Bum Rush, King of the Hill and the most interesting mode, Crime 
 Scene, which involves two teams, Cops and Criminals, the criminals must hide two evidence crates 
 while the Cops use their scanners to try and find and (you guessed it) scan them. The cops will 
 have guns to start off with and the criminals can beat the living s**t out of the cops with whatever 
 they find on the floor, be it a Cleaver, a wooden plank with nails, A meat hook etc.
  
  The only complaint I really have about the online is that there are not too many people playing 
 all the time.
  
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are simply beautiful in the game, they create a dark, immersive atmosphere 
 that will keep you coming back for more. The lighting effects are especially cool and how much 
 fun do you think it is to creep around in the dark and sneak up on someone in multiplayer and batter 
 them? yes it is fun :D 
  
  But anyway as I was saying, The character models in the game are very flexible and extremely well 
 detailed as are the environments and the weapons, the physics are also top notch.
  
  
  SOUND: The sound is also a very important element for what makes Condemned 2 such an awesome, creepy 
 game, the voice acting is brilliant all round and the music is very dark and chilling, the sounds 
 heard when fighting are Very beleivable and bone chilling.... Screaming, Smashing and Agony can 
 all be heard when melee fighting.
  
  
  REPLAY VALUE: you're probably thinking "it seems to have everything, including a high amount of 
 replay value, is there anything else condemned 2 can offer?!" 
  
  
  Yes, there is, its one of my favourite modes in the game, once you've finished the campaign you 
 can go into the "Bloodshot Fight Club" there are various different "scenarios" you can partake 
 in, probably my favourite one is when you have to kill the three masked guys as fast as possible, 
 there are others including, "Destory as many Dolls as possible in the time limit" or something 
 like that lol
  
  There is also a Practice mode where you can do basically whatever you want, you can choose what 
 weapons you'd like to fight with, what types of enemies you want to fight whether it be agents, 
 Rioters, Metal Bums or maybe even a Mix! 
  
  You can also choose how many enemies you'd like to fight at once. One, two or three, The weapons 
 you can choose from are "light melee, Heavy Melee, Exotic Melee and Firearms"
  
  you can also choose extras such as "Debris, Alcohol Bottles and Molotov Cocktails" 
  
  
  
 
  CONCLUSION: I may have missed a few things but overall, Condemned 2 is a brilliant game with a 
 high amound of replay value, thrilling gameplay, an immersive story, and great online play, you 
 should definitely try it out if you own a PS3 or an Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  Thanks for reading my review! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aarontwhitehead
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  The game is reasonably priced and I read all of the reviews so decided to give it a try. It is 
 basically a first person shooter that centers more on melee combat. This is an interesting premise 
 and I can see where it could have been a truly great game. The problems start with the combat itself. 
 When I first started the game it seemed pretty cool to beat someone with a nail studded 2X4 but 
 I kept itching for a gun. Well the wait was not long. I got a riot gun with 5 bullets. Yes 5 bullets. 
 That might have been OK but it takes 2-3 shots to kill someone, basically because you cannot aim 
 the dang gun. It seems your character is an alcoholic and requires a drink to calm his nerves. 
 There are other less dysfunctional characters in the game that I kept longing to play instead of 
 this drunk guy. So I used my five bullets on 2 enemies and then had to resort to a pipe. While 
 the game can be pretty gory, luckily the graphics seem about 5 years old and are not even close 
 to realistic. The blood looks more like tar in most of the levels. The enemies are brutal and they 
 will jump you 2 or 3 at a time. The combat is not predictable and the enemies have very random 
 patterns of combat, they land combos that can pretty much kill you instantly. The game wants you 
 to push buttons as you are prompted on the screen much like a script. And that is not all that 
 is scripted, there is very little exploration in the game. You pretty much have to follow the outlined 
 path. It seems the developer decided to make the game longer by having you reload the level over 
 and over and play it until you get it right. I may be a little sour to it because I had been playing 
 MGS4 and Oblivion prior to this game. Those games were great, with great story lines, fun gameplay, 
 lots of content, and leave this one as a mediocre game with a bargain bin price. Personally I would 
 say go out and buy Fallout, Oblivion, or MGS4 and you will be better rewarded with a lot of great 
 gameplay. There are too many good to great games on the pS3 that should be played prior to wasting 
 time and money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is just about a great game, mainly due to its awesome melee style combat. The first-person 
 perspective works well, and there is a wide variety of brutal weapons lying about, to violently 
 overpower your enemies.
  There is also a variety of dark environments with creepy masked thugs to inflict horrible finishers. 
 Such as: crush enemies heads in huge mechanical vices or cave in an enemies head on a urinal. Still, 
 the violence adds to the enjoyment as you can experiment with new weapons and unleash devastating 
 combos.
  A good forensics element also makes an interesting game as you need to look and listen carefully 
 to the story in need to advance and gain rewards.
  There is rarely any firearms lying about (until near the end) so there are numerous opportunities 
 with found items; including crutches and explosive dolls. A worthwhile experience for anyone with 
 a taste for strong, gory violence. It can prove frustrating though, if you can't master the block 
 and counter ability.
  
  Story- 4/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 3/5
  Graphics- 2/5
  Sound- 4/5
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 3/5
  
  Good Points: A variety 
 of weapons to use, Some creepy levels, Forensic scenes are great intriguing fun, Good story.
  
  Bad Points: It can become frustrating on harder difficulties, Poor level design, Graphics are 
 nothing special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the first "Condemned". It was one of the scariest games in years and it had 
 a very interesting story to go along with its intense, brain-bashing first person melee combat. 
 "Condemned 2" tries to address some of the faults with the first game by adding a lot more variety 
 to the combat while upgrading the forensics aspects of the game. They are noble attempts, but Condemned 
 2 ultimately fails. The game's story fails to live up to the first one, and in the meantime, it 
 has become a lot more frustrating and less fun than its terrifying predecessor. Suffice it to say, 
 Condemned 2 was a disappointment for me.
  
  The root of this game's woes is a handful of irritating problems with the combat. The defining 
 trait of the series is its brutal and visceral first person melee brawling. Bashing someone's head 
 with a metal pipe in first person is one of the most intense experiences that you can have in a 
 video game. Melee combat in first person is at a disadvantage though, since it lacks the perspective 
 that makes it better in third person. It can be difficult to tell how far you must be from your 
 opponent to just barely reach him with your weapon or exactly where a punch is going to land. This 
 game has that problem, and then a few more.
  
  A major issue is horrible hit detection. Enemies will often register a hit even if you watch their 
 fist or weapon pass three feet in front of your face. This problem makes it very difficult to goad 
 an opponent into swinging and just barely missing you while you counter with an attack of your 
 own. In addition, sometimes they will register a hit even before their punching or swinging motion 
 is only half-finished. Block-and-counter is necessary for survival, but it is next-to-impossible 
 to accomplish with any consistency. Sometimes you will push the L1 and R1 buttons to block a punch 
 and right before it becomes effective, your enemy will score a hit with his arm in mid swing. Sometimes, 
 they will punch through your block for no apparent reason. Enemies can sometimes string together 
 fast combos and can lunge forward and score a hit from far away. They attack with almost no pattern, 
 making it incredibly hard to establish any rhythm. 
  
  Occasionally, you will find some guns that you can briefly carry around to defend yourself with. 
 The bullets are strong and will generally take down most enemies pretty fast, but the gunplay generally 
 isn't very good. Aiming isn't very fine-tuned, and the game auto-switches to a melee attack when 
 enemies are close  this means that it is impossible to shoot enemies at point blank range. The 
 tight, cramped level size and the frequency of close encounters makes this problem come up frequently. 
 Speaking of close encounters, it's not uncommon for two or more enemies to ambush you while you 
 are busy fighting someone else or manipulating something next to a wall. They will trap you and 
 kill you within a few seconds. Even on the easiest setting, Condemned has a lot of kills that are 
 cheap and irritating, giving you the feeling like you got a raw deal more than that you did something 
 wrong.
  
  The game encourages you to attack with combos such as the block-and-counter or a left-right duo. 
 Enemies can break your combos by scoring a hit, which is easy for them since they will always immediately 
 counter your first hit. This is an even bigger problem if you are facing more than one enemy, which 
 is next to impossible on the medium difficulty level. Enemies seem to have more stamina than they 
 had in the first game  they can take a half dozen wrenches to the face before finally going down. 
 Combat problems are exacerbated by Condemned 2's punishing and unforgiving difficulty level. This 
 game is so hard that even the "Easy" setting is harder than the "Medium" for most games. It crosses 
 the line between "challenging" and "irritating" far too often. You will frequently find yourself 
 getting pummeled for a third of your health by enemies that you thought were too far away to hit 
 your, or that you just had no chance of blocking. The first "Condemned" was pretty hard, but it 
 was fun and compelling. "Condemned 2", on the other hand, had me struggling just to get through 
 it.
  
  "Bloodshot" looks virtually identical to the first game in most of its areas. By-and-large, that 
 statement is not a compliment. The first game was a good showcase for the capabilities of the Xbox 
 360 at launch, and it looked great on the PC. Since then, three years have passed, and the bar 
 for what looks average and what looks outstanding has been raised substantially. Games like Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, Heavenly Sword, Crysis, Mass Effect, and Gears of War easily blow away Condemned 
 2 in their visuals. This game isn't ugly per se, but the graphics aren't a selling point. The dark 
 and shadow-filled levels can are very atmospheric, but never being able to see much on the screen 
 gets tiresome. Some occasional well-lit levels, such as a police station, are not very impressive 
 and look out of date. In general, the technology in the game isn't all that impressive. The levels 
 are small and constricted, full of one foot high walls of rubble that prevent you from deviating 
 much from a tight path.
  
  Condemned 2 doesn't get a lot of mileage out of its story either. The first game was more of a 
 mysterious horror game where your goal was to find a violent serial killer. This game takes all 
 kinds of twists and turns where you uncover some kind of huge conspiracy that spans thousands of 
 years and reaches high levels, including the President of the United States. There is some Illuminati-like 
 organization responsible for the ills of the world, called The Oro. It's all rather silly, but 
 the game takes it seriously. The dialog, by-and-large, is uninspired. 
  
  These complaints may make "Bloodshot" sound like a terrible game, but it isn't. The combat could 
 have used a lot more fine tuning, but when it works, it can be great. It is still, by far, the 
 most violent and intense experience that you can have in first person gaming. Grabbing blunt objects 
 in the environment and beating opponents to a pulp increases adrenaline flow more than just about 
 any other experience you can have. The enemy AI is impressive at times. They will also grab objects 
 out of the environment like pipes and wrenches and attack you with them. The forensic aspects of 
 the game require more puzzle solving than they did in the first game, and this is the biggest improvement. 
 You don't have to work very hard in these sections to get through the game, but getting a perfect 
 score on them helps unlock better upgrades such as improved accuracy and more melee damage. 
  
  Even though I loved the first "Condemend", I have a very hard time recommending this game. 
 It is essentially a first person beat-em-up, and because of all of the problems with the combat, 
 it fails. By the time the eight or ten hours that it took me to finish the game was over, I was 
 sort of relieved. After a few dozen times of getting killed by phantom weapons and fists from enemies 
 that were six feet away from me, I had had enough. If you are looking for a creepy game that will 
 give you a tough challenge (and you don't mind a lot of cheap irritations) , then you might enjoy 
 this game. If, on-the-other hand, you desire a high level of polish in combat, impressive technology, 
 and/or a compelling story, then you should probably pass on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 reminds me of a next generation game that combines elements of Manhunt and Silent Hill. 
 Great graphics with a cast of bad guys ranging from street thugs, monsters, and demented possessed 
 homeless people, there's no shortage of adversaries waiting in the darkness. The eerie settings 
 make you hesitate to take another step around each dark corner in fear of what lies ahead. Game 
 play is seen through a fist person view with smooth controls and good camera angles. As you engage 
 in hand to hand combat, you will learn a variety of combos to finish off your opponents. Although 
 learning how to accurately put these combos together to make them work was one of the only difficult 
 parts of the game that I never seemed to master. 
  
  You play as renegade special agent Ethan Thomas. A tough angst ridden guy with a thirst for a drink 
 anytime he can have one and a short fuse to say the least. Along your travels you will pick up 
 a variety of weapons to use that never seems to get boring. You will find weapons ranging from 
 light to heavy. Rummage through junk to find 2x4's ( with nails of course ) , conduit pieces, or 
 a bowling ball. Pick up a heavier weapon like a shovel, axe, gumball machine or even a prosthetic 
 arm. Each weapon will give a rating as to it's damage, speed, reach and condition it's in. This 
 making it easier to decide what to grab when fighting for you life. You can also throw these objects 
 at enemies as well. Guns are also available throughout the game. Pistols, shotguns and rifles make 
 it easier to blast through enemies but watch your ammo. Taking a swig of any alcohol you may come 
 across to improve your aim tremendously. 
  
  In addition to fighting, the game also adds great forensics challenges as well. Gather clues to 
 send back to the lab for analysis. You are eventually equipped with a spectrometer, camera, UV 
 light and a GPS navigation system. Gathering the right clues and answering your partners questions 
 correctly will lead to greater rewards and help solve crimes quicker. These challenges make the 
 game much more interesting than just fighting bad guys level after level. 
  
  Condemned 2 is a great horror survival game that has everything you could ask for. However, there 
 are a few cons. The first is the on screen text. I played this game on a standard TV that has always 
 looked great for games. But the text in Condemned 2 is so small, it can be almost impossible to 
 read at times. This can be extremely frustrating when trying to accurately gather evidence and 
 solve a crime. I've read that people with larger HDTV's even had a difficult time reading the text 
 as well. Also, Ethan has limited ability to move. He cant really jump onto things ( unless at certain 
 points in a level where an on screen prompt tells him to ) and he can't duck and hide in the shadows 
 too well. It would have been nice to see a bit more stealth added to the game like in Manhunt. 
 Overall I highly recommend this game. It was fun and challenging. The combination of combat and 
 puzzle solving added a lot of variety to Condemned 2. As any game you really enjoy, it could have 
 been a bit longer. The end was a bit anti climatic as well, but getting there was enjoyable the 
 whole way through.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enok6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:35 am PT
Review:  condemned one was different from anything i had ever played before. Basically Condemned 2 does 
 the same thing as number one just better.
  Story:
  It starts some months after the first one. Ethan Thomas, now a drunken bum, is brought back to 
 the force to find your old "friend". on the way you will a counter low-thugs, trained gunmen, animals 
 and other more supernatural beings.
  
  Game play:
  The game play is great. The game tries to keep you in first person all the time except little cut-scenes.
 
  The combat is fun and brutal. they still have the every thing is a weapon from the first game 
 and a few guns are scatted around. They have also added Hand to hand combat that works great. one 
 problem with the combat is that it is mostly useless against more that one enemy.
  
  Level design:
  It has the same build up as the first one. With that i meen it is Dark and tight 
 (Aha i know what you are thinking) .
  With tight i meen it is mostly dark corridors but there are a few "dark" alleyways and other outdoor 
 areas.
  
  So to make a long story short it is creepy, brutal and is in descent length. any fps horror fan 
 will have fun with this.
  Thank you for reading my first review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmalignancy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is the first, and only, Condemned game on the PS3 system. The first game, 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins, was only released on the 360, which is a bit of a disappointment for 
 those who don't own a 360. (Myself being on of those people) Bloodshot takes place about a year 
 after the first game. You are Ethan Thomas, the same character from the first game, but only now 
 you are a completely different Thomas. A Thomas whose life has descended into alcoholism and homelessness 
 after the traumatic events of the first game. Thomas is recruited back into the SCU upon receiving 
 notice from Malcolm Vanhorn. As Thomas investigates the disappearance of Vanhorn, he discovers 
 something that goes deeper than anyone imagined.
  
  Bloodshot is played entirely in first-person. Nearly every object in the game can be used as a 
 weapon, from bowling balls to candy machines to ancient swords. Bloodshot is full of violent weapons, 
 and environmental deaths. There is also a fair bit of gun play in the game, and even some supernatural 
 abilities. Not only is Bloodshot a non-stop action game, but also requires a fair amount of investigation 
 and logic. When you reach a crime scene you must investigate the scene to find answers on where 
 to go next, for example using a UV light to follow trails of blood. Properly investigating the 
 crime scenes and answering and asking questions correctly earns you extra points which can be used 
 to gain new upgrades like brass knuckles, body armor, quieter boots, and extra health.
  
  Overall, Bloodshot is a very enjoyable game. It was violent, but there was not as much gore as 
 I imagined there being. The plot wasn't something I was able to get too involved in, the characters 
 were very dull and stereotypical with a somewhat predictable ending. There have been several complaints 
 on the PS3 version about the sound clicking, I too have noticed this but it really does not affect 
 the game play at all. The environments are unbelievably creepy, your enemies are unpredictable 
 and are all diverse, and there are plenty of scares throughout. Bloodshot is a great game, despite 
 very minor flaws. I strongly recommend it to anyone who enjoys survival-horror. The replay value 
 is great, so definitely try it out. The price has also dropped significantly lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what its title says a definite bloodshot rignt to the heart. By that I mean 
 you will enjoy playing this game but you may not feel comfortable or even feel well mostly throughout 
 this game. This is definitely not for the faint of heart if you have a weak heart, a weak immune 
 system, a weak will and last but not least if you get scared easily then you WILL be affected badly 
 by this type of game. But.. if you have all the opposite positive effects you will feel fine playing 
 this.
  
  now that I gave out a viewer discrection warning its time for me to review this game in it's entirity. 
 Ok first off I may have just started playing this game but it is as everyone's been saying it's 
 freakin bloody, gory very very dark and violent not too mention so twisted. There's no anticipation 
 in this enemies come at you very unexpectedly you have no room to predict when they will come at 
 you or where they are which can result in a lot of quick deaths. 
  
  The fighting is pretty cool and you get to use different combos on the enemies but these are meant 
 to be carried out in a quick swift manner so doing it that way is essential to staying alive. Whatys 
 even coller ios the different amount and types of weapons you get to use like: pipes, crowbars, 
 spiked wooden clubs, wrenches, hammers etc etc. Anoyher neat fighting technqiue you get to do is 
 shove an enemies head into a tv set now that's cool and innovative. So while this game is bloody, 
 gory, and violent the time and effort that was put into this game by Monolith has paid off because 
 it shows and that's what counts and matters most. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-orri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Worth buying and a great gameplay and multiplayer and scared the living **** out of me !! !!! !!! 
 ! !!! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! !!!!!!! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! Q! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! !! !! !! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! V!! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! !! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! ! !! ! ! !!! ! !! ! ! ! ! Q ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! W! W WE W E EFR D W AR 
 QE RED F FE DF EW FS DF RE G DS HBDS GHBF GHR H SFG REHF RE FREW GJRE FH EF RE RE FRE FYREW FR 
 F WE FWGTRH GWHESA FH TEWG REWH FHUT G REJFG TRG RSGF G RT% U F GFG JR% W F JGM JMREW JFGERGFTERSADFA 
 FESADF REA SFD FE SAD F ES !W SD SADGFD G DSA FRF DS F R G AD SDFE EW AS D E A S FD E A DFFEEADSDAFDFECASDASF 
 HASE DFESASDFAlsie DSGFCGFRGDg G wg g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  a lot of cool and unlimited violence can be found in condemned 2, thats is with no doubt the best 
 that the game offers.
  
  the gameplay is great and unique, the interaction with scenarios is even greater.
  the problem 
 is that when it is time to make the game happen, it doesnt hold to its strenghs.
  as soon as it begin you will realize how fun it is to fight around with all the melee weapons.
 
  the problem is the campaing in condemned attempts to innovate in other points as well, and is 
 it exactly here that the game fails.
  
  the story is pretty average, but the problem is that during it you will fight along with cops and 
 other organized forces and you will have to do some detective work.
  yes really like looking for glues etc...
  the idea is interesting but in the game this system 
 is way to boring, it is just about describing crime scenes, just describing what you are seeing.
 
  it doesnt take to long to get old, and most of the campaing missions have some very boring puzzles.
 
  so you can see that the potential of condemned 2 melee fights wasnt well used in the campaing.
 
  
  the multiplayer and the condemned fight club (that is an extra mode with some arenas to just keep 
 fighiting in different situations) may help to increase its value, and maybe to make it worth for 
 some players, but still i advice to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jspillen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was as spooky as I need a game to be. I really liked all the combos and continually got 
 better at the fighting technique. The scene with the bear is awesome. Great aiming and gunplay 
 even though it's sparse. The crime scene investigations were a very cool mix to gaming that I had 
 not seen before.
  
  The first 4 or 5 levels are by far the creepiest and the rest of the game is just a nice rendition 
 of solid action game play. I had a lot of fun with this one, and think playing through again will 
 probably be just as fun with all the new combos I've started to pull together.
  
  The story is also very solid in this game. I wasn't expecting it to be either, and I only felt 
 minutely out of the loop for not having played the first Condemned. All-in-all it's a solid stand 
 alone story, that gets you pretty interested. 
  Other highlights included - the scenes where your character is losing his mind to alcohol and paranoia. 
 They are excellent, you're wondering what the hell, and kind of trying not to shoot your partner. 
 I thought they were very freaky and would have welcomed the paranoid episodes to continue. 
  The multiplayer is not really anything to speak of, and honestly is almost impossible to actually 
 find someone else online. I see this game going new for $20- I would guess everyone into horror 
 survival games already bought it and now their just fishing for anyone else interested.
  
  All in all... I highly enjoyed it and will probably give it another play through once I finish 
 dead space, fallout 3, and far cry 2... then resistance 2 then MK vs DC, and COD 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIchigoxRukiax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of survival/horror games and when I first played this from a demo, I knew instantly 
 that I wanted to buy it. About a month later, I bought it at GameStop for twenty bucks. 
  
  The storyline is generally good, and you do not have to play the first game to understand what's 
 going on, however you may find yourself lost at some points if you haven't played it. 
  
  The combat is very fun. You can fight with your fists, a gun or some random object you just found 
 lying around. The chain attacks can be quite brutal and the environmental kills can also be brutal 
 and fun to pull off. (i. e. smashing someone's head into a television or shoving their head into 
 a filthy toilet) 
  
  When I played the demo, I was under the assumption that the game would be complete beat-em-up horror 
 all the way through. Unfortunately, that isn't the case. 
  
  The first few levels in the game are by far the scariest and will give you quite a thrill, especially 
 if you play at night and alone. (my recommendation) 
  
  And then..... things start going downhill. 
  
  The levels start becoming less scary and more 
 FPS-like. The firearm combat is not nearly as fun as melee combat, but it appears to be the main 
 theme of the game. Simply shooting the enemy will make the game ridiculously easy and less fun. 
 If you prefer the melee combat, then you will probably find yourself throwing guns away often, 
 however there are few instances that you are pretty much required to use a gun. Luckily, the game 
 will still keep its horror all the way through, though it will clearly be stronger in some levels 
 than it will be in others. 
  
  The game is not very difficult, and also will not take long to complete, but you will certainly 
 get a lot out of it. The developers did an outstanding job of creating a dreary atmosphere for 
 the environments, and the graphics look solid and great. 
  
  This game should definitely not be missed by anyone who is a fan of the genre. 
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdonisCharming
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Ya know these Action Survival or Horror games are just my favorite and maybe its when I got started 
 with the PS One RE. These types of games just keep getting better and in this case with Condemned 
 2 the lead can brawl. I mean pic up anything you can and beat the crap out of crazy's like your 
 life depended on it. I loved the versitility of the action and the investigation puzzels were a 
 great added touch. Graphics I'd also like to say were top and very polished.
  The thing I didnt like so much is how the story kind of dropped like 2/3 the way in. I like consistanly 
 and I like for there to be a big finish- and I have to say in my opinion... it lacked. I play out 
 a game not just for the challenge but for the story, and more important- how I effect the ending 
 through play.
  Condemned is worth the buy and I say its not the best of the gender but there's something about 
 the brawling with the steel pipes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nineball2112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Well, Condemned 2 is a good game that could have been better.
  
  The story is well written, the game mechanics are all there, and the evidence gathering mode is 
 interesting... but...
  
  It just felt a bit too bland to me... kind of the way The Darkness did. Both are good games but 
 they just didn't "wow" me.
  
  It's fun smashing enemies with your fists, or any number of other items you can grab. The gun mechanics 
 are excellent and the fact that you need to steady your aim at times is a nice touch.
  
  However, one major grip of mine was the fact that during the cabin area, I had enemies with their 
 bodies going through the floor while they were still fighting me. That's just unacceptable in a 
 modern video game.
  
  The online play at this point (09/08) is just dead (NO pun intended) . So, you'll only get the single 
 player experience.
  
  I'm not convinced that there is much more than low replayability for this game.
  
  Bottom line: 
 I would have no problem suggesting this as a rental, but I wouldn't spend $60 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have not finished condemned 1, i would recommend you to try that out. Read my 
 review for Condemned 1 on my profile.
  
  Condemned is basically a horror first person action adventure game which takes place in a time 
 when the cities crime rate has gone off the charts. What is special about this is that its based 
 on a completely different style, like you mostly use any melee weapons in your enviorements. Wepaons 
 such as gas pipes or wodeem planks. As you process through the game, you not only fight insane criminals 
 but also unlock many mysteries. The game is basically based on the life of an agent who was previously 
 in condemned one blammed for the murder of his fellow officer. After alot of changes through condemned 
 one you have left the police department and now living in a one mans world.
  
  I will divide the review into different parts :
  
  Storyline : The storyline is very solid 
 and a well done job. There are alot of good twists and mysteries in the story. Similar to the Condemned 
 1 but better than that. Its certainly worth the try but you probably should play condemned 1 first.
 
  
  Graphics : The graphics are simply AMAZING. When condemned 1 came out it had killer graphics and 
 this is even better than condemned one in terms of graphics. So yes you can have high expectations. The 
 character models have been detailed now unlike the first condemned. There are more things and features 
 added to it.
  
  Sound : The sound is another department where this game can probably show off ! They are amazing. They 
 change with the theme of the game. The breathing of the convicts and stuff like that really creeps 
 you out !
  
  Value : Certainly worth your money if your an FPS lover. If not than i would recommend a rent out. With 
 the new online and fight club added it really has the value.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay of Condemned 2 has been improved by far. They finally fixed all the things 
 they needed to in condemned 1, example throwing weapons, special combo moves, more gunfights, more 
 boss fights... etc.. etc... So the gameplay has been really improved. Infact in Condemned 2 you use 
 both of your arms to fight ! To either punch or carry out a deadly combo. Plus they have added the 
 new knockout feature in which you can interact with the world to knock out your enemy, example throwing 
 him into a tv... etc.
  
  Conclusion : In simple words the game is awesome for FPS lovers but the people who do not like 
 fps titles shouldnt probably miss out on it. Just give it a try .Because its one of those unique 
 FPS that you shouldnt miss out on ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monochromatic-7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When i thought monolith has developed a new condemned sequel, one of the best days of my life has 
 been made because i wanted to know what happened after that esoteric ending of the original. unfortunately 
 this game just will reveal some little parts of the story and the most of the story remains hidden 
 but monolith has made it well with those perfect graphics and enjoyable gameplay! graphics are so 
 much creepy as those past monolith games like F. E. A. R. series or Condemned: Criminal Origins but 
 improved. the gameplay is really good and from now on, agent thomas can fight with both of his hands 
 and it makes fighting easier and more enjoyable, too. agent has also discovered one of his unknown 
 powers. with this power, he can scream and make the heads of his nearby enemies blast!! .i think 
 the agent's style and clothing are more likable than the original. there are also very well based 
 and realistic crime scenes that make you feel like a cop! music and sounds are also as great as 
 all of the monolith games. i can say the game is really better than the first one at all things 
 not not the story. i mean, the first one was creepier with a perfect story but this one is really 
 good to taste because of improvements. the only lack of this game is the storyline. i think every 
 horror hunter should experience it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-hawkins
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  from the very beginning you can see that graphicly the game is very modern up to date though purposly 
 dark for the most part the controlls are farily easy to learn, but there is no beat all end all 
 combo so it adds some depth to the controlls the ai is smart and if not dealt with properly and 
 quickly can be deadly. The only weak point in the controls, if you can call it that, is the gun 
 play. At times it can be difficult to aim without aiming down sites mode (ads) but you can turn 
 on a reticule in the menu to aid in this so it does'nt detract much from the gameplay. 
  
  The story in my oppinion is purposly trippy yet easly understandably. the envirioments give a surreal 
 sense of doom and terror you have a sprint button but you rarly use it because you will be to apprehensive 
 to move quickly the combat is so convincing. the punches that your charcter throw land cause damage 
 and the feirceness he throws them with can be almost felt he hits like someone who is fighting 
 for their life and sanity the game is intense from beginging to end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Hi there yall, i played the first one to death and back, and the second one builds on a formula 
 that worked in the first game, now the 2nd takes it that step further. 
  
  Better deeper darker story, better challenges, more grunting goons lining up to take a crack from 
 that pipe you picked up and the new crime scene mini game is a blast being able to interpret the 
 scene which helps towards bonus unlocks that are helpful and fun.
  
  Having the game shot from first person even in cinematic gives it that important tension that made 
 the first installment a real blast, and the set peaces (spoiler below dodge stars to avoid disappointment 
 
  
  ******************* SPOILER Start *******************
  
  Being chased threw that wooden house by that bear is such a rush the best rush i have ever felt 
 in a game i swear you could almost smell the bear it's self
  
  
  ******************* SPOILER Finish *******************
  
  So from start to finish, if you don't 
 jump at least once on your first play through you are dead inside go see a doctor! lol.
  
  All the new additions are more than welcome, hand to hand combat and the new environment kills 
 make you feel that more connected to the kills than ever before.
  
  Highly recommended
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Nice game, it really puts you on suspense when when you are going on the dark and just with a flashlight 
 and you don't know where your next enemy are going to appear.
  I got this game just to get away from the regular shooting games and I really enjoyed it.
  On 
 the overall it is a little hard but whats what makes it fun and sometimes you might get frustrated 
 but oh well you have to find the way out.
  I didn't really like that sometimes when you fighting, your enemies wont even let you hit them 
 and you eventually get kill. Its kinda hard.
  The online play ghosh it really stinks I was there for like 5 minutes and man made me mad, hehe.
 
  I was reading a game guide so I caopied from the internet and made a pdf file you can download 
 at: http://www. sendspace. com/file/dja0nb
  I found it helpful, just in case you get stuck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Keep it quiet and attack anything that moves with anything that you can grab, its the only way 
 to survive in this messed up Horror/FPS.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is one of a rare few horror based video games that make it out alive in 
 the marketplace of the video game industry.
  It's pushed ahead of most other horror based games because it knows how to show off its stuff, 
 the game shows multiple different traits that are seeked after in a horror game. These include: 
 The ability to use basically anything in the surrounding environment against your enemy to beat 
 them into a bloody pulp, you can grab your enemy and interact with the enviroment for a gruesome 
 kill, it sets out the whole horror scene very well while adding supernatural pieces to it, the 
 camera is directly through the protagonists eyes so you can see everything as if you actually were 
 that person, and one of its unique traits; you get seperate control over each hand, right and left, 
 giving you the ability to perform some killer combos... literally.
  
  The online gameplay may not be as great as the single player gameplay but its still worth playing 
 (especially if you have a friend your just dying the kill) .
  There is a limited amount of game types online and the only one that seems to be played is the 
 'crime scene' game, thats if you can actually find anyone online, most owners of the game seem 
 to stick mainly to the single player mode and once you play it you wont blame them.
  
  The graphics are good but could have been improved just that little bit more: character mouths 
 dont move properly and the look of the characters is too... video gameish (with a Playstation 3 
 were aiming for more of a movie look) .
  The sound quailty is amazing, it really makes you jump out of your seat at all the dark surprises 
 lurking throughout the game, waiting to slice you open and devour everything inside (especially 
 with surround sound, its absolutely perfect) .
  The overall gameplay is also great, it makes good use of every single one of the games traits and 
 really throws you into the horrific environment it holds.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is definitely a game worth getting if you love being scared and freaked 
 out by muderous freaks and supernatural activities, i would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow what can I say about this game. You know next gen gaming hasn't been the best. There hasn't 
 been a lot of creative games if you know what I mean. However this one right here is very creative. 
 The graphics are pretty good and the fighting is just loads of fun. Rather your bashing some one 
 with your fist or smacking a 2x4 on someones head you will always have fun with this game. The 
 level designs are pretty good and the game has a pretty good feel to it. It's kind of creppy let 
 at the same time has a regular adventure feel to it. Plus if your looking for a next gen scary 
 game then you found it. All I can say is silent hill better step it up. All in all a extremely 
 good game and you should definitely think about putting this in your game collection. Haven't played 
 the online let so sorry I can't talk about that really. I am very excited to play it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosthorses81
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Not playing the first Condemned, I wasn't sure to expect going into the game. The gameplay itself 
 is very fluid and the controls responsive. It's something of a mixture of a first person shooter/survival 
 horror with RPG elements. The graphics and music made the mood of the game perfect and creepy. 
 Turning around to find a mannequin suddenly appear behind me still gives me goose bumps.
  
  My major complaint with the game was the replay value based on the content of the game. After beating 
 once I had a hard time finding another reason to play it again, especially with so many great games 
 out there that have so much bonus content. 
  
  So in short I recommend the game; but unless you're an avid fan of the series, I would say rent 
 it, as you can get the entire experience in a reasonable amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MURMAIDER333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Condemed bloodshot a true game of horrors and true to death FPS. This game was so scary it made 
 my room mate **** his pants. I loved the story line but it was a bit short if it was longer I would 
 have gave it a 10 but it is a made up for the short story line with its online capabilities with 
 stuff like condemed fight club and multiplayer. In this game you continue to play as Ethan Thomas 
 a former Serial Crimes Unit agent who has one badass drinking problem. So you start off in a bar 
 at the begining. A little bit later the SCU track you down because they need a leed to find a man 
 called Malcolm Vanhorn who you will remember from the first game as the guy who helped save your 
 ass. But I don't want yo spoil the story for you so I won't talk about that Condemned 2 Bloodshoot 
 has all kind of enemys you will encounter like Exploding baby dolls , Crazy clown ***** , crazy 
 people in there underwear , and people on fire. Therefor if you have been paying attention during 
 this review you should understand why I want to marry this game and am egerly awaiting the next 
 in the series. I love Condemned 2 Bloodshot!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game when it was released. It's creepy atmosphere and dark gameplay made 
 a lasting impression on me. After completing the demo, I was convinced that this game would rock 
 and decided to buy it. Unfortunately, it was gone from all my local gamestores. So I was forced 
 to put it on hold. Then when I finally found it, I bought it and threw MGS4 to the dustbin. 
  
  From the beginning, I noticed the controls to be a little too receptive. My analog stick would 
 sometimes in neutral state remain half a millimeter off the center, which caused my character to 
 move very slowly forward, when I wasnt even touching the controller. Even more, when I use the 
 GPS to view the map, then it would just scroll it up. Small problems, but frustrated me.
  
  Combat of the game deserves a medal. The feeling of hitting someone to the face with a leadpipe 
 feels like it should (not that I would know how it should feel like, but I'd imagine it would feel 
 like this) , when in most games, it just feels like hitting some static object. Firearms are your 
 best friend that will make you feel safer, but most of the time they are out of bullets and are 
 only used to give a charging lunatic something to trip to.
  
  During the first stage I considered the game like a F. E. A. R. ripoff, with melee weapons only. The 
 supernatural aspect grew too quickly and made the level somewhat dull in the end. I thought the 
 game would remain that for so on forth, but luckily I was mistaken. The second level seemed dull 
 at first, but one scene almost made me piss my pants. It was an abandoned hotelroom. After checking 
 that it really is empty, I went to the mirrored cabinet in the toilet to get some pills. All is 
 fine until I close the cabinet and see in the mirror as some dude behind me is about to split my 
 head with an axe. Quick turn and shotgun to the face erases the problem, but leaves me in my piss 
 stained underwear. Such event are very common in movies, but never I thought to see one in a game.
 
  
  I loved the forensic investigation sequences that soon followed. It made me feel like i was in 
 an interactive CSI episode (TV series I like) . Here I also found another problem with the game, 
 regarding hardwere again. I dont own a HD TV (yet anyway) , so trying to read someone's name from 
 a wallet or badge, when all you can see is scribble is annyoing. It's even more annyoing because 
 it's your own fault for not owning a HD TV. So I suck my own complaints and their "No one by that 
 name exists" replies and continue. 
  
  The game makes me wet myself on several occasions as I go forward, but the very best part of the 
 game comes in the Lodge level. From the very beginning of the level I feel this presence. Like 
 something is about to attack me at anytime. Silent Hill style atmosphere. All I get are scary roars 
 that make me check every direction several times and then do the same ingame. Upon reaching the 
 smaller lodge, I can hear something above what I quickly find out to be a huge friggin bear. I 
 try to proceed as carefully as I can, but suddenly im forced to make a quick change in tactic as 
 the bear charges and start chacing me. Holy sh**. After several times running to a dead-end and 
 being eaten alive, I survive and go on. Only to be immediately chased again. This time I could 
 feel it breathing my neck, as I survive by running thru a small hole in the wall. I get a gun, 
 shoot the bear, and live happily ever... oh sh**. Anyway, this level is truly frightning and the 
 level desing is brilliant.
  
  The plot takes a nosedive from here on, resulting the main character becoming somewhat of a superman, 
 but its all right as the game has already made such a lasting impression on me that I dont care 
 how it goes hereon out. And that is exactly how it does, landing on to the Mediocre Road for the 
 last levels. 
  
  Still like I said I dont care, it has won its place as my current most scary game on PS3 (not many 
 candidates) . Now im propably gonna leave the game to collect dust until Resident Evil 5, Alone 
 in the Dark, Silent Hill 5 and Siren: BC has made their attempt to be my most frightning game. 
 And if they fail, I may blow away the dust and play it again. Just for sheer joy of changing my 
 underwear. 
  
  *picks MGS4 from the dustbin* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  When i bought Condemned 2: Bloodshot, i was really looking forward to playing it. But, looks can 
 deseve you, as it did with me. The front and back cover promotes the game to a high standard, but 
 playing it, well, it's terrible!
  
  First of all, i never played the first Condemned, but knew the story line anyway, and it pretty 
 much starts a new one anyway, so thst's a high! The cut scene graphics were amazing, the characters 
 faces had super detail, but then you play the actual game, and the graphics change, going into 
 a murkey, gritty type. I was really dissapointed with the fighting aswell, not only does the hand 
 and arms of your character look to shiny and like logs, but when hitting another enemy, you usually 
 miss. And when that enemy hits you, you take a awful lot of damage, for no real reason! Plus, if 
 an enemy goes to punch you and he's about a metre away, hi throws the punch and suddenly he's next 
 to you and it hits you. So unrealistic!
  
  The settings for the game is good, and when you react with objects like telovisions, is it fun, 
 and adds a sense of... greatness to the game. From the scary matter of view, i don't think it's 
 that scary, but some monsters give you the spooks for a bit, trying to fight then and you die all 
 of a sudden.
  
  The story is really well written, and the characters make it come to life. The voice acting is 
 superb, especially your character. There voices are clear and spoken for perfectly, i think they 
 chose there actors well! I think any Playstation3 gamer will like this, it adds fun, scares and 
 silliness into your gameing experience. 
  
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  My first glimpse of this game was in a relatively small story in Game Informer detailing the premise 
 of the sequel of a game I've never heard of before. I got the demo months later, which was surprisingly 
 good with a creepy decayed atmosphere providing the perfect feel for the sense of terror this game 
 tries to imbue unto the player. Spectacular setpoints and amazing AI provide an environment that 
 kept me on my toes with fights that often had a brutal end.
  
  
  Former SCU agent Ethan Thomas is tasked with finding out about the violent occurences happening 
 around metro city 11 months after his suspension. His drinking problem gives him hallucinations 
 that are becoming worse and worse, making the line between whats real and all in his mind harder 
 to see. Using anything he can get his hands on, he attempts to uncover a sinister conspiracy that 
 could tear apart humanity.
  
  Unfortunately, as good as the game is, it has it's fair share of issues. The story begins well 
 enough, but starts becoming convoluted towards the end. Enemies can get a bit repetitive, and can 
 be dispatched by throwing your current weapon towards their legs then stomping (quick, but unsatisfying) . 
 At some points, there are puzzles or set pieces that feel like they don't belong, as well as an 
 all too short level in an abandoned magicians theatre. Online has some fun modes, but feels a bit 
 tacked on, with a bit of lag making it all too similar to "The Darkness" (which had similar problems) 
 and an inability to find games with anyone but a few people on occasion. The game is also low on 
 replay value and kinda short, making it better suited for a rental. 
  
  Overall, this game is pretty good and is worth anyone's time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is a first person hand to hand/ shooter with a few puzzles to solve. The story isn't 
 amazingly strong but the game makes up for that with pure brutality. Each level requires you to 
 fight through some extremely crazy people, solve crime scenes or puzzles and if you want .
  complete a side mission to make your end of level ranking higher.
  You play as Ethan Thomas an 
 ex-investigator with a drinking problem trying to find out what's making the entire city go crazy 
 and go after him. Ethan must use anything and everything to survive from deadly weapons like a 
 pistol or baseball bat all the way to a gumball machine. In some levels you will find a murder 
 victim and to continue and help you get through the level you must use your forensics kit to solve 
 the cause of death.
  The levels are spooky and varied. From an abandoned doll factory to a bowling ally that leads to 
 a room full of people being tortured and experimented on. Some levels can freak you out but always 
 they will make you want to keep playing just to see what happens next. The only problem I found 
 at certain points is that to gets too dark and could be annoying when you cant see the person punching 
 you in the face but this can be solved by turning up the brightness.
  Fighting is simple and doesn't take long to get the hang of. Performing combos increases your chain 
 attack bar and allows u to perform a deadly move executed by a sequence of L1 and R1. These moves 
 are always satisfying and worth doing. The other fun kill is the finish move were your enemy falls 
 to their knees and your able to pick them up and use certain parts of the environment to finish 
 them. This move can be a head smashed into a T. V all the way to a quick throw off a building and 
 my personal favourite putting their head down a toilet.
  All in all condemned is a brilliant game. I wasn't expecting much at first when I borrowed it but 
 as soon as I finished the first level I became addicted and didn't stop playing till it was finished. 
 I recommend condemned as a definite buy to all gamers as I see it as an experience that should 
 not be missed. So far it has been my favourite game of 08
  PLAY ON!!!! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This contains spoilers (just a heads-up)
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the best games I played on the Xbox 360. I didn't expect 
 Sega and Monolith would make a sequel since I felt Condemned: Criminal Origins was one of those 
 one time deals but I was wrong. Here's a review of Condemned 2: Bloodshot.
  
  Plot: One year after surviving his horrific chase with SKX, Ethan Thomas, a once well-respected 
 FBI agent and crime scene investigator, has now become a homeless loser and a booze addict. Ethan 
 spends most of his time hanging out in back alleys and seedy bars just for a drink. When his old 
 friend, Malcolm Van Horn, turns up missing, the SCU takes Thomas back to search for him. Ethan 
 and the SCU realize there's a much darker conspiracy going on in the city. Every city denizen are 
 now acting even more violent than before and more bodies are turning up. Thomas must put a stop 
 to the violence and suffering before it escalates beyond control. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look darker and grittier than they were in Condemned: Criminal Origins. 
 The character models and the buildings look even better. The changes to the levels' designs are 
 very welcomed since some of the levels looked a bit too much like the designs from Monolith's other 
 game, F. E. A. R. 
  
  Sound: Since Monolith wanted a personality change in their main character, they chose Andre Sogliuzzo 
 for the role. Sogliuzzo puts on a very good performance as Ethan Thomas. He gives Thomas a dark 
 edge and a bad ass attitude. There are moments in the game where you'll hear voices taunting you. 
 The sound alone is enough to scare anyone.
  
  Gameplay: In the last Condemned, using blunt objects to fight enemies had gotten so repetitive 
 after awhile since Ethan couldn't punch. In Condemned 2, Monolith improved on the combat system. 
 Ethan can now fight with his bare hands and do combo moves. He can also parry and counter attack. 
 Of course, he can still use weapons. Another added feature is environmental kills. When an enemy 
 is down on his or her knees, Ethan can grab his fallen foe and pretty much smash him or her into 
 anything from TVs to toilets. The gun play has even changed, Ethan can restock on bullets with 
 the gun he's using. The sub-plot of Ethan's alcoholism plays heavily in the game play. If Ethan 
 is aiming with the gun he is holding, he gets the bad case of the shakes. To calm that, he has 
 to drink alcohol so he can aim well. TVs and radios are put in so the player would be updated on 
 what's going on in the game's story. Monolith also put in a reward system that gives him upgrades 
 whenever he does certain tasks. The multi player features feels like an after thought. 
  
  Condemned 2 is one of the best games to date from Sega and Monolith. The game expands upon the 
 story and answers the questions from Condemned 1. If you liked Condemned 1, then get Condemned 
 2. The game is truly a worthy sequel to the first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  HEHEHEHEHE, This game is allot of fun. There are countless melee weapons and allot of guns, and 
 they all handle well. The melle is the best and most satisfying ever, even more so that the Bourne 
 game! The shooting is good and offers a break from the norm, even though guns are common. The graphics 
 are excellent and do their job of being dark and gritty. The game also sounds nice. The music sets 
 the tone, the melee weapons sound satisfying when they hit and sometimes make blood fly, and the 
 guns sound great and come with the ocasional squishy noise.
  The story is great and will leave you anciously awaiting a 3rd one ( there is something after the 
 credits so don't skip them) . There is allot of replay value because it is so fun. Plus when you 
 beat it, you unlock FPS mode in which you have unlimited ammo and start with a gun. BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 Only don't buy it if you DON"T LIKE BLOOD AND ARN"T AFRAID OF A LITTLE HORROR. But this is more 
 of a crime/detective/fbi game than a horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is a survival horror game that isn't crap. Unlike some of the other horror games out 
 there, *cough* Obscure You play as Ethan Thomas, a former agent who has had a LITTLE too much 
 alcohol to drink, and has let his life go to ruin. You will follow him as he tries to solve the 
 mystery for as to why the entire town is turning into rioting, mindless, and violent psychos. 
 
  
  Condemned 2 would be considered as a first person shooter to many people, but you actually do more 
 fighting than shooting, let me explain Throughout the game you will come to know your two friends 
 Mr. Lefty, and Mr. Righto (your left and right hands) very well. Most of the gameplay consists 
 of blocking attacks from your opponents, and waiting to strike them down. To add a little more, 
 how would you say, spice to the mix you are even allowed to use ALMOST ANYTHING as a weapon. From 
 toilet seats, to explosive cuddly babies, to giant axes of bloody doom.. ooohh yeah. Strangely 
 though the hand to hand combat is more satisfying than the actual shooting segments in the game; 
 when you pop a bullet into some freak's head, it just doesn't feel all that great. When you beat 
 the crud out of someone with a toilet seat then you get that warm and fuzzy feeling inside. I noticed 
 that from the very beginning that Condemned 2's combat system had one severe flaw, hand to hand 
 combat with MULTIPLE enemies. While you're trying to block this one guy, some midget decides to 
 be a pure comic genius and jumps you from behind, now what kind of fun is that!? I didn't pay $60 
 to have someone beat me down behind my back, I have my friends to do that for me, and guess what 
 its FREE!!! (joke) The gameplay is still very satisfying though.
  
  There was plenty of detail put into the game, into the environments, into, you know, everything. 
 The blood writing on the wall, the superb lighting effects, many little things were there to retain 
 that creepy feeling without making you wet yourself. with joy. However, I was playing this game 
 in an HD setting when I said all those nice remarks about the game. When I played this game in 
 standard definition it looked as ugly as a turtle/hippo hybrid.. I don't know. The game looked 
 blurry, there were nasty texture poppings, and at times I felt that my eyes were going to burst 
 with sadness. The game was still playable, but it just didn't look all that great. You guys might 
 not notice the difference but once you play a game in HD you never want to go back to. uuuuugggghhh. 
 STANDARD DEFINITION..
  
  The sound value in the game was excellent. Constant creepy noises scared the **** out of me, and 
 gave me mind blowing paranoia. When you walk into a room and you hear a psycho snorting and going 
 insane, man those are the moments to live for in the game. Each weapon you used had a different 
 sound when it collided with an enemies body, oh it was satisfying. The only problem I had with 
 the sound was during cutscenes. You could barely hear what the characters were saying, the background 
 music and sound effects overwhelmed the character's voices. I even turned down the music and sound 
 effects, and the voices were still hard to hear. Not even an old guy with the strongest hearing 
 aid in the world could hear what was coming out of the character's mouth. 
  
  If you are a fan of survival horror games, I highly recommend you get thisonce the price tag 
 drops of course. Be warned though, make sure you have extra blankets, a straight jacket, and someone 
 you can hold onto, cus this game delivers chills at a death defying level. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is the sequel to the XBOX 360 exclusive game release a few years back. It belongs to 
 the horror genre and has a genuinely scary atmosphere and story; you won't find any cheap scares 
 here. The thing that makes Condemned 2 stand out from the rest of the first person games out there 
 is its melee combat. This hand to hand combat is fairly easy to use but hard to master; you press 
 L1 to do a left punch, R1 for a right punch and you block by pressing both buttons and the same 
 time, if you block just as an enemy attacks you'll leave your foe wide open for a combo called 
 chain attacks, this not only scores you big points but also causes heavy damage. Among the other 
 things that I liked is that you actually feel like you're controlling a complete character, what 
 I mean is that when you climb latter's you'll see Ethan use his hand to go up and when you look 
 down on the floor you'll see his feet, even when you're in front of a mirror you'll see his reflection 
 in it. This a better change from the rest of the First Person Shooters out there where you only 
 see the character's hands and weapon.
  Like any real detective, you'll also have to do some forensic investigations that range from photographing 
 victims and investigating how they died. These investigations rely on you using your forensic tools 
 such as the Field Kit UV light to trace blood that can't be seen with the naked eye and the field 
 Kit Camera. Once you're done investigating you'll have to answer some multiple choice questions 
 that'll test your "detective instincts", and you'll be graded based on your answers. All of these 
 forensic investigations are optional but you'll need to answer them all correctly if you hope see 
 all the game has to offer.
  I was really liking the game with its fun melee combat, great horror atmosphere and clever forensics 
 investigations until I reached the halfway point, where Ethan gradually starts fighting more "normal" 
 enemies and have to rely more on gun shooting rather than the melee combat. 
  Overall, Condemned 2 is a great horror action game; it's just a shame that towards the end it decided 
 to go with more of a sci-fi plot and shooting aspects that have been seen before on so many other 
 First Person Shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhonen84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game when it first came out, and I wasn't disappointed at all except that it felt 
 a little short. The story is great, picks up from the last one. Great graphics and the atmosphere 
 really sets the mood. The main character is bad-ass and carries the story through. The whole "CSI" 
 part of the game really gives a whole new feel to game, it forces the gamer to look for the subtle 
 clues to complete the story. That was one of the aspects of the game which attracted me the most. 
 With all that said I did finish the game pretty quick and it did feel short and incomplete (storywise) . 
 So that why I would recommend this as a rental then a buy. The online wasn't anything special and 
 gets boring fast. Running around meleeing eachother is not very appealing. You can probobly get 
 everything out of the game within a week of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is just that: shot-through with the blood, grime, and filth that makes it 
 a horrifying and immersive experience. The visual design is fantastically dreary, depicting an 
 urban blight so full of trash and criminals that it makes Detroit look like Disneyland. The whole 
 thing has a little bit of a nightmare quality to it, and the sound design is creepy and paranoia-inducing.
 
  
  The gameplay is equally well-designed. The fight mechanism is simple and brutal. The combos are 
 perhaps a smidge underpowered, but the finishing moves are second-to-none, allowing you to use 
 the environment to kill enemies in creative and visceral ways (head through the television screen, 
 anyone?) . The investigation/forensics mechanics have also greatly improved over the first Condemned, 
 and the overall flow of the game is much tighter and cinematic.
  
  The story was also really interesting, expanding in new directions from the core storyline in the 
 first Condemned. Though the story ended up with an obvious opening for another sequel, I thought 
 it wrapped up interestingly. The character development is excellent, overall, especially with the 
 main character, Ethan, and his key ally, Rosa. The voice-acting is great, and the ambient noises 
 and sound effects are convincing.
  
  All told, this is definitely a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raysail
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  First, I will confess I'm a 3rd person player fan, not so big on 1st person. I can handle 3rd person 
 "over-the-shoulder" but still not my favorite. The story line of the game generally sells me, as 
 this one did when I read about it. However, once I started playing it the story didn't pull me 
 in so much. It was like one of those movies you go to just to realize they showed all the good 
 parts in the previews and your mind slowly wanders off from time to time during the process. I 
 didn't play this one very long, and I'm usually the type of person that will finish a game (or 
 movie) even if I hate it. The game just didn't draw me in like I thought it would. I do prefer 
 survival horror games, and this is a little more "action" than I bargained for. I was expecting 
 a little more CSI meets Resident Evil/Silent Hill. Oh well, who knowsmaybe I'll finish it one 
 day just for the heck of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game. I've had pleseant time playing this. If you like this kind of games by all means 
 buy it. The graphics are top notch, the story is very strong and the characters are really interesting. 
 The combat system is great. You basically attack with the L1 and R1 buttons. You have A LOT of 
 weapons to use like hammers, pistols, bowling balls, bottles and of course... your bare hands!!! 
 The music is very good also. Very creepy for the ambient of the missions. The only complaint that 
 I have is that the game is really short. You can beat it in 8 hours or so. Also the online gameplay 
 is not that interesting. But other than that is a great game that I'm not dissapointed to have 
 bought. So, take my advice, if you like games like Resident Evil or Silent Hill buy this. It's 
 a very interesting game. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  This is one the most brutal, creepy, disturbingly creepy games i have ever played, you would probably 
 say that to if you played it.
  the graphics are pretty d*** good but you could probably find better in resident evil, it makes 
 up for it in much more ways.
  the enemy AI is good and tough. especially people with guns, or just fists, or the wild a** rabies 
 bear that attacks you......
  the melee system is the best of any game ever. period.
  you can pick up pipes, bricks, wooden sticks with nails in them, guns, and also, the loli pop saw..... it 
 reminded me of the movie saw. but way way better.
  There are no cross heirs so you cant aim your weapon easily.. but its realistic..
  boss fights 
 are fun & somewhat challenging.
  you get a bunch of gadgets and get to look at evidence & uncover mysteries while chasing the serial 
 killer known only as "SKX".
  again the melee system is amazing. its brutal and you can grab people and do "environmental attacks" 
 where you use the environment as a weapon, such as throwing a guys head in between a door and keep 
 bashing the door into his face. brutal, disturbing, yet awesome.
  overall my rating is 9. why?
  graphics 8/10
  gameplay 10/10
  tilt 10/10 (first person..)
 
  value 9/10
  sound 10/10 (especially when you brutally snap someones neck...)
  AI 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Sega's Condemned games aren't like most standard FPS games. As opposed to just being a run-and-gun 
 affair, developer Monolith has implemented a whole melee system that deals with fists and objects, 
 but fire power is included too. Picking up a year after the events of the first game, you reprise 
 the role of Ethan Thomas, who has receded into a depression coupled with alcoholism and homelessness. 
 His former FBI-SCU co-workers are trying to find him, as once again a paranormal occurrence is 
 sweeping the city. 
  
  As mentioned before, this isn't your typical FPS game. Condemned 2 places a focus on melee combat, 
 as opposed to excessive use of weaponry. There is a whole combo system that deals with timing and 
 parrying, as correct actions will trigger a timed-meter, and if you pull of the maneuver correctly, 
 you will successfully perform the attack against your opponent. If you mess up, you'll be left 
 vulnerable, giving your attacker the chance to strike you. 
  All in all, there are games that are far more average than Condemned 2: Bloodshot. Monolith has 
 once again proved that they are quite capable of developing fear-based first person shooters. I 
 found a number of problems with the game that will frustrate most FPS fans, such as the often clunky 
 hand-combat controls. If you liked the first Condemned game and would like more, Bloodshot should 
 serve you well. If you're the type of FPS fan who likes his arsenal complete with nothing but firepower, 
 then Condemned 2: Bloodshot isn't for you. It is a technically well done game, boasting solid visuals 
 and nice audio - but not everyone will agree on its gameplay. If you're on the fence, I suggest 
 renting it and seeing for yourself. But fans of the first game should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Condemned2: Bloodshot's release for PS3 is an amazing thing for PS3 owners, as they couldn't enjoy 
 the first game, now, they can play this amazing sequel!
  
  You'll play as Ethan Thomas, a guy who formerly worked in the serial crime unit in the FBI, who 
 gets in lots of trouble trying to unlock the mystery of some creepy crimes which started to occur 
 from the beginning of the game, when an old man (I'm not going to spoil) is running from something, 
 and he finds a room to hide in, then he tries to take a peek from the doorknob hole, and, TA-DA! 
 you see what's shown in the game's cover!
  
  Ethan has a personality and a character of his own, he's some tough guy! *gasp* Maniacs attack 
 you constantly, and what makes it scary is that they do that suddenly! You go to dark places, you 
 feel like... YOU'RE in Ethan's place, cause It's a first person camera..
  Yeah, the places you go to are creepy alright, you hear sounds.. and you see TV's during you playing, 
 and those really don't help you much if you're a crybaby =P LOL! You have to watch them though, 
 useful information are stored for you there hehe ^__^
  
  Ooh, I wouldn't advise you to play in front of children, because blood is not all this game has, 
 It has, shall we say, words for adults only, okey? Good.
  
  The fighting is amazing!!! You have SOOOO, and I mean SOOOO many ehm *coughs* AWESOME AND GROSSY 
 ways to dispose of your enemies!! Soo many, whatever you can think of! 
  
  The graphics are amazingly beautiful! It makes blood looks terribly real, again, in a good way! 
 =P
  
  The sounds are terrific for a horror game! It makes the game even scarier, it could be why I hate 
 playing this game alone LOL!
  
  The gameplay, overall, is easy, but the fights aren't, well but I'm sure you can pull them off 
 better than I did! So no worries! =D
  
  I say, the game is a must-OWN! for all those who love horror and gore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Alas, i have finally found a survival horror game that surpasses resident evil 4. This is truly, 
 in my opinion, the scariest game ever. The game is amazing on every front. Fantastic Hand to Hand 
 Combat (Which this series revolves around) , great gunplay, and scary as hell moments.
  
  ill break it down
  
  GUNPLAY: You have to make every shot count, and i mean every, at the beggining 
 of the game, there is practically no ammo availiable for you anywhere. Towards the end of the game 
 though, you always have guns and alot of ammo is availlable everywhere. Theres a twist here though, 
 Your main character Ethan Thomas is a heavy drunk, so if he hasnt had a drink in a while, you have 
 the jitters and every time you aim a gun your hand is shaking, its a nice effect (this doesnt happen 
 in the last level of the game though) .
  
  MELEE: Amazing as well, there are a plentiful amount of combos to use, and the blocking system 
 works amazingly well. If you block right when they hit you, it throws them back, and then you can 
 make your hit and keep swinging till a finishing move comes up or you just wanna finish them yourself.
 
  
  The Story is Epic, there are many twists, many many twists. One you'll see coming, and 2 or 3 of 
 them you will not see coming at all. The story stays strong all the way till the end also, the 
 voice actors pull through portraying their roles perfectly.
  
  Right as you get tired of the game, it ends. But it wont end very soon, it's a long game that you'll 
 be enjoying the whole way through, there are some moments in this game, that you'll be screaming 
 and shaking and panting, and sometimes you might even want to turn the game off for a little while. 
 Its amazing how a GAME can do this to you, but its truly incredible. I haven't beaten many of my 
 games lately because of busyness. But i just had to finish this one, i couldent put it down, and 
 i havent even mention the bloodshot fight club, which is a no holds barred fighting arena where 
 you fight people and take on riots and challenges, or even the ONLINE option, theres enough content 
 in here to keep you busy for all summer. GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  in my previous review i stated i only just got this game and that it was awesome... a little to 
 hasty i believe.
  
  in actual fact i havnt finished this game to this day. why?
  because it just got WAY to silly, guns came into it and the bear? what was with the bear? when 
 a game like this starts getting silly and starts throwing guns at u thats when the fear goes and 
 this game just turns into a gimmick. i was at first drawn into the game for its fighting its intensity 
 and its (tho still awesome) investigation parts but in the end these elements are forgotten and 
 its a real shame. tho on another note i finished the first one finally and that is definitely the 
 way to go! also u can find it at a bargain price ;)
  
  unfortunately the review doesn't end here because i need more words! stupid quota... so ignore 
 this and just go about ur daily life... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronobst
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  As far as high hopes go Condemned 2: Bloodshot was on my big anticipation list, and yet whilst 
 it had many appealing factors to it I did not enjoy this game very much. However there definitely 
 parts of the game that I thoroughly enjoyed, but unfortunately there were very few of them and 
 the moments that were enjoyable were far too short.
  
  As far as originality goes Bloodshot also had an uncanny resemblance to F. E. A. R. in almost every 
 way; be it the geometry (Vending machines, tables, cabinets, walls, entire rooms etc. all of which 
 were almost literally identical to F. E. A. R.)
  
  Graphics-wise this game has its highs and lows whilst the characters, NPCs, cutscenes and weapons 
 looked great, the environment did not walls, objects, lights doors etc. all seemed dull and shallow, 
 bar the reflections on reflective surfaces which looked fantastic.
  
  As for the sound this game is a real winner, the sound of smashing a goon in the head with a bowling 
 ball or a spiked plank of wood is both crisp and incredibly realistic. The voice acting was also 
 top notch with the screams of pain after whooping a goon in the face are also realistic.
  
  But the gameplay this is where Condemned 2: Bloodshot really bites the bullet. The melee fighting 
 and the crime scene investigations really is all it has going for it and can get repetitive very 
 quickly, the shooting is awful and even though it is not the soul focus of the gameplay the gunplay 
 falls very short indeed. Navigating the levels is just as much a chore and like countless games 
 before it, constantly getting lost not knowing which way to go gets old fast.
  
  The story was both confusing and trippy with the hallucinations, the hunt for the killer, the Oro 
 and whatnot being a bit hard to digest along with the irritating gameplay.
  
  While it might appeal to others I found Condemned 2: Bloodshot a molehill rather than a mountain 
 with its shoddy gameplay, bad graphics (in most areas) and just overall boredom I would find it 
 incredibly difficult to recommend to anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  condemned 2 is a great game, it has lots of elements that a great game has like a good storyline 
 and a solid graphics however I was really disappointed from the mechanics aspect of the game cause 
 fairly...
  they made a creepy game but the physics suck.
  The Gameplay was solid and might be considered to be good, collecting the evidences was really 
 cool, it really gives the feeling that you're a CSI dude, but the gunplay was just awful as well 
 as the online which in my opinion wasn't necessary in this game at all and therefore it's not the 
 perfect experience as I expected it to be...
  After you'll end this game you'll remember it for good because of the amazing sound effects and 
 creepy environments, In this game you can use all most everything in the environments as a weapon 
 which is really cool and fun, Condemned will totally scare the hell out of you there are moments 
 and cut scene that made this game unforgettable... Worth Buying if you still have extra money after 
 buying MGS4 and GTA4 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 was, in no way, a horrible game. It was well put together in both combat and in plot. 
 The only thing that makes me give it a 7.0 is because it didn't frighten me in the slightest.
 
  
  Horror has always been a huge thing for me. Ever since Resident Evil 1 for the Gamecube I have 
 loved horror games (favorite to date would be the Fatal Frame series) . So when I heard from a friend 
 that Condemned 2 looked like a promising title sure to deliver chills I immediately went out and 
 reserved it so I could begin playing as soon as possible.
  
  Game play wise I was not disappointed. The combat aspect was clever and made it so that you had 
 to get "up and personal" with each of your enemies. The shoulder buttons on your control allow 
 you to punch (if you are unarmed) , swing (if you are armed with a blunt or sometimes sharp object) , 
 or shoot (if you have a gun) . The game utilized the duel analogue stick in classic first person 
 method (left analogue moves you and right analogue moves perspective) .
  
  Story mode wise I wasn't disappointed either. The story picks up right at the end of the first 
 game and flows smoothly to an unexpected ending that hints a definite sequel.
  
  The thing that was a complete turn off about the game was the fact that it didn't scare me; at 
 all. The atmosphere lacked in many areas and enemies were viewed as humorous instead of terrifying. 
 While there were some parts of the game that definitely started your heart racing (the cabin, doll 
 factory, and the hospital come to mind) all the areas were far too well lit and the fact that your 
 light was always available made the aspect that something might be creeping in the shadows just 
 out of sight was quickly trampled. In my view, the creators tried to gross you out more than scare 
 you (this opinion comes from the fact that gore was, in no way, lacking) . And though there was 
 many strange sounds that would definitely send chills down your spin, usually nothing came of them, 
 which would lead to many disappointments and wasted moments.
  
  My final word is that it is a good game that some might view as worth owning but I view as a rental 
 worthy of a few days of game play and then returned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game must be one of the most gore-mature game I*ve ever played. You stick guys to walls, you 
 hit them with boards and nails, you beat them up with wrenches, you stick their heads in enourmous 
 vibes and you throw them into tvs, this is just some of the things you can do. The graphics are 
 superb, making this game even more atmospheric than it would be without awesome visuals. The sound 
 is by far the best I*ve ever heard and the dialogue is just so awesome. It fits perfectly with 
 the gruesome atmosphere. The controls, are pretty much like the first condemned but have been tweaked 
 out and now are pretty much perfect. They are just how you would imagine, R1 right punch and L1 
 left punch and you can do combos and other cool things. If this isn*t enough to make you go buy 
 this game, you must really be dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathamTannars
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  Not only the action is marvellous. The environment and the scenario are GREAT! After i finished 
 the game, i played it again and again and again. So be careful. This game is addictive! (not like 
 WoW addiction but u know, sometimes your eyes can hurt :D)
  You can pick up a lot of objects from the environment and the dead enemies. So you always have 
 a weapon to fight. Also the shotguns, guns and machine guns are fun to use. But fighting with your 
 fists is really cool too.
  The crime scenes are realistic and solving the mysteries makes you feel like a real SCU agent.
 
  Besides you'll have a special ability to use near the end of the game. But i won't tell what it 
 is not to spoil the scenario.
  After finishing a level you will have bronze, silver or gold medals. These will determine the quantity 
 or quality of the items you'll have as a bonus.
  Multiplayer is not that cool. But you can have fun.
  Grapihcs are great. Sound is great. If you 
 have some money go and get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 Bloodshot is an instant classic. 
  
  It feels like a survival horror game in the first perspective, but at the same time it's different. 
 What I mean b this is that Bloodshot is a bit like Silent Hill, where the atmosphere is very dreadful, 
 you may or may not know what's coming, but it's not like Resident Evil with the odd camera angles 
 and fighting zombies. The game music is fantastic, that is really the horror right there! If you 
 turn that off, tne game is much less creepy.
  
  The game is different that the army of shooters out there, it forces you to be resourceful and 
 use your environment for survival. Weapons don't last forever so you constantly get to find new 
 blunt objects to beat your enemy into pulp. That's right, you'll go mostly mano-a-mano with the 
 baddies. Pick up a blunt object, get within range, and time yourself while fighting. Each object 
 will travel at different speeds, and you can't slug it out with a thug unless you want to die quickly. 
 You have to block, run away, then wait for an opening to make your next strike. Combos will appear 
 on the screen, and when possible, grabbing the enemy and moving to a location nearby with a skull 
 to perform a finishing move.
  
  One thing that I didn't like about the game was the health meter. Like Resistance, which copied 
 Halo, you have life bars that will refill only individually if that particular isn't completely 
 emptied when you take cover and give it some time for "the shields" to get back up.
  
  Between the in-your-face combat and outlandish horror, this is definitely not for the kids and 
 again, an instant blockbuster game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is pretty much the same thing as the first Condemned game, same scary atmosphere , 
 same violent freaks running around. But this time you get a new combo fighting system, which can 
 be tricky, but does its work.
  
  The graphics is updated, the sounds in the game make the experience a lot more scarier.
  
  
 The game length is about 10+ hours. This sequel has more action to it, than the first condemned 
 game, which makes it not so repetitive as the first.
  
  This game gives insight of what happened in the first game, like why are there so many violent 
 freaks running around, and what's happening to the city you play in.
  
  The framerate is really steady throughout the game, and I only noticed one small bug in the game, 
 but it didn't have any impact on the game progress.
  
  The Blood Shot Fight Club is just a waste of time in my opinion.
  
  If you liked the first 
 Condemned, then Bloodshot is something for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  His life is a wreck. Drunk, angry and dying for another drink, he crushes some pills with his glass, 
 brushes the remains into his drink and downs the lot. An unfortunate guy gets his face pummeled 
 in by him after accidentally brushing past him. He is Ethan Thomas, former Serial Crime Unit investigator. 
 Several months after the events of the first game, the Serial Crime Unit want Ethan back. Another 
 serial killer is on the lose, and Ethan is the only man for the job.
  
  Unfortunately for Ethan, the local hobos have been driven insane by some unknown force. And not 
 the good kind of insane either. These hobos will beat the first thing that moves with a toilet 
 seat, a steel pipe or anything else they can get their hands on. Fortunately for Ethan, he also 
 finds these items along his journey, making for one of the most brutal, violent and satisfying 
 combat systems in a long time.
  
  Instead of wielding swords or guns, your primary weapon of choice in Condemned 2 could be a steel 
 pipe, a brick or a locker door. These are just some of the many melee weapons you'll find scattered 
 across the environments, and all of them are great fun to use. You use R1 to use whatever is in 
 your right hand, whether it be some type of weapon or a fist, and the same goes for L1, except 
 for your left hand. While this may sound simple, and to be honest, it is, but a scary amount of 
 depth lurks underneath. You'll need to chain combos to survive, and you'll 'unlock' more combos 
 as you progress.
  
  Seeing your foe's eyes widen just before you smash that pipe into their skull, followed by a loud 
 *CRACK* is ever so satisfying. The level of detail in Condemned 2 is unprecedented. The murky streets, 
 seemingly devoid of life, present an undeniably creepy atmosphere that sends chills down your spine. 
 And what's more, these streets happen to be the least scariest and unoriginal environments in the 
 game, but they're far from bad. My favourites include the hotel, because of the amount of rooms 
 there is to explore, you never know what's going to creep up on you, and the bowling alley which 
 has large rooms riddled with hobos. A perfect way to test out your new found weapon: a bowling 
 ball. But even the most action packed levels can be extremely scary. This is mainly thanks to the 
 genuinely creepy atmosphere, but there are plenty of 'jump out of your seat' scares as well.
  
  But you don't just aimlessly wander around killing hobos for no reason, Ethan is trying to 
 solve some grisly murders, which coincidentally, happened to have taken place where there are plenty 
 of murderous hobos. Once you find a body, you'll then need to investigate it, and the surrounding 
 area, to discover what actually happened. The detective mechanics are greatly improved upon from 
 the original Condemned. One example of this is trying to find out whether a victim crawled, or 
 was dragged to his current position. So, you bring out your UV light and examine the trail of blood. 
 At first you think he was dragged, but look a little closer. There are hand prints in the blood. 
 He crawled. Other times I had to identify whether a bloodstain on a wall was an exit splatter from 
 a gun. It is great fun to investigate these murders, but unfortunately, there is no punishment 
 for being wrong on what happened. You get a rating out of five depending on how accurate you were, 
 but other than that, you don't get punished or rewarded.
  
  There is usually a good balance between combat and investigation, but towards the end things get 
 a bit mis-matched in all aspects of the game. The story trails off from interesting to stupid, 
 the great melee system ends up with Ethan shooting down helicopters while the investigations become 
 a lot less frequent.
  
  There is also an online multiplayer mode in Condemned, but it does feel a little tacked on. The 
 deathmatches turn into running into the other players and mashing R1 until one of you dies. The 
 only good mode; Crime Scene, involves a team of 'influenced' (This is a fancy name for the hobos) 
 and a team of SCU. The influenced have to carry and hide two individual heads that are stored in 
 crates, while the SCU has to find these crates and scan them. This can lead to plenty of scary 
 moments when you can hear the heavy breathing of the influenced but don't know where they are, 
 or when an influenced with a pig mask sprints out of the darkness towards you. But this mode also 
 feels a bit unbalanced, where the SCU spawn with machine guns and shotguns, the influenced only 
 get pipes and sledgehammers so they get picked off pretty quickly. But I guess it makes the game 
 that much scarier, knowing that you're creeping around enemy territory where you can die in one 
 or two shots.
  
  All in all, Condemned 2 is a terrifying, cringe-worthy title that successfully combines a great 
 combat system, creepy environments and genuine scares to make a good game all around. Unfortunately, 
 it trails off towards the end, and the multiplayer is good for a few hours but it isn't going to 
 pull you away from Call of Duty. If you're looking for a violent, frightening and disturbing game, 
 then this will definitely satisfy your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The first condemned presented players with a new kind of gameplay, first person melee combat with 
 scrap as weapons with a nice psychological horror twist.
  
  This sequel makes a very good job at expanding over these foundations and going over the top at 
 every aspect, however, by the end of the game it goes just a liiiiiittle too much over the top.
 
  
  Ethan Thomas, the main character is left a broken man after the events of condemned, but the strange 
 events continue to unfold and he is brought back to investigate once more. The character as changed 
 from a good hearted cop fighting for his life too a much darker and rugged self now. 
  
  I was happy to see that the story explains a lot that was left in mistery in the first one, but 
 by the end of the game the plot goes completely over the roof and becomes quite silly even, good 
 thing that the very end is good and makes up for the siliness of the last chapters.
  
  Graphics are quite good even if not top notch, but considering that the game runs on an engine 
 from 2005 it really is upgraded in an impressive way. Textures are rich, animation is excellent 
 and lighting still sets up the mood just right. The new blood effects are also very impressive, 
 setting the gore factor quite above the first game.
  
  Sound is good but doesn't have quite the impact of the first game. Music is generally less memorable 
 than in the first and there are some problems with audio cutoff in some parts (however i'm aware 
 that not everybody has had that problem, but I did) however they're easy to ignore. Some sounds 
 however are quite well crafted and really establish a "condemned" feel.
  
  Gameplay is brilliantly improved from the first. The combat system now is way more deep and complex, 
 the forensic scenes are much more interactive and there are a few sequences that introduce variety 
 to the usual condemned gameplay. Therefore, either beating the crap out of hobos with pieces of 
 junk, investigating a crime scene or running from a hungry bear in a brethtaking cat and mouse 
 game, the game never gets boring.
  
  Environments are varied and interesting, but a few chapters seem less detailed and polished than 
 the others, as if less important areas of the game received less attention from the developers...
 
  
  It's just a shame that three very bad things happen to the game by the end:
  - too much shooting, this game is all about the melee, guns are a nice rare find, they are not 
 supposed to be central because the gameplay isn't actually very well crafted for firefights.
  - story gets silly and confusing, I haven't the faintest idea of how and why some things came about.
 
  - a distinct decrease in polish, I can't quite put my finger on it, but the final chapters feel 
 rushed.
  
  However, overall the singleplayer is very good and a sequel will be welcomed to conclude Ethan 
 Thomas' story.
  
  Once the story is done, there a few freeplay scenarios that are fun for some casual brawling, and 
 there's also multiplayer, but in my opinion this game really wasn't meant for multiplay, but I 
 won't judge because I never played all of the game modes, because the DM and TDM really felt off 
 the mark.
  
  All in all very good action game, but I think it will be most appreciated by fans of the original.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game on the normal setting. Took me about 15 hours total, going at my normal 
 slow speed and exploring everything trying to find all the bonus items, and having to reload several 
 times after getting killed. And now that I'm done, I'm not exactly sure I had fun with the game, 
 or just that it was a good waste of time while waiting for GTA4. I liked it enough to actually 
 finish the whole game, so I'll rate it as good.
  
  The story felt half-baked to me, and even after finishing it, I still don't really understand what 
 was going on. It felt too much like the developers came up with 10 different locations and tried 
 to piece a story together around them. Also the gameplay was a little off, I mean you could shoot, 
 but it wasn't a good shooter, and you could punch, but it was lacking in melee fun.
  
  Again, not bad, but it felt like it needed a little more polish. I also didn't like the stumbling 
 effect they gave your character. I know they were trying to make it reflect the alcoholic features 
 your character has, but at no time did I think this is cool.
  
  I did like the abundance of checkpoints, at least you didn't have to replay the parts over and 
 over again when you died.
  
  In Summary, it was a decent enough game, but didn't really excel in anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  In recent years there hasn't been a title worth playing for pure shocks of terror, many have attempted 
 to scare the living daylights out of you, but none, in recent memory, have captured scares as brilliantly 
 as Condemned 2: Bloodshot does. The last great horror game was probably Silent Hill 3 or Forbidden 
 Siren, arguably you could say Resi 4, but it doesn't quite demonstrate the same atmosphere as Condemned 
 2 does. In some parts of the game, in fact a lot of the parts of the game, are highly scarey simply 
 because of the fantastic audio the game is accompnied by. You're sitting at the edge of your seat 
 as small creaks in floor boards or smashes of glass and even cackles and screams can be heard in 
 the distance, and it keeps you on your toes. You really have to keep your wits about you in this 
 game as you play as Ethan Thomas, a detective brought down to the gutter by alcohol abuse which 
 has be flawlesses weaved into the entire game, as you fight Ethan's demons of his addiction and 
 it truly becomes a battles between it and him, to mostly positive results.
  
  The enemies are particularly violent aswell, moving eccstatically towards you and will beat the 
 **** out of you if you don't protect yourself with weapons scattered around Metro City, which is 
 akin to Silent Hill almost as the real world and the paranormal world as blurred together beautifully, 
 you will struggle to know what is what. Weapons pack real aggression and complement the entire 
 feel of the game entirely, with powerful moves and the snese of burning anger with each and every 
 blunt swipe at an enemy, it feels brilliant, and the combo system, though not excellent, is a highly 
 welcome addition to what is a solid fighting system.
  
  Graphically, Condemned 2 is impressive. I genuinely wasn't expecting this game to look this good. 
 The black slime that coats halfs of the game is very like the Venom goo from Spider-Man, and has 
 a fantastic wet and slimey quality to it, very like realistic tar. The character animations are 
 very true to life, especially the up close melee attacks when bums come right up to you. Monsters 
 are particularly exciting, though not as twisted as some Silent Hill creations, are deserving some 
 of the sickest things in a videogame. Some will leak out from the tar with a sloppy slush noise 
 and rapage towards you before you knock its skull in with a spanner or prosthetic arm.
  
  Levels are particularly creepy, with TV sets scattered about reminisant of gore-horror fest Saw. 
 The hospital being a particularly eerie mission which has me cacking my pants. Oh the wheelchair 
 moved!!! Overall, Condemned 2 is nothing short of terrifying at point that builds up the tension 
 to such as point you're just waiting for it to snap. The fighting system is solid but could do 
 with some improvement but each crack over a bums skull feels genuinely exciting and "Oh my god 
 what the hell have I just done??!?!" Definately worth your money and your time and one you should 
 definately play in the dark alone. Good night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casterblack
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  !st of all i like this game it was a very good game. i havent played a game that was abel to make 
 me jump in a while. But at 1sty i wasent to sure i kinda wasent to sure . it took me awhile to 
 get what was going on but after i did i got into it. the fighting in the game was very good it 
 took me a lil bit to get the hang of it but after a while it was very fun. story lien was good. 
 after i figured out what was going on. the drugies where a lil scary and the ones that rushed where 
 the ones that made me jump. prity much that all i can think about of the game wish i could wright 
 more but im not to good at review. oh ya. plaqying the game at nioght on and hdtv and in the dark 
 is the best and i think the only way to play. stuff looks alot better. i mean seeing something 
 come at me so fast and just seeing the details in the bodeys and in the walls of the game where 
 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  WOW!! That's all I could say about this game. It really has some freaky parts to it. I mean when 
 I was playing I didn't expect anything to pop out or freak me out, but it did. I'm a fan of horror 
 flicks and all that japanese thrillers, so I had to get this game. 
  
  If you're looking for a game that has that dark, freaky looking, house of pain type of thang. I 
 suggest you pick up this game, it's really fun and a must play. Like someone said to me:
  
  "Bring a extra pair of underwear because you'll need it."
  
  He wasn't lying because it could 
 freak you out at times, so here we go...
  
  Gameplay: Very easy just like the first one. Controls feel alot smoother, like the hand to hand 
 combat (foot action too) works very great. If you haven't played the first one, then it might take 
 a good 5-10 mins to pick up on the controller.
  
  Graphics: Trippy! They've done a good job on graphics. A+
  
  Sound: Despite the flicker in 
 the sound, you'll get over it after awhile, but it does kill some of the great sound effects. Moaning 
 voices, Gun action, hitting fools over the head with toilet seats and bowling balls. What more 
 could you ask for?
  
  Online: It wasn't my cup of tea, but they tried there best and thats what matters. This game was 
 meant to be ONLY for single player.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Game was fun to play, I'm still having a blast to going on and hitting random fools. If you're 
 a fan of the game, I suggest you pick it up. I only got this game because it was a sweet deal at 
 Circuit City for only $39.99, so at that price it was a AWESOME DEAL that couldn't be passed up. 
 If you could get it at that price or even for 45 it would be good. I kept getting mad at the AI 
 because sometimes they would hit you so much that you can't escape. I tried to block with every 
 weapon, run away, but sometimes I would get hit from many directions that I can't tell where it 
 was coming from. 
  
  Other than that, I had a blast playing.
  
  Would I pay full price?
  
  Yes, I think it's worth the cash.
  
  Replay value?
  
  Depends 
 if you want to get gold on every mission, then it's pretty much as okay size of replay value.
 
  
  Well, I hope you enjoy the game. Have fun wearing the adult diapers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakefan11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I'd like to start off by saying that I haven't played Condemned: Criminal Origins, although 
 I heard many good things about it. Having said that, I was nevertheless as giddy as a schoolboy 
 after my very first witness of C2's gameplay on a television commercial. 
  
  As you may have noticed, Monolith advertised C2 as mainly a hack 'n slash game with especially 
 realistic violence, punctuated by fiendish grunts and resounding cracks whenever you make contact 
 with a foe. The first thing I noticed during my first fight was the sense of urgency I felt - and 
 soon thereafter the overwhelming sense of relief (and satisfaction) after having delivered the 
 final blow. This feeling alone told me that Monolith had done something right, and oh how very 
 right it felt.
  
  Although it may be difficult to highlight a story in such a dense, gritty environment, C2 achieved 
 a sense of investigation and purpose with flying colors. Even though your investigation scores 
 have minimal effect on the storyline, it still provides a unique experience, and gives you the 
 sense that you are really part of an investigation team hot on the trail of a serial killer. 
 
  
  Moving on, the graphics in C2 are nothing short of art. I remember a particular scene in which 
 I entered what I thought was a school bathroom, but instead turned out to be a gory layout of various 
 torture devices too out of this world to describe. I was so impacted by this scene that I spent 
 a good five extra minutes just admiring the graphical effort that had been put into it. Moreover, 
 I found many other times when I stayed back to admire graphics - especially since I am a beginning 
 computer programmer just beginning to dabble in graphics processing.
  
  Lastly, I want to touch upon the difficulty factor of that game. I often found that a reusable 
 tactic could be employed to kill any human foe: throw weapon/object at foe's head, rush foe with 
 another weapon, obtain rush combo, and if necessary, deliver another final blow to head. This didn't 
 bother me a bit because it was so fun, but it's worth mentioning. In addition, the final boss battle 
 was a bit too easy, consisting of a slow-moving, unintelligent man who's only unique attribute 
 was his "yelling" technique, which (at that point in the game) you possess as well. I'd also like 
 to mention that I do not own an HDTV, or any flat-screen for that matter, and it seems that Monolith 
 didn't take people like me into account when generating graphical text, which was far too small 
 on my TV. Indeed, small enough so that investigating was often impossible because the on-screen 
 text was unreadable.
  
  Overall, I'd suggest this game to anybody looking for a great gaming experience (and doesn't mind 
 an overwhelming amount of violence) .
  
  Beating up cracked-out hobos FTW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Whoever said beating the crap out of bums wasn't fun, obviously didn't play Condemned 2, because 
 if they did, they sure as hell would take that back. The return of not so secret anymore agent 
 Ethan Thomas is one marred with alcoholism, messed up dudes, and yeah, kicking the living crap 
 out of any and all those would dare to stand in his way. Developer Monolith has once again shown 
 that they still have the touch to scare gamers to death, and that they've learnt a trick or two 
 along the way; whether that's good or bad for gamers, is anyone guess, but rest assured this is 
 one game that isn't your Sunday stroll through the park. A game that not only delves into the downright 
 disgustingly gruesome, but attempts to test the cranial abilities of gamers, Condemned 2 promises 
 an experience unlike no other, and does it right, even if it does lose a bit of its lustre half 
 way through.
  
  If there was a quote that easily depicts our protagonist, you bet it would be censored, but that 
 wont stop Ethan Thomas from uncovering the truth behind the recent string of suspicious events 
 occurring city wide. It's been a while since we last left him, consumed by alcohol and fighting 
 personal demons, Ethan has probably seen better days, well at least the bags under his eyes make 
 one think so. When a man with close connections to him ends up disappearing, Ethan is once again 
 pulled back into the fray to help solve this problem, heck you might even get to see an old face, 
 one that you won't be glad to get acquainted with again. Deceit and hidden secrets run amuck along 
 the way, as Ethan gradually uncovers the truth about his past, and his place in the world, even 
 if he himself is not all sure of what's going on. While it feels like the story is a bit too convenient, 
 Monolith does have an interest take on myths and rumours of secret society; it wont compel you 
 to go out and buy some books on the subject, but it will sure as hell make you want clean someone's 
 clock, if you know what I mean.
  
  The original Condemned was a different experience for most players, a melee combat FPS game that 
 indeed helped to stress the horrid nature of the world that the protagonist was set it in. The 
 sequel attempts to bring that another level, introducing things like combos, were depending on 
 the order of punches you could potentially do greater damage; more weapons, and surprisingly even 
 guns make their way into this game, even though they aren't as useful as one would imagine. While 
 beating the snot out of someone is still fun as hell, having to take two on is just ball breaking, 
 especially when you have to deal with enemies that are far smaller than you and can come out from 
 any direction. This might seem like a rather trivial thing to nitpick on but when two guys are 
 punching you at the same time and you're cornered into a wall, your temper is probably going to 
 flare, and well the rest is best not mentioned. That doesn't detract from you're overall experience 
 of the game, but at the same time it would have been ideal if the developers could have included 
 some combos that could have dealt with more than one enemy.
  
  With that being said, there are other things to the gameplay, such as these CSI themed investigation 
 sequences, which you are tasked to figure out; stuff like being able to identify the exit or entry 
 wound of blood by examining splotches of it a wall or floor is great in all, if you know what you're 
 talking about. Half the time I was shaking my head because I had no idea how to tackle these kind 
 of things, granted someone with greater knowledge  or someone who just watches a lot of CSI  
 would do well, specially since these heavily influence your rating at the end of the round. All 
 in all though it does add a rather interesting element to the game, even if at times you're asking 
 yourself if you should be focusing on that instead of making sure that some maniac with an axe 
 isn't running up behind you to make quick work out of you. Stuff like that gives the game feel, 
 it puts the player on edge, and really makes you feel uncomfortable; situations become more intense 
 as time goes by, especially when some random freak pops out of nowhere and scares the living crap 
 out of you.
  
  Ah yes the environments, who could forget about those? While I would be tempted to say that Condemned 
 2 hit the nail on the head with what it brought in terms of that, it fell off track in the later 
 parts of the game, when the game shifts from being a pure blood bath of bashing in bad people's 
 faces, to blowing up people's faces with guns. It's disheartening to see something that made the 
 game so great get tossed aside, as it directly effects the environments; no longer are you moving 
 through ghettos, trudging through the worst locals, and attempting solve a local issue, as the 
 game's story takes a turn for something unexpected. Truthfully, it was rather difficult to play 
 some parts in the old buildings, as the creaks and cracks of the floors, the blood, moreover the 
 complete silence and howling presence of the wind really made game feel as if it was waiting for 
 you to make your next move so it could respond, which overall does chill you down to the bone. 
 The latter parts of the game, give the feeling as if it really doesn't belong with the previous 
 parts of it and the game losses a lot of what made it great in the first place. While you wont 
 say that it outright sucks, it will make you pause for a moment and postulate on the pacing of 
 the game and wonder were it all went.
  
  Integral to the environments has to be the presentation, which is great. The graphics, while not 
 being anything mind blowing, does do the job; it's able to present a grimy and crummy world filled 
 darkness, not faltering one bit as it has steady framerate, and does well within the context of 
 the world. This of course is accompanied by superb sound design and voice acting that really do 
 the game justice; punching someone's face with a bare fist sounds downright gruesome, but you are 
 compelled to do it again and again, because dang, it never felt so good. The game does shine through 
 these and for the most part it does stand out on all fronts as something that sets out to do what 
 it accomplished. Replay value comes through the form of unlockables and achievement points, and 
 it does sport an online game mode, that although is a nice addition, really is nothing to go on 
 about. For the most part, Condemned 2 is a chilling and bloody experience that no gamer should 
 miss, and while it isn't a particularly long game, you'll be satisfied with your purchase as this 
 game does the trick for you. If it's a scare you want, or hankering to bash some faces in, or your 
 desire to prove that anyone can overcome alcoholism, or maybe you're just looking for a game to 
 play, then you wont go wrong with picking up Condemned 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, since the combat was fun. My only problem with it is that it's really 
 short. When you feel like you get the hang of the combat, it ends. But, it's kind of like portal 
 in that it doesn't overstay it's welcome. I still really enjoy replaying levels for the environmental 
 kills. I'd also say that none of the parts are extremely difficult, but some can be frustrating 
 (Running from the bear!) The gunplay is also fun, but even though using a gun is better, I still 
 really like the melee. Oh yeah, crime scene is really fun multiplayer, and they made the guns more 
 balanced.
  
  Get this game if you can handle massive amounts of blood, many swears like the F-word (Yeah, if 
 you're looking at this you've probably heard that before, but still) . The most gruesome parts are 
 just looking at the mutilated bodies, so don't play them when your parents are around :) . Oh, and 
 getting the upgrades at the end of each level is fun, and so is investigation parts (They can be 
 confusing though, remember UV light) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is gruesome and leaves a lot to the imagination. They do a good job with the story line 
 and that's good because I don't think this game has enough game features to keep it.
  
  Story  Gamespots description is - The events of Condemned have turned Ethan into a broken man, 
 a boozehound who has been cast out of the FBI. When his former partner goes missing, though, Ethan 
 attempts to come out of his exile to help unravel the shadowy conspiracy that surrounds his partner's 
 disappearance.
  
  Gamplay  well system of punching combos and melees are suppose to make this game. However I found 
 it very simple with the exceptions of the fatalities they have in the game. How ever I liked the 
 investigations during the levels. Using scanners, cameras, UV lightings, and a GPS system you investigate 
 things that are occurring in the city.
  
  Online  I'll take gamespots word when they say a match online is very hard to find on the PS3.
 
  
  Overall  This is a series most likely I will never play again. I wanted to try it out and I did. 
 The story did save it, and their was quite an amount of suspense, the Gameplay just isn't for me. 
 However if your playing nothing else and your looking for a good game to play at night, go ahead 
 and rent this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is the sequel to the 2005 game Condemned: Criminal Origins, in this game 
 you follow the story of Ethan Thomas who, since the first game, has had a bit of a turn for the 
 worse. Our protagonist is a drunk, having not been able to get back into work fully after the events 
 on Serial Killer X in the events of Condemned. So anyway, back story out the way, on with the review.
 
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  
  This does look really nice, given the time between this and Condemned that's to be expected. When 
 this is sat next to other games of a similar genre this does stand out as a particualy nice looking 
 example of the genre. There are a lot of different environments all nicely rendered with a good 
 variety of environments and enemies which all look nice and definately fit the mood of the game, 
 which is a very dark and sinister mood. The environments are all very dark as with Condemned but 
 this fits the mood and does look nice when played in the dark.
  
  STORY 8/10
  
  The story is a bit more fleshed out than that in Condemned there are plenty of in engine cut scenes 
 which explain what is going on as well as optional TV and radio broadcasts, which explain in greater 
 detail what is going on within the game world. The story does feel like nothing really new, basically 
 the main character is an angry drunk how runs around punching things and being angry but at least 
 this is fleshed out quite a bit.
  
  LONGEVITY 9/10
  
  This has a decent lengthed single player campaign as well as packing 
  multiplayer modes. This 
 was quite a surprising addition but a welcome addition nonetheless. These new mulitplayer modes 
 are your standard deathmatch matches but as this is not an FPS this makes things really interesting. 
 Online matches are really fun free for all brawls between upto 16 people online. This is really 
 fun and definately lenghthens the game as it will take a while to get bored of the online multiplayer. 
 As well as multiplayer there are plenty of unlockables and challenge modes as well so, once the 
 single player is done you don't need to trade in the game as there are still plenty of things to 
 do.
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  
  The gameplay has been updated since the original with new fighting systems. They've put in greater 
 control for the fighting and added a combo system. The combo system works as in some fighting games 
 in that you press a number of buttons in a combination to unleash a certain attack for an increased 
 amount of damage than usual attacks. This a long with all the upgrades does not really seem to 
 fit the mood of the game and creates confusion as to whether the game is a survival horror (a la 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins) or a fighting game or an FPS, this doesn't mean that it's so innovative 
 it can't be defined, it just means that it just seems like a confused game that doesn't quite know 
 what it is. However, it is true that this does pull together gameplay features from other genres 
 to make an enjoyable game.
  
  FUN 8/10
  
  This is another fun game from Sega as there is plenty to do and fighting is an intense affair between 
 you and your attacker. There is a great mood created by the environments and characters and if 
 you really enjoy the whole horror genre then you will most likely enjoy this game a great deal.
 
  
  OVERALL 8/10
  
  A general improvement in most areas upon the original game with more of the same and a few new 
 ideas and plenty of new game modes thrown in for a lot more value for money. Definately recommended 
 for anyone who is old enough for this game and enjoys the whole horror genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Xavier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Short review:
  In an interesting bit of fan service, Condemned 2 arrived on multiple platforms, (the first was 
 only on the x360) , much to the shock/surprise of everyone, but, does it play well, that's the real 
 question.
  
  Condemned 2 is, at it's core, a first person melee game, you won't be shooting much, as there is 
 very limited ammunition around, and since you are essentially able to pick up anything to use it 
 as a melee weapon, that is the best way to play the game. The melee combat itself is incredibly 
 unbalanced, items you think would hit hard (bats, etc) , do limited damage, while much more fragile 
 weapons/throwing weapons seem to drive in way too hard of an impact, this makes you always hunt 
 for the less obvious weapons and almost always ignore the standards. This isn't a horrible thing, 
 as you it can be pretty fun trying out different things and seeing how they'll work for you. The 
 melee mechanics break down completely however when you face multiple enemies, you literally need 
 to just swing swing swing swing with no strategy to knock them all down, completely destroying 
 the much much better feel of one on one combat. Facing multiple enemies becomes actually pretty 
 tedious after a while, since it becomes clearly apparent that despite the fact that the game was 
 made with multiple foes coming at you at once, they don't have the A. I, and the game wasn't built 
 with the combat mechanics to make this an actual challange... it becomes pretty much a button slam 
 fest, or a run away and watch the enemies move identically and take them out one by one... not good.
 
  
  So, you may be asking, if the combat system isn't great, what makes the game worth a 7.5? Simple, 
 it does a great job of creating atmosphere, you are an alcoholic who needs to keep drinking in 
 it, or you become shaky, the story (which I won't spoil) , may not be groundbreaking, but, it's 
 fluid and well done. Since this game is incredibly linear, atmosphere is a must, and there are 
 plenty of scares while roaming down dark corridors and as things gradually get "stranger"... again, 
 I'm not going to give it away, it's something that has to be experienced.
  
  The whole thing of this game is, you aren't just some random guy in an odd situation, you are a 
 detective and all, and you have to do CSI style investigations, which are done wonderfully, and 
 really add to the overall enjoyment of this game. If you are a csi nut like myself, you'll truly 
 appreciate this element of the game, it keeps you playing if nothing else does.
  
  The game isn't too long, but it isn't too short, the length is just right, and the difficulty isn't 
 punishing or cheap either, which is a good thing. The online however, is AWFUL, it was impossible 
 to find a game, then once I did, I quickly realized why, it's not fun. Okay, it's fun when you 
 are playing as Ethan, but, playing as a bum is just boring, and the other online mode is just as 
 bad. This is not a game for people who need an online presence in their games.
  
  Overall, this is a good solid game for people interested in melee combat, a dark storyline, and 
 some cool CSi elements, just don't expect perfection, mind blowing originality, or future "classic" 
 status. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't have thought of it being as good but condemned 2 is just totally awesome with a scary 
 atomsphere through most of the game and kick ass gameplay where you can use almost everything around 
 you as a weapon these include sticks, pipes, crowbars, toilet seats, bowling balls, baseball bats, guns, dolls, crutches 
 etc. And also you get to carry out investigations for evidence where you will have to identify 
 murder victims and find out how they died bu using a UV light, spectrometer, camera and a GPS. 
 
  Besides all that you get a lot of scares from tramps or Ho-bos, dolls, black tar like monsters and 
 a hoodie looking guy with vampire teeth. Not including online where one of you is a cop and the 
 other a murder victim and the cop has to find the evidence against you but you have to stop him 
 by hiding it from him or something like that anyway.
  So if you want to get scared from a nutter with a baseball bat then this is the game for you.
 
  My overall rating is 8.5/10 because its pure creepy and a brutal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  To begiin things off with the condemned 2 you play as Ethan Thomas, a man who has issues with drinking 
 and lots of other things. No sooner do you begin the game than you find out there is a lot of stuff 
 happening to Ethan. He end up being brought back to invistigate a series of brutal murders. and 
 to find the guilty party. Which happens to be his speciality. at the same time he must fight his 
 inner demons as well. All while searching the dark side of the city. 
  Good things; The game focuses on fear, since it is a horror game and it does a great job of making 
 things pop out of place and scarying the player. especailly during his hallucinations. It really 
 freaks you out. THe game mostly focuses on close corter combat. which lets you use anything from 
 the environment as a weapon. such as pipes, bats, electric cables, bowling balls. etc. there are 
 some shooting in the game also, not a lot, but its done pretty well. the graphics do a good job 
 of making the enviroments look scary, especailly the enemies. Which by the way all seem to be crazy. 
 the cut scenes have some really great graphics and are entertaing to watch. there are some really 
 impressive sounds, which is a big part of the game. it literally makes you feel like you are there, 
 the sound is so good. they did a good job of putting you in this guy mixed up life. You also have 
 to think a lot and figure out things in the story. lots of good game play mechanics that are just 
 fun. 
  Bad things; the game is actually pretty short, it doesnt take that long to finish. there is online 
 play, but not very good and definetly not worth buying only for the online play. there was one 
 part in the game when you do see a small glitch in the programing. and it happened both time i 
 played thru the game. the A I system is good for close quarter combat, but not for guns. there 
 are not that many good guns to choose from in the game anyway. one of the biggest things is to 
 make sure you can handle this type of story and game. 
  Over all; if you are looking for a fun horror game with a twisted story, then this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Mutli-player - Condemned 2 style!
  
  As we all know Condemned was meant to be a Single-player game, however, does this mean that the 
 Mutli-player aspect of the game sucks???
  
  Not really, there is alot of action to be had in this game mode but... it will probably fade from 
 you over time. There are Four game modes, one of them is Bum Rush. In Bum Rush you can be either 
 SCU or the Influenced. You got guns as a SCU but not the Influenced. But dont let this be a bother, 
 you will be surprised how fun either side can be. As an SCU agent it is your job to SURVIVE the 
 oncoming waves of the bad guys who wield melee weapons (They spawn with these melee weapons, of 
 your choice) SCU agents have Guns, Shotguns, Rifles, whatever is availlable AND they are deadly, 
 mostly one shot kill. With that being said you do have limited ammo but dont worry, after you hit 
 Zero a new stock will come in for you to pump into your enemies but you will run out of Ammo sooner 
 or later completely being forced to defend yourself with whatever you can find. When the SCU agents 
 survive till the round is over you win, however, you die (No respawns for SCU) Influence wins. 
 (Influenced spawn as many times as possible)
  
  Next up is the unique Crime Scene mode which alot of people will know by now seeing as it's mostly 
 (Only) mentioned by other reviewers. one team must grab a suitcase with a head inside and take 
 it too wherever it needs to go, Influenced need to defend it from SCU agents aslong as possible. 
 Note: i haven't played Crime Scene just yet becouse A. No modes of this are listed while searching 
 for a match OR they are full... Then you have your classic Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch which 
 surprisingly, are always seen while looking for a match. Why is this? well becouse they are fun!. 
 (Deathmatch will be boring after a while)
  
  The gameplay in Multi-Player is similar to Single-Player but it feels out of placed when you attack 
 another player as you will notice apart from the SP, enemies wont fall down or spin or anything 
 really... when they are almost dead you can either pummel the enemy or, do a few finishing moves 
 which, are very pleasing. Not saying that the combat in MP sucks, cous' it doesin't. It's just 
 got a (Arcade) feeling to it but overall, very fun. Many weapons are at your disposal you will 
 just need to find them. Fist combat is the same in MP. There are also quite a few maps to chose 
 from, some were made for a certain game mode which is a plus.
  
  As for only seeing One or Two matches? that's **** durring the afternoon (More after the kids come 
 home from school) there will be plenty of matches to join, most i've seen so far is about 19. But 
 at night there arent as much, this is the time to play the Single-Player mode *Smile*
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So there you have it! the Multi-Player aspect of the game, not stupid but yet, nothing to get pumped 
 about. It is there for you when you are done the Single-Player portion of the game and will keep 
 you hooked for many many days, if not then weeks to come.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Now its time to review the single-player portion of the game.
  
  Two words sum it up, Really Short.
  
  The game took me about 10 hours to beat, first took me 
 15. There are alot of improvememts like combat witch this time around is a hell of alot better 
 then the first. Graphics are great and the sound is to my liking, but one thing got me down... 
 it feels as if it could have been a longer game.
  
  Is it scary? well, it did make me jump at times or i got a feeling that something would jump out 
 and something would and i still would jump and go 'Holy **** die, die DIE!' 
  
  People complain about the shooting aspect of the game. Yeah it isin't as strong as the melee combat 
 but it serves its purpose. I really didn't have any problems with shooting things, was quite fun 
 blowing heads off.
  
  Another thing they improved was how you collect evidence. In the first it just wasint a huge thing, 
 in this however, it totally rocks. There are alot of disturbing images and when you collect evidence, 
 you will know what i'm talkin about.
  
  The story fits in really nice, i wasint pleased with how the main character was. In the first he 
 wasint a badass, just a regular guy trying to find out what is going on. This time its a different 
 person doing his voice and now he is a badass. The game will keep you guessing as to what is going 
 on and there are some big suprises that many gamers who played the first will get a kick out of.
 
  
  That is bassicly it. Great solid action horror game but just really damn short. They should have 
 not done any sort of Multi-Player and just focus alot more on Single-Player. Overall it still is 
 a great game and a worthy purchase, or a rental.
  
  ----------------------
  
  Sorry i took so long to sum up the other half of the game, was to busy playing others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is the sequel to Condemned Criminal Origins, a XBOX 360 exclusive gone platinum ( also 
 on the PC) . You play as Ethan Thomas, a dude who used to be a cop but because of the his experiences 
 in the first game, has now turned into a mean drunk. But he's called back to action from former 
 friends to help solve the string of violent behavior in the city.
  Gameplay is mainly focused on hand to hand, you have access to weapons ranging from pipes all the 
 way to toilet seats... that's right, toilet seats. Dirty yellow stained toilet seats. ANYWAYS. Combos 
 add more depth in the game, you can kick enemies till their shins snap, hook them across the face, 
 or just plain beat them crazy with a good old fashioned 2x4 (nails and bolts included) . Firearms 
 are included in the game, bunt similar to the Silent Hill series, they are rare to come by and 
 ammo is extremely sparse. Enemies will fall after 2 or so shots, but same goes for you. Unfortunately, 
 the gun play isn't as good as the hand to hand. you'll find yourself dumping you assault rifle 
 just so you can get your hands dirty.
  During the duration of the game, you will be visiting creepy locales like an abandoned Doll Factory 
 and School. Examining crime scenes play an important part in the game, using UV lights to discover 
 hidden messages and blood, and trying to determine a victims death, identity and more. Think of 
 it as CSI. The game will keep you engaged with a high creep factor, making you guess when an enemy 
 will pop up and slug you across the face with a brick. Lack of music is sometimes bad , but for 
 a game like this, its just perfect. the sounds of movements will keep you awake and keep you alert, 
 being sure that you don't get caught off guard. Enemies are brutal and smart, but don't expect 
 ALOT of challenge when facing an enemy one on one, worry about groups running towards you. 
  The storyline is solid and the great voice acting and animation makes it seem like an actual movie. 
 
  Now some problems hold it back from a higher score. The writing is sometimes almost impossible 
 to read, and the Multi player is pretty stale. Consisting of 4 main modes, Team Death match, deathmatch, 
 Bum Rush and Crime Scene (the most interesting) . Bum rush pits two law enforcers (EXTREMELY overpowered 
 and equipped with guns) against an infinite amount of baddies to pound, these two have too survive 
 till the time runs out while the others have to kill the cops before the time runs out, it's okay 
 for a while, but the balance isn't right. Crime scene however, makes things more interesting. two 
 teams, the bad guys and the cops (again) the bad guys have 2 evidence boxes which they have to 
 hide and keep away from the cops, whereas the cops have to scan and search the area for the evidence 
 boxes, but the bad guys can pummel the cops with weapons found around the area and the cops can 
 shoot the baddies with limited ammo. two completed scans equals a win for the cops but the death 
 of all the cops equals a win for the baddies. Just like the game, the multiplayer has its creepiness 
 that you will love.
  I definitely recommend this game and label it a MUST BUY. If you like First Person games and if 
 you want to beat the living **** out of a bunch of homless crazys with a crutch (and more) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfxdeimos1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping that Condemned 2: Bloodshot would be as greusome and violent as advertised. 
 It was, but it is sorely lacking in many areas.
  
  First off the controls are a little clunky. There is something about this FP (S?) that doesn't seem 
 as natural as others. Second off there is no crouch, jump, or interesting movement abilities. Often 
 you find yourself stuck in an area that you think you should be able to get through by simply moving 
 a table or jumping onto a conveyor, but no... you have to roam around and find the spot that you 
 can rush at while mashing the action button to get on something.
  
  I mean come on, how can anyone honestly put out a game that you can't jump or duck in? I mean... 
 are you serious? It totally makes the entire game seem linear.
  
  Additionally the hand to hand combat is WAY to slow. It makes the entire thing seem very labored.
 
  
  ::Throws in trash::
  
  I won't even bother pawning this off on some other poor sap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the 1st condemned game that came out on the xbox 360. but when i saw the trailers 
 and videos of Condemned 2, I was really excited about playing this game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: I like how they integrated the first person mode into this game. Fighting with fist, 
 and other melee weapons is fun to explore and different from many other first person games. Throwing 
 punches and kicks is satisfying after taking out your enemies. The environment is great too. You 
 can take just about anything in the environment and use it as a weapon. It ranges from golf clubs 
 to bowling balls to electric pipes, and much much more. The gun fights are ok, but not too bad. 
 But since the game is mainly based of melee attacks, it is forgivable. The melee attack system 
 is good when you fight someone 1 on 1, but when a group comes at you, it get fustrating.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are considered to be good, but there are some problems. Nothing major fortunately. 
 THere are some jagged edges but for the most part, the game looks great. 
  
  OVERALL: Condemned 2 Bloodshot is a great game and should be played by many players who are into 
 horror games. This game IS creepy and the music goes very well with the game. Voices for the game 
 is good too and they do a good job of portraying the mood of the game. To receive the full effect 
 of the game, its recommended that you play at night with minimal lights on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcr33px
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Well. not to many games are or should be considered a survival horror game, but with condemned 
 2 ,i feel safe putting it in the top horror games such as all the silent hills, fatal frames, and 
 other then that, there isn't that many good , or fun horror games, but condemned is one of the 
 best, 
  when i heard they were making a sequel to the first condemned i didn't really care, because i didn't 
 like the first one all that much, but when i accualy saw a few trailers for it, and along with 
 a few gamplay trailers. well. i had to buy it, and trust me, its worth it. its forsure a creepy 
 game you don't want to play in the dark, by yourself. or right before bed, 
  this game is really fun, there are many many weapons in the game, you can use almost anything! 
 to toilet seats to deer antlers, to pistols to shotgungs, theyres a weapon foreveryone, 
  maybe your a beatup kind of person? well use your fists! its always satisfying to beat the crap 
 out of someone, 
  so over all , with amazeing graphics, and a kick**** storyline, and gameplay , 5/5 no doubt, 
 
  online is even pretty fun
  theres no ranking really. but hey, its fun going to the farmhouse , and getting the crap scared 
 out of you by enemy bums! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingthunder
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  It''s been awhile since i played a good horror game, a very long while. So when condemned 2 was 
 released i was very excited. However while i did enjoy the game there was just to much i didn't 
 enjoy. First let me tell you the good stuff about this game. It has a good story and the combat 
 system is also greatly improved. The environment kills make fighting these people a whole lot more 
 fun then the previous game. The weapons which are part of the combat system are still fun to use. 
 There are a few new ones ,but you will mainly see all the ones from the previous game. The voice 
 acting is done real well. Another big improvement in the game was the forensic. It seems like they 
 but a lot of thought into it this time. Before you just pointed at something and info was giving. 
 Now this time you have to give the full info from sex, age , and cause of death. There's a lot 
 of other things as well. I also want to mention that the music is good, not as great as others, 
 but good none the less.
  
  Now lets go into everything that is wrong with this game. The first and most annoying thing is 
 the guns. Now i understand this game is mainly for melee combat not gun battles. However if you 
 are going to waste your time and put them in at least make them work. I mean the only way i was 
 guaranteed to kit any thing was to aim and fire cause there was no cursor to see where you where 
 shooting. Another annoying things was when you got caught on something and could not move. That 
 more then once, have the time it was because a little tiny box was in my way and no i couldn't 
 walk and the knock the box out the way like in F. E. A. R. No i had to aim down with my gun or pipe 
 and hit the object out the way before going forward. Now on to the multi player which can't say 
 much about since i don't plan on playing this game online. Now as for as achievements go there 
 are plenty. Unfortunately after playing through this game once you will be all condemned out. So 
 maybe a few months down the road i 'll go back and get those achievements, but till then i think 
 I'll sit back enjoy my victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpjo01
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The 1st one was great and is still one of my favorite game , but it's sequel .... no comment. Maybe 
 better on Xbox360 , but this one on my Ps3 was just a waste of time , I love sony but man , prove 
 than the other compagnie like SEGA can programmed a game like that . Damn must have 100 words ... 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x
  Damn now 800 characters ... xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
  xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx 
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Police08
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Well 2 weeks have the release of condemned 2: Bloodshot on the 360 the PS3 one is here in Canada, 
 and im not disspointed. Condemned is just as i remember it on the 360 but this time around better. 
 The dark filled streets and builders have gone to a new level of horror. the gameplay has been 
 improved that makes the game that much better (throw persons head through a tv, pick up mostly 
 anything and beat people with it) . So far the story is just twisted, i don; t know how else to explain 
 it. The Add on of multiplayer is a good thing because you get more out of the game, i haven; t played 
 alot of online but it's okay, not great, not bad but in pretty good. 
  
  So this game may not be for everyone if you played the first one either on the xbox 360 or PC you 
 will like Condemned 2, but if not you may want to read up on the first one, watch vidoes, or if 
 you have a 360 buy or rent it just so your not completely lost.
  
  Overall a good scare, fun to play, great all around, i give it a 10 out 10 because i just love 
 the story and the game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the first condemned I have played and the first one out for the PS3 and it has everything 
 that horror games should have, however it does have its flaws as well.
  
  Gameplay 8/10- Awsome combat system where you can use almost anything in the environment to beat 
 guys with. It also has guns so you can also use those if you would like. The story is about as 
 good as a B movie but is somewhat interesting and the extra unlockable modes are lacking and somewhat 
 of a disapointment besides the practice arena which is great fun. This game is one of the most 
 brutal games I played and you will get fun out of beating thugs, agents, and strange creatures. 
 There is a little detective work which can be fun. Online is mediocre but has two decent modes 
 and the guys with the gun usually overpower everyone else and nobody is ever on. It has an achievement 
 system which is cool and you get ranked and are awarded according to your rank after every level. 
 Overall it is pretty creepy and accomplishes a lot. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- This game doesn't have great graphics like Call of Duty but the graphics are good 
 and blood effects are done well, environments are awsome and ungeneric like most games. 
  
  Sound 9/10- The sound is awsome and truly captures the horror of this game with great weapon sounds 
 and horror effects. 
  
  Value 7/10- The game may get repetitive after a while since all you mostly do is beat people with 
 things for majority of the game and the game is fairly short and can be beaten in around 10 hours. 
 However the rewards and medals can be worth playing more for but if you are expecting a big game 
 then this might not be your game. 
  
  Tilt 8/10- This game is a great brutal/horror game with a lot of weapon choices to make and is 
 a must play for all survival-horror fans. However, it does lack in extras and does get somewhat 
 repetitve. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panman_Dan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  If you prefer a run and gun approach to games your gonna need to revise your strategy for this 
 one. If you do not bother to block attacks and/or parry attacks you will not live very long. Because 
 of the emphasis on hand to hand combat you must take full advantage of this life saving ability.
 
  
  This game is not for the feint of heart, it is graphic and gory! If you are frightened easily and 
 are not used to wandering through dark corridors and musty buildings, keep a night light on. I 
 found myself literally jumping out of my seat and pausing the game from such extreme and sudden 
 bursts of fright that this game delivers around ever corner in the game. Mangled, scarred, and 
 bloody enemies exhibiting fits of rage did not help either, bashing their skulls in with whatever 
 I could pick up off the floor or yank off a wall did.
  
  I'm going to go ahead and rate the difficulty of this game as Hard. Hard because the game is damn 
 near impossible without blocking melee attacks or ducking behind cover (in gunfights) . If you cannot 
 get used to doing this dont expect to get past the first level. Health restoring bottles of medicine 
 are present, sometimes scarce, but not in extreme abundance, so not doing the above can be a problem 
 when it comes to completing the level.
  
  The locations in the game are extremely unique to any game I've previously played. Among the locales 
 are a doll factory, an abandoned school, and a hauntingly creepy everything.
  
  I'm going to make a note of Gamespot's review of the game by highlighting the gunplay as a 'Bad' 
 aspect of the game. Well what can you expect from a melee based plastic sealed gem. This has got 
 to be the most BS note of the game because I have an idea they want to compare it to Halo... Wandering 
 through an apartment, .32 revolver in hand is as real as you can get, enemies stumbling back from 
 the force of the round penetrating their bodies is convincingly real too.
  
  Buy this game, if my review has highlighted aspects of the game that appeal to you then this more 
 than likely is a title befit of finding itself sliding into your PS3's disc tray.
  
  Oh one more thing! Multiplayer. It's just not there and I'm for real when I say this. Good luck 
 finding more than 2 or 3 servers at a time. Another feature of the game is the Bloodshot arena. 
 Up to my knowledge of the game as of now (I've beaten the game) completing the challenges do little 
 of anything aside from honing your skills in combat, working on improving that steady thumb of 
 yours when It comes to throwing stuff, and passing the time or competing with a friend for a record 
 time, these really aren't worth playing.
  
  Aside from a few minor dings, this car is show floor material. Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monk0072008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  this has got to be the most gory games i have ever played and i say that in a good way not many 
 guns but the melee is way better ( by that i mean looks cooler ) . but not stronger. you can pretty 
 much carry any thing you see and smash it over an enemys head i feel bad for the people in uk because 
 its not out yet so sorry for you : (. but if you like gory games then you will love this game and 
 if your asking if you can blow there body parts off yes you can mohahahaha lol and the cretures 
 a scary as h*ll not joking if you find a gun use it wisely i mean it these things can pop out of 
 noware like you can be just walking then out of noware bam right in front of and your dead!!! but 
 the not fully infected people are the weakest out of all and if you have downloaded the demo the 
 first people is what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscled_arbiter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Not to be a downer, but the game itself trends very similar territory again and again syphoning 
 off creepy moments and scenes from its predecessor and other franchises. It would be cool to really 
 get a new experience in this but as I was playing it I was thinking: "well, I guess, just like 
 the film industry, every story has been told before." The Action is great, though, and to Sega 
 I give credit for that. But the storyline itself is sort of tiring. I recommend this to be rented 
 played and returned. It is something to tide you over til the real great games come out on the 
 PS3.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5 (I noticed a lot of edges were jaggidly)
  STORY: 7.5 (A NIPP/TUCK exploit of its predecessor and other franchises)
  CAMERA: 7.0 (Not easy 
 to control the character and the angles made me dizzy)
  VOICE ACTING: 7.5
  REPLAY VALUE: 7.0 (Rent it)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santiago261988
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  i think if u guys play army of two i was think that game will be the best but i think this game 
 will be a big hit and it is one of a most have game for all blood and gore games freaks how ever 
 think f. e. a. r is one off the best game i really recomened this game becuse it as good action and 
 the guns are nicely done and the game as a lot off finishing moves and it is a must have and every 
 body that like a game that u can kill zombies and people and that is a game for u and there is 
 a lot of weapons and guns too it is as osome game play and how ever is a fan of f. e . a . r and 
 think action game recomened  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mgs4nut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  like in the last game you are in a police force that handles catching serial killers. but the story 
 line is tweak in this one you were kicked off the force due to insaneness but they bring u back 
 on because everyone esle is scared for there lives. the beginning and middle of the game they have 
 u do detective work with the occational hitting baddies in the face with frying pans. its very 
 interesting and is acculaual very fun. but the game looses its egde at the end of the game were 
 it turns into a plan shootin the **** brains out of people and the creative story line ends and 
 crashes and burns. but over all it was a very good game and it can be very time consuming. but 
 one thing i wish they would change would be the online multiplayer. like the darknesses it sucks. 
 so the game is worth buying and if u liked the first one try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is not half bad at all. If anything, better than the first condemned.
  
  You start as playing as a Serial Crime Unit member, who has a drug and alcohol problem. This does 
 not seem to affect him, however, as he is the most confident and courageous in his job. 
  
  In the game, you will receive many weapons and usable tools to destroy your enemy, including your 
 fists. There are too many enjoyable ways of destroying your enemy. Think of it as Silent Hill, 
 only with a badass drug addict who will not take crap. And with a MUCH more satisfying kill. You 
 can do anything from throwing them into televisions or kicking them off the building. Yes, there 
 is a major fear factor in this game that can creep one very easily, but all you see is another 
 hilarious demise in every enemys glowing red eyes. 
  
  I personally, love this game, and you will too, if you are any kind of blood-thirsty terrorizer 
 of those cursed AI's like I am. Curse them all. And land that satisfying face up there butt to 
 finish it off. Ok, enough. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
