-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Denied Ops
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/crossfires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced and loaded with explosions.
 Good allied AI.
 Co-op multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission goals.
 Awkward sniper controls.
 Annoying music and dialogue.
 Some visual problems not present in the 360 version.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 307 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Feb 12, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A little dumb and a lot dated, yet still marginally enjoyable if you're into retro shooters with 
 lots of kabooms 

  For the fifth game in a series, Conflict: Denied Ops sure doesn't show any signs of evolution. 
 This may actually be the simplest edition of the shooter franchise that developer Pivotal Games 
 has produced, with gameplay so out of date that it might as well be wearing a plaid flannel shirt 
 and listening to Alice in Chains. But even though the action is a good decade behind the times, 
 the game's rapid-fire pace blurs the fact that you're shooting the same bad guys over and over 
 again. Cooperative play is a highlight and earns the game some applause all by itself given how 
 this shooter feature is so often asked for and so rarely delivered. This mindless shooter is ideal 
 for those moments when you want to switch off the synapses, though some awkward control issues 
 occasionally get in the way.            If there were milk jugs in this game, they'd go up like 
 TNT with a single shot     

  As with the four previous games in the franchise, the theme here is military and the gameplay is 
 stuck in the neutral zone between one-bullet-and-you're-dead hardcore action games and the more 
 absurd stuff where you can soak up lead like a sponge before meeting your maker. The story in the 
 campaign is typical of these middle-of-the-road shooters, with you taking charge of a pair of Special 
 Forces operatives working to unravel a nuclear-arms conspiracy through 10 missions spread across 
 the globe. Perspective has been switched to first-person from the third-person featured in the 
 previous Conflict games, however, and your squad's been cut back to two commandos from four. These 
 changes don't make a great deal of difference to how the game plays, though. Being able to switch 
 between sniper Graves and heavy gunner Lang is actually so seamless that you might as well be playing 
 a single character.  

  That said, teamwork can be a key component of Conflict: Denied Ops. Your buddy can be ordered around 
 and healed with quick clicks of the right mouse button, and the smart artificial intelligence adeptly 
 handles firefights. Storming enemy-occupied rooms, for example, is a snap. Just send Lang up to 
 the doorway, where he'll automatically lay down suppressing fire while you sit back and shoot survivors 
 with Graves' scoped sniper rifle. You can always count on your comrade to kill a fair number of 
 enemies if he's positioned correctly, and you can even assign him to take out level bosses such 
 as combat helicopters. The only problem here is that your squadmate takes orders too seriously. 
 He typically won't yield the position you've ordered him to assume even if you're trying to get 
 past him, causing congestion in tight corridors until you issue a new movement command. Likewise, 
 you have to be careful when directing your pal when he's at the wheel of the hovercrafts and other 
 drivable vehicles in the game; he's more than happy to roll right over you if you get between him 
 and his assigned destination.  

  Other than this smooth-and-simple buddy stuff, there isn't much here out of the ordinary. Level 
 design is the very definition of routine, although the campaign is jazzed up somewhat with the 
 ability to choose the order in which you handle some assignments. While the graphics are detailed 
 and attractive and the missions feature varied scenery representing such diverse locales as the 
 Venezuelan countryside, a Siberian castle, an icy Russian whaling depot, and the dusty streets 
 of a Rwandan city, goals are never more involved than shooting everybody you see and blowing things 
 up. You occasionally steal data from computers and set explosive charges, but generally this is 
 a Point A-to-Point B killing spree.  

  At least the pace keeps the proceedings from getting too dull. Even though you're gunning down 
 the same thugs and soldiers over and over, you do so at a pretty fast clip. This isn't Serious 
 Sam or anything, but the speed is zippy enough to keep you from feeling bogged down in endless 
 enemies or eternally difficult choke points (although there are quite a few of the latter spread 
 throughout the game's levels) . Further excitement is provided by being able to blow up damn near 
 everything. Levels are strewn with barrels, gas cans, and propane tanks ready to go boom at a single 
 shot, and it seems like you can't turn around without running into some catastrophic incident like 
 a helicopter exploding in your face. Sometimes it seems like the simple act of shooting a wooden 
 box causes Fourth of July-style fireworks to go off. All of the speed and pyrotechnics give the 
 game an exciting, if awfully dimwitted, Michael Bay-ish feel.  

  Sometimes, however, the two console versions of Conflict: Denied Ops are a little too crazed. Given 
 that the game was clearly designed for the precise mouse controls available only in the PC edition, 
 a gamepad doesn't really cut it in the speed department. This is a particularly irritating problem 
 with Graves, since aiming his sniper scope is much tougher with the right analog stick of a gamepad 
 than it is with a mouse. Unless you're a true pro when it comes to console shooters, expect to 
 spend a long few seconds properly lining up each long-distance head shot... and getting regularly 
 gunned down in the process by the quick-draw baddies who have no such control complaints. So both 
 console versions of the game feel a fair bit different from their PC cousin. Whereas it's probably 
 best to take charge of the sniper as much as possible in the PC game, relying on the ability to 
 snap off quick, precise shots with the mouse, on the 360 and PS3 it seems smartest to wade in with 
 heavy-gunning Lang and leave the finicky sniping up to the AI. At least the AI does a good job 
 with this task, quickly taking out dug-in enemy snipers and soldiers with insta-kill head shots. 

  Visual and audio quirks are further irritants. Graphics are solid (if not cutting edge) in the 
 360 version of the game, but the color palette is too dark and the text is very tiny. This gives 
 everything a murky, dim appearance that has you squinting all the time. Disappointingly, these 
 flaws are even more apparent in the PS3 game, which also suffers from some occasional drops in 
 the frame rate. Poor audio quality is a major drawback. Although the 360 and PS3 versions of the 
 game don't have the PC edition's weird echo effects that turn every conversation into a simulation 
 of shouting across the Grand Canyon, the voice acting remains hard to endure. Dialogue here is 
 confined to awful buddy-movie stereotypes, with Graves being the grizzled veteran who's gruff but 
 lovable and Lang being the cocky young dude who adds "mother****er" to the end of every sentence. 
 The music is just as obnoxious, too, a cornball blat of generic rock that sounds as if it were 
 clipped from the soundtrack of an '80s cop show.            Awkward gamepad controls make sniping 
 a lot more arduous on the consoles than on the PC     

  The inclusion of cooperative play is a plus, though. You and a friend can play through the entire 
 game together online or at home via split screen. Relatively few shooters offer this feature these 
 days that it's more than welcome here, even in such a simplistic game. But the other multiplayer 
 modes are generic takes on deathmatch, team deathmatch, and conquest, so there isn't much here 
 beyond the co-op. Few people seem to be playing the game online at the time of writing anyway, 
 although there's certainly more of a crowd on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network than there is on 
 the game's PC servers.  

  Go in with low expectations and an appreciation for simple retro shooters and you won't be disappointed 
 with Conflict: Denied Ops. It isn't a great shooter by any means, but it is a competent one for 
 those of you who don't want a lot of interaction or thinking to interfere with senseless mayhem. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marcg-11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is the first PlayStation 3 game I bought.
  An OK game for un-experienced PlayStation 3 players which is why I gave it 6.5 it could have been 
 such a good game if they put more money, time and effort in. Such a same to see a game go to waste. 
 Graphics wer'nt near as good as they were made out to be. Game-play was OK but it's nearly the 
 same each level. There were very few good points and too much bad. It's games like this that make 
 me sad, just to see a game that could have been so good if they put more time in to it. Ah sure 
 maybe next time, just maybe they will have learnt their lesson, hopefully anyway. So sadly folks 
 I'm not going to recommend this could have been good game to you it would just be wrong oh so very, 
 very wrong. So thank you very much for reading my review. Please read more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Being new to the series of Conflict, i was excited on what to expect. But when i slipped this disc 
 into my Playstation3, i was horrified. First of all, the layout of the starting menu was very... 
 old looking. It didn't have that kind of whizz you get from a starting screen like Metal Gear Solid 
 4. So, you start the game as one of the only two characters in the game, and you can switch characters, 
 which isn't very useful because there both useless anyway. So, a cut scene arrives, and the graphics 
 look really dated, i mean, really dated!
  
  Firstly, your characters look all jerky, and you can see all of the tiny squares and shapes that 
 make the arms and mouth move. Talking about moving, it's like a slug on wheels, you don't go that 
 fast and you can't jump far either. The other thing is voice acting is bland, very old fasinoed 
 and the sounds sound murky and fuzzy. The graphics in this game are really bad, there about Playstation2 
 compatible, the guns are blurry, and the enviroments are way to small, and to gritty. Now, gameplay. 
 The levels are ok lengh wise, there is alot to do and alot to see, but gameplay get's VERY repeative. 
 It get's boring, missions have the same objectives and overall, this is one hell of a boring game. 
 It's also difficult, sometimes enemies just appear infront of you from no where, alot of glitches 
 here. Then they shoot you both down and you both die, and there you go, mission failed! Gunplay 
 is also poor, the sounds the guns make is really bad, and it sounds like a whipping noise of a 
 belt. 
  
  The guns are really dated, and it takes alot of shots to take a enemie down. About 15 shots and 
 there dead, and there just wearing blurred green combat pants and crappy adidas teeshirts. So, 
 the enemies. They are hard, as youve read, they usually come from nowhere, and there faces are 
 blank with little dots as eyes and blurred nose and mouth. It's like them old football games all 
 over again! The only good things about this game is lengh, fire, exploding enviroments and grenades. 
 And the odd funny voice acting from a guy in the background screaming. Overall, one poor game, 
 and is not even worth the rent or buy. If a friend has this game, lend it for nothing, you would 
 complete it in maybey 3 days at tops.
  
  4.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the cover of the game, it reminded me of Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction. That 
 was one of the best games I've played so I had high hopes for Conflict: Denied Ops from the get-go... and 
 the game fell short of everything I had hoped it would be.
  
  Well, the good things first. The game is trying to have the player use co-op in single player missions 
 with the AI, and you can flip back and forth between the two playable characters (CIA paramilitary, 
 saving the world, yeah yeah same old jaded story) seamlessly. So I give Conflict credit for bringing 
 that to the table in the single player campaign, I'm not going to mention co-op in multiplayer 
 because it is more commonplace nowadays. The game environment is partially destructible, so instead 
 of aiming for the head, why not just unleash a wave of bullets and kill not only the enemy but 
 the wooden table he was hiding behind at the same time. Great feature, it was fun blowing things 
 up in the game and breaking objects just by shooting at them - those terrorists got nowhere to 
 hide!
  
  For the downsides. The opening movie looked bad. There wasn't enough definition in characters, 
 vehicles, everything looked rounded, it wasn't gritty and believable. If the game looked any softer, 
 it can pass for a cartoon. Anyway, it was a bad sign and foretold the coming letdowns. The voice 
 acting was weak, but the graphics, that's what killed the game. This game looked like it should've 
 came out on the PS2 years ago. The rendering, texture, quality in general is very disappointing. 
 I'm just going to leave it at that, I'm just glad that I didn't buy the game. Yep, it's that horrid 
 in terms of what you'd come to expect on a current-gen PS3 game. Gamespot's review mentioned at 
 the end that if you have a knack for olden shooters and low expectations, this game just may pass 
 for you, but who gets a game for the PS3 expecting anything but the best?
  
  My final verdict is to stay away from this game, rent it if you must, but I recommend that you 
 save your $ and rent another game. This is also the final review that I'll be doing on games, at 
 least for a while - congrats on catching this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The first two Conflicts were sub-bar at best. But this one is even worst, why don't they just stop 
 making them? Well now for the story. It isn't very interesting and will not last but about eight 
 hours, and about seven hours and fifty eight minutes of that will be boring. The levels are boring. linear, and 
 repetitive. I mean you see near the same thing every level except you are in a dessert or a building. The 
 AI is miserable, when you die your teamate has to heal you but when he does you get up and get shot 
 one more time and die. It has outrageously annoying characters. I mean I don't care for a person 
 saying bro on a game like on Army of Two, but he says it every damn sentence and it is annoying! Horrible 
 frame-rate. The objectives are pretty horrific too. You do near the same exact thing every objective. You 
 either find something and blow it up or you go somewhere. The guns and clunky I have saw four guns 
 so far (not including pistols) . Switching characters is intersting but sometimes very frusterating. The 
 teamwork is nothing compared to games that exacute it greatly like Rainbow Six Vegas 2 and Army 
 of Two.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: It is very uninteresting and boring. Although I had no problem getting a game going 
 that had about twelve people in it. There is only three game types.... wtf? Couldn't you put a litle 
 more work into the multiplayer game modes god knows they didn't put much work onto the single player. The 
 suits on Conflict make it hard to hide somewhere and snipe because the suits are lite blue and 
 red.
  
  
  
  Re-play value: Isn't none. Unless you do get sucked into the multiplayer which I doubt will happen. I 
 would honestly be suprised if you gave it the time just to beat the story mode let-a-long two times. Well 
 if you want to play it muted it want be so bad but still horrible
  
  
  
  End It! Well all-in-all this game sucks but if you want to play a game where you fight in Rwanda 
 then rent other than that don't rent buy pick up look at or even breathe on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expert-Assassin
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  A lot of gamers who are fans of the FPS genre praised recently released game such as Halo 3, Call 
 of Duty 4 and Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 so is it a hopeless cause for an uncoveraged game 
 to fight its way on to the market or was it safe bet for the developers to turn a profit. This 
 game is released on the two next-gen powerhouses and the computer, we recommend that neither next-gen 
 consoles or the PC provides this game a compatible home.
  
  The story in this game is hardly memorable and the two agents lack in personality altogether with 
 some pretty terrible writing and voice acting which is no better this game has no moments which 
 really brings it in to its own. One particular point in the game which is noted for how terrible 
 it (also a part available in the demo) shows a figure of authority just saying "stay out of my 
 country". It makes the majority of cut scenes laughable.
  
  This game has no solid foundations as single player. The A. I is just awful, your agent partner 
 does help you through the level but you have to do all the work yourself. The graphics are broken 
 and certainly certain parts of this game are similar to FPS' on the PS2 or Xbox. With the presentation 
 a joke it seems like this game pretty much fails on every level. Another thing the game is incredibly 
 short and bland with no reason to play twice over. I haven't even dared to try the multiplayer.
 
  
  The only real positive is that game play runs smoothly making the game playable but nothing can 
 hide the terrible factors that make this a waste of money. Only get this game if you are dying 
 for an FPS but there are so many on the market that it is simply outnumbered in this department. 
 The only factor that makes this game creditable is the fact it can be quite fun in short bursts 
 but it leaves so little lasting appeal buying it is pointless, rent it if you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Not usually someone to get so angry at a game however once you have been a huge fan of a game/games 
 like the conflict series you expect the ps3 version of this title to blow your mind. Indeed it 
 does but with ANGER. What a terrible game. I was trying to first understand why they changed it 
 so much e. g. first person, only two people, two different people.
  Why do this ????? Firstly one great thing about the old conflicts was the story line I liked Bradley 
 and Jones and the rest, also what ever happened to Foley ( BRING HIM BACK ) . However I excepted 
 these changes and hoped that they would back this up with a new updated story only to be very wrong. 
 The first few missions are not only boring, you don't really know what you're doing.
  So after all these set backs you then turn to graphics, but to be disappointed again I know the 
 conflicts never had outstanding graphics BUT AT LEAST YOU COULD SEE THE ENEMY. the graphics are 
 so harsh on the eyes you get headaches ( this isn't over reacting I actually did ) . This goes to 
 my whole argument that we should at least have the option of 3rd person view.
  Sorry dudes but I'm surprised you weren't laughed at when demonstrating this to people. The only 
 thing I can think of that ruined this game was u lot being lazy no way can anyone try to make a 
 game that bad. Possibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was playing a ps1 game 
 possibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game this game is garbage. Do not boy or rent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  possibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was playing a ps1 gamepossibly the worst 
 excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was playing a ps1 gamepossibly the worst excuse for a ps3 
 game, I felt as if I was playing a ps1 gamepossibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as 
 if I was playing a ps1 gamepossibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was playing 
 a ps1 gamepossibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was playing a ps1 game This 
 game is garbage. Do not boy or rent. possibly the worst excuse for a ps3 game, I felt as if I was 
 playing a ps1 gameThis game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis 
 game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis game is garbage. 
 Do not boy or rentThis game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis game is garbage. Do not boy or rentThis 
 game is garbage. Do not boy or rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniClubers123
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  i aint usually someone to get so angry at a game however once you have been a huge fan of a game/games 
 like the conflict series you expect the ps3 version of this title to blow your mind. indeed it 
 does but with ANGER lol. what a terrible game. i was trying to first understand why they changed 
 it so much e. g first person, only two people, two different people.
  why do this ????? firstly one great thing about the old conflicts was the story line i liked bradley 
 and jones and the rest, also what ever happened to foley ( BRING HIM BACK ) . however i excepted 
 these changes and hoped that they would back this up with a new updated story only to be very wrong. 
 the first few missions are not only boring, you dont really know what your doing.
  so after all these set backs you then turn to graphics, but to be disappointed again i know the 
 conflicts never had outstanding graphics BUT AT LEAST YOU COULD SEE THE ENEMY. the graphics are 
 soo harsh on the eyes you get headaches ( this isnt over reacting i actually did lol ) .
  This leaves you with one last thing...... Gameplay. please get something rite however they havent 
 lol, they were talking in interviews about destructive enviroment. this is utter rubbish the only 
 thing they have done is created a box the breaks well under bullets and in basic terms copy and 
 pasted this next to every enemy oh and for "fun" put a barrel there.
  Sorry dudes but i'm surprised you werent laughed at when demostrating this to people. The only 
 thing i can think of that ruined this game was u lot being lazy no way can anyone try to make a 
 game that bad.
  
  i now play AOT which also has some bad things in it but co-op split screen is great fun with ya 
 mates and could easily have ben called conflict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myflash85
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  grapics sucks
  lots of glitches for the ps3 but fewer for the 360
  no leading storyline
  sound/music/dialouge is horrible
  not worth it for the amount very less stelth
  lot of room 
 for improvement
  some awkward control issues occasionally get in the way
  controlls for sniping sucks
  after watching the highly animated cut scene the grapics of the 
 game looks more unsatisfying
  bad sense of humor for the dialougs
  i would've never bought the game but got it as a gift.........
  worst game played so far
  army 
 of two looks better from previews
  turok is waaayy better
  cod4 is wayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy better
  first few mission has descent grapics though but later 
 on it get really bad
  wost game for any gaming year
  wost game for any gaming year
  It isn't a great shooter by any means
  just a real bad experience playing this in conclusion........... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Not having played any of the previous Conflict titles, I started the game with a clean slate and 
 no expectations, just hoping for a good time and good old fashioned, shooting fun. And I got just 
 that.
  There's no innovation here. The graphics are weak for a next-gen title and the story is almost 
 non existent. You just blast your way through the level, destroying everything in sight and killing 
 everybody, with Lang, armed with the heavy machinegun, telling jokes and Graves sniping bad guys 
 while being the serious one. Both guys are cool in their own way. Lang is the shoot first; ask 
 later, the classic American badass, the cowboy. Graves is the older one, calm and always grumpy. 
 They don't get along, but a friendship develops along the game quite nicely. They're charismatic 
 and I liked them. You can switch from one character to the other and give orders, to suppress fire, 
 take out a target or to move to a position. Both characters get upgrades to their weapons, but 
 the sniper riffle and the machinegun are the only weapons you can ever hold. You can't pick up 
 weapons. You just have to analyse the situation and see which style is better suited. If you go 
 into a room to clear it, you should use Lang. If you're pinned down outside, by guys on a building 
 at the end of the street, you should use Graves to snipe them. There is also the option of going 
 "loud" or being stealth which is a nice addition.
  The controls are ok. The sniper controls could be more precise but they are hardly broken. 
  
 You can destroy everything in the environment, which is very cool. In every level you can shoot 
 gas cans and watch everything blow up. Bad guys run around in flames, screaming. During the game 
 you'll have to destroy choppers with Lang, using the rocket launcher, tanks and even hovercrafts. 
 The locations go from a convent in Venezuela, to battles in the streets of Rwanda to Siberia. 
 
  The game is never dull. There's always something happening. Bad guys are everywhere and some fights 
 are truly intense. The levels are huge and well designed. 
  The game can be difficult at some parts, playing on normal. Still, it never gets cheap or frustrating. 
 The single player lasted about 7 hours and really should have had at least two more missions. 
 
  Conflict: Denied Ops wont win any awards or be remembered in ten years. It probably won't be remembered 
 next year, even! It's just a simple game, with lots of shooting, explosions, snipping and a lot 
 of testosterone and adrenaline. 
  And if you play with a friend, offline or online, its loads of fun. It's not CoD4 but it doesn't 
 try to be. It's just a good time waster. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  First off, there's actually some hype going on for this game, when it was released, i was kind 
 of excited to get this.
  But in the end, i got this by trading in my UT3. To be frank, it's quite an ugly game, with not-so-impressive 
 graphics and poor charactor modelling. Gameplay would be the only reason u might wanna try this 
 game out.
  
  Graphics:
  Charactor modelling is really bad. But during the last stage cinematic, it was awesome. It tell 
 me this game was rushed and they did only the gameplay component better. The enemies looks quite 
 the same, some of the areas were to dark and non-tolerable for FPS dizziness.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's decent at Best, some of the enemies requires too much bullets to be killed. The 
 accuracy of some weapons are too far off also, but all these gets better when u get the accuracy 
 add-on for ur MG. This game is all about explosion but seldom do i see can destruction to the surroundings. 
 You can play can only two person, a sniper and a Machine gunner.
  
  Sound:
  Not bad, but u could easily see lip-synching, meaning inaccuracy of the lips to the words they 
 pronounced. Gunfire and explosion do sound good.
  
  Overall, it's a poor effort to do this game right. The graphics are normal at best, gameplay wise 
 it's fun but annoying at times. It's better off u get MOH or COD4 if ur looking for a shooter game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegulatorUDT
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Trust me, you are better off spending your $$$ on a rubix cube and paint that you can watch dry. 
 I would say this is a rent only, but I wouldn't even waste the money on renting this sorry excuse 
 for a next gen game. 
  
  First off the graphics look like a PS1 game, yes not even PS2 worthy, their is no detail in the 
 environments and there is not telling the difference between good guys and bad guys. To me honestly 
 it looks like they were working on this game, COD4 came out, the developers for Conflict said "uh 
 oh, no matter what we do we will not be able to look anywhere near as good as COD4, lets scrap 
 it and release it and cross our fingers that the reviews are slow to come out". 
  
  Which brings up another point, how come Gamespot is taking soooooo long to put out a review of 
 this game? Is it a coincidence that Eidos took out full page advertising ads on Gamespot right 
 at the release? Quite interesting because any game fan realizes what garbage this is, I can't wait 
 to see what GS does with the review, surely Eidos is going to be pissed if the review is even close 
 to accurate ala Kane & Lynch.
  
  Save your time, frustration, and money for upcoming games like GTA and Socom and leave this to 
 the morons that didn't read reviews before they went and bought this train wreck of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: at26522
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  im sorry but.. its a pretty bad game. the graphics are terrible, and the gameplay sucks. definately 
 on worth 60 dollars. the details on the guns and hands are really bad and explosions suck. i would 
 reccomend playing the demo befor even attempting on thinking about buying it. i was really excited 
 to play the game becuase some people have said it was a reallly cool lookin game... but after this 
 experience it was a complete waist of time. im dissapointed in this game. its trying to be a good 
 tactical playing game but just does not meets the requirements for a good game. the good fps games 
 i would recomend is call of duty 4 and rainbow six vegas. call of duty and rainbow six vegas meets 
 all tho good requirments of a good fps, graphics, good gun detail, and an easier game play! conflicted 
 needs to learn a bit from a good game maker. if i could i would give it a 0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Plate
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is like COD4 but worse and with only 1 ally. If you like over-exagerated bloody games, 
 this might be for you. The graphics are okay, better on HDTV obviously. Controls are simple enough. 
 But your ally can be a right pain at times. He never follows you, and you usually have to take 
 control of him to make him move. He only moves on his own when you command him to go to a certain 
 spot. THis is the reason that it can get frustrating and hard afetr a while. The co-op online is 
 loads better because your ally is [unless he can't play video games good] smart and easy to communicate 
 with if you have a headset. This game is better if you just rent it. Besides, I beat COD4 in three 
 days, so this game shouldn't take that long to beat. One of the funnier aspects of the game is 
 when you kill someone and shoot them repeatedly so that blood splatters the ground. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite everyones thought i bet some people have it even played the full game they probably just 
 play the demo and then rate it from there if they are there missing out on a good action shooter 
 the graphics are alittle choppy but its nothing you cant get used to but i bought for the game 
 play i have it seen a Conflict game as good as this one. This was the best $54 i ever spent on a 
 good desent game if your a person who likes games for what they are and have to offer in it and 
 not just by the graphics this is a must game for you wont be dissaponted This game has awesome 
 co op splitscreen play with a friend or some one you know online play team deathmatches or deathmatch 
 the guns they have on campaign are good not the best but good you can earn attachments to the guns 
 the farther you get the more i have it beat it yet but i can tell you the game is awesome and it 
 gets better and better so yea like i said if you like games for what they are and not just by the 
 graphics its a must have for you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I want to first start off by saying that if Pivitol & Eidos put out another one like this they 
 will lose a huge fanbase. I like the game overall. Here are my pros and cons.
  
  PROS:
  ~Controller Scheme is easy to learn
  ~PAUL FOLEY mission which ties up loose ends with the previous 
 game.
  ~Explosive environments
  ~Action packed
  ~Cool guns (i. e, Sniper rifle with built in shotgun w/ automatic upgrade)
  ~Switch between characters 
 instantly
  
  CONS:
  ~Mediocre Graphics
  ~Lag in controls (Intermitten)
  ~No real strategy to the game
  ~Language has poor acting stupid jokes
  ~Little to no replay 
 value (Your almost glad your finished so you can move on)
  ~Music cuts in and out (Intermitten)
  
  All in all this game is fun to play. In the end I completed 
 the last mission and I had no clue I beat it. There was no real indication I beat the game at all, 
 it was odd. I being a fan of the Conflict series was let down by this game but I still had fun 
 playing it. I don't have any desire to play it again at this time which is uncharacteristic of 
 Conflict games previous to this one when I finished say Conflict Vietnam, I would beat it and put 
 in Conflict Global Terror. Please Pivitol don't put this FPS style game in the future, give us 
 fans what we want, a strategic 4 man team.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celsops3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand why are the other guys saying such bad things about this game... the gameplay 
 is very easy, it's almost natural... the history says about ACTUAL world problems that we should 
 worry and be alerted... the co-op feature is good too, although I prefer playing solo... ahm.. 
 the missions are easy to understand and you almost never will get lost...
  
  Also I would like to say the graphics are very good, not like others are saying...
  
  [and 
 sorry, I didn't read the 5 paragraph review, do you really have so much things to say about the 
 game? Oo]
  
  that's it, worth playing, play the demo first, i'm waiting for my copy to come from U. S =D
  
 
  [damn still I have to say more about it!.. ok, its good, can I submit now?]
  
  [c'mon 800 characters are too much!! nobody would read it!!   
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackfridayrule
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  i think the title speaks for itself. basically the graphics are horrible as is the gameplay... 
 waste of money, thank god it was paid with a girft card. to be honest it reminded of the graphics 
 of ps2, not to say that ps2 wasnt bad for its time, that sort of quality just doesnt meet the standards 
 of todays gaming. I spent very little time acutally playing the game but i was so appalled by the 
 graphics and simple gameplay and lack of any real desire to continuously heal my fallen compatriot 
 i decided not to waste my time and to focus my efforts on games more worthy like pokemn pearl. 
 Yes, i said it, pokemon trumps this game hand down. I would even venture to say that the graphics 
 on the ds are more impressive comparitively to this game. If you really want to play an impressive 
 fps, look into rainbow six vegas or cod4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkc_souheib
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok,, New games Coming out this year sum are gonna be good and sum of them r gnna suck so bad.. and 
 this game totally *offff* :S
  i just Downloaded the Demo for this Game from the PSN,,, and it was really messed up ( Completely 
 dissapointing ) Poor Graphics, unrealistic game play , BAD frame rate,,,,, and im so sure that it 
 will be rated very low .. it has SO many controls and it just screws ur head up2 lol
  i think the only thing good about this game is that it has online ( but still game play sucks so 
 whats the use )
  i dunno about you people , maybe you got a different taste on those kinda MFPS, but u know (who 
 cares) The game is NOT good at all
  Eidos should've done sumthing way better than this game...
  who knows , maybe the demo is totally 
 different from the real game lol but i just had an idea about the game play and the Graphics lol..
 
  So i wouldn't recommend buying it : ( :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  It has been so long that I have played a game that has had nothing whatsoever going for it. You 
 look at one aspect of Denied Ops and think "ew." and think "hey maybe there is something that will 
 compensate for this?" unfortunately the answer is no. Conflict: Denied Ops digs itself into one 
 hell of a deep hole of nasty graphics and really dull gameplay that nothing on earth could possibly 
 save it. 
  
  the lead characters for instance, the single most cliched videogame characters in history. Full 
 stop. Two hetrosexual masculine beardy men, with shades, bandanas, and fat cigars in their mouths. 
 One guy, Graves (maybe the place where is should be sent more likely) looks incredibly like that 
 Swedish bloke from Mercenaries. The other guy, can't remember what the bloody hell his name is, 
 is your jive talking, "cool" black dude. The What choo talkin' about kinda guy, and together they 
 make for two of the most despised characters I have ever come into contact with in a videogame.
 
  
  The characters models look shoddy and naff, my PS2 could pull of better tricks than this, Black 
 did, Killzone did, Call of Duty 3 did and even the older Conflict games looked better than this 
 regurjutated spew of mince and tatties. Compared to Call of Duty 4, this looks almost as charming 
 as Michael Moore's behind. 
  
  Talking of Call of Duty 4, many are saying about a few games at the moment, it would have been 
 more appreciated before COD4 was released. In many cases that is probably true. In this case however, 
 if I found this lurking at the PS3 launch, it still would have looked and played like a field of 
 cow manure. In this day and age it is shocking to find something as unplayable and offending towards 
 your eyes.
  
  The gameplay and missions are bland and soooo dull, Get this, blow him up, get him, finish that, 
 they sound that exciting. And, everything is centered around working as a team. Woop-de-doo. If 
 you want teamwork action buy Army of Two when it is released or even stick to the old Conflict 
 games, as you will have a more enriching and enjoyable time playing it.
  
  Why on God's earth they even decided to go FPS in the first place is beyond me. The series was 
 a great Third Person Tactical Shooter so why change it? Its like they saw Call of Duty the day 
 it came out, thought "what an awesome idea!", if we make an FPS it will sell as much as it did, 
 started making it between then and now and released it. With crap results. Ditching the Tactical 
 Shooter edge is possibly the worst idea they could have possibly thought of - apart from making 
 a game where Esther Ranson and David Dickenson fight together to defeat a band of evil Jungle Pirates. 
 
  
  Overall, the textures are flat, as is the gunplay. Weapons have appauling aim, bad guys look like 
 they've just been prodcued out the "Terrorist Duplication Factory" and everything is so overly 
 cliched and "been there done that" that it is highly monotonous and excruciatingly yawnable.
  
  Stick to Call of Duty, Resistance or even Halo, just don't buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooterian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Conflict: Denied Ops is a fairly decent first person shooter, it doesn't compare to Call of Duty 
 4 or other first person shooters but it introduces new ideas to the genre that are somewhat well 
 done. As far as the idea goes, its been done, but there is plenty of action in the game to keep 
 u playing until its over and the new features introduced are sure to keep you interested. I would 
 recommend this game as a rental, rather than a purchase because there are simply better games out 
 there that have used the same idea. The graphics are fairly top notch for the newer-generation 
 consoles and I would say the differences between the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions would be minimal, 
 if any at all. Co-operative mode is definately a nice addition to this game, especially if your 
 buddy is tired of sitting and watching you play all the time. All in all I'd say this game deserves 
 a 7.5/10 because although they did introduce new ideas, they could have done them much better. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
