-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Sector
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/darksector/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Killing enemies with the glaive never gets old.
 Protagonist's abilities make him a lot of fun to control.
 Mostly intelligent enemies and varied boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two multiplayer modes.
 Storytelling is pitiful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Sector lacks the compelling storyline that it alludes to early on, but offers plenty of enjoyable 
 combat nonetheless. 

  It was almost four years ago that Digital Extremes announced it was working on Dark Sector, a third-person 
 action game now available for both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Better action games have come 
 and gone since then, regardless of which console you own, but the good news is that those same 
 games have left their mark on Dark Sector, which borrows liberally from Gears of War and is at 
 times reminscent of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. Dark Sector's story isn't nearly as interesting 
 or told nearly as well as that of either of the aforementioned games, but if you step into the 
 boots of elite black-ops agent Hayden Tenno solely for satisfying combat, then you won't be disappointed. 

           The prologue mission is a great way to familiarize yourself with basic gunplay controls. 

  The single-player game starts off promisingly with a moody black-and-white prologue mission set 
 some 20 years before the events of the other nine levels. Getting comfortable with the controls 
 used for gunplay and for getting in and out of cover should take you no time at all as you battle 
 your way through it, and it won't take you long to realize that the enemies you're facing are smart 
 enough to employ a lot of the same tactics that you do in the interest of self-preservation. The 
 story gets underway with a bang as well -- a few bangs, actually -- but as you progress through the 
 game, the story rarely feels like it's moving along with you. Characters come and go without giving 
 you any reason to care about them, you travel between locations killing everything that moves without 
 really knowing why, and new abilities are frequently added to your formidable arsenal without explanation. 
 Dark Sector's lack of good storytelling shouldn't hamper your enjoyment of the game too much because 
 cutscenes are infrequent and brief. Nonetheless, it's unfortunate that a protagonist as fun to 
 play as Hayden doesn't have a great narrative to back him up.  

  To simply refer to Hayden as a killing machine would be to downplay just how overpowered you can 
 feel at times while playing as him. The skills with conventional firearms that you learn in the 
 prologue mission stay with you for the entire game, but even as increasingly powerful weapons become 
 available to you, you'll find that you spend far less time using them. That's because throwing 
 the glaive that grows from his right hand early on is a more elegant, powerful, and satisfying 
 way to dispatch foes than any gun. Initially, the glaive is used simply as a projectile weapon 
 that comes back to you like a boomerang after every throw, making enemy decapitations and severed 
 limbs a rare treat. However, when you gain the ability to add aftertouch to your throws, it becomes 
 an even deadlier projectile that you can steer around corners and over obstacles to butcher enemies 
 in glorious slow motion. The PS3 game supports an option to steer the glaive by moving the motion-sensitive 
 Sixaxis controller, but the right analog stick does a better job. Applying aftertouch not only 
 makes slicing up enemies easier, but also affords you a front-row seat for the kill because you 
 get to see everything from the glaive's perspective. Decapitating enemies this way  never  gets 
 old, though some of the glaive's other uses definitely do.  

  The glaive isn't just an awesomely powerful weapon; it's a veritable Swiss Army knife that can 
 be used to unlock doors, open ammo crates, and pick up items that would otherwise be out of reach. 
 The uses for Dark Sector's answer to Link's boomerang don't end there, though, because with a little 
 help from the elements your glaive can be used to light torches, create columns of ice, and even 
 put out fires. By hitting specific items scattered throughout the world, it's possible to imbue 
 your glaive with electricity, ice, or fire for a short time, at which point using it to kill enemies 
 becomes more satisfying than ever. Nevertheless, that's rarely the reason why you're afforded access 
 to an element; more often than not, the elements are needed to overcome environmental obstacles 
 or to solve simplistic (though occasionally challenging, timed) puzzles. For example, sheets of 
 black goop stretched across doorways have to be burned before you can progress, and mechanically 
 sealed doors can be opened only with an electric charge. Puzzles like these crop up a little too 
 frequently in Dark Sector and, given that you don't even have to think about them after the first 
 occurrence, it doesn't take long for them to feel like chores that you have to complete before 
 you're allowed to progress and have fun playing with enemies again.  

           Killing enemies with the glaive is a lot more satisfying than using a gun.      

  
 Dark Sector's impressive combat sequences are also broken up with exploration, which becomes a 
 necessary evil as you realize that searching every nook and cranny of an area before progressing 
 to the next is the only way to find ammo, currency, and weapon upgrades. Money can be used to buy 
 new weapons on the black market, which is conveniently located under every manhole you come across. 
 It's important to buy and upgrade both a pistol (which you wield simultaneously with the glaive) 
 and either a rifle or shotgun at some point, because weapons that you pick up from slain enemies 
 function only for a short time before they're automatically disabled. There's a reason they do 
 that, but going into it here would risk spoiling one of the story's very few twists for you. Weapons 
 on the black market are extremely expensive, so despite the range of options to choose from, you 
 shouldn't expect to own even half of them by the time you reach the boss at the end of your first 
 play-through.     

   

  There are several boss battles in Dark Sector, and all of them are very different. Variety comes 
 courtesy not only of bosses that differ wildly in shape and size, but also of the weapons and abilities 
 that you'll need to defeat them. None of the bosses are overly challenging if you take your time 
 with them because, with only a few exceptions, their attacks just aren't powerful enough to kill 
 you with a single blow. They'll hurt you, and the borders of the screen will flash red to let you 
 know that you're injured, but Hayden regains health so quickly that getting into cover briefly 
 or even simply performing a few evasive rolls is generally all you need to do to get back to full 
 strength. That's not to say that all of the boss battles are easy, though, because they're not. 
 It's just that often the tricky part is figuring out how to beat them rather than actually doing 
 it.  

           There's no health bar, but you'll know when you're in trouble .      

  Although playing through Dark Sector's single-player mode doesn't reward you with a great story, 
 it's definitely a great way to prepare for the game's online multiplayer offerings. There are only 
 two multiplayer modes, but both of them will afford you the opportunity to play as Hayden at some 
 point, complete with all of the skills that he has at the end of the single-player game. Both of 
 the online games, titled Epidemic and Infection, are designed for 10 players and can be played 
 on any of five specially designed maps. Epidemic pits two teams of five, each led by a Hayden, 
 against one another in a battle to see which team can kill the other's leader first. Infection 
 tasks one player, as Hayden, with killing as many of the other nine players as possible before 
 they manage to bring him down. When you're not playing as Hayden, you assume the role of a garden-variety 
 soldier armed only with a firearm, explosives, and the ability to move in and out of cover. One 
 Hayden versus nine might not sound like a fair fight, but when used in conjunction with shield 
 and stealth abilities, Hayden's glaive-and-firearm combo gives him a significant edge over the 
 competition. Ultimately, our experiences with the lag-free multiplayer modes thus far suggest that 
 the balance is about right.  

  Neither the game types nor the maps really lend themselves to groups of less than 10 players, so 
 bots can be used to make the numbers up until more players decide to join. Like the enemies in 
 the single-player game, the bots generally exhibit intelligent behavior but occasionally slip up. 
 (On at least one of the multiplayer maps, they can regularly be seen standing around doing nothing.) 
 Regardless, Dark Sector's multiplayer modes are a lot of fun even when you're playing as a soldier, 
 and the biggest disappointment is simply that there aren't more modes or maps. A straight-up deathmatch 
 option in which everyone has Hayden's abilities would probably be chaotic, but this seems like 
 a missed opportunity regardless, as does the vehicle that you commandeer for a time in the single-player 
 game but which is nowhere to be found in multiplayer.  

  Playing online is the only time you'll notice any significant differences between the Xbox 360 
 and PS3 versions of Dark Sector. The Xbox 360 version lets you join unranked or ranked games automatically, 
 whereas the PS3 version features a more conventional lobby system. Both systems perform their functions 
 admirably. The Xbox 360 version benefits from some neat single-player and multiplayer achievements, 
 but these are replicated on the PS3 as "entitlements," so those of you playing on Sony's console 
 aren't really missing out unless you have a penchant for gamerscores that span multiple games. 

           Playing through the single-player game will make multiplayer a lot easier to pick up. 

  Visually, Dark Sector rarely fails to impress, though you'll occasionally stumble upon low-resolution 
 textures while searching with a flashlight in darkened corners for pickups. Furthermore, it's a 
 little jarring in such a realistic-looking world that your glaive frequently travels through walls 
 on its way back to you, but then this is a game that really tests your ability to suspend disbelief 
 at every opportunity, given the nature of its puzzles and the lack of storyline. The game's audio 
 is also worthy of note, thanks to an original score that does a great job of letting you know when 
 danger is present or past. Likewise, some really satisfying sound effects make the weapons feel 
 powerful, the environments feel creepy and abandoned, and some of the enemies far more intimidating 
 than they deserve.  

  Dark Sector isn't the next Gears of War, and it isn't a game that you should go into looking for 
 a compelling story. You could certainly do a lot worse if you're looking for 10 to 12 hours of 
 single-player action and some multiplayer kicks, though.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (78 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BLACKHAWK696
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  When I first decided to play this game i thought it was kinda boring but I saw my brother playing 
 it before so I knew it would be fun. Although I was wrong...... This game has WAY TOO MUCH looking 
 around for something thats impossible to find unless you look around for a long time. Then theres 
 not enought fighting in it that I would like. I also don't like that you are in a dark area and 
 it makes it seem like something is going to pop out and you'll have to blow it's head off but instead 
 you find another stupid place that you have to find something that will take forever to find. Those 
 parts really dull this game a lot but all and all its mostly a good game. when you do fight in 
 it you have a bunch of people or infected humans to kill (which is fun to destroy them but the 
 game sometimes doesn't give you many good places to stay behind and kill them.) I'd have to say 
 the best thing I like about this game is your character and his sector. The sector can do many 
 stuff thats helpful when you need it and it's also cool looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  need to start off by saying. RENT BEFORE YOU BUY. I was so excited for this game to come out and 
 received a $10 off coupon from Amazon for being such a game crack-head. What could possibly go 
 wrong... And the answer to that is oh so much.
  
  The game starts off good with some nice water effects. Then enters Hayden which by my standards 
 looks like a complete tool. How in the world did creative OK this character model? As we all know 
 Hayden then becomes infected which might make the game awesome, but sadly it doesn't. The glaive 
 is incredibly weak and has such a short range of attack. Hayden would have been better off with 
 a mutated arm that shot orange Nerf balls.
  
  A few more things set this game back. Crappy models and textures being a big deal. Extremely dark 
 areas prevent you from going any further until you blindly stumble onto a pitch black web wall. 
 And my biggest gripe. The WORST AI I have ever witnessed. Don't get me wrong, Resident Evil's waves 
 of zombies are great but Dark Sector's zombies just become stupidly annoying.
  
  Again rent before you buy, or just plain avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cody13_2012
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a great Sci-Fi shooter with innovative combat. The storytelling is definitely lacking 
 and I felt the single player campaign was a little too short. Dark Sector may be flawed in some 
 regards, but for 10 to 15 dollars it should not be missed. 
  
  Your character has a very powerful arsenal, with his bladed disk, the glaive, being very fun to 
 use. It starts of just being something to throw at enemies, but as you progress through the game 
 it becomes much more powerful thanks to new abilities you will learn. The gun combat is also well 
 done, but with ammo being scarce and the glaive being more powerful and a whole lot more fun, you 
 will find yourself using the glaive a whole lot more than guns. Being able to wield a pistol while 
 wielding the glaive is also very useful if you have enemies charging at you, for all you have to 
 do is hit them in the head with the glaive, and fire a couple of rounds in the head and most enemies 
 will drop dead.
  
  Boss battles give a break from the usual combat tactics in the game and require you to be constantly 
 moving, to avoid being killed. Most enemies in the game cannot kill you in one hit, but there are 
 several bosses who can, and they are the bosses who require the most thought to beat.. Most bosses 
 cannot be killed with conventional weapons and you have to be crafty with the glaive. Boss battles 
 are tough but you feel very accomplished after defeating a boss.
  
  The glaive also serves other purposes than just a weapon, you can break boxes and collect items 
 with it, and you also use it to open doors. The game requires you to think and strategize with 
 the glaive, as it is often used to be able to get from one place to another. The first few missions 
 require much thought to get from place to place, but as you get the hang of it you will be able 
 to go through the game without the same kind of troubles you will have at the beginning. Overall 
 Dark Sector is a very good game despite a few flaws, if you are looking for an action game to satisfy 
 your thirst for blood then this game will suit you perfectly. And for 10 bucks or possibly a little 
 more (I bought mine new for $10) , this game is a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUCIFERATEME
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this game got a few bad reviews but when i eventually got bored of playing some of my older titles 
 i gave this a go. i havn`t finished the game yet and ive played for over ten hours, only stopped 
 playing because killzone 2 arrived. 
  the action is is pretty strong with some decent A. I which only on a few occasions was cannon fodder. 
 
  during the game you are infected with a virus and this in turn gives you a beastly right arm with 
 a glaive attached, its like a three pronged boomerang. throwing this thing around is different 
 and fun!, i have really enjoyed lopping off heads with it and will continue to do so. the game 
 also needs you to use your brain on a few occasions which i liked to spice things up a bit. 
  all in all i am really enjoying this title and i would really recommend anyone to pick it up for 
 a low end price, it should be in the bargain bins soon enough and for the fun you will have its 
 a bargain third person shooter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  If you have high hopes for dark sector you will be disappointed, but if you play the game knowing 
 that the game is good but not great and that multi-player is a failure you will enjoy yourself 
 with dark sector. Visuals are good, not great, and music, sound effects follow suit, (blade sounds 
 sweet) . Presentation is great actualy, but story starts off very interesting and soon nose-dives. 
 Gameplay is tight and is the strongest part of the game, although it does become repetitive about 
 80% though the game. Gameplay has two things special about it, it has gears of war rip-off cover-system 
 (which works most of the time) and a pretty awsome blade you can decapitate and grusomely destroy 
 enemies with. The are also one or two vehicle segments that are fun but are only about 5 minutes 
 long or less each. Boss fights are actualy quite good. Gunplay seems and is really generic, stick 
 with the blade. So you get an all around good game, not great, but good game that will last you 
 fewer than 10 hours and in most cases, less than 8 hours. Online is best ignored due to complete 
 lack of fun. But I can honestly say that if somehow you have no more games to play, dark sector 
 is a solid game if you can get is on the cheap, which you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot. It has many things to offer on a few different levels, but I was somehow 
 conflicted about playing the game and then finishing it. It's not that the game was too hard or 
 that I didn't enjoy playing it; I think is because it wasn't as player friendly as I would like 
 and this game brought together some platformer and shooter game traits but didn't blend them together 
 well enough. 
  
  The game starts off with you being a lone, elite, government operative (I'm assuming US) put into 
 a situation that you don't want to be involved in. You agree because you have some remorse about 
 some past daemons. As you make your way into the compound, you start to get the feel that something 
 has gone really wrong. There are body bags with biohazard signs, blood on the walls and people 
 with gasmask on. You all know, the standard biologic catastrophe government cover-up plot that 
 we've all played. I have to say, they did do a good job with the game environment and the whole 
 empty feel it levees you with. Shortly after you work your way through a few foot solders, you 
 come across your main adversary and his bodyguard witch do you the unfortunate favor of endowing 
 you with extra abilities and a cool Xena type weapon. It's not exactly like Xena's ring except 
 that it cuts stuff and always comes back.
  
  After this event transpires, the game settles down into a pretty good grove. You will move through 
 most of the first chapters (1-5) fairly quickly. You will then arrive at a shipping doc where things 
 start to get much more difficult (it's like the honeymoon ended and she/he is now a axe wielding 
 maniac) . From this point on, all the challenges that you have to complete need to be done with 
 a constant onslaught of enemies. They will stop eventually, but it makes it much more difficult 
 to figure out the puzzle while being attacked by fairly relentless zombie like infected people. 
 The boss battles where somewhat hard but just in the fact that it's hard to figure out how to finish 
 them off. However, it's a good thing that all the other bosses go the same way otherwise there 
 would have been problems.
  
  As for the game play, I found it fun yet challenging at the same time. In the first half of the 
 game, most enemies go down fairly quickly and it's easy to move through the game with the weapons 
 on hand. After the halfway point though it dose get quite a bit more difficult to take down your 
 enemies. Your pretty much shooting for the head after the middle of the game otherwise you're going 
 to get stomped. This is one of the things I didn't like. It seamed like you get penalized for not 
 getting a head shot because after you hit them once, they make a b-line right at you. It pushes 
 you to be more accurate, so I guess it's a double-edged sword. Also, I felt that the upswing in 
 the difficulty was good but should have been spread out over more than one level. Play was smooth 
 and for the most part (meaning I didn't notice) glitch free. Levels where well designed but a little 
 repetitive. Every level looked like the last in a lot of ways and made it feel like your walking 
 in circles and because of that you might lose the story line at times (I know I did) . 
  
  So overall, it was defiantly worth the price ($14.00 at Fry's) and the time I spent playing this 
 game (about 10 hours give of take) . I would buy a sequel if there was a possibility of a second 
 but they closed out the story line fairly well at the end. It would be worth adding to your collection 
 but I don't think that there's much replay value at the moment but that could change. I think one 
 should always play a good game twice.
  
  Good luck and enjoy.
  Eryk
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  'Great graphics
  'Interesting puzzle sequences
  'Varied monsters
  'Fun Boss-fights
  'Challenging
  'Just Plain Fun
  'Finishers are satisfying
  'SIXAXIS for 
 glaive precision
  
  Cons:
  'Sometimes there are glithes
  'Questionable story
  'X Button as taking cover, sprinting, and dodge is not a good idea
  
  
  I dont see why Dark 
 Sector is mereting such bad scores. I know there are problems throughout the game but they are 
 so small compared to the overall experience. I mean, nobody can deny that Dark Sector is fun. Glaive 
 attacks are slick and satisfying; making you feel like the toughest thing on the battlefield. Also, 
 puzzle modes and usage of elements with the glaive are cool. Plus, its one of the few PS3 mulitplatform 
 games out there with SIXAXIS (The only other ones i can think of right now are Need for Speed Carbon 
 and Mirror's Edge) . I know Dark Sector is far from perfect with its occasional glitches and X button 
 usage, but the game itself deserves more than its getting. Not many people have played this game, 
 but since its not only cheap right now but fun, people should definately check it out. Also, i 
 give this game "The End of 2008 Awards" "Best Game Nobody Played" Award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erazor521
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game before I get to the actual review? Well, I liked it. That's about 
 it. 
  
  The story isn't amazing but that's a rarity in video games anyway. You play as Hayden Tenno, a 
 government agent sent to the country of Lasria to capture a man by the name of Mezner. Hayden starts 
 off obnoxious, cocky, whiny and rutheless and slowly changes into a good guy. I point this out 
 because the game can't help but point out how much of a jerk Hayden is to everyone he knows in 
 nearly every cutscene that involves more characters than just him. Hell, even Mezner, the game's 
 primary antagonist, takes the time to point out how much he hates Hayden (though it's never made 
 clear how he even knows who he is) . Despite all of this, I really liked Hayden more than most shooter 
 protagonists.
  
  Anyway, it turns out Mezner has taken control of the Lasrian military. What does this mean for 
 Hayden? It means his job is going to be a whole lot harder. To top it off, Lasria has been overrun 
 by a strange infection that turns all effected by it into horrible mutants. Early on in the game 
 Hayden is attacked by one of the infected humans - who also happens to be Mezner's right hand man 
 - and contracts the infection. Hayden then sets out to find and kill Mezner. The infection is what 
 makes the gameplay really stand out but I'll talk more about that in a moment.
  
  The game controls pretty much the same way Gears of War does. It's an over-the-shoulder third person 
 shooter with a "Tap-A" ( or X on PS3) cover system. You tap the A/X button and Hayden, the game's 
 main character will hide behind whatever object he happens to be making physical contact with provided 
 that it's not a person or fire. To shoot from the hip you simply press the trigger button. But, 
 to fire with any sort of accuracy, you'll need to press the secondary trigger button to mount your 
 equipped weapon on your shoulder. The B/O button can be used to make Hayden melee enemies, leap 
 over any chest-high objects in his path, jump down specific ledges, or perform brutal finishing 
 attacks on enemies who have taken enough damage. Those are just the basics of the controls.
  
  Strangely, Hayden can't blind fire from behind cover. You always have to lean out to shoot 
 your enemies. This is easy to forgive since blind fire is nearly useless in every game that uses 
 it. Instead you're given something I like to call a "Blind Melee" that allows Hayden to quickly 
 elbow an enemy in the face from behind cover. This actually comes in handy as it knocks back the 
 enemy long enough for you to finish them off any way you'd like.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, Hayden's infection is what really makes the game's controls stand out in 
 quite a few ways. First of all, Hayden cannot hold on to enemy weapons for more than about 45 seconds 
 because they are all equipped with devices that deactivate them when they are handled by anyone 
 who is infected. Instead, to use any gun besides a pistol, you'll have to visit the Black Markets 
 scattered throughout the game to purchase illegal weapons with collectible money. As the infection 
 spreads through Hayden's body you unlock new powers to use such as a forcefield, invisibility and 
 others that all involve the glaive.
  
  Yes, now is the time I will talk about the glaive. This is the part of Hayden's infection that 
 effects the gameplay the most. The glaive is a bladed disc that grows out of Hayden's right hand 
 soon after he becomes infected. The glaive can be thrown like a boomerang and will be quickly drawn 
 back to Hayden meaning your ammo supply is rarely an issue. The glaive has many different abilities 
 - most of which involve slaughtering Lasrian soldiers and infected citizens in the most brutal 
 of ways. As Hayden gains new powers provided by his infection the glaive gains such abilities as 
 being controlled in midflight, stealing weapons and items, and conducting the elements of fire, 
 ice, and electricity for extra special mayhem. 
  
  The game also stops you at points to solve puzzles. There's not too much to say about them since 
 they don't show up too often. They are generally challenging and often require you to know the 
 finer points of using the glaive.
  
  Graphically, this game is great. There is a great amount of detail in both the environments and 
 the characters and the rain effects are some of the best I've ever seen in a video game. Blood 
 effects look great too. While the game is pretty heavy on the blood it looks very realistic and 
 every enemy loses what appears to be a realistic amount of blood. And this game looks great under 
 any circumstances. I've played both the 360 and PS3 versions in both standard and high definition 
 and it always looks good. Granted, it does look alot better in HD, it's not bad if you're stuck 
 with a standard definition television. My only gripe with the graphics is how dark they are. You're 
 pretty much forced to increase the brightness settings in the options menu when you start playing 
 it.
  
  This game's sound department is pretty swell too. All of the voice actors, and that is every single 
 one of them, deliver their lines very well. None of the lines sound weird or awkward. The sound 
 effects are great too. Each weapon sounds just right and the explosions are great. In the areas 
 of the game where gunfire isn't the focus you can hear just about every footstep, every raindrop, 
 and every stepped in puddle. The music is pretty standard but it sets the tone of the game well. 
 It's a mix of generic war music and generic horror game music. None of it really stands out but 
 it gets the job done.
  
  Like pretty much every other shooter these days, darkSector comes with it's own online mode. There 
 are two playable online game modes. Epidemic and Infection. In Epidemic, two teams go head-to-head 
 in a 1 life-per-player elimination round. The teams are divided between The Agency and Lasria. 
 Each round, one player on each team is chosen to play as an infected soldier. The Agency has Hayden 
 while Lasria has a fully infected soldier. Everyone else plays as a standard soldier. It's a tough 
 choice between firing on the weak regular soldiers or focusing all of your shots on the enemy infected. 
 It's heartbreaking to take out all of the enemy soldiers as the infected only to have the enemy 
 infected sneak up behind you using his camo ability and snap your neck. Overall, Epidemic is very 
 fun.
  
  Infection is more of a Juggernaut-type game mode. One player is infected and everyone else is a 
 soldier and must work together to kill the infected. Everyone has one life and when you die, you 
 sit out the rest of the round just like in Epidemic. 1-to-5 (or more) may sound unfair but infected 
 players are so powerful it quickly becomes a challenge to take them down. The human player who 
 delivers the kill becomes the infected player the next round. Infected is the more difficult game 
 mode, no matter which side you're on, but it's also alot of fun.
  
  This game cost me only 9.99$ new at my local GameStop so the price is reasonable. But, if you don't 
 think it's right for you, you can check out the demo on Xbox Live or Playstation Network. There 
 aren't really any differences between the 360 and PS3 version except that the PS3 version gives 
 you the option of using the SixAxis motion controls for the glaive's aftertouch ability. It doesn't 
 really feel tacked on and it's actually fun to use. Graphically, both versions are identical. Overall, 
 it's a great game and is definitley worth any shooter fan's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinps2hero
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, not knowing anything about it. The first level has some pretty troublesome 
 shooting involving a few baddies, and a Helicopter! Not being great at proper shoot 'em ups, it 
 took me a little while to get the hang of it. But one level lator, and a few interesting cut scenes, 
 this game will have you hooked.
  As you go round various army bases, secret out posts, and what seem to be mutant test facilities, 
 the game lets you in on a few of its own secrets. You embrace the character and become more determined 
 as his unfair story is told. The weapon upgrade system is quite dark & underground; mainly because 
 it takes place under a drain cover, but also because you get very little hints in the way of what 
 you need, and what you can do. Collecting things as you go round is important, and sometimes quite 
 frustrating, as a save point might stop you getting that all important ammo clip.
  Overall, very impressed, a worthy acquisition to anyone's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  What can I say this game is worth picking up for $10-17. Can't complain about that. I bought a 
 lot of games that costed $60 and was not worth the purchase, so I ended up selling them. This game 
 would be a rent or keeper but now that it's so cheap you might as well buy it than renting it from 
 blockbuster. The story is very poor but the gameplay is cool. IF you don't know what gears of war 
 is like... then try out Dark Sector's. THe coversytem and gameplay is similar to it. xxx xxxx xxx 
 xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxx xxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx 
 xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx 
 xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx 
 xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx 
 x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx 
 xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x 
 x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxx 
 xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batteredpuppet
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  This is a sweet game. It's a steal now that you're getting such a great game for under 20 dollars. 
 The game's graphics are very smooth and the controllers are amazing. Having a Ps3 and a 360... this 
 game's feel very similar to gears of war..... the way it is laid out. I haven't checked it out on 
 the 360, but it is a beautiful looking game on the ps3. I was hooked just by watching the previews 
 for this game, so i decided to pick it up. I was amazed to see how cheap it was. I'm a little let 
 down that it didn't get more hype.... it really is an amazing game. Anyone who gets this game will 
 be pleased....... man i can't think of 800 characters for this review..... i've said all i can  
 are you still sitting there reading this............. PICK UP THE GAME ALREADY !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 UNDER 20 BUCS........ CAN'T BEAT THAT......
  I ONLY PAID 12 SOMETHING FOR IT !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  When I was able to buy this game at the mall for $20, I didn't give it much hope. I've been rather 
 surprised- in a pleasant way.
  
  Gameplay: The glaive is a fun weapon to use; the others are more basic and could've been expanded 
 upon to make the game better. I'd prefer more rubles at hand to give all the weapons a chance to 
 play with, rather than having to choose between a few. Unless you have the strategy guide or are 
 a complete explorer type you'll miss lots of rubles and upgrades and find yourself out of ammo 
 once in a while.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, a moody, dark game. As with most shooters (even Half-Life 2) , enemy repetition 
 becomes a problem. It gets boring to see the same guys over and over. Throwing the glaive in slo-mo 
 is pretty cool, but the rest of the world operates at regular speed while you do it. That's pretty 
 silly.
  
  Sound: Ouch. Weapon sounds are great, but the repetitious blurbs coming from the Russian soldiers 
 get stale and sound stupid to begin with. "Cover me!" "I'm reloading!" Yeah, tell the whole world 
 when you're moving and when you're not shooting. Good idea.
  
  Overall: Hey, it's better than a bunch of games I've dropped down $60 bucks for. Why this game 
 has been chosen to find the bargain bin is beyond me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shart46
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  this game has so much to do wheather your fighting endless infected creatures to stuning bosses 
 the main charecter is infected by a big silver guy who stabes him in the right arm causing it to 
 turn into a titanium arm that is atached to a weapon called a glaive a three bladed throwing weapon 
 and as the game progrsses his arm infection grows more up his body SPOLER ALERT in about chapter 
 8 he gets a amour for his whole body he can create a shield around him of turn invisible for a 
 short period of time in dark sector you can throw your glaive (main weapon) into fire for a quike 
 kill elctrizity can be used to electricute enmes or open jammed dores and killing every enemy in 
 water and you can put your glaive in ice witch can freeze enemes and then shoot them to shater 
 them into thousands of pieses or throw it on deep water to make it hard so you can walk on it or 
 if an enemey is walking on a small amount of water you can freeze it and they wil be frozen to 
 the ground i think dark sector has a lot to offer if you havent played this game the you are a 
 sad one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after watching a brief gameplay video and i wasn't disappointed. The grafics 
 are truly amazing, really a next gen game. The gameplay is also incredible, it sometimes feels 
 like playing Resident Evil with a giant shuriken. The game has some interesting bosses which will 
 unlock some interesting abilities such as insisibility, a force field and mental control over your 
 weapon allowing you to shift the direction of your shuriken.
  The cut-scenes are not outstanding and contribute almost nothing to the little story this game 
 has, but that is not necessarily a bad thing allowing you to get back to the action. 
  In overall this game is worth playing but could be a rental first, unless you want to play it through 
 to the end, and you will require to sit and play more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This was ubelievable. I was in complete shock. Now I have been meaning to get this for a long long 
 time and finally bought it a month ago when I saw it was only 20 bucks brand new at walmart. First 
 let me tell you the Story line is provacative and fun. It enthralls and captivates you with its 
 dark and dreary environments and creepy level design. 
  
  The one true way to describe this game is Gears of war meets Resident evil. Not the new one, im 
 talking about the old PS1 days when Resident evil was scary. So here I was a couple of days before 
 resistance 2 came out and I noticed I bought this game a month ago and never played it. Now two 
 days later I beat it. Not cause its short but simply cause I played it practically non stop. The 
 game offered me a solid 15 to 18 hours of fun challenging gameplay. Then playing with surround 
 sound at 3 in the morning when your wife and kids are asleep adds tons to the creepy factor and 
 made this one hell of an adventure. 
  
  I strongly urge and recommend you to get this game. If I knew it was this good I wouldve bought 
 it when it was 60 bucks. I cant believe I waited so long. Now you have an opportunity to enjoy 
 it as G4's TV network calls it Games for Cheap Bastards.. Especially in todays economy when paying 
 60 to 80 bucks a game, it is a relief to get a great game at a hugely discounted price. It doesnt 
 make any sense as to why the game didnt get better reviews. 
  
  Bottom line. Great game and has my solid stamp of approval. Great graphics, great story, amazing 
 gameplay, and you have yourself one hell of an excellent game. I recommend it with full certainty 
 that you will find some part of it that enjoys it and makes you feel fulfilled and satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  There have been many original weapons in games over the years: Half Life had those alien experimental 
 weapons, Turok had plenty of destructive guns with impressive visual effects, Portal had the portal 
 gun, etc. And now, Dark Sector brings an interesting and equally deadly new weapon to the gaming 
 world called the glaive, a boomerang-like weapon which returns after every throw and our main character 
 Hayden's primary weapon. What makes this weapon so fun to use is that you can easily amputate or 
 sometimes even cut enemies in half with it if you power charge the Glaive right, and when you do 
 you'll often see your victim crying out in pain and leaving a bloody mess before they died. You 
 can also use it as a melee weapon and perform "finishers" with it once you damage an enemy enough. 
 You'll also have the ability to absorb some elements like fire and electricity for even more devastating 
 attacks. All of these abilities are very violent and bloody, not to mention very satisfying to 
 watch no matter how many times you executed them before.
  The Glaive isn't just for killing though, you also need it to solve a lot of the game's puzzles. 
 Most of the time where you can absorb an element it means that you'll be using it in the nearby 
 area, like using a electricity imbued Glaive to open a malfunctioning electric door, or using ice 
 to extinguish fires that are blocking your path. You'll be seeing a lot of these "puzzles", and 
 sometimes you'll need to manually control the glaive to hit those hard to reach targets.
  While you'll be using the Glaive as your main weapon, you'll also have the chance to buy additional 
 guns later on, and since they'll be many times where you get surrounded by enemies and you handgun 
 just isn't enough, they do come in handy in tight spots. Unfortunately, guns don't come cheap, 
 so its better to just buy one gun that suits your tastes and upgrade it as best as you can.
  Behind all of the Dark Sector's unique gameplay there's also a story to be told, even if it was 
 left very underdeveloped; but the plot is about Hayden, an American Special Forces agent sent to 
 some part of the Soviet Union to stop Mezner, a man responsible for some infection that has been 
 ravaging the country. Unfortunately, Hayden finds himself infected by the very same virus he was 
 sent out to stop, only instead of dying he ends up getting new powers from it in the form of the 
 Glaive weapon. 
  While the story starts off interesting enough, it unfortunately gets lost somewhere in the middle 
 in favor of more combat. The few attempts at character development were left very ambiguous and 
 the plot twists along the way aren't very surprising considering the thin cast of characters. Because 
 of this I never found myself caring for what could happen to any of the characters. Even the combat 
 starts to feel a bit repetitive since all you do in later chapters is just fight wave after wave 
 of similar looking enemies. Regardless of all this, Dark Sector offers a fun ride while it last, 
 one that should satisfy does for a taste for action and brutal combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  OPS said that this was a good game but it 'tripped over its own feet' i dissagree with this. The 
 end i admitt was kinda pintless but i enjoyed this game to the very end. It was like a resi 4 third 
 person shooter which was made unique with the glaive which can remove limbs (a boomerang type weapon) . 
 The bosses are well thought of with no enegy bars, which being a dmc fan was different for me, 
 but it made it even better becasue each time you knew there was a certain way to defeat it. The 
 finishers are great, being different depending on what you are attacking and where you are attacking 
 it from, and the shoot outs are great, duck and cover battles. 
  What makes this game in my opinion is the fact that you get different power ups with the glaive 
 when you proceed in the game. Invisibility and using the 6 axis to control the glaive being my 
 favourite they really help you to fight different enemies as they get tougher. 
  The one flaw that i didnt like about the game is the black markets (buy weapons, put upgrades) . 
 because at the start it is fine, you collect money, use it to buy weapos while putting upgrades 
 on them like stopping power and accuracy. But as you get further in the game you get less and less 
 money, until you can hardly find any at all. Which is stupid because there are more guns availiable 
 at the end.
  THe online is good with two modes- Infection (one person fighting with glaive against everyone else) 
 and epidemic (two teams each one with a leader with glaive) both of these are good games and there 
 are different maps to play on. THe biggest problem, which is very big, is that not alot of people 
 go online and there will be like one lobby ever... and if that laggs, its tough.
  
  GRAPHICS-10/10
  SOUND-7/10
  GAMEPLAY-9/10
  VALUE-7/10
  ONLINE-5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aequitas31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is my favorite game ever. The glaive never gets old, and the gun play is almost as 
 fun as using the glaive. The graphics are great, and the upgrades work well. Easily the best part 
 is the glaive though, using the powers, especially the slowmo is always fun. The multiplayer is 
 a lot of fun as well, although it could have been designed better. The boss battles are not too 
 difficult but you will not breeze through them either. And the dark tone to the game is enough 
 to keep you on edge. I only wish that the game was longer and that the online multiplayer had more 
 options. But as for the game, it is great. It may be one of the best games on the ps3 and is definately 
 the most fun to play. I really hope there is a sequal and that the main character is made more 
 agile and that they improve the multiplayer. But either way, this is hands down my favorite game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  I would say thats an accurate description. It is Capcom so its alittle like RE, and I like how 
 he keeps evolving threw the game. Now at the start your pretty much just some guy infiltrating 
 a base of some kind with a fire arm and some grenades. Then you start getting infected by some 
 messed up virus. This is when it starts to get cool. Now you have this blade that comes out of 
 your arm. You can throw it like a boomerang, but with a much cooler affect. You can even guide 
 it with the sixaxis controller. It game slows down, and zooms in on the Glavine then shows it getting 
 closer and closer to a bad guy then slice! AHHHHHH, haha, its pretty cool. Then you keep on evolving. 
 He now can absorb fire ice and electricity with bis glavine, and uses it for all kinds of purposes. 
 Like getting threw to the next stage, or just burning someone alive. There are a few guns to choose 
 from as well, that get better and better as the game progresses. It can get kinda easy, and sometimes 
 the finishers get repetitive, but there still pretty cool, I always recommend this game, you might 
 have to wait a little while before it gets really good, but trust me its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante5000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is an interesting game with some innovative ideas and a lot of stuff I've seen before
 
  
  Well like every review I'll start with the glaive but in hopes to make this more helpful I'll stay 
 away from that as much as possible. Well the glaive is this games innovation on its own and you 
 won't see it anywhere else. you'll find yourself constantly using it more and more as it gets better. 
 From turning you invisible to letting you guide it as it flies to brutally kill some one it is 
 an entertaining weapon.
  
  But the guns fail to live up to expectations as they are only there for when you glaive is out 
 of reach of an enemy. you'll never want to use them as their ammo can't be picked up from dead 
 enemies you can only grab a ticking time bomb that is useless after seconds.
  
  the story is lost in the middle and scrapped at the end it seemed like they might have been setting 
 up for a prequel or something because they defiantly didn't explain all of the main characters 
 past even after they bring it up.
  
  Now the enemies are fun in the beginning of the game with range fighting against humans or close 
 fighting against monsters which are both fun until it is ruined in chapter 6 when monsters are 
 just as tough as humans but more you'll see no humans or diversity later on.
  
  all in all dark sector is a short blast a rent is a defiant must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefaunaofwar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I must say, this game was very disappointing. For one, there is nothing next-gen about it, nothing 
 majorly new here to see. The story about some virus feels like its all been done before in countless 
 movies and games. The character feels hollow and dull with no new abilities to gain besides the 
 glave. Not a single memorable scene for me to enjoy. Enemies are cheesy and not at all creative, 
 they all seem to look the same, the human looking ones anyway. You realize after making some progress 
 that nothing majore really happens its the same crap repeating itself over and over again then 
 the game ends. It just feels like this game has tons of room left for things that could have been 
 added, but instead was cut short for a quicker release. The combat system is a joke, only being able 
 to throw a few punches. This hollow character has absalutley nothing to offer besides the annoying 
 glave!!!!, which drove me crazy after several chapters and realizing that its all the ability i 
 will be gaining. The execution moves were as pathetic, boring and repetitive as the game itself. 
 There is no interaction with the environment, ( jumping over hand rails, hanging on ledges, etc.) 
 like you would expect a game like this to have These people are absalutley shameless, when i watched 
 one of the interviews the directer said if they would've pushed it out even sooner it probably 
 would've been game of the year, and i HIGHLEY doubt that very much!!. I had very high expectations 
 for this game but was let down the very hour i started playing. I was expecting swift and satisfying 
 gameplay, but swift and satisfying is "NOT" Dark Sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game because it sounded kind of cool, and when you first boot it up 
 it looks great. But after making it thru 6 chapters of the game, I realized it was the same thing 
 over and over again, fighting with the clunky controls, and not doing anything new, that I just 
 gave up and walked away.
  
  I don't know how to explain it, it was as if the game had no personality and there was no reason 
 for me to keep playing because I wasn't really having fun.
  
  In fact I think the only thing that kept me going so long, was they managed to copy so many other 
 good games, that I think i was just nostalgic thinking about the great games they copied like Resident 
 Evil 4, or even Heavenly Sword with it's "aftertouch" guiding your boomerang thing around. But 
 after realizing it was nowhere near as fun as those other games, I had enough. 
  
  It was kind of like a tech demo for an engine that looked great on the surface, but was really 
 clunky and blocky to play. What was up with your character moving so slow and getting stuck on 
 everything in the environment. Yuck!
  
  In Summary - Not Worth Your Time or Money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joo_Phish
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  when u first start, this plays like a fun shooter, a mix between gears and RE4.
  using the glaive is very fun and ads variety to ur kills but is too easy to deal pain with.
  
 some enemies should atleast be able to defend from it, some duck under it but the AI isn't good 
 enough to flank u so u just sit back and toss and toss and toss the glave. u could also use ur 
 guns, which u basically have and infinite supply of ammo for... also making the game too easy.
 
  what is funkin gay is the melee system, it rarely deals blows, the finishers can be satisfying 
 but it doesn't flow together at all.
  
  boss battles are annoying. they just don't die, so ur like running around scratching ur brain of 
 a different way to damage the boss.
  u fight this big giant guy, and u light him on fire a **** load and u electricute him a **** load, 
 he just wouldn't die. so i had him running through pillars and then i was out of pillars so i kept 
 just doing the same **** and he died after like 20 minutes, stupid.
  
  also the stupid ass zombie dudes are so gay basically this game just swarms u with enemies like 
 20 at a time, u kill them and get bored while ur doing it. some puzzles are fun and it is indeed 
 amusing decapitating everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Before this game released was a time that I would say I was in between games. I was desperately 
 looking for something to appease me until the next big title. I read a lot of new on this game, 
 and I wasn't really sure what to expect. It had that sort of interesting take on mutation that 
 from what I saw in preview movies, would be the answer to my gaming call.
  
  Needless to say.. I was wrong.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  It has it's pretty moments. Mostly when 
 the slow-mo glaive throws go high-def showing details of limbs being dismembered. Yeeea.. that's 
 pretty mesmerizing  .  On the whole, there's some definate inconsistencies in pixelation. Not to 
 mention some of the elemental effects look waay too toony. Since this game incorporates the 3rd 
 person over-the-shoulder routine, I felt like comparing it to Gears of War.. which sadly to say.. 
 it doesn't. All around the graphics are decent, and fairly beleivable.
  
  Sound: 7.0
  
  I'll tell you right now, you'll get tired of hearing the repetitious glaive throwing sound. Over.. and 
 over.. and over.. That's really the only sound effect that bugged me. I rated this rather lower 
 than most because some sound codecs were really.. off. What I mean by this is I would hear explosions 
 that should be right in front of me that were prodominately booming through my left front speaker. 
 And no.. I don't have a crappy setup.. trust me on that.
  
  Voice acting was also mediocre.. which is another big one for me. People get paid to voice act.. 
 why do it cheesily? Isn't like.. your profession or anything.
  
  Controls: 9.0 
  
  This was probably the best feature for me mainly because the controls weren't complicated at all. 
 2 buttons later.. a tilt of the six axis.. and 6 guys lay cut in half. Gotta love it. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.0
  
  I'll agree with most when they say the premise is fun.. for a couple hours. 
 Some areas can be extremely difficult which can make for some hair-pulling moments, but eventually 
 after the 10th death you'll figure out how to nab that inviso-beastie. But really.. you're playing 
 this game for the glaive system.. it's really the only worthy attack method.
  
  Just like Gamespot stated, the story is mildly bland at best. I was kinda expecting a uniquely 
 twisted plot but sadly.. there's nothing unique about it. 
  
  Value: 6.0
  
  This game is good for only a rental. I would never recommend purchasing this game to anyone.. even 
 if I hated them. Definately not worth 60 bucks.. and I feel sorry for you if you purchased and 
 are hoping for more. Sorry to say, but this game is just a quick action fix.
  
  -TiX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall, 
  
  I am a shamed to say i purchased this game, it was brilliant until after you kill 200 "baddies" 
 using the glave it's all the same old splat and blood, only 2 or 3 close range kills that get old 
 quick. Guns sound under powered and uninspired. I feel that i have heard better sounding guns on 
 the Mega drive.
  
  Some of the skills you unlock for the glave are fun like shocking people with a flying glave is 
 fun the first few times, but after that it's same old same old. Puzzles are the same one or two 
 are difficult then they get easy. 
  
  Boss fights yawn o rama just lately i am feeling that boss battles aren't challenging in most games.
 
  
  I am sorry if liked this game, but for what it was made out to be... just a waste of good game 
 funds that could of been better spent
  
  Not even worth a purchase from the bargain bin 
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmptySki
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The game is underrated in my opinion but not by that much. Though the story was intresting I felt 
 as if the game didn't have enough of a story and some of it did not make sense. The game was a 
 decent length and can be completed under ten hours. I only played the online one night and it was 
 alright. Nothing was special about playing online. The gameplay was similar to Gears of War when 
 taking into account the covering system. When running the camera zooms in like Gears. But Gears 
 doesnt have the Glaive weapon in which you throw at your enemies and it returns. There isn't a 
 lot of gun fighting because most of the time you are using the glave or whatever it is called. 
 You can pick up enemy weapons but you can only use them for a short time before they explode (it 
 doesnt hurt you) . What is intresting about the game is getting the upgrades for your new powers 
 such as a shield, becoming invisible and using your blade with fire, ice or electricity and making 
 them explode to kill several enemies. 
  
  Dark Sector was a fun and intresting game to play. I was thinking about purchasing the game because 
 I did not beat until this morning. Now that I have beaten the game there is not much left so I 
 doubt I will be buying the game anytime soon. Dark Sector is worth a try. Rent it, and enjoy the 
 game but don't expect it to be perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  darkSector is a very, very good FPS adventure, at a fairly cheap price, you can get darkSector 
 as cheap as the new Greatest Hits titles. I got mine on eBay for 24.00$ including shipping.
  
  The game plays a lot like Resident Evil 4, over the shoulder look with a great arsenal at your 
 disposal. There's even a way to buy and upgrade your weapons, just like RE4. The AI is very good, 
 ennemy are always moving behind boxes and they always keep pressure on your main character.
  
  Graphics are good, characters animation is one of the finest out there. It's intense, the background 
 visual are fantastic, the rain looks great.
  
  The Glave is a great weapon to use, it's original and gives all the flavors to the game itself. 
 Boss are EPIC and there's a nice degree of difficulty to the game.
  
  I think darkSector is an Underappreciated Gem for the PS3. And i hope it becomes a Greatest Hits 
 one day, people need to really try out this game.
  
  The story is by far the worst thing about darkSector... But any game that only lacks a good story 
 is a hit in my book.
  
  Try darkSector now, you won't regret it. My real score would be 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The glaive has to be the coolest weapon to ever be in a videogame. Slicing enemies up with it never 
 gets old, but it's not enough to cover up Dark Sector's obvious flaws.
  
  Gameplay: 7/7 - The gameplay is very fun in Dark Sector. The control scheme is easy, and well-known, 
 since it's similar to most other shooters. The glaive makes the game, it's just so much fun. I 
 don't know why but it's just plain cool to though this spinning disk of death and rip others limbs 
 off. The game is fun, and the puzzles aren't easy, so you have to think a bit to get through. One 
 downside however, is that some random battles are very hard to get by, causing lots of frusteration.
 
  
  Story: 4/5 - The story was okay, but pretty much a rip off of Resident Evil with it's own twists. 
 A virus gets out, infects all the humans, and turns them into undead-ish creatures, that was just 
 plain creepy. The voice acting is extremely well done for Dark Sector, but Hayden is the only interesting 
 character from what I've seen so far in the game.
  
  Online: 0/5 - Absolutely 100% horrible. Dark Sector's online play is almost invisible. When I played 
 it, there were 5 games... that's it. It's cool to play as the one Infected character and kill everyone 
 else at first, but it gets dull. And not being the infected player just plain sucks, period.
  
  Graphics: 3/3 - Stunning. Dark Sector is one of the best games I've seen graphics-wise on a 
 next-gen system. Absolutely beautiful (however it's sometimes ruined by bad textures) and the lighting 
 really sets the mood, especially with the black and white prologue mission.
  
  OVERALL: 14/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azul_Cobra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a very hard game to describe. Honestly its an amazing game at the gameplay point 
 of view, but the storyline... well where is the storyline is the question. It really confused the 
 hell out of me when I first started up a new game and started watching the intro and all of a sudden 
 it ended and I started to play... without any description or mention on what the hell happened in 
 the intro and who the hell I am or what the hell I am do. Probably the most frustrating part about 
 the game, I sometimes found myself pushing through these kinds of moments just to finish the game 
 or the level. 
  
  You have 3 types of weapons: Firearms, explosives, (and my all time favourite) the glaive. I am 
 telling you, the number 1 reason I bought this game was because you could use a freaking glaive 
 to either chop peoples heads off, chop em in half, cut their arm off, or cut their leg off. The 
 gore is even a more fun and rewarding part for using the glaive. I also liked how you could go 
 kinda like a slow-mode fps type perspective of the glaive and, using the sixaxis, you tilt right 
 to turn it right, up to go up, etc., etc. but it did take time getting use to and got annoying 
 the first couple of tries. 
  
  I loved how the glaive could catch the "elements" and attach itself within the "element" and could 
 be used against the enemy, in other words, throw your glaive at fire, it sets on a fire and can 
 be used to set other enemies on fire, same goes for the other 2 elements which are ice and lightning. 
 You kind of use these elements to proceed through the game by used ice to cool of fire and fire 
 to burn pathways which was awesome.
  
  The firearms and the explosives aren't very intresting and neither is the upgrading system, which 
 works by finding parts to either make your weapon stronger, faster, more accurate, or explosive. 
 You apply these in a sorta black market/underground tunnel shop. There very unimaginative and very 
 blunt. Your weapon also looks the exact same after apply any type of upgrade so thats another bore.
 
  
  The multiplayer... wow what is there to say about the multiplayer. Honestly what is there to say? 
 Well theres basically nobody playing it now, you'll be lucky to find 1 or 2 people playing it and 
 it only has two different game modes. Although ill give some credit on the creative side on the 
 game modes since they aren't generic "CTF" type. Other than that... this really was a letdown since 
 I was mostly pumped for the online play.
  
  Overall the part of the game that kept me going was the glaive and the elements it could grasp 
 how you use it to progress through the game but the lack of story, creativeness and more work done 
 on the firearms and explosives, and more importantly online play, really let this game down for 
 me in more ways than one. This should still be a game you should play and experience for yourself 
 because you will like it, but if you were expecting as much as everyone else was... well than prepare 
 to be disappointed. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I don't know about anyone else, but does this remind anyone of an older movie that 
 had this type of character. Krull perhaps.
  
  Dark Sector is a compilation of many great games, but it still culminates in a unique experience. 
 There's a little bit of Gears of War, Resident Evil 4, Uncharted, Bioshock, and several others 
 all wrapped up in an eery and exciting game. 
  
  You play as Hayden Tenno, a black ops agent sent into the fictional country of Lasria to bring 
 down a mad scientist before he can unleash the "Technocyte" virus onto the world. Fortunately for 
 you, you get infected with the virus early on and then benefit from the many abilities it grants 
 you. 
  
  The infection transforms your right arm into this metallic death dealer that spawns the glaive, 
 a 3-pronged blade capable of dismemberment, burning enemies alive, electrocuting them, and freezing 
 them. As the game progresses, Hayden's abilities increase, which involves the ability to form a 
 force field/shield and to detonate the glaive when it approaches a group of enemies. 
  
  The gameplay works pretty well as a 3rd person, over the shoulder view. There are times when it 
 takes about 3 or 4 throws of the glaive to kill an enemy. Also, some enemies require you to unload 
 a full clip into them to bring them down. I guess that is the benefit of being a mutated human. 
 It can be a little frustrating, but that's not half as frustrating as some of the melee moves. 
 They are even less effective. And some of the finishing moves are a bit repetitive.
  
  That being said, Dark Sector still has some of the best graphics in a console game. The lighting 
 and textures are about as good as Gears of War and Uncharted. The sound design is top notch. You 
 are flooded with all these eery sound effects that totally creeps you out. 
  
  The game is pretty linear, but you never quite know when the monsters will jump out at you, so 
 it keeps you on your toes. There are 10 chapters in the game, which makes for a medium length story 
 (I'm currently on chapter 7) . Despite a few minor setbacks, I'm thoroughly enjoying this game. 
 I think if you enjoy survival horror or shooters, you will find Dark Sector eerily pleasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  When I got Darksector Id heard plenty about the Glaive and it's (and Hayde Tenno's) ongoing evolution 
 through the game-but it all ended up as a far too "on rails" experience for me. The inprovements 
 you could apply to weapons as well as buying new ones at the Black Market was also clumsy and often 
 unneccessary.
  
  When you add in pretty much every dreary generic, East European background you can think of and 
 you're left praying for some amazing gameplay to save the game. Even that doesn't quite happen 
 though, as the Gaive isn't quite the memorable experience to use that it should've been and the 
 power-ups always came just when needed but later (esp. the electic ability) just seemed an excuse 
 to show off some shoehorned sixaxis content or were just things you didn't need to use.
  
  So despite some good levels (quite enjoyed the couple of vehicle sections for a change) and decent 
 bosses the game left me cold despite trying to emulate some of the better games in it's genre (ie 
 the over the shoulder Resi 4 aiming system and a decent cover effect too) .
  
  So never quite living up to what it could have been Dark Sector goes the way of so many similar 
 games and becomes a boxed metaphor for the term "meh". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game will surprise those that are looking at the rest of the reviews here. I was very pleased 
 with the graphics and gameplay. Some weapons in the game were fairly useless, and ammo was hard 
 to cone by at times. Otherwise a very good shooter. The main character was done very well. He makes 
 you feel for him even though he isnt a good guy. The hard shell idea covering his arm and part 
 of his chest is pretty sweet, although having to put on a suit to make him stronger later on was 
 just a bad idea. Woulda been better to have him inject himself with more of the disease to become 
 stronger i think. The story was however very predictable. The final boss wasnt too bad, just right 
 in my book. I hate it when they put an impossible boss at the end to a game. This boss takes time 
 and strategy, but is quite beatable. Overall a very fun game and you should definitly get this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stdcgp17
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector should have been the best TPS of the year. It should have put the smack down on all 
 other games in the genre, while raising the bar for future shooters. When looking at the box, you 
 feel like the game has to kick ass. With a cool weapon like a glaive, the combat has to rock right? 
 With a character that looks awesome like this, the storyline should have been interesting and polished 
 right? The answer to both of those questions is WRONG. 
  
  Beginning with combat, I'll start out by saying that although the game starts out very interestingly 
 with a black and white sequence that pulls you in, the combat starts out horribly. Very soon you 
 acquire the infamous glaive. You think this is going to be awesome. It's not. The blade usually 
 takes two hits to kill anyone, while certain enemies die with one pistol blast. Also, anyone that 
 has played a Zelda game on consoles recently halfway expected the glaive to be able to link attacks 
 and do more than it actually does. Other more fulfilling aspects of combat include a weapon upgrade 
 system, semi-cool melee finishers, and some decent boss fights. There are some powers that you 
 get such as the ability to power the glaive with fire and other elements as well as use these to 
 create an explosion near your enemies by throwing the glaive and pressing the R3 button. This comes 
 in handy because grenades leave a little to be desired in the game. Overall, what should be a top-notch 
 combat experience turns out to be lackluster at best.
  
  The story is not worth mentioning at all and is no reason to play this game. This is the worst 
 story I have come across in years so make sure that you really love the combat before you dive 
 into this beast. 
  
  The graphics can at times be impressive but when put up against other recent games, this game looks 
 mediocre. 
  
  To sum this review up, there is a lot of inspiration for future games to be found here. A sequel 
 could end up being one of the greatest games of this generation, but this game falls short in ever 
 category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a great game. Sure, the story is awful, but graphics and gameplay are nice. The 
 game takes a lot from Resident Evil 4 but also has unique elements that makes the game worth playing. 
 The glaive will be your main weapon and you will use it a lot. It's like a boomerang, but not only 
 that, you can also can take down your enemies and crush them with this deadly tool. 
  Other weapons includes guns and shotguns, but they don't even compare to the glaive, really. 
 
  Well, the story, as I said is awful. It has not depth, but the gameplay, as other reviewer has 
 said, is tight. Some parts are very toughs, and the bosses are great. They can't be killed in a 
 normal way. You have to think how to kill them because all of them have special weaknesses. 
  The length is reasonable. You can finish the game in about 8 to 10 hours. I haven't try the multiplayer 
 though, because I'm not very interested.
  The graphics are awesome. Very detailed. But some parts are very "dark" as the title say. Even 
 with your flashlight you can't see very well and that's the only complaint that I have with the 
 game. But anyway, instead of that and the horrible story, it's a very recommended game because 
 of it's great gameplay and awesome graphics. Try it at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  dark sector for the the playstation 3 was very slow and the story wasn't very good either. matter 
 of fact for most of the this game you had no idea what was going on. you really didn't have missions 
 you just played through the game not knowing what your doing. the gameplay was okay, it just got 
 boring way to quick. you get infected with some virus. and you get a glaive that you can use nonstop, 
 and its pretty brutal. you can throw it at enemies and slice pretty much all of there body parts 
 off. you can throw it at guns and they will come too you. you can customize your weapons anyway 
 that you like. you get some pretty cool abilities that really help you out later on in this game. 
 the graphics are pretty damn good. i thought that the boss battles were pretty fun also. other 
 then the main boss fight. by the way it was very annoying. either way this was a decent game. i 
 wouldnt buy it because story mode was nothing more then ten hours. but you should rent this game. 
 it has it's ups and downs of course. i did have fun playing this game. and im sure that your going 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taoridib
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  After renting numerous games this one finally caught my attention. I've regretted paying for 75% 
 of my PS3 games, so I decided to rent before buying and after a while I am buying this game.
  
  True it does look like Resident Evil4, so what? It has a hundred other things that Resident 
 Evil does not have. Plus I think the whole look is a default for retarded PS3 games. Ghost Recon 
 has the same sideways character.
  
  I really like this game. Give it a shot if you haven't.
  
  PS3 needs to step up and bring out 
 some compelling games and I think that they have been a total dissappointment to the gaming world. 
 Quake wars, Haze, even Grand Theft was freaking retarded. I only wished that there was more into 
 this game. I am giving it a 9 because of the re-occuring moves and lack of storyline. He could 
 have a lot more impressive finishes than what he has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector can't escape the comparisons to other games. It's one part Gears of War and another 
 part Resident Evil 4. Despite the fact that developer Digital Extremes has been quick to distance 
 the game from these two modern classics, in many ways it's a good thing. With Gears of War's stunning 
 visuals and cover system, and Resident Evil 4's modern take on survival horror working in tandem, 
 surely Dark Sector is one of the best games of the year? But just how good is it?
  
  Something Dark Sector doesn't really have going for it is a strong storyline, not that there wasn't 
 potential for it to be pretty special. You play as Hayden Tenno, a hit-man for the CIA, who develops 
 special powers after becoming 'infected'. New details are revealed and the story is fleshed out 
 as you battle through hordes of mutated monsters, hundreds of suited up soldiers (they all wear 
 yellow boiler suits) , chain-gun carrying robots and more. It's never a dull experience, that's 
 for sure, and the environments are often quite stunning, but the story comes and goes without making 
 the impact it could have.
  
  As well as using standard weapons Hayden has access to a spinning blade known as the glaive. On 
 the Xbox 360 (the primary version we played) you fire the glaive by hitting the Right Bumper on 
 the controller. If you've got time and want to behead a hiding enemy you can pull up the aiming 
 reticule and aim exactly for the neck, but freely firing in the rough direction is also extremely 
 handy, especially during the more intense fights against wave after wave of the Infected.
  
  What makes the glaive so special though is its range of abilities and uses. A simple throw 
 is just the beginning. Early on you'll learn the power throw, which effectively takes out enemies 
 in a single hit if you time the release properly, and the ability to follow its flight and manipulate 
 its movement enables you to target enemies hiding behind corners. How about using it to pick up 
 ammo left in dangerous enemy-filled areas? Just target the ammo with the glaive and it's delivered 
 straight to you.
  
  But that's not your lot either. Your glaive can be thrown into objects to take on certain properties, 
 be it fire, electric or ice. See a burning car and a horde of stampeding Infected? No problem. 
 Simply throw the glaive into the fire, then target the enemies and watch them burn. Numerous mild 
 puzzles are built around this mechanic and it adds far more to the gameplay than you might imagine. 
 What's more, eventually you're able to effectively detonate the glaive mid-flight, sending a wave 
 of fire, electric or ice into the surrounding area - great for taking down numerous enemies at 
 once.
  
  Add to these the general abilities you have, including the bubble shield, and being able to fire 
 the glaive and a pistol at the same time (switching between the glaive and a more powerful weapon 
 takes time) , and you've got a game that gives you all the tools of destruction that you'll ever 
 need. In the second half of the game, when the enemies become stronger and your abilities are nearing 
 their peak, you'll become a half-mutated-man killing machine, capable of tearing through Infected 
 like no tomorrow, setting them up and then performing brutal finishing moves from close quarters. 
 It can get very intense at times and occasionally overwhelming, but the combat alone makes Dark 
 Sector worth experiencing.
  
  Although very Gears of War in terms of the cover system used, it's sadly not nearly as smooth. 
 It's by no means bad, and certainly does its job, but Gears gives you more options while in cover 
 and Hayden is often a little sluggish coming out of cover. Where it easily beats Gears, though, 
 is in boss battles. You'll encounter arena-like end of level bosses fairly regularly and they're 
 great fun - although not without their annoyances. The biggest problem is how little feedback they 
 give, meaning it's hard to tell if what you're doing is killing them or just temporarily disabling 
 them.
  
  Other areas of the game don't quite work either. Underground black market traders offer you new 
 guns, at a price, but I often found myself without the required funds to splash out on expensive 
 new kit. The upgrades system, which lets you assign collected upgrade kits to free upgrade slots 
 for each weapon, is let down by the inability to swap and change upgrades. Once you've added an 
 upgrade to a weapon it's locked to it forever.
  
  Dark Sector's campaign will last around 8-10 hours on your first play through, with a harder 'Brutal' 
 mode unlocked upon completion. As well as being one of the most action packed games you'll play 
 on the Xbox 360 or PS3, the campaign also serves as brilliant training for the online multiplayer 
 modes. There are only two modes on offer, Epidemic and Infection, but both are worth spending some 
 time with.
  
  Epidemic is a team game, pitting five against five, with the twist being that only one member of 
 each team plays as a super-powered Hayden - the others are standard soldiers. Kill the other team's 
 Hayden first to win. Infection pits one Hayden against up to 9 standard soldiers, with the goal 
 being for Hayden to kill as many of the soldiers as he can. With only one player able to use special 
 powers it's a game of hunter and hunted and works really well when Hayden is played by someone 
 with experience. Slightly disappointing is the lack of standard deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 modes, but these could be added at a later date. 
  
  Both versions of Dark Sector look great and for the most part run at a nice frame rate. It's a 
 shame neither manages to maintain the silky smooth motion seen during quiet periods, but the glorious 
 architecture and abundance of screen-filling special effects are worth the compromise. When fighting 
 against a gang of Infected, a couple of robots and an army of soldiers, few next-gen games look 
 better. A few rough edges here and there and the odd low-polygon object are really all there is 
 to moan about.
  
  A special mention must also go to the audio, with the surround sound implementation being worthy 
 of particular praise. The Infected sound brilliant and are truly terrifying when their screams 
 are heard on a loud audio set-up.
  
  Other than minor presentation differences between the Xbox 360 and PS3 games, the PS3 has Sixaxis 
 motion control of precision glaive aiming and Entitlements, although the Xbox 360 game has marginally 
 superior online functionality and Achievements. Rest assured that both games are very good.
  
  Dark Sector's had a long development cycle and at times we were more than a little worried 
 about how it'd turn out, but Digital Extreme's debut next-gen release has been well worth the wait. 
 It's not going to set the world alight like Gears of War and it doesn't revolutionise survival 
 horror like Resident Evil 4, but its thrilling combat and sensational visuals make it well worth 
 adding to your collection.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Interesting multiplayer.
  - Thrilling combat.
  - Stunning visuals.
 
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Bosses can be annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazbox360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about a month ago after reading a promising review in one of my magazines, and 
 i wasn't disappointed. For a start the graphics are wonderful, with very little slowdown and some 
 good enviroments mixed with some generic ones.
  
  The gameplay is also good with great boss battles and a good splash of brutality to go with it.
 
  
  The first level is played out in black and white to display the main character, Hayden Tenno's 
 emotions. During this level, you only have guns but its is a good way of easing you in to the gameplay. 
 And at the end of the level there is an impressive boss fight with a helicopter.
  
  Of course, the stand out feature of this game is your main weapon, the glaive, a bladed boomerang 
 type weapon. It never gets boring decapitating your enemy with the sixaxis of setting your glaive 
 alight and burning them to death.
  
  The two bad things about this game is that it is quite short and the voice acting is quite cheesy, 
 but the latter is only minor.
  
  Overall a great game and well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  "It's time for heads to roll." Digital Extremes' latest title, Dark Sector, which is being published 
 by D3 Publisher, decided to take that quote and make it literal. Their new sci-fi, action packed, 
 third-person shooter seems to do everything right and very little wrong. From the look and feel 
 of the game to the emotion behind each character's voice, Dark Sector is something to be revered 
 and enjoyed by anybody old enough to pick it up and play. Based around the perfectly coined Evolution 
 Engine (formerly Sector Engine) , Dark Sector evolves the third-person shooter genre to what it 
 should be. Dark Sector revolves around a world where biochemical warfare is expected but not always 
 prepared for. The Technocyte Virus is described as a bio-weapon that turns the infected into mindless 
 killing machines; that is, as long as the virus doesn't kill the host first. The United States 
 has sent in a man named Robert Mezner, a scientist who willingly puts his life on the line for 
 science and research. After all contact is lost with their operative, the government is left with 
 no choice but to send in a psychotic, unstable, ruthless killer, Hayden Tenno. Pros
  + Glaive is solid
  + Fantastic Visuals
  + Solid voice acting
  Cons
  - Slight visual tearing
 
  - Enemy AI is skitzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-master
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector. Take cool powers, cold war influences, aliens, mutants, customizable weapons, bleak 
 environments, and you have Dark Sector. They just forgot to include a good story, but if you like 
 to surgically remove body parts with a spinning blade of death about the size of your head... you 
 should enjoy this game.
  First the good parts:
  The visuals are pretty good. The character models are drawn well. The environments are gloomier 
 then your darkest parts on a dog day in summer after a 20 mile run! The enemies are plentiful, 
 and are fun to slaughter. The boss fights are creative. The powers are pretty cool, too. They range 
 from a simple "after-touch" of the glavie, turning invisible, to projecting an impenetrable shield 
 that reflects attacks. The guns you can get provide a nice unhealthy piece of hot lead each time 
 you pull the trigger.
  And then the bad parts:
  The story isn't put together very well. The characters personalities aren't very interesting. The 
 enemies can be a bit to much at times. The boss fights, though creative, are easy to figure out 
 how to beat. The insta-kill animations for the common baddies do get repetitive after seeing the 
 same one 20 times. The most 2 handed weapons are rather useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfan83
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Ive played a lot of shooters,
  Dark sector is awesome and I can see a lot of reviews comparing it to gears of war (but worse) 
 I disagree. Storyline on both games is not good. Gears may be a little better but Dark sector has 
 superb graphics, originallity and It is a blast to play and I think it a must own for any ps3/ 
 xbox owner. I only bought this game because nothing else was out yet but I found that the proffessionals 
 should have been hyping this up WAY MORE than they did. Between Dark sector scoring under gears 
 and games like heavenly sword not getting the attention they deserve it makes me think something 
 fishy is going on w/ the review mass media. I think I'll play HAZE next.
  
  DS is entertaining, simply put. I consider myself a experienced casual gamer and I love a great 
 storyline but ds does not need one.
  
  pros: graphics, glave, finishing moves, unique abilities, gears of war style cover and shoot battle 
 system, great boss battles, in game puzzles are fun and not too challenging or time consuming allowing 
 you to stay interested in the action.
  
  Cons: storyline, forgettable characters, final boss battle could have been more epic, cinematics 
 seemed unnecesary altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is definately a must get.
  
  You start in a black and white prologue chapter level, getting the controls and movement down and 
 the basic gameplay for the game. At first you're thinking this game was a waist of money. But wait, 
 INFECTION TIME!? Suddenly after the storyline kicks off you get infected by a metallic alien named 
 Nemesis. After wobbling about for a good old 20 seconds, Hayden goes badass and owns a couple of 
 guards. Now you have the Glaive, which is kind of like a boomerang with 3 really sharp blades on 
 it. Now the fund really begins as you brutally kill people with the Glaive. Hayden's arm continues 
 to grow more and more metallic as you get new skills, and he also becomes more of a badass. This 
 game is kind of long, but not really. But, it is very fun, making you want to start a new game 
 after beating it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killpop13
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly good game and i think that it deserves a lot of credit for what it did with the 
 glaive which never gets old and they evenly spread out the new abilities so that you do not get 
 to many at once or not enough. Also they make them rather interesting in how you use them through-out 
 the game with the same puzzles that will make you think but yet you will never fall for the same 
 trick again but once they give you one they will usually try to give you another one to make sure 
 that it doesn't get old. Another thing about this game is that the graphics do a good job and the 
 frame rate never gets slow. The story is not as bad as what Gamespot or IGN gives it, it is actually 
 rather good once you get into it. If there is one thing that i do have to say that is kind of a 
 negative is if you go into it thinking that you will never have to use the glaive and that you 
 will just have to shoot your way through it that is not true the game does not really give you 
 a lot of ammo which is kind of a down fall because of the fact that the gun play is rather good. 
 The last good thing about is that there is a lot of variation in bosses and that you will never 
 really see the same thing in a boss and that they are challenging but not to the point that you 
 will have to throw the controller across the room when you get pissed at it, it shows a good fight 
 in the boss but nothing that you will drop it because you cant beat it. All in all it is a good 
 game and i am glad that i got it when it first came out and i think that it is a better game then 
 most of the rates that it gets and that I personally think that if you like shooters that it is 
 a good game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmace86
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector, the latest offering from developers Digital Extremes, has you step into the rapidly 
 mutating shoes of CIA agent Hayden Tenno on his mission to stop a madman named Mezner from unleashing 
 the technocyte virus (which turns people into armour-skinned monsters) upon our unsuspecting world.
 
  Dark Sector begins with you playing in a black-and-white as an uninfected Hayden. If you have 
 played games such as Gears of War, or Uncharted then you will know what to expect from the gameplay, 
 running from cover to cover, using a small selection of weapons (your ever-present pistol and either 
 a shotgun or a machine gun, taken from your fallen enemies) to take out the enemy soldiers that 
 you come across. After this brief introduction to the core mechanics you come to boss fight with 
 an attack helicopter. After dispatching the 'copter with a (very convenient) rocket launcher you 
 are treated to a cut-scene where Hayden tries to assassinate Mezner but is stopped by Mezner's 
 armoured, mutant body-guard who stabs Hayden in the shoulder, infecting him with the technocyte 
 virus and simultaneously bringing colour to the world. Another cutscene ensues, introducing the 
 glaive, after which there is a tutorial on how to use your new weapon. This is when the game really 
 begins.
  
  The glaive is probably my all-time favourite weapon in a game since the Cerebral Bore in Turok: 
 Seeds of Evil for the Nintendo 64 and is what really makes Dark Sector more than just any generic 
 3rd-person shooter. As the game progresses the glaive gains several powers, the power throw (that 
 generally results in a one-hit kill) and "after touch" (which allows you to guide the flight of 
 the glaive after it has left your hand) both come early in the game and the the ability to create 
 a protective force-field to deflect enemy projectiles and the power to turn invisible come towards 
 the end of the game. After touch was perhaps my favourite ability. No matter how often I did it, 
 I never once became bored of guiding the glaive into a line of enemies, decapitating and/or dismembering 
 them each in turn, accompanied by delightfully gruesome sound effects and a satisfying spray of 
 blood.
  As with the glaive, the more traditional weapons that you can purchase in the Black Market during 
 the course of the game are also upgradable. Upgrades must be found in the game world (in the form 
 of metal briefcases) before they can be applied to your weapons and each upgrade costs money (Rubles 
 to be exact) that you can find scattered around the environment. I did find the upgrades to be 
 largely unnecessary because I used the glaive the vast majority of the time, but there are times 
 when guns are necessary to take out enemies that are beyond the glaive's reach and for these rare 
 instances the upgrades such as faster reload time, larger ammo capacity and extra damage do come 
 in handy.
  The frequent upgrades keep Dark Sector from growing too stale. The combat is very repetitive and 
 moving from one piece of cover to the next, killing your enemies would definitely get very boring 
 if it were not for the abilities that you unlock. Sneaking up on an unsuspecting enemy whilst invisible 
 and executing one of the brutal "finisher" moves is another mechanic that never ceases to be fun, 
 but that may be due to the invisibility ability only appearing very near the end of the game, giving 
 it little time to grow boring.
  
  The combat is at least not made frustrating due to poor controls as Dark Sector does in fact have 
 a rather intuitive and well implemented control scheme. The aiming is smooth and responsive (with 
 user-adjustable sensitivity) and steering the glaive using after-touch is easy using either the 
 analogue stick or the Sixaxis controller's motion sensing. A single button performs both a roll 
 manoeuvre, used for evasion, and causes you to take cover if there is any around. Holding the same 
 button will cause Hayden to sprint for a limited time, after which he becomes tired and needs a 
 little time to rest before he can sprint again. There is also a melee attack but it is rather weak 
 and is of little use if there is more than one enemy in the vicinity. If you can sneak up on an 
 enemy or stun them by dealing a small amount of damage then you can execute a brutal finishing 
 move using the melee button, which is a great deal more effective than the comparatively weak standard 
 melee attack.
  My one complaint (there is always something) with the controls is that there is no quick-turn function. 
 It is not a deal-breaker by any means, but it would be nice to be able to tap a button to make 
 Hayden do a quick 180-degree turn. Instead though you have to hold the right analogue stick and 
 wait for Hayden to turn around like, which can be very frustrating if you are being attacked from 
 behind.
  
  Combat is not everything in Dark Sector, there are also several puzzles spread throughout the game 
 and whilst none of them are likely to melt your brain they are a good way to break up the combat-heavy 
 sections of the game. The glaive is capable of absorbing different elements (specifically fire, 
 ice and electricity) and it is with these elements that the vast majority of puzzles are solved. 
 For example, you may come to a locked gate that needs power to open, if you take a look around 
 you may see a power conduit somewhere nearby, throwing the glaive into the power conduit imbues 
 it with electricity and the glaive can then be thrown into the door, giving it the power it needs 
 to open.
  
  As is becoming more and more common in games (specifically in shooters) Dark Sector employs a very 
 minimalistic HUD, with the only piece of information on screen being the ammo left for your currently 
 equipped weapon. 
  The damage Hayden takes is indicated by the screen flashing red. The more it flashes, the closer 
 you are to dying. To heal yourself all you need to do is find some cover and stay there until the 
 flashing stops. The only complaint that I have about the minimalistic HUD is that there is no boss 
 health bar; it is sometimes quite hard to tell if you are actually damaging a boss and a health 
 bar would have really helped. Admittedly I did not have any great trouble with any of the bosses, 
 their weak points are usually fairly obvious, but there are occasions when you unload a few clips 
 of ammo into an enemy and it shows no sign of having taken any damage at all, which can be very 
 frustrating.
  Staying on the topic of the display, Dark Sector runs on a solid engine, developed in-house by 
 Digital Extremes, known as the Evolution Engine. The graphics are very impressive and the physics 
 and animations in the game are realistic. I did not see any frame-skipping in the animations and 
 I only saw one instance of poor clipping during the course of the game when an enemy fell through 
 a wall.
  
  Dark Sector's music is suitably moody and atmospheric and really fits the tone of the game well. 
 The sound effects are also good; the glaive has great sound effects, with a whooshing sound as 
 it flies through the air, a resounding clang when it strikes a solid object and a gruesome squelch 
 as it cuts through flesh. The guns are no less impressive and they all sound realistic and distinct 
 from one another. 
  The voice-acting during the cut-scenes is well delivered, sadly the actual script is not so great, 
 full of clichs and disappointingly bland as well as not really giving a great deal of actual storyline. 
 The enemy soldiers, sadly, have equally bland scripting, with very few lines, repeated often, and 
 very few voice actors meaning that you hear the same line, delivered by the same voice, dozens 
 of times during the course of the game.
  
  Overall Dark Sector is an enjoyable game which is kept just shy of true greatness by a few minor 
 flaws and gameplay which is just a little too repetitive. 
  If the storyline can be improved and expanded upon and the combat can be made to be a little less 
 repetitive with more varied environments and weapons then a sequel could be really fantastic. If 
 you are looking for a 3rd-person shooter to tide you over until the next Gears of War or Uncharted 
 game (depending on your system of choice) then you could do far worse than to pick up a copy of 
 Dark Sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Dark sector is a simple game, to put it simply.
  
  It doesn't jump hurdles to get that little extra hedge over the competition, doesn't try to reinvent 
 the wheel, but it really does what it does exceedingly well!!
  
  The story appears to be interesting, but fails to ever be coherently transmited to the player, 
 we just get hints and bits of backstory here and there and the rest basically is left to imagination. 
 All we know is that this guy Hayden is working for some US agency on an Eastern country were a 
 deadly virus is turning people into monsters. He then goes there and slaughters everyhing in site. 
 That's it. A few characters with wich Hayden has history are presented, but we never really understand 
 what the hell happened with all of them in the past. It's a shame really how the storytelling fails 
 in Dark Sector.
  
  Now, since the story is crappy, what sells the game is... everything else!
  
  Graphics are 
 magnificient, artistically and technically with marvelous detail and exccelent visual effects. 
 And all is presented in a mostly consistent framerate. Gore is particullarly well represented and 
 its a pleasure to watch.
  
  Sound is a bit more bland but works perfectly never the less, I'm just sorry the soundtrack doesn't 
 have any piece that stands out and becomes the "dark sector music".
  
  Gameplay is where all the fun is. The player moves around in third person perspective and gunplay 
 is handled in a way that will be much (too much?) familiar to uncharted fans. Weapons are all very 
 fun to use and are customizable. However, it's the glaive, the blade like weapon that extend from 
 the characte's hand that really makes the difference. The weapon can be thrown to chop enemies, 
 pick up objects, and collect elemental energy that can be used as a weapon or to solve simple but 
 entertaining environmental puzzles. The glaive can also be used in melee, to either hit an enemy 
 till death or to apply a finishing move to wounded enemies.
  
  Now, this is where the gore comes in. The finishing moves are brutal and really make the palyer 
 feel like they're tearing enemies apart. I thought Turok was excellent in this field, but Dark 
 Sector really brings the bar a few steps up. Also, the glaive eventually gains an aftertouch hability, 
 were it can be controlled in slo-mo to gruesomly chop off specific parts of enemies and, in some 
 cases, multiple enemies in sucession.
  
  The variety of combat present makes the gameplay extremely fun and rewarding.
  
  Now, for the 
 ranting...
  
  There are a few noticeable glitches here and there, nothing too significant, but enough to make 
 you think with all the time the game was in development why its not more perfected.
  
  Also, the difficulty is too unstable. In one instant you're racking up kills like crazy, the other 
 you're getting your arse handed to you. And, while the first boss fights are exccelent, the final 
 ones are painfully hard.
  
  Finally, I would like to review multiplayer, but so far I was unable to get a single decent game 
 without it failing to load, lagging or having strange things going on, however, I won't discount 
 that on the score because I don't know if it's the game's fault or my connection's...
  
  All in all, Dark Sector doesn't brake any new ground, but its extremely fun to play and it does 
 hint at some aspects that if more properly developed can likely make a great sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Now I did read alot of previews prior to the actual games release, boasting about the narrative 
 of Dark Sector, saying it will be original and intense. However, you will certainly not get that 
 from Dark Sector. I mean come on, even the back of the games case didnt have many words to make 
 you buy it. It would be safe to say that the best thing about this is that the cut-scenes do not 
 get in the way of the gameplay, as they are so short and pointless. The emotions for the characters 
 are very much flat, as theres no depth to who these characters what so ever.
  
  To sum up Dark Sector as far as the synopsis is concerned; You play a CIA opertaive called Hayden, 
 who must infiltrate an Eastern European village, which was quarantined and has become a ghost town 
 after a deadly virus was released, infecting everyone and everything in the area, turning them 
 into mutated, blood-thirsty freaks. Then... unexpectedly... you become infected by this virus by 
 the very man who is your target. And now you must hunt him down, killing anyone who gets in your 
 way, and at the same time preventing the infection from being unleashed outside of the quaratined 
 area.
  
  Now, the storytelling is'nt really up to scratch. However, the gameplay is something different. 
 
  Gunplay may be irrelevant compared to what else you can do once you are infected; but theres no 
 fault to controls. Even blind shooting around a corner does not degrade your deadly accuracy of 
 blowing an enemies face off. Explosions are pretty impressive as well. You are even able to customise 
 and buy new weapons at black market stalls. However, its bloody expensive in the black market so 
 dont even expect to get half of the weapons before you complete the game.
  It is safe to say however that the best part of Dark Sectors suprisingly decent combat controls 
 and features is the virus itself. Throughout the game, you unlock new abilities thanks to the virus, 
 including; summoning a force-field that deflects projectiles such as bullets and rockets, become 
 invisible for a period of time etc. 
  What is arguably the most pleasing part of the game is Haydens new weapon, the Glaive. The Glaive 
 is a circular, three-bladed weapon that that grows out of his arm and works like a boomerang that 
 can cut through flesh like a white hot knife through butter. A nice little bonus with the Glaive 
 as well is the ability to combine the Glaive with elements in the environment and to use them to 
 take your enemies down with greater ease and style. For example, use ice to turn your enemies into 
 a man-sized ice sculpture, and then blow them up to little pieces with your gun like in Terminator 
 2... nice. Or use fire to set them alight... you get the idea. But also combining elements with 
 your Galive is essential in getting through the game when it comes to certain minor enviromental 
 puzzles. 
  One way or the other; killing numerous foes with the Glaive NEVER get old. The most enjoyable feature 
 of the Glaive, which you unlock in the game, is called the 'after-touch'. This is where you have 
 the ability of controlling the path of your Glaive in, slow motion, after you've thrown it. Allowing 
 you to sit in ore as you see defenseless foes get slice to bits in all its close-up, bloody and 
 brutal glory. You can control the Galive with the six-axis feature, or with the analogue stick, 
 either way, hella lot of fun.
  
  The third-person camera work of Dark Sector is very much like Resident Evil 4 so thats fairly self-explanatory 
 to what its like, because everyone must of played resident evil 4 (and for those who havnt played 
 it yet hasnt experienced the fruits of video-gaming until they do) . 
  The colour palette of Dark Sector is pretty cool, with its dark and gritty textures with monochrome 
 blacks really reflects the nature of this Sci-Fi shooter. The sounds arent bad either, however 
 its fair to say that the voice acting is is only fair.
  
  Overall conclusion of Dark Sector; If you are after a game with good storytelling, this is by far 
 NOT what your after. However if you are after a game with some pretty cool combat features and 
 abilities to experiment with thorughout, then this might just be the game for you to check out. 
 Great game to rent... perhaps not so much as a permanent purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  What can I say... You know when a game is semi-perfect? But it still deserves a 10 because you 
 can barely stop playing it to even review it? Well this is that kinda game.
  
  Okay. As a lot of people have seen by reading my reviews, they can say I'm some kind of 3rd person 
 shooter fanboy... And I am. I mean it's the best kind of game ever. But then, Dark Sector came, 
 making me look at all the other games I had ever played in my life look like jungle gorilla balls.
 
  
  Dark Sector mixes gore with guns and monsters. That's pretty much enough said. The glaive was one 
 of the most creative ideas ever. This game is like any other perfect shooter you have played before, 
 like Gears of War, only in this case, you're superior cuz you can throw something that cuts people.
 
  
  The throwing of the glaive itself is very realystic and pleasurable. It's not frustrating because 
 you don't see the enemies escape from it all the time.
  
  Oh, and the finishing moves. This adds style to the game's gameplay. And man, what style. Everything 
 just looks cool and you get all happy cuz at one time, the enemy is just slicing you up, and then, 
 all of a sudden, you're ripping off his arm and punching him in the face, and you feel all superior.
 
  
  What I said about the semi-perfect thing is this: It's not semi-perfect like: "This is a mistake, 
 if this game didn't or did have this, it would be perfect! It deserves a 9.9" No. It DOES have 
 a few flaws, like the story, and the fact that when you finish the game you don't get your things 
 from your last play-through. But it will still make you have the best time of your life. Ok, not 
 the best time of oyur life, but you know what I mean.
  
  The Multiplayer is pretty fun, Epidemic is more balanced and Infection is kinda... You know... 
 Unfair... Hayden just goes out on a killing spree. THE ONLY SINGLE PROBLEM with the online is the 
 same as Stranglehold's: Players. It lacks players. That's sooo sad...
  
  And the characters. So cool. The villain Mezner is awesome, very charismatic, and Hayden Tenno 
 is like, could he be cooler? I mean, he's not one of those dumbasses from horror movies that just 
 wait for the monster to come close and get ripped in two by it. He's just like a human, a human 
 that has no fear, and yet has common sense, so when he's getting eaten he doesn't just wait for 
 death screaming like a little girl, he kicks the idiot who messed with him right on the cheeks.
 
  
  Everybody (above 17) should have this game. It's a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Yeah, it's true, the story is less than compelling. It's disjointed, hard to follow, and generally 
 lacking any type of good storytelling you might expect. However, the underlying game and everything 
 outside the story is brimming with greatness, and is a thrill-ride that is hard to put down, even 
 after having beaten it.
  
  I spent around 20+ hours playing this game before this review, and I have to say, I still want 
 to go back and play the game more. The brutal setting that unlocks is challenging beyond words, 
 and has drawn me back in. Dark Sector is without a doubt one the most underrated games in recent 
 memory. Outside of the story, this game deserves nothing but praise. Excellent graphics, great 
 controls, cool weaponry that you can upgrade, challenging AI, cool bosses, etc.
  
  Buy this game now if you liked Gears of War. The story isn't as good, but the gameplay is right 
 up there with Gears, and you'll get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluparatha
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  dark sector, where to begin. it was first announced way back in 2004 as the first next gen console 
 game. 4 years later it finally hit store shelves. dark sector is basicllly a 3rd person shooter 
 with a sci fi twist. best way to describe its gunplay would be gears of war. as it uses a basic 
 cover system. the camera looks very heavily borrowed from resident evil 4. however its not a bad 
 thing at all. except that with dark sectors charcter movement being so slow and sluggish, people 
 who have either played any of resident evil 4 or gears of war will find this issure rather frustrating. 
 but what seprates this from gears f war is actually a really cool weapon you have which is called 
 the glaive. this is basiaccly a spinning disk with some wicked blades on it that you can throw 
 at your enemey and slice their heads off or even do a brutal finisher up close. the glaive is awesome 
 and is what makes the game good as it never gets old. the story however goes as you play a CIA 
 agent named hayden tenno sent to take out a rogue agent named mezner. the story is poorly told 
 and will leave bored with each cutscene that takes place. the grahics in dark sector look very 
 good and the sound is even better which makes all the gunshots and head slicing maybe a lill sickening. 
 dark sector features a multiplayer option i wont go nto detail but i lle just say it isnt the main 
 feature of ther game and wont come a healthy addiction like gears of war or halo. but its good 
 enough. overall dark sector is worth being tried out by any 3rd person shooter fan. although if 
 you are a hardcore gamer i don think you would be playing this for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is by no means a perfect game, but it does offer some brand new elements of gameplay 
 and a tasty thrill of action and horror. Hayden Tenno, the main protagonist, is a gutty special 
 ops agent, and we quickly fall in love with this character. The story is almost non-existent, but 
 it is not as bad as most reviewers may lead you to believe. There is a story, it's just not the 
 most well-crafted story out there. There is a lot of room left open for a sequel or even a prequel 
 although it would be hard to imagine a Dark Sector game without the use of the Glaive, which provides 
 most of the entertainment. I did not get in to the multiplayer that much but it did seem a little 
 tacked on, but i don't buy games for multiplayer nor do i rate them on how good it is. Overall, 
 this being the first game of a supposed trilogy, it is a nice beginning to what could become a 
 cult classic. I cannot wait for Dark Sector 2 to be announced, because it most likely will. And 
 if the story and other minor flaws are improved upon, this game will be sought after in the classics 
 bin. Next up for me, and probably every one else, is Grand Theft Auto IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrUmFrEaX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Got the game for my birthday.. was never planning on gettin, at least it was not a priority but 
 i had seen some good videos, but bad reviews. 
  To be honest, the game rocks. Its a mix of the third person view like Resident Evil 4, with Silent 
 Hill for the mood. It is really so much fun to play and to see your character evolve along with 
 the special arm he has. 
  The use of the glaive is a joy to use especially when chopping up your opponents. Also what's great 
 about the game is that it uses some puzzle work and the use of natural elements mix with your glaive. 
 The stages are hard, and everyone is set in a different mood. 
  There are some minor setbacks mostly in close combat where there could've been more "finishers" 
 and the close fights would be more brutal.
  Aside of that, the gameplay is really well worked and ull learn the whole controls and movements 
 in no time.
  I started it just to see how it looks, never took it out since. I advise people to check this great 
 game that will hook you for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endakol
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in Dark Sector is all combat, however this game was full of big surprises. You start 
 with basic weapons, but once you get the glaive things get interesting. The abilities of the glaive 
 make the game a lot of fun. The after-touch ability of the glaive is effective, fun, and most of 
 all brutal. By mid game the glaive can be enhanced with the elements of your surroundings, anything 
 from fire to liquid nitrogen, and the effects on your enemies speak for themselves. There are a 
 few guns in the game, the handguns can be dual-wielded with the glaive for a legal combination, 
 or if you want you lay the smackdown the old fashsion way thats what your assault rifle is for. 
 Weapons can be upgraded to a certian extent and it is pretty easy to do so. 
  
  There are a few surprises in Dark Sector, I won't reveal them all, just play and see. The gameplay 
 surprised me and I must say, it was quite impressive, as where the visuals. Dark Sector is moderate 
 in length and will surely keep any adrenaline junky busy for a a little while, however once its 
 done, its done. I can definately see a Dark Sector 2, this game is worthy of a sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otherthani
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely engrossing and amazing. This uses what Gears of War did for gaming and 
 takes it even further. From level design, to controls, to AI, to difficulty level, to graphics, 
 to story... it simply reaches a level of "near perfection" All weapons are well rounded, upgradeable 
 and fun to use, however the glave is the coolest weapon in your arsenal and you will find yourself 
 using it more and more often as you progress and upgrade your abilities. You will feel like an 
 absolute kick a** with glave in hand. 
  
  I must say that most of my enjoyment of games is during the first half of playing... then I just 
 play to finish... however this game is somewhat different. As the game progresses, so will your 
 enjoyment. The storyline will move you to play on, as will the intensity. In my opinion, the only 
 drawback to this game is that it ended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a game in a catch 22 of sorts. As it is visually very impressive, and the gameplay 
 utilizes a tried and true system that is a hybrid of RE4 and Gears of War. Therefore, it works 
 and is rather fun, however, the story, and character development is extremely shallow and leaves 
 much to be desired.
  
  This is one of those games that came so close to being great, but fell short of the finishing line 
 because it tripped itself up with an exceedingly bland, shallow story that falls completely apart 
 with little to no character insight or development. A shame, really, as gameplay wise, the game 
 is great, and can be extremely fun at times..... especially playing around with the Glaive.
  
  As far as the online proponet goes, it is much like the game itself, in that it looks good 
 and the gameplay is there. But, in comparison to other online games of today, it is just far too 
 shallow to be enjoyable for very long. 
  
  If anything, I personally feel that this game can serve as a rather harsh reminder of how much 
 story, plot and insight into characters really do matter in games. And all of those critics out 
 there proclaiming that story has no place in games anymore would do well to play this one in order 
 to be reminded of how much it really does matter. As it is the glaring, bleeding open wound that 
 cannot help but to stand out in what is an otherwise 'fun, but flawed' game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drknessfeeds
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game, but I couldn't help but think of all the things that would have made it better. 
 For one it was to easy, second the glaive. It was so cool when I first got it but it got old. I 
 expected Atleast 3 weapons, even the weapon the creature infected you with would have been a nice 
 addition. Another complaint, I don't care how tough a human guard is, a head shot is a head shot 
 and it sometimes takes two or more shots to the head to take a guy down, I know this because it 
 hit them in the eye socket and blood flew out of their head but they kept coming for it to take 
 another shot to fully take them down. 
  
  The boss fights were cool but I expected them to be a bit harder. And finally the finishers are 
 cool but seem a bit touchy. A 3 hit combo followed with a finisher would have been nice. Its just 
 hard to buy that I can throw this thing and it dismember someone but if I punch them with it it 
 just hurts them a little... come on. And I didn't like the fact that it would not go through the 
 military tents that seemed to be bullet proof as well. 
  
  Worth a rental but thats about it, might buy it anyway in hopes that a 2 will come out with alot 
 more to it, including a better story that makes sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalki_Avatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Ever since Gears of War incorporated cover fire, it has become a must have for over the shoulder 
 shooters. We see it in Army of Two, Kane and Lynch, and of course Dark Sector. There's only one 
 problem. These other games made the cover system work well depending on how much you use it. For 
 a game that requires you to use cover so much, Dark Sector feels bulky when trying to hide from 
 bullets. Many times I found myself hiding when I meant to dodge, or vice versa. Aside from the 
 cover system, the game felt intuitive and fun, the boss fights were exceptional and gave me a very 
 resident evil feal. The glave on the sixaxis was controllable and fun and made the PS3 version 
 much more enticing. Its just another instance in which the sixaxis surprises me in a new and exciting 
 way. All in all the game fealt good, campy, and more good. Like Res Evil 4 with hotkeys and more 
 zaaz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Well I rented this game because I heard it didnt have to much replay value, and well it didnt. I 
 played through it two times. It however was fun and exciting both times. But I got bored half-way 
 through the third time and took it back. The online dont help with the replay value it isnt very 
 addicting at all. This game is easily one of the best ever in the brutality and action department. The 
 glaive never gets boring and the finishers are very pleasing. I must say I was shocked at how long 
 the story mode was, I mean it isnt 50 chapters or anything but I expected about 4 or 5 (theres 10) but 
 many of them are very long mainly the seventh one it was hard and long. But definatly the place 
 where it shines is the great boss battles. They are confusing, and many others probably the best 
 boss battle on there and probably the best ever is the Mezner one its great fun. Even though the 
 story mode isnt very addicting either. The graphics are stunning. And no cliffhanger ending :) I'm 
 begging for a sequel D3. But this is a rent because no replay value, but you will enjoy it while 
 it last's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  After 3 years of hard working the game show up as the "Next-Gen" game and it was it didn't get 
 our waiting and our hopes fall down with the gameplay but they didn't care about the storyline 
 so that's make it as a weak point, sure everyone loves the gameplay to be great and sure some people 
 like the killing games "Which most of the games got that feature" but some people like the game 
 to have a great storyline some people buy games such as "Devil May Cry", "Matel Gear Solid", "Resident 
 Evil" and many other games just to read or continue the storyline... and I'm one of them though 
 cause I really enjoy them anyways let's keep it up:
  
  Storyline:
  The game is all about CIA agent, who went on a mission to destroy the disease causing people to 
 turn into zombies, it seems to be some bio weapons trading going on.
  
  Gameplay:
  Kinda same as the popular game "Resident Evil" and "Uncharted" which make the gameplay really good 
 and enjoyable and what you get is a gore game with aftertouch mechanics, some puzzles with hide 
 and shoot style.
  
  Controlling:
  Control wise, it's great, nothing to complaint about, i heard some sensitivity issues, but i really 
 experience none of it. For one good part, i like that it saves constantly and create a checkpoint 
 for every saves, you can then go back without redoing the missions, which make it really great.
 
  
  Graphics:
  It's great but i can't really tell if it's better than uncharted. The settings is dark most of 
 the time, your torch looks really great, lightings are really good.
  Surfaces are always shiny so is your armored monster hand.
  
  Sound:
  The game here, the 
 bass is strong. The enemies react very well to your blade especially during aftertouch, you can 
 heard enemies screaming for help.
  
  Note (s) :
  - The game really worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DearlyDevoted
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector was announced in 2004, as the "first next-gen" game, and after years in production 
 and many delays, it was finally released in 2008, as the first game of a trilogy (March 25 in the 
 US and April in Europe) . Was the four years wait worth it? 
  In Dark Sector, you play as Hayden Tenno, a CIA agent sent to the Eastern European city of Lazria 
 to kill a rogue agent and blow the place to smithereens to prevent an infection that turns people 
 into zombie-like creatures from spreading. However, things don't go as planned and Tenno himself 
 becomes infected. And that's when the fun begins. Thanks to the infection, Hayden's right arm gains 
 a metallic skin and a three-bladed disc of death known as the Glaive. The Glaive, besides being 
 a deadly weapon, happens to be more useful than MacGyver's good old Swiss Army Knife, but we will 
 get to it soon.
  If Gears of War and Resident Evil 4 had a son, his name would be Dark Sector. The over-the-shoulder 
 camera, Hayden's way of moving, the merchant  they all have Resident Evil 4 written all over them, 
 while the shoot&cover system and the level design (among many other things) are really similar 
 to Gears of War. Don't get me wrong  both GoW and RE4 are excellent games, and Dark Sector borrows 
 some of their elements and mixes them, doing a fantastic job.
  Like I said above, Dark Sector's shoot&cover system is very similar to GoW's, which is a good thing. 
 The controls take a little bit to get used to, but once you get used to them, you will have little 
 to no problems at all. The aim seems to be a bit jumpy at first, but, fortunately, it can be tweaked 
 to your liking, and once you tweak it, you'll be just fine.
  As for the weapons, like I mentioned earlier, you will get the almighty Glaive  a very useful 
 tool of death. Not only it can chop off your enemies' limbs, but it can also drag ammo, weapons 
 and money from a distance (Aim, throw and the items will come with the glaive) , later on you'll 
 get Power Throw, which will increase the Glaive's damage by 4x, Aftertouch, which allows you to 
 control the Glaive in slow motion after you throw it (On the PS3, I really recommend using the 
 analog stick to control it instead of the motion sense) , and you will also be able to absorb elements 
 (Lightning, Fire and Ice) and use them to solve puzzles, or throw the Glaive and then explode it, 
 causing a powerful AoE attack. The Glaive is also used to perform close-ranged attacks called Finishers, 
 which look absolutely amazing. To perform a Finisher, you have to deal damage to the enemy until 
 he starts "glowing" red, then you press the O button (On the PS3) and just watch Tenno perform 
 an amazing Finisher. But if you're a gun lover, don't worry  there's also a decent selection of 
 firearms for you. 
  You can use the glaive plus a handgun at the same time (Dual Wield is simply sweet) and you can 
 also use two handed weapons such as Shotguns (it has been a while since I saw Shotguns that were 
 this good in a game) , Rifles and a Rocket Launcher on some occasions. You can only hold a Handgun 
 and a Two Handed Weapon (let's call them that) at the same time, so you have to choose wisely which 
 weapons to carry. You cannot use the enemy soldiers' weapons after you get infected, once you pick 
 them up, the weapon will see that you're infected and it will short-circuit in a few seconds (you 
 can still fire a few rounds) , becoming useless. But worry not, throughout the game you will find 
 manholes that lead to the Black Market, a place where you can buy weapons, upgrade them and also 
 store the ones you're not using. You can find the upgrades (Fire Power, Accuracy, Fire Rate, etc.) 
 in many places throughout the game, and there's usually more than one of the same kind. There's 
 only two upgrade slots in each weapon (in some weapons, three, and one of the upgrades adds another 
 upgrade slot) and once they're in, they cannot be removed, so you really have to think and pick 
 the upgrade you need the most. Overall, the gameplay is good, with a few minor issues that will 
 be pointed out later in this review.
  When I read some of the reviews online, most of them said the same thing  the storyline pretty 
 much sucked. I thought to myself "Oh come on, it can't be THAT bad" Sadly, I was wrong. The storyline 
 is perhaps Dark Sector's greatest sin. You get little to none background elements on the characters 
 and plot, and sometimes you have to go to a certain place, but thanks to the confusing storyline 
 you won't know why you're going there.
  In the graphics department, Digital Extremes did a very good job. The characters look amazing and 
 very detailed, and the same happens with the environments. I have had no frame rate issues, nor 
 any screen tearing, however, there are a few graphic issues that I will point out later. 
  Sound-wise, I have nothing bad to point out. The soundtrack is really good, and it completely fits 
 in the dark atmosphere that exists in most of the game. The voice actors also did a good job. Personally, 
 I thought Smallville's Michael Rosenbaum did a surprisingly good job (Yeah, I don't like him  
 sue me) . Another thing I loved in the sound department was the enemy soldiers  when you cut off 
 their arm / leg, they will fall down and scream in pain for a few seconds before dying. Sick, but 
 oh-so-good to hear. Some of the infected enemies actually sound scary  especially the first time 
 you encounter the zombies in the sewers (I won't spoil the surprise, I'll leave it up to you to 
 find out :D) . 
  As for the enemies, you will have soldiers, armed with machine guns, shotguns, grenades (Some of 
 the Grenades, specifically the Enferon ones will poison you and prevent regeneration, sending you 
 on something similar to a LSD trip) and rocket launchers in some occasions. There are also soldiers 
 with a shield, they will block your gunfire and if they get close enough, they will club you to 
 death. And the most powerful, and possibly the most annoying, type of soldiers are the ones in 
 the large suit. These can be a pain to kill because they have a good defence and a powerful weapon, 
 but they're slow as hell so they won't be impossible to kill.
  In a few occasions, you will also face a four-legged tank called the Jackal, but fortunately, it's 
 easy to defeat.
  As for the infected enemies, you will have the good old zombies everybody loves, some of them will 
 attack you at close-range, so it's best to kill them before they get close enough. There's also 
 the zombies that attack you from long range, and their attack works kind of like a shotgun  from 
 far away it deals little damage, but if they get close, you will die in 1 or 2 hits. There's two 
 varieties of these, and one of them can become invisible for a few seconds, which can be a problem. 
 There's also dog-like zombie creatures, but you will not see much of them. Of course, there are 
 Boss Battles in this game, and I really don't want to spoil because some of them are really good. 
 I also have a few minor issues with the enemies, which will be explained below. 
  If you're worried the guns and the glaive are not enough to kill your enemies, you can relax. Hayden 
 gets nice powers as the game progresses, such as the Shield, that creates a barrier around you 
 that protects you & reflects gunfire and rockets back to whoever fired them (Very useful) , the 
 Shock Pulse I mentioned earlier  after absorbing an element, you can throw the Glaive and explode 
 it, causing a AoE attack, and later in the game, the Shift ability, which allows you to become 
 invisible for a few seconds. You will also get a suit that gives you immunity to the Enferon poisoning 
 (And it looks cool) . 
  Even though Dark Sector has a great gameplay, graphics and sound, it also has a few minor issues 
 to point out, specifically in the gameplay, graphics and enemies department. 
  Gameplay-wise, I only have two complaints  first, the God awful melee system. It's also one of 
 the things that I read in other reviews, and they were right. It's THAT bad. While sometimes you 
 punch twice and you can perform a Finisher already, other times you punch the same type of enemy 
 over and over again and it just won't die. You would expect that punching someone with a three-bladed 
 disc on your right hand would cause severe damage, but apparently that's not the case in Dark Sector. 
 The other thing is the cover system. It's very similar to Gears of War, but sometimes, you WANT 
 to take cover, but Hayden will just roll around instead of taking cover, and when that happens 
 you usually die. 
  On the visual department, Dark Sector has a few little issues. Sometimes, after killing an enemy, 
 you will see their corpse and/or their weapon just floating in the air. Another thing that, fortunately, 
 only happened to me once, was a solider trapped inside a rock. I could not see him but he could 
 see AND shoot me. Obviously, I died on that part, but fortunately, it didn't happen again. My last 
 issue in the graphics area  sometimes, after killing an enemy, his body will just disappear, but 
 if you change your camera to a certain angle, it'll pop right back. If you look at it again, it'll 
 disappear, change the angle, it'll come back, and so on Rookie mistake, in my opinion. 
  As for the enemies, sometimes their AI really becomes an issue. While some of them are smart enough 
 to shoot & cover, reload while they're in cover, run away from grenades and even flank you, others 
 will just stand there, out in the open, waiting to get killed. Another thing that happened often, 
 only with the soldiers, was that sometimes, they would just shoot a wall. I'm not joking, picture 
 it this way. Imagine that you're in the Eastern part of the map, you can, and you probably will, 
 find enemies shooting at an empty wall on the opposite direction. Shooting at nothing / no one. 
 The bots on the multiplayer also do this, but we'll get to the multiplayer soon. Others will simply 
 refuse to run away from Grenades. "Oh look, shiny, must go get it!"
  As for the multiplayer mode, it could have been better. Sadly, it only has two modes, Infection 
 and Epidemic. 
  In Infection, you will play as Hayden, with all the powers, and you'll have to kill soldiers, but 
 if one of them kills you, he will become Hayden. Those who played Jedi Outcast online will find 
 this very similar to the Jedi Master mode. 
  The other mode consists of two teams composed by soldiers and one Hayden, and the objective is 
 to kill the enemy team's Hayden. 
  Digital Extremes could have done more with the multiplayer, but that doesn't mean it's not fun 
  it is, especially if played with nice people.
  You can also get bots to play against you online, which is a nice touch, however, their AI is really 
 bad. Like I mentioned earlier, sometimes they will just shoot at empty walls. 
  Dark Sector is not a lengthy game, it can be completed in 10h or less, however, getting all the 
 achievments, trying out new gun combinations and the multiplayer mode increase the replay value. 
 
  Overall, Dark Sector is a great, action packed shooter. Playing with Hayden will make you feel 
 powerful but not overpowered. If you're looking for a gory game, with a few horror elements, Dark 
 Sector is your pick. However, if you want a game with a deep and involving storyline, Dark Sector 
 is not what you're looking for. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorillaboy058
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Interesting story. Blended by one of my favorite topics of how a man can transform and control 
 his abilities. And also the uniqueness to make you jump without being scary. Almost never lets 
 you become bored, by intense fighting, unique combat abilities, and puzzles. SOund clarity was 
 moderate, with some to little lag. The six axis needed to much tilting for such little movement. The 
 close combat could have utilized more combos, as there was none, and the only close up attacks 
 were too slow for when hordes of enemies were surrounding and annihilating you. Small details that 
 led you to become angry was over-shadowed, by how fun it was to kill your enemies. Brutal finishers 
 make slaying enemies even more fun. You may be oblivious to what's going on in the begining, but 
 by the end you should be in complete understanding of what's going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This games strikes me as intriging, however, i feel that there is a mixture of games into this 
 one game. First game is Gears of War. There was/is alot of hide and shoot, if you go all out, you 
 will be killed. Another game i see is Drakes Fortune, in the whole island adventure theme. I also 
 feel Resident evil 4 is here too, with the whole wide screen, aiming feature, weaponry, and the 
 black market (equivilant to the wierd guy who sold weapons) and then there are zombies and weird 
 giant creatures, and your infected... well so was leon. There is many games thrown into one. The 
 graphics, however, are extremely nice and easily comparable to DMC4. The bladed disk, is a very 
 nice featureable weapon too. I like that you can control it, toss it, throw it, and wield it. One 
 thing i dont like is that, its the most used weapon and its range is rather limited. The disk does 
 have a ricocet feature which i thought was tight. Story plot is flowy, liked that there was a prologue. 
 But this is a game that can be beaten in about 2 days... if there is no school or work. The game 
 is worth while, and while the pay, so i would reccommend purchase of it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  So here you go, a game under development for 3 years is finally out. But one thing really makes 
 me doubt it's 3 years development, mainly the concept taken from Uncharted/ Gear Of War.
  You play as a CIA agent, who went on a mission to destroy the disease causing ppl to turn into 
 zombies, it seems to be some bio weapons trading going on.
  
  Soon, u got caught and got infected, but only a arm. You then grow some sort of a blade weapon 
 u use to primarily to kill enemies later on. The storyline is good, but storytelling is just pure 
 weak, most of the time, u have no idea what's going on. Dialogue sounded soft as well. Cutscene 
 is what i like here, there's cutscene now and then to keep u interested. Your charactor will slowly 
 evolve to become more powerful, it makes the game interesting and keep u going despite the weak 
 storytelling.
  
  Gameplay:
  A mix of Resident Evil and Uncharted. What u get is a gore game with aftertouch mechanics, some 
 puzzles with hide and shoot style.
  I won't really call it new experience, it's more like multiplayer game mechanics into one. There's 
 hardly any Framerate issues as well.
  
  For aftertouch, u can use either ur sixaxis or analog depending on ur preference. It's quite satisfying 
 to cut someone into half, and it never gets bored at the same time. For the aftertouch, i have 
 to comment that the distance ur blade flies is really short. Some enemies can't be touch resulting 
 in using of ur Guns.
  
  One annoying enemy is those shield, they walk toward u pretty fast and kills u almost instantly, 
 they're always my main target when i see them. There's also melee attack mainly the finisher, but 
 to do that, u either need to damage a enemy hard, or become invisible.
  
  Control wise, it's great, nothing to complaint about, i heard some sensitivity issues, but i really 
 experience none of it. For one good part, i like that it saves constantly and create a checkpoint 
 for every saves, u can then go back without redoing the missions.
  
  Graphics:
  It's great but i can't really tell if it's better than uncharted. The settings is dark most of 
 the time, ur torch looks really great, lightings are really good.
  Surfaces are always shiny so is ur armored monster hand.
  
  Pickups will always be shiny, gathering 
 ur attention. Don't know what else to say about the graphics, all i can say it's great and certainly 
 comparable to DMC4 standards.
  
  Sound:
  The game here, the bass is strong. The enmies react very well to ur blade especially during aftertouch, 
 u can heard enemies screaming for help.
  
  The dialogue however, wants to set itself for a dark setting, but it lacks too much volume to tell 
 an alrdy weak storytelling part. The surround is good, espeically during one stage where the boss 
 is invisible and u depend on ur hearing to figure where he is.
  
  If u like uncharted, like less dying and wants a gore and scary experience, it's for you. I myself 
 clocked in for around 10hours, which is a good standard for games nowadays. The online however, 
 is a let down, i constantly get booted from games. There's bullet delays as well. A very polished 
 game if u ask me, but they just have to get a more interesting storytelling. Even after having 
 completed the game, i'm still wondering about what happened in some scenes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Nearly four years ago, Digital Extremes announced Dark Sector would be coming to the PlayStation 
 3 and -- at the time -- Xbox 2, showed a 45-second trailer set in space and, vanished from the 
 radar.
  
  A lot has changed since then.
  
  Set for release this week, Dark Sector casts you as Hayden Tenno, a government agent sent into 
 Lasria -- a small USSR country -- and saddled with the objective of taking care of a bad guy named 
 Mezner. See, Mezner's gotten a hold of this toxin that turns everyone into monsters -- zombies, 
 metal-skinned freaks, weirdo dogs that can turn invisible, etc. Hayden is on hand to stop that 
 plan and ensure you and I don't end up as test subjects, but when he has his first face to face 
 with the bad guy, Mezner's infected bodyguard with a giant blade for his right hand infects our 
 hero with the very virus he's been sent to destroy.
  
  Pretty soon, Hayden's arm goes from gooey and disfigured to a metal super-power that allows him 
 to generate telekinetic shields, turn invisible and a few other abilities that put mortal men to 
 shame.
  
  If you've never seen Dark Sector in action, the easiest game to compare it to and give you a frame 
 of reference -- in terms of gameplay -- is Gears of War. As you progress through this third-person 
 shooter and take on the monsters Mezner's created for you, you'll need to tap a button to take 
 cover behind pillars and then roll to other crates to stay alive. Certain objects will break up 
 as fire rains down from enemy machine guns, you can peek around corners to aim, and once you're 
 on foot, you can run by holding A.
  
  However, what sets this game apart from Gears is the glaive.
  
  If you've never seen this jagged 
 instrument of death, imagine an oversized ninja star that Hayden can throw like a boomerang. In 
 Dark Sector, you have two weapon slots -- yes, you can only hold two guns at any time -- that are 
 governed by the D-Pad. Left is your shotgun/rifle slot and right is your pistol slot. The guns 
 in Dark Sector are cool and all -- more on that later -- but what makes this game is the fun of 
 running around with pistol in one hand and the glaive in the other.
  
  You'll come around a corner, spot an enemy, hold the left bumper to switch to the over-the-shoulder 
 aiming view, and be faced with a choice -- to glaive or not to glaive. You can pop the bad guy 
 in the head by pulling the trigger with right bumper, but you can also tap right trigger to throw 
 your glaive and behead the baddie. It can take out multiple opponents, it can open doors, and it 
 pretty much makes the game.
  
  As you progress, the glaive just gets cooler. You'll get a power throw (you'll need to hold the 
 glaive button and release just as the on-screen icon turns yellow) that can break chains and slice 
 an enemy in two with one hit, you'll be able to pick up ammo and objects with the glaive, and you'll 
 be able to steal fire, ice and electricity with the device and use them against bad guys as well 
 as puzzles. All of this stuff is fun -- Who doesn't like setting guys on fire from afar? -- but 
 it pales in comparison to the supreme Dark Sector power known as Aftertouch. Here, you'll press 
 and release right trigger to throw the glaive and quickly hold the button again to make the camera 
 follow the glaive in slow motion. Using your right analog stick or Sixaxis controls, you can then 
 pilot the glaive as you see fit.
  
  It's awesome.
  
  Don't get me wrong, mastering Aftertouch is going to take time. When I first got the ability the 
 glaive seemed sluggish and was a **** to pilot, but once I got to the point where I could power 
 throw, switch to Aftertouch, slice off one guy's head and take out another dude's arm, I realized 
 the feature is a thing of beauty.
  
  The "Damn, that was a cool kill" feeling is what Dark Sector is all about. Aside from the slicing 
 a guy's leg off with the glaive and hearing him scream in pain, there are a number of different 
 finishers for each enemy. These kill moves can be implemented when an opponent is injured and begins 
 to glow red. That's your cue to rush in and tap B for a finisher that can be -- but isn't limited 
 to -- Hayden snapping a dude's neck, him slicing off the foe's arm and hitting him in the head 
 with it, and Tenno burying the point of the glaive into a beast's forehead and watching the blue 
 blood spurt out of it.
  
  Australia doesn't know what it's missing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  If you have played Resident Evil 4 then Dark sector is more or less the same. By that meaning story 
 and how you shoot and move. The only problem is that the shooting feels terrible well quite anyway. 
 when you shoot a guard it doesn't feel that your doing anything to them. of course then you have 
 your sharp and deadly glaive which also feels lousy from the fact to use its special abilities 
 you have to time it right when throwing it. And the story just is a whole lot similar to Resi 4. 
 The only difference is well its in Russia instead of spain and on Resi 4 you don't get the same 
 type of infection a. k. a you don't get a glaive or anything similar.
  The graphics however are stunningly beautiful and shows this is diffently next gen.
  Overall 
 rating 8/10 since the shhoting doesnt give me that realisum like it should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is possibly the coolest game to come out yet this year. That doesn't necessarily make 
 it the best game, but it's a guarantee that a game where you control a superhuman, and battle men 
 with guns, as well as monsters has more than a few merits.
  
  In Dark Sector, you control US Super Cool Secret Agent Hayden Tenno, and your mission is to stop 
 a bunch of terrorists from unleashing an evil disease upon the world. Early on, Hayden is infected 
 with a "special" form of the disease, where he begins to turn to metal and transform. One of the 
 awesomest coolest badass parts about this game is the glaive. This is a 3 sided blade that grows 
 out of Hayden's hand, and he can throw it like a boomerang slicing and dicing his way to justice. 
 Hayden also experiences weird changes that allow him to become invisible, and repel bullets. Invincibility 
 may or may not be in the mix as well. All that I can say, is that Hayden is one powerful mofo, 
 and he's looking to kill anything and anyone in his path.
  
  Now, that, being the basis for the story, you'd expect something a little more than what is on 
 the table. The story in Dark Sector makes sense, but large portions of the game go by with absolutely 
 no storytelling whatsoever. You'll be in the sewer, or in a church, and you'll have absolutely 
 no clue what you're doing there. At the end of the game, it leaves you unsatisfied. The 10 hour 
 mark is long enough to have a deep twisty story, and there is nothing like that in this game.
 
  
  Also, with the exception of Hayden, none of the characters are developed. There's this old man, 
 that's a large part of the story, but half of people won't even catch his name, and Hayden's "friend??" 
 whom he may know from his past, although it's never said, is also a large part of the equation. 
 It would've definitely helped out if the characters were deeper than they are.
  
  Dark Sector consists of 10 chapters, with some of them taking an hour and a half, to some lasting 
 just 20 minutes. Combined, everything comes together at about 9 or 10 hours, which is fairly lengthy 
 by today's standards. You'll cover plenty of ground when the game is finished. Most levels are 
 pretty wide open, yet most of the action will occur in tight corridors, with seemingly endless 
 intelligent enemies. Hayden can kill them in many different ways.
  
  Dark Sector utilizes a cover system, similar to the one in Gears of War. By pressing the bottom 
 face button, you can press up against a wall. This works pretty well, although it does have a number 
 of flaws. The inability to blind fire can make firefights frustrating, especially when you are 
 near death. The only way to come off of a wall, is to roll away, or stop and slowly walk directly 
 away from the cover. This is pretty annoying considering that everything is going at such a brisk 
 pace. Also, it isn't completely clear what is cover, and what is scenery. Sometimes, you will try 
 to take cover on something, but Hayden will just roll into it, and you could actually get killed 
 over and over before figuring out you can't take cover on that object. The cover system works, 
 but it could've been polished much more than it is.
  
  When you are in cover, Hayden can kill lots. Using the glaive, Hayden can throw it a certain distance, 
 and slice anything. When you hit a human with the glaive, he will scream all sorts of obscenities, 
 and it's always great to hear what their last words are. There's also something called aftertouch, 
 where wither using the right stick on the 360, or SIXAXIS on the Ps3, you can control the glaive 
 in slow motion, and guide it into throats, or groins, or shins. Anything you wish. Aftertouch is 
 also needed for some puzzles, such as hitting a lever or button that is unreachable. There is a 
 variety of power throws, and the glaive can be set on fire. It's pretty awesome, and let's just 
 say that you'll have a lot of fun figuring it all out.
  
  You can't always use the glaive, unfortunately, and that's why there is a small arsenal of weapons 
 available to your disposal. You'll always have your handy dandy pistol, which you can use in unison 
 with the glaive, so you can slice, and then get the final blow with a headshot. There's also a 
 variety of shotguns (useful with zombies) , and assault rifles. For those occasions when a helicopter 
 is on your tail, there is a rocket launcher, with lock on capabilities. Aiming is pretty god, although 
 it could've been a bit faster. Overall, shooting is pretty average, but the amount of blood in 
 the game makes it above average. You'll have a great time blasting things with your guns.
  
  There is a market system, called the Black Market, where you can purchase new weapons using 
 money you find. Here, you can also place weapons in a locker, since you can only hold 2 at a time. 
 It's similar to the merchant system in Resident Evil 4, considering that the merchant is once again, 
 a scary old guy with a raspy voice.
  
  There are two vehicle sections, that are a total blast. You have rockets, and a chain gun, and 
 you just obliterate anything that comes into view. What's an action game without vehicle sections? 
 There are a few turrets in the game, but none of them work very well, and it makes the game feel 
 like a mediocre first person shooter, when really, it's a brutal third person acton game.
  
  In addition to the 10 hour single player game, are two fun multiplayer modes. Infection is 
 when there is a certain amount of players, and one of them is Hayden. Hayden has to kill everyone 
 he can, and the only way to become Hayden is to kill him. It's not so much fun when you're a guard, 
 but when you become Hayden, it can be a blast. Epidemic is when there are two teams, each of which 
 have one Hayden, and you have to kill the other team's Hayden. Again, when you kill the other team's 
 Hayden, you become the Hayden on your team. New players will have a rough time, but after about 
 half an hour, you'll get the hang of it. Multiplayer is a little shallow, but it will eat up a 
 few hours of your time.
  
  The level design has a bit of what I like to call "Half Life 2 Sydrome". This is when after all 
 the action is finished, you're left with an empty room, with no objectives list or radar, and you 
 have no idea where to go. It's usually a simple puzzle or closed door, but when you miss wide open 
 hallways, then you know there's a problem. It's a big nuisance, and is very frustrating, and puts 
 you in a crappy mood most of the time.
  
  What makes up for that, is the theme of the game. Dark Sector has plenty of horror moments. Either 
 in a dark sewer, blasting zombies, or walking through a quiet dark abandoned hospital, the level 
 of immersion is very high, and puts you in the zone to keep pushing forward.
  
  When an enemy is near death, or when you are right behind them, you can perform a finisher. This 
 is very similar to Assassin's Creed, where the camera zooms in, and you just mutilate the guy. 
 And I mean MUTILATE. Hayden will cuts heads off, and impale zombies, and there's blood everywhere. 
 Maybe this is why it was banned in Australia.
  
  Dark Sector has great presentation. The voice acting is near flawless, and the musical score is 
 pretty good. What sets this game apart from other titles is how great it is graphically. Every 
 texture is very sharp and clean, and character models are just as good. However, any lack of artistic 
 presence is a little disappointing, but that doesn't take away from how great the game looks, it 
 just makes everything gray.
  
  Overall, Dark Sector is highly recommended from me. It's not a must buy, but you do need to play 
 it. It's a brutal, fun, third person shooter that has lots going for it. A lengthy single player 
 experience, and fun multiplayer make it worth your while. Unfortunately, a floppy cover system 
 and Half Life 2 syndrome can piss you off. Truth is, that you won't find anything more bloody than 
 Dark Sector this generation. Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _screamsoftly_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game the other day because there were many many copies at the video store and the 
 cover looked interesting. Not necessarily a recipe for success when making a game, but Rainbow 
 Six was gone so I figured I'd try it. The game itself seems to take it's feel from Bioshock and 
 the story seems like it could head in that direction, but in reality it goes nowhere close to the 
 depth of Bioshock. I've also heard it compared to Resident Evil, and it definitely has that feel 
 as well. Very dark, very atmospheric.
  
  The game opens with a prologue mission wherein you are a special agent infiltrating a Russian prison. 
 This prologue mission is very good. The first thing you'll notice is that the graphics are definitely 
 up to par, maybe not amazing, but the rain is worth a minute of examination. Anyway, you start 
 with just your gun and work your way through the prison popping guards in the head, while taking 
 lots of hints that there's some seriously heavy stuff going on in the prison. There's allusion 
 to some sort of infectious disease and things like that.
  
  So, anyway, to get to the point. The shooting is very good, I'm not a huge fan of third-person 
 shooters but I actually like the gameplay in this one. After completing the prologue you unlock 
 the glaive which is basically a nifty little bladed boomerang that grows from your hand. I know, 
 sounds fun. This has the potential to be one of those lame 'innovative' game elements that people 
 are so quick to toss into shooting games nowadays. But oh no, this is something great. After the 
 first time you toss this baby at some approaching guards head and watch it fly off spurting blood, 
 you'll realize that no matter how horrible this game is, that will always be fun. And eventually 
 you'll unlock new powers, like the aftertouch ability. Which allows you to control the glaive in 
 mid-flight - and get a close-up on the decapitation. This really is one of the most satisfying 
 tools of death in any game. It's right up there with the chainsaw in Gears.
  
  But a three-pronged spinning death blade thing can only last you so long. At least it can only 
 last me so long. How long? Four out of ten chapters before I got kind of bored. Although, I tend 
 to get bored with games very quickly, so don't take that as indication, I can imagine for the average 
 person this might never get old. You get to imbue your glaive with fire and electricity. And you 
 can imagine where that goes. Incineration and electrocution kids, that never gets old either. But 
 the promising story goes gray after a while, and I can't say as to what happens in the latter portion 
 of the game, but being stuck in the same prison area definitely doesn't do much to fight the monotony 
 of the environments. And to just take a little pot shot at the game, I'm not a fan of the main 
 character, his hair is poorly animated and his eyebrows are annoying. But let's not over analyze. 
 Overall I would definitely give the single-player mode of this game a solid 8. But the multiplayer 
 really kills that score.
  
  I played through the first few chapters and said ok, that's cool, let's check out the multiplayer. 
 I didn't have high expectations for the multiplayer, so I wasn't let down. I won't explain the 
 two multiplayer modes, because this is already getting lengthy, and I'm sure you can find it elsewhere. 
 The developers apparently decided to cut out your standard deathmatch and CTF modes, which immediately 
 dooms the multiplayer to mediocrity in my opinion. The game just doesn't lend itself to multiplayer. 
 People who enjoy it will call me lame for this or something, but I think the limited HUD and clumsy 
 controls really don't work with the established paradigm of the online shooter. I played through 
 each mode a few times, and actually did ok, so it's not like I'm complaining because I lost. I 
 do think it's interesting how you'll get to play an infected player (you get the glaive) at some 
 points, and a normal player at others. But it seems stupid that the only two guns you can get are 
 a standard machine gun and a shotgun, and the only way to kill the infected player seems to be 
 by getting close and performing a finisher. The multiplayer is almost not even worth mentioning, 
 not to mention it's sparsely populated.
  
  Overall, this game was a lot better than I would have expected. The single player had a compelling 
 opening that had the potential to carry throughout the game, and the new gameplay element was satisfying 
 at the very least. But poor multiplayer and overall loss of interest in the single player made 
 this game just an ok one for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teflondon06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I feel it is neccessary to spread how great this game is. I am the type of person who relies on 
 reviews to guide my purchase of a game. However, this time I decided to go out on a limb and purchase 
 Dark Sector because it has been compared to Resident Evil. Boy am I happy with my purchase, and 
 now I am no longer completely relying on game reviews.
  
  This is an action packed, graphic masterpiece. The controls are excellent, and the idea of cutting 
 someone's limbs off with a "glaive" is ingenious. However, I do agree that there are some holes 
 that should have been filled in the story, but in this case, the story does not make this game. 
 If you love horror/violent videogames... you owe it to yourself to go out and purchase this game. 
 I plan on playing this one again after I finish beating it on the regular difficulty mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Darksector has you playing as Hayden Tenno, a super spy agent of some sort who suffers from a real 
 life disease which prevents him from feeling pain. He's sent to a fictional Slavic state to uncover 
 chemical weapons that could most likely be used on the USA. While he's their however, he becomes 
 infected and gets these really awesome powers. The Glaive (the main weapon of the game) will spawn 
 from his body for him to wield. It acts like a boomerang that can chop people in half. GREAT STUFF. 
 So, as Hayden you have to uncover the secrets of this disease and stop whoever is about to unleash 
 it upon the world.
  
  The Gameplay is very similar to that of Uncharted, Gears of War and Resident Evil 4. Aiming is 
 done over the shoulder or you can just fire randomly. Taking cover is used by pressing the X button 
 near a wall or object, however blind fire is not present, instead it requires you to pop and shoot 
 alot. Also, the only guns you can use are the ones you purchase or are handy to you. You can pick 
 up enemy guns, but because you're infected, the gun blows up inside causing it to not work, this 
 can get VERY annoying. But thats OKAY because throughout the majority of the game you'll be using 
 your Glaive. Upgrades will soon be available to the glaive like being able to control its flight 
 path with SIX AXIS or doing a charged attack that does Quadruple damage. But the remote controlling 
 can be annoying sometimes. Most of the time you'll find yourself about to hit an enemy straight 
 in the head, but then the glaive stops and return back into your possession making you move in 
 closer to the enemy fire and try again. AND ANOTHER THING, since when can a Three Pronged Glaive 
 not cut a guys head off in one hit? you have to hit them twice with a regular attack just to see 
 some decapitation, the game loses realism there, but its a minor flaw.
  
  Enemy AI is consistent but varied, sometimes you'll notice that the enemy is for some reason firing 
 at a wall in front of them hoping the bullets will go right through em and hit you, unfortunately 
 for them, it doesn't work, so you sit back laughing at them before you cut them in half. The Boss 
 Battles are great though, Hulking beasts create a sense of epicness, and the amazing graphics really 
 make these fights worth it. but trying to slaughter a 40 foot beast is a bit hard when your only 
 equipped with your glaive, but it works suprisingly well. While the game hold most of the bulk 
 in its single player, i could care less for the Multiplayer. now get ready for a ranting....
  
  WTF?! ONLY 2 PLAYABLE MODES? OMG!, AND THEY'RE EXACTLY THE SAME THING!!!!! WOW WHOOP DE DOO 
  
  Game designer says ' Oh but you can play as the over powered Hayden as well"
  
  I DONT GIVE A FLYING ****! WHAT HAPPENED TO DEATHMATCHES? CTF?? AND OTHERS? 
  
  
  Really, 
 don't bother playing the Multiplayer unless you're really really bored.
  
  I deffinitly reccommend this game for its intense combat and unique use of the glaive, Action, 
 Shooter and possible horror survival lovers should definitly pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is decently lengthened since I'm still playing it now. The game does well with visual 
 effects and boss battles can be intense and are never repetitive.
  
  Visuals/Graphics-8.5/10 Graphics closely resemble Gears but not as stunning or breathtaking.
 
  
  Gameplay-Gameinformer is right you'll never get tired of slicing or dismembering enemies. AI are 
 decent sometimes they can have their special ed moments
  
  Pros-The game looks great feels great and cover is good. Elemental fights such as fire, electric, ice 
 are a nice change of pace from slicing and shooting. Nice weapons.
  
  Cons-Ammo does run short on occassions and you'll have to sell the weapon for a different ammo 
 gun. Cover system is good but could be better, you can't blind fire which could come in handy. 
 Also the online shouldn't have been included they have good intentions but very few servers so 
 lag is a major factor. Also only two types of online play infection (you kill the infected your 
 then infected) and epidemic my favorite of the two (2 teams one each one with an infected leader 
 like assasination try to kill the leader.) Not enough cash throughout game just barley enough for 
 good guns also you can only carry two guns and one has to be a handgun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  you might like this if you are An Uncharted or Resident Evil fan, but some stuff are kinda uninspired
 
  
  
  The game starts you off on a mission that your character doesn't even want to do but does it anyways. 
 The storyline is nothing too amazing so I'll just keep it short and simple. You're sent to kill 
 a man that is spreading a virus and this place is just infested with it. This is where all the 
 fun begins , (and you name it, you upgrades, you get a thing called glai mit can be in slow motin 
 and different effects.)
  
  
  The Graphics is not what I expected out of a PS3 game. Some of the textures and draw distances 
 aren't the best I've seen in this game. But there are some close quarter areas that do look better 
 than some of the environments in the game. 
  
  The game is about 10 hours long it does have multiplayer but is doesn't bring anything new to the 
 table just 2 modes. Regardless this is a great game to play and you'll never get enough fun out 
 of killing the enemies with your glaive. If you're a fan of Uncharted and Resident Evil series 
 than I would definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I kinda bought into the hype of this game, so I decided to buy it. While the story isnt the best 
 Ive ever played, the glaive along with the awesome action more than make up for it its shortomings. 
 
  
  Gameplay- You play as Hayden Tenno, and special ops soldier sent in to kill a deranged Dr. named 
 Messner. things go wrong when you get infected with a virus by a mysterious being. From then on, 
 you get the Glaive, which is a bladed disc that grows out of your right hand. The glaive is up 
 their with the Chainsaw gun from Gears of War in terms of violence and awesomness. You get some 
 powers throughout the game, but none is cooler than Aftertouch, which allows you to get a close 
 up view of the glaive in flight and you get to guide it in slow motion and rip through enemies. 
 Dark Sector has some of the coolest powers Ive seen in a while. I wont spoil it too much. The shooter 
 aspect and the mood of the game is basically a mix of Gear of War and Resident Evil 4. This is 
 sort of a derivative mix, but I dont care, it works very well. The boss battles also shine, with 
 you battling some badass enemies. I wont spoil anything for you, but the bosses are awesome. The 
 story isnt much to speak of, but it does its job.
  
  Graphics/sound- Both are pretty good. The graphics are pretty good, with a good style. There are 
 some moments of bland textures though. The graphics arent the best Ive ever seen, but theyre still 
 very good. The sound is excellent. From the voice acting, to the gunplay, to the sound of the glaive 
 ripping through an enemies body, the sound is great.
  
  Fun/value-Dark Sector is an underrated game. It takes about 10 hours to beat, and has some replayibility, 
 but its not terribly long. The multiplayer is bad and should not have been put in the game at all, 
 but that doesnt bother me, because I just dont play it. If you're looking for a good, visceral 
 and violent game, Dark Sector is a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbrothe9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved Dark Sector! It has an eerie Resident Evil feel to it when your in the dark and can hear 
 something in it but are unable to see anything. Gamespot jacked the score down for not having a 
 strong story. I know that they have to give it to you straight and include all aspects of the game, 
 but the last thing I was looking forward to when I bought this game was the story. The action is 
 awesome! I love throwing the glaive and the weapons just feel real. I hate games that make you 
 unload an entire clip into an enemy and have them stumble only to get up and take another clip 
 before dying. You never feel like your up against superhumans. You can score a headshot and bring 
 them down or if your aim isn't that good they will fall after 3-5 rounds. I love the camera and 
 the third person perspective. The action is just too cool, I never get tired of throwing the glaive 
 and the aftertouch system is great. The only thing I can gripe about is the sense of what to do 
 next. I don't know how many times I died because I was supposed to run to a specific point but 
 was never told to. Even after dying a few times and getting frustrated I never wanted to put down 
 the controller. I wanted to kick some ass and Dark Sector allowed me to do it. Good job guys, I 
 gave this one a 9. Here's hoping for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langtail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  On thing that i when i first played the game is the story line changing from B&W to color, that 
 a great idea but i think is the only thing that they worked on the story, 'cause there's a lack 
 of information about Hayden, why is he suffering, why is he so rejected of his past time... well 
 but the lack of story telling is compesated by the terrific graphics, textures and gameplay, you'll 
 never get bored of slayin ur foes with aftertouch, a camera that chaises the glaive when u throw 
 it, or looking at ur foes fly when u launch a missile at them when u r controlling the gigantic 
 robot, or killing ur enenmies with three elements, fire, electricity or ice (i expected more elements 
 but it's ok) it's funny to look at ur foes using aftertouch and looking how they die... well this 
 game is pretty easy too beat, the only hard thing that i had to confront was killing some mayor 
 foes like the heavy soldier that has a minigun, i killed 2 of them by luck until i realized i had 
 to aim two lil things on his back to make him come down by some type of electric lil explosion, 
 the thing that i enjoyed most of dealing with those guys is getting his gun, it makes u slow but 
 it's cool to have a minigun in ur hands and se how lots of enemies try to kill u but all they do 
 is being another death in the count... powers gained after defeating bosses r cool, well just 2 
 'cause the third one, the one i was expecting to get a great power from was just his silly girlfriend 
 that just gives him the key of the Dark Sector, i was like no no, WAT? no power? w/e... and the 
 fianl boss fight is too easy to be the last boss, but i think this game still worth every cent 
 i spent on it, great graphics and gameplay, all wat i expected from it, i enjoy playing it and 
 i haven't tried the online mode yet, but i'm sure is pretty cool... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronos591
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  In Dark Sector you take on the role as Hayden Tenno, a CIA cleaner. He's sent on a redemption mission 
 and thats exactly how he ends it. The story in general could have been told better for those who 
 don't analize every bit of cutscene and dialogue, which happens more so as transmissions than in 
 actual cutscenes sometimes. The gameplay is amazing with few unwanted actions and the graphics 
 for the most part are beautiful with rare texture glitches. The enemies are intelligent and become 
 increasingly difficult as you progress. In my opinion this game is an adventure shooter, bringing 
 the best aspects from both worlds.
  
  A definite rent for casual gamers and a purchase is in order for more hardcore gamers.
  
  There's 
 not much else to say about Dark Sector except that if anyone likes making heads roll, you'd thoroughly 
 enjoy this bloody masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzza
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  this is a great game. so far ive gotten maybe three fourths of the way through it it seems really 
 sort of short to me. I wish there was alot more to it. i would recommend it to any1. it cousts 
 59 dollars so it has to be good right? lol i want there to be a squel like so bad right now there 
 should be more games like this for playstation 3 in the future it is very orgininal and tottally 
 awsome. SQEUEL PLEASE! I just got it a few days ago I really need some cheats for it but none of 
 the ones on here r very helpful. one of the biggest reasons to get a PS3 so far It resembles killlzone 
 if my mind. I really like the shooting aspect of the game. It really makes the game complete in 
 my mind. There needs to be more games like this. Its better than Call of Duty or Grand Theft Auto 
 but, thats just my opion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This would have to be the best PS3 game ever made. And the best game ever made. This truly has 
 Next Generation graphics and sound. The glaive is alot of fun. With using elements such as fire, 
 ice, electricity. The boss fights are fun and creative. The cover system is the best I have seen 
 in a game. 
  
  Using aftertouch to throw the Glaive in slow motion is very fun and gory, violent. The graphics 
 are photo realistic. The shadows, lighting is very well done. 
  
  The shooting is alot of fun. You can duel wield. Using glaive and guns at same time. The cover 
 system is great. Throwing glaive to attack enemies and for puzzles is very emmersive. This game 
 is groundbreaking. 
  
  Everything is so realistic and detailed. With a high definition TV and surround sound setup. This 
 game looks magical. This is the best sounding, looking game I have ever seen. You can throw out 
 the Glaive and while its flying to an enemy. You can shoot at same time. You can also do melee 
 attacks. The game is very gory, bloody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I finally got my copy of this game. The long awaited title for me has finally came to my 
 home, THANK GOD!! Let's start off with the graphics, They aren't that bad. It sorta reminded me 
 of that Mission Impossible game for Xbox/PS2, but alot cleaner. I like the lightning effects and 
 how dark it is, my kinda game. I've only played this game for 2 hrs straight and I was hooked since, 
 I found that one time you could shoot through a door in the start of the game. Kinda odd, but it 
 was over looked later on during the missions.
  
  Graphics: I would rate it 8, not the best, but pretty damn good.
  
  Sound: I love everything 
 about it, Guns and blade sounds awesome with surround sound. I'd rate that 9.
  
  Gameplay is fun, ain't nothing like running around chopping some fooz up with the blade. I like 
 the finishers when you come up close to the victim, it was pretty tight. 
  
  It's almost like RE 4 mixed with Gears of War, so if your a fan of that then you'll like it for 
 sure. It's a decent game to play and well worth the money, if you can find a deal on ebay or craigslist, 
 I highly suggest you pick it up, if not run to gamestop/best buy/ or wherever you buy your games. 
 
  
  I tried the online mode and I wasn't that happy with it, I guess from all the Call of Duty 4 and 
 Team Fortress 2 really takes the cake. I only tested it for 30 mins and I had to stop, It's not 
 the best, but it's one of thoses things that you just want to taste a little sample then forget 
 that it was ever on the disc.
  
  Overall:
  I'm happy with this game and I'm pleased to finally have my copy, If you don't have it yet. You 
 could rent it if you don't have the cash, but if you do have money. Read some more reviews or just 
 go with that feeling I said about RE 4 and Gears of War. 
  
  Hope this helps and Enjoy killin'!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  If you've played Uncharted and Resident Evil than you'll know what type of game is Darksector but 
 the only difference is the Glaive. This will be your weapon of choice and this will be the weapon 
 you'll be using over and over again to kill your enemies. Trust me you won't get enough of finishing 
 off your foes with the Glaive. The finishing moves are also very satisfying to watch.
  
  The game starts you off on a mission that your character doesn't even want to do but does it anyways. 
 The storyline is nothing too amazing so I'll just keep it short and simple. You're sent to kill 
 a man that is spreading a virus and this place is just infested with it. You're there to stop this 
 mad man from spreading this disease before it gets out of control. Once you've done your duty you 
 come across this full armor solider that knocks you out cold. Next thing you know you're in the 
 same room with the person that's trying to spread the virus and infects your arm. This is where 
 all the fun begins.
  
  Once you're infected with this virus you're trying to get in touch with this old man that's a part 
 of the CIA group that you're working for that wants to stop the virus from spreading. He's supposed 
 to help you contain the virus so it won't spread further into your body. As you progress you'll 
 be earning money to upgrade your weapons and unlock new powers to your Glaive. You'll be able to 
 pick up weapons, Light up your glaive on fire, electricity, and ice. You'll also be able to control 
 your glaive in slow motion to get your kills which is one of the best things you'll see in slow 
 motion. 
  
  The Graphics is not what I expected out of a PS3 game. After seeing games like Uncharted, Unreal 
 Tournament, Call of Duty 4, and Army of Two. I expected to see some amazing graphics in Dark Sector. 
 Some of the textures and draw distances aren't the best I've seen in this game. But there are some 
 close quarter areas that do look better than some of the environments in the game. Also once you 
 get further into the game you'll see some nice special effects with the environments once you'll 
 able to charge your glaive to spark off some explosion. 
  
  The game is about 10 hours long it's a little longer than Uncharted and it does have multiplayer 
 but is doesn't bring anything new to the table just 2 modes. Regardless this is a great game to 
 play and you'll never get enough fun out of killing the enemies with your glaive. If you're a fan 
 of Uncharted and Resident Evil series than I would definitely recommend this game. If you're not 
 too sure rent it because it's still worth checking out if you ask me.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
