-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Space
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/deadspace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deeply engrossing story.
 Breathtaking visuals and nerve-wracking audio.
 Strategic dismemberment adds an entirely new, satisfying dimension to combat.
 Truly terrifying gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission objectives.
 Close-quarters combat is troublesome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 2,837 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An incredibly atmospheric and disturbingly gruesome deep-space adventure that will haunt your dreams 
 and leave you begging for more. 

  The survival horror genre is rife with games in which you are isolated in a hostile environment 
 full of monsters, and Dead Space is no exception. But from the moment you're thrown into the middle 
 of the fray in the heart-pounding introduction until the bone-chilling conclusion, it's clear that 
 this is something quite unique. With its disturbingly twisted visuals, its deeply engrossing story, 
 and innovative strategic dismemberment combat system, Dead Space is a best-in-its-class game that 
 surpasses other entries in its venerable genre in nearly every way and will be the standard by 
 which they are judged for years to come.  

  When the Concordance Extraction Corporation loses radio contact with its Planet Cracker-class mining 
 ship, the USG Ishimura, engineer Isaac Clarke is dispatched on a routine mission to repair its 
 communications array. However, Clarke is also on a mission of his own, having recently received 
 a cryptic message from Nicole Brennan, a medical officer serving aboard the Ishimura. While on 
 board he intends to reunite with her and learn the meaning behind her strange broadcast. Unfortunately, 
 the moment you set foot on the derelict ship, it's obvious that something terrible has happened. 

           Meet the Necromorph. This is one lady you don't want to dance with.      

  As Isaac, you are separated almost immediately from the rest of your team by the former crew of 
 the Ishimura, which has been transformed into horrifying monsters called Necromorphs. Forced to 
 fight for his survival, Isaac makes do with the tools at hand to defend himself with, which are 
 for the most part repurposed mining instruments like plasma welding guns or buzz saws. These improvised 
 weapons are put to graphic, gruesome work as bodily damage and even severe head trauma isn't enough 
 to kill a Necromorph -- only by severing their limbs can you put them down for good. This nuance, 
 referred to as strategic dismemberment, vastly alters the way combat is approached in Dead Space 
 from the typical "aim for the head"-style gameplay seen in most action games and zombie apocalypse 
 scenarios.  

  Every class of Necromorph requires a different strategy to handle, and knowing how to combat multiple 
 types simultaneously is an essential skill if you want to survive for long. Though dismemberment 
 is ultimately the key to victory, failing to finish off a monster properly will only send it into 
 a berserker rage and force it to adapt to its new, partially appendageless situation so that it 
 can continue trying to eat your face. Even more alarming than their ghastly appearances and uncouth 
 manners is the fact that they are quite intelligent. Necromorphs attack in packs using loose team 
 tactics, and are capable of traversing the ship's extensive ventilation system to sneak around 
 for outflanking or ambushing. They feign death among the corpses of their peers to rise up and 
 attack when you least expect it, and they often come in waves, leaving you wondering if it's truly 
 over or if they're simply toying with you.  

  The most basic Necromorphs are humanoid monsters that attack in a frenzy. Horribly mutated undead 
 babies also make an appearance, and they run along the walls and ceilings sprouting tentacles from 
 their backs capable of throwing organic projectiles. Others still are heavily armored but vulnerable 
 from behind, are bloated with dozens of spiderlike parasites that are released upon their host's 
 death, or shriek madly as they carry explosive pods toward you in a suicidal charge. In one fully 
 interactive gameplay sequence that comprises some of the more amazing moments to be experienced 
 in Dead Space, you're assaulted by the gigantic tentacle of an even larger, unseen beast that drags 
 you to a gruesome and bloody death as you struggle to shoot yourself free.  

  Finally, at several key points in the story, Isaac stumbles upon some of the most incredible and 
 truly terrifying boss monsters to be seen in the survival horror genre. Though revealing the circumstances 
 around which you confront these nightmares would do much to spoil them, it is safe to say that 
 these epic encounters are easily some of the most remarkable seen in years.  

           Having all the traditional HUD elements built into your suit makes grisly scenes like 
 this that much more immersive.      

  One of the first things to notice in Dead Space is that it features a complete lack of a traditional 
 heads-up display; instead, pertinent information is integrated directly into Isaac's RIG uniform. 
 To see his current health you need only glance at the iridescent meter built into the RIG's spine 
 (or pay attention to his physical cues) , and to see how much ammo is left in your current weapon, 
 simply check the display readout visible whenever you raise it into the ready position. If you 
 ever find yourself wondering where you need to be next, you need only press in the right analog 
 stick for Isaac's RIG to temporarily trace a beam of light on the ground toward your next objective. 
 When called up, menus are holographically projected ahead of you in real time, producing a sense 
 of urgency as you remain vulnerable to attack. These simple yet ingenious systems ensure that you 
 remain firmly within the realm of the gameworld at all times, preserving the horror experience. 

  Your ultimate goal aboard the Ishimura is to escape from it, hopefully along with Nicole; but to 
 get to that point you must first accomplish a series of dependent tasks. Guided remotely or in 
 person by the remaining survivors of your doomed repair operation, your missions take you from 
 deck to deck in a logical chain of events. For example, early on you discover that the ship's orbit 
 is decaying because its engines are offline, so you must travel to engineering to refuel and restore 
 them. Once they're back online and the Ishimura begins to correct its course, you realize that 
 you're about to pass through an asteroid belt and that the automated defense systems are down, 
 so it's off to do something about that.     

  Each deck is a self-contained environment in which you run around putting out fires while moving 
 closer to escape, and while your team will remain in frequent contact, you are almost always alone -- and 
 most of the few survivors you do encounter have been driven insane by their ordeals. This sense 
 of isolation in such a hostile environment, coupled with bloody visuals and a brilliant sound design, 
 has you constantly questioning your own sanity and wondering when the next attack is coming. Further 
 enhancing this effect are the bone-chilling logs you find left behind by the crew in which their 
 final thoughts and moments are recorded. Though audio logs are nothing new to this type of game 
 and are in fact often used to flesh out the backstory, these are exceptionally well done, and are 
 accompanied by full video logs and text reports, which all together make for a much more compelling 
 narrative.  

  As you explore the many decks of the Ishimura, you will come across two utilities that will prove 
 to be of endless use: stasis and kinesis. Stasis, a finite resource that must be replenished at 
 recharge stations across the ship or with booster packs, allows you to temporarily slow down fast-moving 
 objects, while kinesis gives you the ability to lift, move, and throw objects in the environment 
 at no cost. Each can be used independently or in tandem to solve puzzles or navigate the ship, 
 and each has useful battle applications as well. For instance, stasis can be used to virtually 
 stop incredibly fast-moving Necromorphs and give you the time to tear them limb from limb, and 
 kinesis can be used to throw explosive canisters or even severed extremities to conserve ammunition. 

           Space babies like to hug your face and stab your back. They are not very lovable.     

  During your travels, you will find a number of areas that do not have functional gravity. In these 
 situations, Isaac's magnetic boots will keep him grounded and allow you to perform zero-gravity 
 jumps and attach to nearly any surface. Suddenly having a full 360-degree range of movement is 
 a mind-bending experience, but once you get the hang of it, few experiences are as enjoyable as 
 leaping from the floor to the ceiling to dodge an attack and then finishing off your assailant, 
 sending its body, blood, and limbs floating off in different directions realistically. Many of 
 these zero-g situations are also performed within a vacuum, making oxygen, in addition to your 
 health, a scarce commodity.  

  Between searching for Nicole, trying to escape, and fighting for your survival, you've got your 
 hands pretty full, but this is not to say that there aren't other things for Isaac to do. As the 
 monsters you are killing were once people, they will occasionally drop credits that can be spent 
 in the automated stores you will come across. RIG upgrades, health items, new weapons, and additional 
 ammunition can all be purchased, and if you happen to find a new item schematic and take it to 
 a store, you'll be able to buy that as well. Inventory management is a key element as you can only 
 carry around so many medical kits or plasma cartridges. In the event that you find yourself overburdened, 
 you can sell off your unneeded goods or toss them into the safe for pickup later at any other store 
 location, but you may also find yourself constantly low or out of ammo if you simply go into every 
 enemy encounter guns blazing -- sometimes it's better to run and conserve ammo.  

  As an engineer, Isaac can make use of the numerous nanotech workbenches onboard the Ishimura to 
 upgrade his weapons and equipment. Each upgradeable item has a circuit board arranged like a skill 
 tree, and by soldering in power nodes (typically found in fuse boxes or purchased at the store) 
 down a set of branching paths, functionality can be greatly increased. For example, weapons can 
 have their damage and clip size upped, and Isaac can even increase his RIG's maximum health or 
 the duration of his stasis ability. Fuses can also be used to override certain optional door locks, 
 though, so if you want to be ready for potential secret-item caches, make sure you don't use up 
 all of your power nodes.  

  From engineering to hydroponics and beyond, Dead Space never fails to impress with its visuals. 
 Whether you're watching the torrential rainfall of asteroids across the hull of the Ishimura from 
 the bridge atrium or witnessing the way a corpse spins serenely in a zero-g vacuum, the haunting 
 yet beautiful graphics of Dead Space have a way of sticking in your mind long after you've quit 
 playing. Semi-interactive cutscenes such as the one in which your team's rescue ship explodes within 
 the Ishimura docking bay simply must be seen firsthand, and the tremendous lighting and environmental 
 effects lay the groundwork for an intense horror adventure.  

           Strategic dismemberment works both ways. Don't let this happen to you.      

  What 
 really rounds out the entire experience, however, is the incredible sound design. Throughout the 
 halls of the Ishimura, you are stalked mercilessly by the Necromorphs, and while you can't always 
 see them, you are constantly surrounded by the menacing noises they produce or the eerie pitter-patter 
 they make as they crawl through the ventilation shafts. You'll occasionally hear the distant screams 
 of Necromorph victims or the creepy singing of a mentally unbalanced survivor, and environmental 
 effects such as those generated by the sudden release of a burst of steam will keep you on the 
 edge of your seat. Perhaps the most impressive use of audio in Dead Space takes place in a vacuum: 
 any sounds that originate outside of Isaac's helmet are muffled and barely audible, while those 
 from the inside, including his breathing and grunts of pain, are amplified.  

  Dead Space is a remarkable game from a well-tread genre that manages to stand out from its competitors 
 in almost every way, from visual presentation to engaging story, innovative combat mechanics to 
 fright factor. Whether you're looking for a terrifying horror experience or a deeply story-driven 
 adventure that will keep you engaged for 15-20 hours, Dead Space is a fantastic game that you should 
 not pass on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (254 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TommyA306
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Space i have to say is the best survival horror game ive come across since Resident Evil 4, and 
 is gonna be a great new series of this generation. Although everyone says its Resident Evil in space, yea 
 it kinda is but theirs no problem with that since we all loved Resident Evil 4. I still defidently 
 recommend this game since it was just so fun, but the only slight problem i had with it, is the distance 
 with you and the character, and how you don't really know anything about him, the other problem is 
 the cut scenes, their is none and i know a lot of people liked how their wasn't any, but i didn't 
 since im used to all games having cut scenes and i really enjoy them. Okay now for the reason your 
 probably reading this review..."Dead Space vs Resident Evil 5", i still had to give it to Resident 
 Evil 5 barley though!!, and i can totally see if you thought differently because their both up at 
 the top my list of great games but reason being is, because i found lots more of action in Resident 
 Evil 5, not to mention it had great cut scenes but mostly because im a huge fan of the series and 
 i just get sucked into the story. Overall score 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, Great graphics, interesting story, creepy feel, I love it! Of all the games 
 I've played, this is the creepiest. Creatures lung out at you from vents. You see figures roam 
 through darkness. Loud noises and odd noises ring everywhere. It's plain creepy!
  
  Story: You play as Isacc, an engineer aboard the, Hiroshima or something like that. You, Hammond, 
 and a lab girl find the ship empty of all life after crashing. Then, you get split up and these 
 creatures, the Necromorphs attack. You barely escape alive. Then for the rest of the game, they 
 stay safe and send you to do all the work. It's a good story, like a movie.
  
  Weapons: There are many weapons. The one you start with is the Plasma Cutter. It's a good pistol 
 - like gun. The other weapon I like is the Pulse Rifle. I don't really like any others. One problem 
 for me though is ammo. I'm always running out and end up smacking and stomping. The weapons are 
 cool and work well, while the bullets last.
  
  Enemies: You fight the Necromorphs, creatures from a nearby planet who are VERY ugly. Some crawl, 
 some run, there are men, there are babies. And there are things that don't seem right at all, such 
 as the Levithian. Unlike other games, in this one you're suppost to aim for their limbs to kill 
 them quicker. At first I didn't want to, it seemed like to much aiming and hard work. But it saves 
 bullets and really works! A tip - watch the vents. And another tip; you'll come across a creature 
 that cannot be killed - it'll keep regenerating. It is fast also! Freeze it with Stasis, shoot 
 off it's legs and run.
  
  Conclusion: Overall, Dead Space is a very great game that'll keep your blood pumping and give you 
 some good scares. The only thing that turns me down is ammo. So, I give it a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PUREPL7YA
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: 9.0
  Dead Space puts you in the boots of an engineer sent along with a rescue team responding to a distress 
 call from the USG Ishimura, a mining ship who's last mission proved disastrous and is in need of 
 help. In an attempt to evade an oncoming asteriod, your ship crash lands onto the doomed Ishimura 
 and that is when everything suddenly takes a turn for the worst....
  
  The story revolves around you accomplishing your objectives, which entail fixing the ship and eventually 
 making it out alive, while simultaneously witnessing the horrors of your own crew's encounters 
 with the deadly prescence onboard. The game plays out quite linear and can often get on the repetitive 
 side with very similar missions and frequent backtracking, such as go to point A, discover a broken 
 piece of equipment, retrieve the backup or fix from point B, and return to repair the broken section 
 all while surviving close encounters and waves after waves of baddies called Necromorphs along 
 the way. Although the developers only included two cut-scenes, one in the beginning and one at 
 the end, the entire experience is immersive and most importantly, fun. Everything in the game feels 
 right where it belongs, and frequent checkpoints won't have you repeating long sections in frustration 
 should you die prematurely. Achievements are probably nothing new which you haven't already seen, 
 although the ability to have multiple saves is a bonus.
  
  
  Audio/Visual: 9.5
  The only negative aspect towards the sound of Dead Space is the overly dramatic and predictable 
 voice acting of your crew (Isaac apparently is a mute) . Everything else, from the loud and abrupt 
 shreiks and bangs heard throughout the ship to the quiet and unseen rolling of small objects across 
 the ground, sounds phenomenal (especially in 5.1 surround sound) . The audio heightens the tension 
 during battle portions and keeps you at the edge of your seat in anticipation during others when 
 you are all alone...
  
  The spectacular lighting effects create a believable experience and bring the Ishimura to life. 
 Isaac's animations vary depending on his health level, as he moves and looks around with extra 
 caution when at full health and will stumble wearily when he is low. The views of outer space are 
 nothing short of breathtaking.
  
  
  Technical: 10.0
  EA Redwood Shores truly spent the majority of their efforts on tweaking the controls to perfection 
 and it shows. Gone is the way of the typical HUD (Heads Up Display) . Along with the 3rd-person 
 view of your character, your health level displays via filled tubes on the spine of your suit, 
 ammunition level for each weapon are displayed as holograms, and an easily manageable inventory 
 works in real-time as another hologram. You are also equipped with a 3-d map (which is difficult 
 to interpret) and a neat little objective indicator which points out your next objective location. 
 This feature is great because it actually encourages exploration, seeing as you always know where 
 to go next you are free to explore. The greatest thing beside scares and thrills when exploring 
 the Ishimura is the amount of looting you can do. Collect, buy or sell precious ammunition, suit 
 schematics and power nodes (used for upgrading) at conveniently placed shops around the ship, or 
 collect audio and visual logs left behind from every fallen victim.
  
  Enemies range from small, insect resembling creatures to mutated soliders and other crazy abominations. 
 There are definitely some enjoyable boss fights too, blended with dramatic "on-the-rails" sections 
 and occassional puzzle solving. Some encounters can be predictable, but I believe this really added 
 to the tension with my experience. Weapons, such as the line-rack, pulse rifle and flamethrower, 
 are equipped with primary and secondary fire and can be upgraded (along with your suit) at various 
 workbenches. Most weapons are industrial tools of destruction which you will use to "strategically" 
 dismember your enemies. You can use telekinesis to fire objects such as fire extinguishers or use 
 a power called stasis to either solve puzzles or slow down overwhelming enemies in a hectic firefight. 
 Combat in space and zero-gravity environments are also uniquely satisfying, and I found the "Zero-G 
 Basketball" achievement to be quite entertaining and original.
  
  
  Tilt: 8.0
  Dead Space clocks in around 10-12 hours on Normal, providing higher levels of difficulty for those 
 up to the challenge. The only downside here is that the game forces you to start completely over 
 if you wish to continue playing with your previous stats on a harder difficulty. Although the game 
 is unfortunately not as frightening the second time around, it is a definite plus seeing that you 
 cannot upgrade every weapon and aspect of your suit in a single playthrough.
  
  
  Overall: 9.0
  I was contempt with giving Dead Space the rental treatment at first. Although I 
 thought they could have done more with the storyline and often felt like the game was becoming 
 a chore to finish, I purchased it after realizing how addictive it was and that I just had to see 
 the entire thing to the end. I am certainly glad I did, and due to the amount of polish and care 
 put into creating this remarkable adventure, I can safely recommend it to anyone looking for plenty 
 of shooting action along with some great scares along the way. BioShock and Resident Evil fans 
 should love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engclm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Like mentioned in the review deck the mechanics are similar to Resident Evil 4 and 5, the way your 
 character moves, aims and even interacts with things yet somehow when you play this game you don't 
 seem to be bothered by this, maybe it is because its been done well but the whole idea of a Resident 
 Evil copy never pops into your head unlike Alone in the Dark for example where you can't help but 
 be let down by how poor of a copy it is.
  
  Maybe it is to do with the unique style of Dead Space, the fact that the traditional weak spots 
 (Head and Body) are toughest part of an enemy may be a reason this game feels original afterall 
 not many games stick to that. The melee system is alot better than Resident Evil and maybe the 
 fact that in some areas it is better than Resident Evil is why it feels original but it isn't. 
 
  
  The reason this game feels original is because it is, plain and simple, for the first time in a 
 long time EA have decided to make their own franchise opposed to buying out and continuing another 
 (Command & Conquer) and boy havn't they done well, the graphics are awesome, the soundtrack is 
 creepy and the story is movie like. EA's decision to finally make their own franchise has worked 
 really well has not once do you think to yourself its not has good as t could have been, in another 
 developers hands it may have been better, all you think about is how good this game is and that 
 it is one of those rare games that your pleased you spent 40 on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomGames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  SIMILAR EN ALGUNOS ASPECTOS A DOOM ESTE SI ME PARECE QUE ES UN TITULO QUE DEBEMOS TOMAR EN CUENTA 
 PARA FUTURAS SECUELAS, LA ATMOSFERA ES ENVOLVENTE Y CLAUSTROFOBICA, ME RECORDO A LA PELICULA ALIEN 
 DE 1980. EN ESTE JUEGOES NECESARIO UTILIZAR TODOS LOS ELEMENTOS EN TURNO PARA PODER SOBREVIVIR 
 A ESTA CRIATURAS INFERNALES. EN MI OPINION ES UN EXCELENTE SHOOTER EN TERCERA PERSONA. OTRO ASPECTO 
 IMPORTANTE ES EL MOTOR DE FISICA, EL EFECTO DE LA GRAVEDAD ZERO ES IMPRESIONANTE, YO LO JUGUE EN 
 AMBAS PLATAFORMAS XBOX 360 Y PS3 Y ME PARECIO QUE AMBAS TIENEN UN EXCELENTE DESEMPENO DEL JUEGO. 
 MI UNICO DETALLE ES QUE SE ME HIZO CORTO Y ME HUBIERA GUSTADO EN FORMA MORBOSA MAS GORE O ELEMENTOS 
 OSCUROS DENTRO DE LA HISTORIA. NO ES UN JUEGO APTO PARA MENORES DE EDAD, YO RECOMIENDO QUE LO JUEGUEN 
 MAYORES DE 17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinps2hero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where do I start.... this game is a totally unique, mixing quality graphics with a captivating 
 story line, and edge of your seat scares, taking you back to your childhood. (anyone remember the 
 Thing on ps2? Getting chased around an abandoned base in a Arctic wilderness, had some thrill moments, 
 but dodgy camera, and average graphics never let you submerge into the environment properly, but 
 this game is the real deal!)
  The many upgrades send you scampering down corridors that don't need exploring, just on the off 
 chance you'll find that shiny little key to making your weapon a bit more powerful, or your suit 
 more durable. EA have done themselves proud, this will go down as one of the most atmospheric survival 
 horror games on the next generation consoles, a true classic already.
  I won't give anymore away, but this is a must have game, even if you only play racing games, or 
 use singstar mic's, have a walk in Isaacs boots..... if you dare.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game that will have your heart jumping out of your chest at any given 
 time, this is the game for you. Dead Space does a great job at making you feel just comfortable 
 enough to relax since your last encounter, but then when you least expect it ***** your heart jumps 
 out of your chest. This atmosphere is what makes Dead Space so different than other action games 
 out there. It's just like playing through the movie Aliens and really experiencing the fear first 
 hand. 
  While Dead Space has an enjoyable story, it only runs skin deep. You won't go away from the game 
 with any great feeling of closure which is good and bad. Without going into details, the story 
 is also brought down by some sub par dialog and some truly awful voice acting. These people seemed 
 like they came in the first day never seeing the script and read it with no emotion. (at least 
 most of them) . There are a few exceptions, but even these people have their bad lines. 
  Aside from a few frame rate drops here and there these are the big issues that conspire to bring 
 Dead Space down from the truly great game it could have been. With that said, the other side of 
 the coin is much better. The gameplay is solid and fun. The mechanics work well, and you are given 
 the opportunity to manage your inventory and weapons as you see fit. There is also some small RPG 
 elements like this one and also the ability to upgrade your R. I. G. (suit) that add to the enjoyability 
 of the game. 
  Dead Space is set up in such a way that you feel as though you are truly there. Your character 
 Isaac doesn't talk even when spoken to, the graphical presentation is amazing, and does a great 
 job of pulling you in and somehow they just make you feel as if Isaac dies, so will you!
  A few cinematics would have done nice in Dead Space and would have detracted from some of the ugly 
 scenes in which you interact or watch the other poorly modeled and detailed character models talk. 
 All in all Dead Space will have you wanting more, but you can't help to say "wow that's some bad 
 dialog" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NortePadrote
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is way overated. This was my most wanted game of 2008. Its not perfect, with some anoying 
 flaws. I hate to say this but at times during playing the game I feel that Dead Space should had 
 been a fps. I really hate saying that because Iam not a fps fanantic. More on the fps on review.
 
  
  The story is about a space crew who are on a mission to repair the ishimura ship. Once there they 
 see that something terribly wrong is going on. Your ship is destroy then your stuck in Ishimura 
 and got no other choice but to fixed it for your survival. Thats where the nightmare begins and 
 the creatures start coming after you. The story is great at times during the plot is unravel as 
 you progress Iam reminded of the movie Sunshine. Along the way the story expands as you uncover 
 of what went down in the ishimura. Okay something that bugs me is that the character that you play 
 with does not say a word and because of it you dont care or connect with the character. During the 
 whole story point you get into are told during gameplay and not a cg cutscene.
  
  Now to the flaws that make this game fall short to perfection. Okay this game should had been a 
 fps becuase the action happen all around you. With the third person view is hard to turn to each 
 enemy quickly and kill them. Something that in a fps would be easier to handle. EA needs to fix that 
 sometimes you dont know where your being attack from. Okay this game was suppose to be an action 
 horror but theres no excuse for being a shortage of bullets. I would not complain about the shortage 
 of ammo, If they would have included some decent melee weopons almost like the first 3 Silent Hill 
 video games. Also this game needs to be more player friendly. Mostly the game is about trial and 
 error, which is frustrating when you dont know what to do or some challenge shows up and you keep 
 dying when your trying to figure out why your stuck. At times it can be reapetive and anoying and 
 predictible. For example every times you solve a puzzle you are attacked. Come on if I wanted to 
 be surprise why dont they make it more random.
  
  Graphically this game is a masterpeice. Everything is detail, levels are beautiful to look at. Your 
 character creatures are all beutiful detail. This game shows how powerul the PS3 really is. Nothing 
 to complain about the graphics.
  
  The score and sounds effects are great. At times you will jump off your seat. The voice actors are 
 great and dont over react, so everything will keep you engage about the story.
  
  Dead Space is a good game worth to to play. I cannot go to hard on DS because its the first istallment 
 flaws but Iam pretty sure EA will fix them if there is a sequel. Also for you rpg fans you should 
 give Dead Space a look it has rpg elements, you can uprade your weopons, hp suit etc. Also something 
 that introduces and should have been in Resident Evil 5 is being able to move while you fire your 
 weapon. Hopefully there is a Dead Space 2 and hopefully for the suequel perfects the Dead Space 
 franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's a shame Dead Space didn't get quite the recognition it deserved. People saw a new horror IP 
 from EA and didn't give it a second look but this game is the beginnings of a great series. 
  
  While gamers didn't make much of a fuss over Dead Space, critics loved it, and for good reason. 
 The audiovisual aspect of this game is quite amazing. Great textures and a surreal lighting model 
 flow with the great sound design and serve to immerse you fully as you stalk the tight corridors 
 of the USG Ishimura. The combat is visceral and unique and the game is paced perfectly. You'll 
 be on your toes through this one for sure. All the wonderful sights and sounds of Dead Space are 
 packed neatly into a surprisingly well-told story. This is one of my favorites so far this gen 
 and warrants a few playthroughs. While the game isn't shockingly scary, it has a unique tension 
 throughout that keeps you on edge. I would recommend this game to just about anyone- it's an experience 
 every gamer should have. EA is on to something here... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  October 10, 2008 - There haven't really been a lot of newcomers into the survival horror genre. 
 Most of the titles released have come from pre-established franchises, with gameplay mechanics 
 and story threads that are well known and debated by fans of the series. As a result, trying to 
 establish a new franchise in the genre can be an even steeper uphill battle -- the story, game 
 mechanics, characters and scares have to be even stronger than most games to interest and even 
 pull away fans of other franchises. This is the kind of challenge that Dead Space, EA Redwood Shore's 
 upcoming game, faced because it was set in a completely new universe of survival horror (in more 
 ways than one) , one that EA has been supplementing with an animated movie, comic book and other 
 assets. Fortunately for horror fans, Dead Space is a great example of the genre and is an awesome 
 way to launch a franchise that could continue for many years to come. 
  
  The story behind Dead Space takes place hundreds of years in the future, during a time when mankind 
 has exhausted all of the natural resources on Earth. Fortunately, in this dire time, humanity has 
 mastered space travel, and a process known as planet cracking has been developed to combat this 
 drought. A celestial body is split into pieces, and its minerals are strip-mined and melted, returning 
 the byproducts to Earth for consumption. An entire fleet of ships sails the stars performing these 
 tasks, and the crown jewel of this mining fleet is the USG Ishimura, which has performed more planet 
 cracks that any other vessel. However, on a routine mission, the ship cuts off all communication 
 from galactic command, which is somewhat strange. To discover what's going on, a small maintenance 
 crew is quickly dispatched to the Ishimura from a nearby vessel. 
  Players step into the boots of Isaac Clarke, a systems engineer that's part of the dispatched maintenance 
 crew. Outside of fixing the communications issues, Isaac has a number of reasons for arriving on 
 the Ishimura -- he has a number of friends that are stationed on the ship, including someone very 
 special to him that sends an urgent holovid with a few cryptic messages before she disappears. 
 Unfortunately for Isaac and his crew, shortly after they arrive on board the crippled vessel, all 
 hell breaks loose. Their craft is destroyed, leaving them stranded on the Ishimura. The crew is 
 attacked by nightmarish creatures known as Necromorphs, who kill most of Isaac's team and separate 
 him from the surviving members. Even worse, the ship and its systems have started to be corrupted 
 or are failing thanks to the Necromorphic infestation. It's up to Isaac to wander the halls, search 
 for any friends or survivors that are still alive, and fix as many problems as he can until he 
 can find a way to escape the ship, which can take you 12 or more hours to complete. 
  
  Isaac isn't the typical hero that you'd find in most sci-fi games; he doesn't walk into the Ishimura 
 packing a firearm or grenades, nor does he have specialized training. Apart from the first one 
 that Isaac finds on a workbench, all of Isaac's weaponry and items are found via schematics that 
 are scattered across the ship. Only one of them is a true firearm -- the security pulse rifle; 
 the rest of his "guns" are repurposed pieces of mining equipment used for planet cracking. However, 
 Isaac can use his engineering knowledge to make these weapons much more powerful by analyzing their 
 blueprints and rewiring them at workbenches with the use of power nodes. Thanks to these nodes, 
 Isaac can improve their performance in a number of ways, such as carrying more rounds, shortening 
 his reload time, or increasing their damage. This upgrade system even expands to Isaac's space 
 suit, which can be improved to strengthen his suit's armor or his air supply in case he enters 
 a vacuum. He can even use the nodes to augment the stasis or kinesis modules, which can be used 
 to freeze monsters as they charge him or propel items into the creatures, respectively. What's 
 creative about this system is that players won't be able to max out every weapon or every bit of 
 gear that they have in one playthrough; this forces them to choose what they'll specialize in as 
 they go through the ship. This is an important decision to make, particularly because some weapons 
 are more effective against the Necromorphs than others, and since you'll need to use strategic 
 dismemberment to weaken and effectively kill them, the right weapon in the right situation can 
 be the fine line between life or death in the game. See, unlike monsters in other games, Necromorphs 
 will shrug off direct attacks to the head or chest and keep coming for more. Blasting their limbs 
 off is the only way to cause enough damage to kill these beasts, and you'll frequently need to 
 focus on aiming accurately and quickly at these weak spots before you're surrounded and dissected 
 yourself. This is particularly true in later stages, when some of the Necromorphs start moving 
 faster than before, and it frequently turns battles into brutal affairs, with severed arms and 
 legs flying everywhere as you attempt to survive the onslaught of creatures. Thanks to the over-the-shoulder, 
 third-person perspective, this can add an extra level of tension to the game while you're fending 
 off swarms of beasts, but be forewarned: there is no quick turnaround command. While some people 
 may consider this to be a problem, this is actually a wise design decision because it makes you 
 feel much more vulnerable and claustrophobic within the confines of the suit, and whether you're 
 moving through a hallway covered in bodies or floating in a zero gravity environment, you always 
 feel as though something could reach out and kill you at any time. 
  In fact, the atmospherics of the game play a large role in adding and heightening the tension that 
 players experience as they move through the Ishimura. Although there are plenty of jump moments, 
 the game isn't simply about the cheap scare as it is tossing you into an area that descends from 
 bad to worse. As soon as you step on board the ship, you automatically get the sense that something 
 is wrong. Everything from suitcases and books to work suits and tools are scattered around. As 
 you go further in, you realize how violent and horrible the situation on board the Ishimura must 
 have been, with limbs, blood-spattered walls and other gory scenes that are directly out of an 
 abattoir. It only gets stranger as you move into more Necromorph-infested areas, with sections 
 of the ship completely engulfed in a flesh-like material that pulses and quivers with a life of 
 its own. 
  
  The unsettling nature of the world is heightened by the fact that there is no specific HUD to speak 
 of -- Isaac's health is presented on his back, his ammunition is holographically projected above 
 the gun, and incoming transmissions that he receives pop up in front of his face. Even checking 
 his inventory is pulled up via holograms, and it is done in real time, meaning that a Necromorph 
 can come crawling through the floor or leap from a vent behind you and strike you at any time. 
 Because you're never removed from the action, you feel much more immersed in the world, which is 
 only added to with the environmental items scattered around the ship. Messages scrawled in blood, 
 text and audio messages that detail what happened on board the ship, and even Isaac's notes to 
 himself in his personal journal add to a sense that this is a ship that no one should be on or 
 even near if they value their life, which is an impressive way to balance the story with the action 
 of the game presented in front of them. 
  Another issue within the title is that there's a lot of backtracking within the game. It all makes 
 sense in the context of the gameplay, especially when you're going through each situation; instead 
 of being a meaningless fetch quest, it's completely plausible that you'd have to return to one 
 area you've previously moved through once you discover that one vital piece of equipment you need 
 to fix something is stored there. However, it does have a way of making the ship feel much smaller 
 than a massive capital ship. That's not to say that you get this sense throughout the entire game, 
 because there are plenty of spaces like the medical, engineering and mining decks where you'll 
 move through large areas, but the repetition can be a bit disappointing. This is particularly heightened 
 with the sometimes flawed nav icon. By pressing in on the right analog stick, a holographic line 
 moves out from Isaac and points him in the right direction to go, even turning him to face the 
 right way. The problem that comes up with this system is that every now and then, the game will 
 spin Isaac in a circle, projecting a line that goes forward a few feet before doubling back on 
 itself and pointing the opposite way. That's just bad navigation logic. 
  
  As an aside, another strange feature that isn't a horribly bad or major issue is the fact that 
 your foot stomp can be surprisingly powerful, destroying boxes or other items from a rather large 
 distance. Typically, you'd expect that you'd only be able to crush something that was below your 
 boot, but for some reason, you can crush a box suspended on a bench above you or floating in zero 
 gravity. It's an odd choice, and a minor gripe that's humorous when you see it, but it does stand 
 out as an oddity. 
  However, one of the last issues that I have with the title is related to the New Game + feature. 
 As I mentioned before, you won't be able to acquire every single upgrade for the game itself during 
 your first playthrough. Fortunately, once you beat the game, you'll unlock five separate items, 
 including a fourth difficulty mode previously hidden from the main menu. You'll also be able to 
 move back through the story with all of your equipment intact, so you can blast your way through 
 the game quicker. However, you'll be locked on the initial difficulty level that you chose when 
 you started the game, and won't have the opportunity to switch. This can make the second playthrough 
 feel a bit skewed because it's quite easy to fly through with an over-augmented Isaac. If you return 
 to the main menu and choose a higher difficulty level (including the unlocked Impossible mode) 
 you lose these upgrades and have to start over, which is rather disappointing. 
  Whether you spend an hour or a day exploring the Ishimura, you'll definitely be struck by the visuals 
 of Dead Space, which are eye-catching for both their detail and their gore factor. The detail placed 
 into Isaac's suit is excellent, particularly as you upgrade it throughout the game, and the same 
 can be said about the weapons themselves, which gain new visual and audio effects when you've maxed 
 out their schematics with power nodes. The holographic implementation within the game is excellently 
 done as well and is quite notable because of how it supplements the gameplay. The fact that you 
 can rotate the camera around Isaac as he watches a video in front of him or that you notice little 
 touches like Isaac's head moving up and down to acknowledge the holographic inventory screen highlights 
 a lot of the great visuals in the game. On top of this, each level truly feels like its own, and 
 whether it's the white walls that denote the medical decks, the poster-filled entertainment and 
 housing levels, or the industrial mining sections, you get an idea of what these futuristic planet 
 cracking ships are like. It's even more striking when you move into zero gravity areas and tumble 
 through different areas, including the starkness of space. 
  
  However, all of this visual discussion isn't even counting the disturbing character models of the 
 Necromorphs themselves, which appear to be more and more freakish with each creature that you run 
 into. Whether it's the tentacles and limbs that are placed in unnatural areas or the mutating forms 
 that emerge from errant shots, the Necromorphs are quite unsettling to see, and even more unnerving 
 when they come flying towards you. The same can be said for the gore and dismemberment, which is 
 predominant throughout the game. Whether it's Isaac getting his head bitten off or impaled, or 
 wandering through floors that are stocked with the fallen crewmembers of the Ishimura, the gore 
 is both striking and appropriate to the gameplay. There are two things that I'm not crazy about: 
 first, in the space or zero gravity areas, whenever the space gets depressurized, the pixilated 
 visuals to show air being sucked out of an airlock or room doesn't look great compared to the rest 
 of the game. My second and much more infrequent issue with the graphics is the slight slowdown 
 that can occur, particularly during large explosions. Supporting the strong visuals is excellent 
 voice acting across the board. While Isaac never utters a word, the other members of the cast perform 
 their lines quite well, whether that's with an audio journal log or a holographic movie. However, 
 the real standout is the use of sound, which is designed to send shivers up the player's spine. 
 Whether it's the skittering through the walls of Necromorphs that are crawling towards you, the 
 screams from the creatures as you blow off their legs, or the sudden sharp noises released as a 
 jump moment occurs, the sound design is fantastic and really draws you into the game action. This 
 is one of those games that you want to just listen to late at night with the lights off if you're 
 looking to get freaked out. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidus35
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game that takes place on the USS Ishimura Planet Cracker. You are an engineer sent 
 to investigate the Ishimura's non-responsive status. Right from the beginning this game just wows 
 you with its visual presentation. The sound in this game just makes the hairs on your neck stand 
 on end! I mean this game can just give you the creeps but definitely in a good way.
  
  Throughout the game Isaac is sent around different parts of the ship to either repair some crucial 
 system or destroy the terrible creatures that are on board. 
  
  The game is just worth every penny of the $60. Bottom line is that if your enjoy action adventure 
 horror to any degree you will love Dead Space. I give it a very high mark because I think this 
 game really brings the horror genre to a new level and thats something that is definitely good 
 for all of us gamers. 
  
  Go out and buy Dead Space! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdobson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun, but the story is weak and the double-crosses predictable.
  
  Game flows evenly and the opponents are numerous. Staging of action is more than a little contrived. 
 Ending is a let down, but final boss is a difficult fight (he ate me more than once) .
  
  In terms of tools, stasis will become your best friend, so keep a supply to use in battles and 
 in some of the more difficult time-based tasks.
  
  
  In addition, software (PSP) seems to have difficulty handling a large number of save files. Whenever 
 I save towards the end of the game, if, on startup of a session, I let the system choose my "last" 
 save, it will invariably pick one that was not the last saved based on the time and date stamp. 
 What this means is that I have to search through a long list of save files to find the one that 
 actually was the most recent saved. (The files are not stored in a time stamp-based sequence.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  
  So I had great expectations for this game derived from player and critic reviews on this site and 
 others online. Without playing the demo first, I blindly purchased the game new for $59.99. What 
 a mistake that was. I am not a teenager, so I didn't buy this game thinking it was going to scare 
 me...... I was mainly intrigued by the atmosphere and graphics engine. In that aspect, I was not 
 disappointed..... but the game definately had con's that would later supercede the pros after hours 
 of play.
  
  The Good -
  1. Setting, graphics, and atmosphere are awsome and totally original. Watching other planets, stars, 
 and asteroids outside the ship make the game graphically genius.
  2. Sound quality and effects are spectacular. Especially on surround sound. You really feel like 
 youre right in the middle of the action.
  3. Zero gravity is unique and original. Puts a little twist in the game and adds a nice touch.
 
  4. Creative enemies with extreme attention to detail in all aspects.
  5. Nice resale value. Gamespot gave me $25.00 for it, which I used to go toward Killzone 2 (see 
 my review) .
  
  
  The Bad -
  1. Weak story and characters. This game had potential to have a story that could suck you right 
 in..... very disappointing.
  2. Missions are repeatative with absolutely no freedom to roam or complete objectives. This game 
 is a point to point game that gets very boring after doing the same thing for 7 levels.
  3. Weapons could have been better..... The weapon you start the game with you will find is actually 
 the most effective weapon in the game. Where's the fun in that?
  4. Close quarter action is terrible. If an enemy gets too close to you, say goodnight if you are 
 on a difficult level.
  5. You cannot crouch, get in the prone, jump, etc..... All you can do is walk and run. I am glad 
 life is not like that.....
  
  
  All and all, I learned with this purchase to never buy a game based off hype or rating. Play the 
 demo and watch gameplay clips from people that post them on Youtube before buying a new game for 
 $59.99. This game is the definition of a "used purchase". With the ratings and hype this game got, 
 I cannot see Electronic Arts fixing any mistakes. They probably think they made a masterpiece....... 
 Perhaps someone should tell them about Resistance 2 (see my review) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_pride69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space not only excels at creeping you out, but it also provides you with an excellent story, 
 awe-inspiring visuals, and an impressive sound design. Dead Space actually makes survival horror 
 in deep space convincingly terrifying. There are many things and places to explore, which makes 
 this game an enjoyable experience. Expect to have some frights and thrills in the game's most unexpected 
 places.
  
  
  Dead Space's story is set in the USG Ishimura. This massive "Planet Cracker" is known to be the 
 largest ship in her class of Planet Crackers, and known to house a thousand crew members or more. 
 The Ishimura's job is to dig up minerals in the planet called Aegis 7. However, during the mining 
 procedures in the planet, Ishimura suddenly dispatches a distress beacon to the Concordance Extraction 
 Corporation (CEC) , and CEC responds by sending the USG Kellion to investigate the problem. Isaac 
 Clarke, the silent, main protagonist of the game is one of the crew members aboard the Kellion 
 sent to investigate the problem inside the USG Ishimura. 
  
  
  Among the crew is Kendra Daniels, a specialist, and Zack Hammond, her senior officer. Clarke is 
 an engineer, and his primary mission is to fix the USG Ishimura's problem. In the beginning, Isaac 
 also gets a message from her ex-girlfriend, Nicole Brennan, asking for help, which is the main 
 reason he joined the investigation in the first place. When they attempt to approach the ship, 
 something goes terribly wrong, and the Kellion crash lands in Ishimura's docking bay. Shortly after 
 entering the Ishimura, the Necromorphs attack the crew and kills all but Clarke, Daniels, and Hammond. 
 The latter then realize that most of the USG Ishimura's systems are malfunctioning, and the ship's 
 crew members nowhere to be found. Hammond sends Isaac to repair the damaged systems so that they 
 can figure out what happened to Ishimura and its crew, and to learn more about the mysterious Necromorphs 
 that lurk throughout the ship. Isaac also sets out to find and rescue Nicole, wherever she may 
 be, and if she is still alive or not.
  
  
  The story is great and very solid. It's one of the many aspects of Dead Space that got me interested. 
 Story is well presented and gets you into it. Thankfully, you will meet other humans as you progress 
 through the chapters. Although they are the antagonists, and can be pretty delusional in personality, 
 they provide detailed information on how the Ishimura crew found a mysterious marker, and also 
 how the Necromorphs were born. You will also find many mission logs and audio tapes from the crew, 
 slowly revealing more about the mysteries around the Necromorphs, and the story just gets more 
 interesting as you complete each chapter. 
  
  
  Character development is also involved with the story. Rising tensions and distrust between Kendra 
 Daniels and Zack Hammond can make the player imagine what it must be like for them in that situation; 
 how panicked or frustrated they must be feeling about the monsters and the disappearance of Ishimura's 
 crew. Eventually, they get used to each other and finally team up to solve the mysteries and try 
 to get out alive. The "make us whole again" statement that Nicole says throughout the game makes 
 her current situation more and more suspicious, which really makes you wonder how the next event 
 and the one after that is going to turn out. Expect to encounter plot twists as well, in which 
 I am not going to mention any further because I do not want to spoil it for you.
  
  
  Typically, the average gamer knows that it is common sense that when you shoot somebody in the 
 head, then it's an automatic kill. Well, common sense doesn't apply in Dead Space, so you can forget 
 about it. The best method for killing off these Necromorphs is through a unique method called "strategic 
 dismemberment." The only way to kill these enemies is to cut off their limbs (hinted at the beginning 
 of the game  written conveniently on a wall-in blood) . Necromorphs are not going to die after 
 hitting it with a certain number of bullets. Strategically severing their limbs is the best way 
 to kill them. However, the Necromorphs also have the ability to regenerate their limbs and even 
 grow new sections, so the player has to be quick and precise in eliminating these enemies, or else 
 they will keep coming at you. Players also have to be careful when fighting other types of Necromorphs. 
 For example, there is a 'pregnant' Necromorph in the game. Tiny parasites are released when the 
 player shoots its belly, which can be frustrating to fight off. The player can still kill it by 
 shooting off its limbs without even harming its belly. There is also another creature with a large 
 explosive attached to it. The player has to be careful not to be within its explosion range when 
 shooting. Or, you can carefully detach its organic bomb and use it to your advantage.
  
  
  Gameplay is not exactly new, but strategic dismemberment takes a while to get used to, because 
 we're used to the fact that a head shot equals instant kill. But once you get the hang of strategically 
 severing the enemies' limbs and sections, and if you can efficiently use Isaac's other abilities 
 like the Stasis and Kinesis, then you're good to go. What brings the gameplay down is the camera 
 when you decide to hit the Necromorphs with melee attacks. Camera is pretty good when exploring 
 and even looking at the background, but at times it can become frustrating because camera movement 
 up close against the enemies is not quick enough to know what direction the enemy is coming at 
 you. Although it's not a big issue overall, I would recommend you to keep your distance from the 
 enemies often so that you have a great view of where they are on the screen. Also, you can try 
 your skills in Easy, Medium, Hard, or Impossible mode.
  
  
  Intense and scary is what I would describe the gameplay. There are moments in the game where an 
 occasional Necromorph tentacle grabs Isaac by the leg and the player must shoot its core before 
 the monster completely drags poor Isaac to his gruesome death. On some moments, Isaac has to fight 
 upside down, which provides a fitting challenge to players. What makes them interesting is that 
 they are not just your run-of-the-mill,  
 fights. Some of the different approaches to take down an enemy while in a dire situation makes 
 some of the boss fights in Dead Space extremely enjoyable.
  
  
  Navigating through USG Ishimura isn't difficult. The holographic 3D map is very helpful that you 
 know exactly where you are in the ship. What makes going to your objectives easier is pressing 
 a certain button in the game that shows a blue line telling you where your next mission is. It's 
 pretty convenient to have that feature around when you get lost. It's also unlimited use, so that 
 is a huge plus. 
  
  
  The game is a free-roaming, third-person shooter, so you can take your time racking up in ammunition 
 and health packs, and finding treasure just lying around in the rooms and the dead and floating 
 bodies around the ship. There are also missions that will take you to zero gravity, and moving 
 around upside down or sideways can be pretty fun and interesting. Some parts of the game also take 
 the player to vacuum locations, which forces the player to move faster because Isaac only has a 
 limited amount of air before he runs out of oxygen to breathe in, and eventually suffocate. But 
 the downfall of free roaming in the USG Ishimura is a lot of backtracking. Most of the missions 
 will make the player go back to the same places in the previous ones. For example, some doors and 
 passageways are not accessible yet in Chapter 1, but when you get to-say, Chapter 5, you might 
 trigger an event that will make the player go back to where they started because those doors are 
 now accessible, and could be a crucial part of the storyline. This hinders the player's gameplay 
 experience, because going to the same places back and forth, over and over again can be plenty 
 annoying and tiring.
  
  
  You can take a break from Dead Space's creepy atmosphere for a while by taking your sweet time 
 solving puzzles and even enjoy some of the mini-games present throughout the ship. A shooting range 
 is available for target practice, and there is even a game called "Z-Ball" (which is a deviation 
 from regular basketball I believe) that the player can spend an hour or two shooting through these 
 hoops while in zero gravity. It gets pretty interesting that you might spend some of your time 
 there. Besides, if you want to unlock as many trophies/achievements as you want, then completing 
 these mini-games can be a great addition to your trophy collection.
  
  
  Traditional heads-up display, or HUD, does not exist in Dead Space. Isaac's health bar is shown 
 on the back of his suit, and presented in different colors. Green indicates that Isaac is in great 
 condition, yellow shows that he is in moderate condition, and red is critical condition, or low 
 on health. Information about ammunition count, weapons, and other things are presented in holographic 
 form. The player can check the menu for equipping other weapons or using certain items and can 
 check the map to see where the next objective is located. However, know that the game is not paused 
 when accessing these features, leaving the player vulnerable for an unexpected attack, and makes 
 it difficult for the player to find a spot and take a breather. Even cut scenes or major events 
 in the game do not distract gameplay and some of them are interactive. The player can still walk 
 around while a holographic scene is playing, which keeps the player fully immersed in the game, 
 and does not interrupt the gameplay experience.
  
  
  There are also these things called "power nodes" which help upgrade Isaac's weapons and status 
 such as faster reloading, bigger ammo capacity for weapons, and more. Power nodes can be used in 
 these power node benches, where the player can upgrade Isaac's stats, depending on how many nodes 
 the player finds in the game. You can still buy those at stores located throughout the ship. For 
 stores, Isaac can buy ammunition, new weapons, health packs, and other useful things in here. There 
 are also other types of suits that Isaac can wear. Each suit has its strengths and weaknesses, 
 such as stronger defense or for better mobility and health. Stores also have stashes so that the 
 player can store items that can be saved for later use. Isaac is equipped with a Plasma Cutter 
 at the start. Weapons that Isaac finds are mostly mining tools because of his occupation as an 
 engineer, although there are military-based weapons and suits available later on.
  
  
  Other than strategic dismemberment, there are other skills and tools Isaac can use to defeat the 
 Necromorphs more efficiently and effectively. Stasis gives Isaac the ability to slow down his enemies 
 for a short period of time, so that they can be taken out more easily. Stasis can also slow other 
 things down, such as fast-moving doors or fans so that Isaac can get through certain places that 
 seem impossible to get through. The Kinesis ability allows Isaac to pick up items and can be thrown 
 at enemies if the player does not want to waste too much ammunition. This move can also be used 
 to move certain objects such as batteries to open doors and gates. 
  
  
  Excellent visual presentation makes Dead Space an awesome sight to see. You would forget about 
 the game for a second or two and just move the camera to the awesome background. Space is very 
 detailed and you can see a distant planet or a bright star beyond the horizon that you just wonder 
 what goes on there. It is so detailed that you can even see the crags and the rough surface of 
 a planet far away, and also some floating debris from the damaged areas of the Ishimura. Lighting 
 and shadow effects are very well done, turning space into a breathtaking experience that is worth 
 sightseeing in. In fact, you might even be tempted to just float towards space in zero gravity 
 yourself. The Necromorphs are also well done that these grotesque creatures are one of the reasons 
 for Dead Space's horrendous and chilling atmosphere. Blood content is extremely high, so you can 
 expect that from the Necromorphs, on the walls, and of course, Isaac. There are many of Isaac's 
 death animations that really make the gameplay intense as it already is. The graphics are so stunning 
 that you can actually experience how majestic and terrifying deep space can be.
  
  
  
  Great sound effects are what make an excellent horror-based game -- wellhorrifyingly fun, and Dead 
 Space has an outstanding sound design. Hearing nothing but Isaac's heavy breathing, the silence 
 of space, and the Ishimura's dead, empty halls can make the player tense and would expect to have 
 some frights as the game progresses, because you never know what you might run into. Weapons in 
 the game are indeed futuristic, like the plasma cutter or the laser beam, but they almost sound 
 believable and feel just about right.
  
  
  Voice acting is excellent, backed up by a solid script. The sound of Isaac's grunts and heavy breathing 
 is convincing that it tells the player that he's desperate to save Nicole. The hysterical shrieks, 
 guttural screams, and all the growls and grunts of the Necromorphs may leave you terrified because 
 of how menacing it is to hear them. You might even hear some infernal laughter right around the 
 corner which can really give you the creeps, and there are even moments when a sudden explosion 
 occurs, which may make you jump off your seat. Music also has some occasional thrills. Do you remember 
 'Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star' back when in kindergarten? Remember how sweet the song was? Well 
 in Dead Space, you can expect that song to send chills down your spine, as it shatters your sweet, 
 childhood memory of it, and transforms the song into a nightmare. Then this is where you would 
 say, "What the hell was that!?"
  
  
  Dead Space's great story and script, breathtaking visuals, excellent sound design, solid voice 
 acting and music makes this game one of the scariest survival-horror games to ever come out, presenting 
 a bone-chilling, enjoyable experience too great to pass up. Although backtracking can be somewhat 
 annoying, everything else that Dead Space has to offer will keep you entertained for many hours. 
 If this does not convince you that Dead Space isn't that scary, I'm convinced that you're playing 
 it at the wrong time of day. Try playing Dead Space at night, turn all the lights out, and turn 
 up the speakers. Then we'll see if it isn't scary enough yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden5566
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a survival horror game and it's is awesome! Not only the graphics are stunning, the 
 atmosphere is dark and totally horror. The gameplay is really good and the enemies are very scary. You 
 have control of Isaac, an engineer sended by the human goverment to check out what is happening 
 in Ishimura, a spaceship that excavates other planets. While aboard, you encounter the most fiercing 
 enemies, who are created from dead people. Your target is to survive and return too earth, but the 
 ending gives a message that there will be a second dead space. It will take you more then 10 hours 
 to beat the game. That's dead space. Have fun and horror simultaneously b playing this diamond! Dead 
 Space! Best survival horror game ever! Best atmosphere ever! Surely one of the dominies for best game 
 of 2008! eahhhhhhhhhhhhhh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Kaiser
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  And from out of nowhere, Dead Space dethrones the Resident Evil franchise as the best horror shooter 
 to date. No, not because it revolutionized the style, but because Resident Evil 5 (a game that 
 will be excellent in its own right) has shifted genres to a more action experience, and Dead Space 
 arrived just in time to reinvigorate the lacking genre. EA's new game is a total sleeper hit that 
 few ever saw coming, and its smooth, simple controls paired with the spine-freezing atmosphere 
 make it one of the best horror shooters of 2008, and it wouldn't be a stretch to call it one of 
 the best horror games of all time.
  
  The game's storyline is an obvious amalgamation of past sci-fi plots that somewhat dulls the experience 
 if you're looking for a masterful storyline along the likes of Bioshock and the Metal Gears. Isaac 
 Clarke must enter the USG Ishimura (the best mining ship of its class) and find his significant 
 other, who may or may not be still alive on the ship. Despite its close inspirations, the story 
 flows well and it is welded tight with the gameplay, making it inseparable from the experience.
 
  
  It's high production values are clearly visible based on the chilling presentation alone. From 
 the tall, Gothic-inspired architecture to the lighting to the voiceovers to the menacing necromorphs, 
 every visual aspect of this game will leave players with their jaws to the ground. The atmosphere 
 and presentation itself cannot be separated from the gameplay, because it is the very thing that 
 keeps players immersed in the action. However, about a quarter to a third of the way through the 
 game, enemies become predictable, and because they move so quickly and you're so eager to kill 
 them, perhaps your own focus will take you out of the experience. Though it does not quite give 
 you frights all the time, the irritating suspense is present throughout the game, and even if you're 
 not afraid, you'll definitely be on your toes throughout.
  
  One defining aspect of the presentation is its gameplay. And yes, this time the gameplay has to 
 do with its presentation, and it is a genius addition. There is no HUD. No health bar at the bottom 
 left corner. No ammo count next to a weapon icon at the bottom right. There isn't even a separate 
 menu where you can pause the game to look at weapons and stats. No. Everything in this game is 
 displayed in real time. Health is a glowing meter along Isaac's spine. Ammo is a holographic display 
 on the weapon. The menu is a real-time holographic projection that displays in front of Isaac, 
 allowing you to choose weapons, read received transcripts, search objectives, et cetera. What is 
 so important about this is that there is nothing on the screen that is ever distracting. Everything 
 is in front of you all the time and your focus is always on what's happening around you. You're 
 not constantly looking at the bottom of the screen to keep track of Isaac's oxygen meter. It's 
 right in front of him, and because everything keeps you immersed in the experience, the game is 
 that much more memorable.
  
  The shooting, most of all, is all that a shooting game enthusiast could hope for. The ever-so-loved 
 shoulder buttons are used for aiming and firing, and Isaac can even move and aim at the same time, 
 giving you full control of the movement and never making you feel cramped in or handicapped like 
 the Resident Evil games. The close quarters combat, though, could use some fine tuning. During 
 engagements at such distances, Isaac's only melee attack is sometimes too weak, thus making it 
 futile to knock back a few enemies with it. But, when enemies are downed, Isaac's mighty stomp 
 maneuver will raise eyebrows, since it is a deceptively powerful attack that will save ammunition.
 
  
  The weapons are amazing, as well. There is a limited selection of weapons to choose from, but each 
 one serves a unique purpose as to how you're going to play the game. The plasma cutter is a mining 
 tool modified to a handgun that Isaac can upgrade to magnum power. The rifle is a mowing weapon 
 that has a secondary fire that's nothing short of useful. The flamethrower sprays and pays. Whichever 
 weapon you may choose, there are benches where Isaac can modify them. Though, it is definitely 
 more useful to upgrade the more practical weapons first because you definitely will not upgrade 
 all of them in one playthrough.
  
  What may be even greater and more ambitious than the graphics and gameplay is the sound. The entire 
 sound design in the game is exemplary, and every game that decides that its presentation is vital 
 must take in account the methods used in this game. In the moments of empty space, where Isaac 
 must trek through areas of vacuum, nothing can be heard. All sound becomes limited to Isaac's helmet 
 and the muffled effects of his boot stomping and his breathing are some of the only things that 
 the player will hear. This could cause a few surprises because enemies sneak up on you much easier. 
 You'll also hear scurrying and scratching through the walls, and smaller, more subtle sounds that 
 keep you that much deeper into the experience.
  
  The boss fights are easy on normal mode. Once you've played the game once or twice, you'll realize 
 just how simple it is to defeat them. But, that does not discount the sheer, epic scale of those 
 battles. These colossal bosses rise stories upon stories high, and even the subtle shift in camera 
 perspective enhances the massiveness of these battles, and each one is eye candy. There will also 
 be a few surprises during the game, too, where you'll become more acquainted with them.
  
  Dead Space is a stellar achievement. Even though it's not very original, every facet of this game 
 has been crystallized to shine brighter than the hottest stars in space. Had the story been stronger 
 and more engaging, this game might even be called a complete masterpiece. Though it is not a masterpiece, 
 it is definitely a benchmark and an excellent achievement in the genre of horror. An important 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannibaldmc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Dead space = freaky xenomorph creatures chasing you through derelict corridors and dark spaces. 
 To date this was the best horror survival i have played on the ps3 by far, The sounds ,lighting 
 , effects and general creepyness of this game makes it a must have.
  
  The zero gravity and upgrades do spice up things a little with only the variety of missions bringing 
 the game to a 9.5/10 rather than a 10/10.
  
  Although put it to hard mode and you wil soon find yourself swinging for the fences and stomping 
 aliens heads off!!
  
  I only wish i had watched the animated film before i played the game but either awy round this 
 is worth the money and is the best game E. A have made to date , if only they can carry on in this 
 fashion i wil have some faith in them yet!!
  
  A definate Play with the lights off game - If you can handle it!!
  
  9.5/10!! If you havent 
 played it - BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfieZero
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of EA's new IPs that is making the breakthrough into the market known as "survival 
 horror".
  
  To me, there is only two major players in the survival horror and that's Resident Evil and Silent 
 Hill (my personal favorite) . Each one has it's only angle on the horror; Resident Evil has the 
 zombie flick action with the easy to explain "human experiments" story to it, and Silent Hill has 
 the psychological Japanese horror aspect where it's not 100% explained why but you work it out 
 yourself with the clues laying around.
  
  Where does EA have to go with Dead Space?
  
  Into Space
  
  You play Isaac Clark (named after the respective writers) ; a engineer who finds 
 himself and his two team members stranded on the space mining ship USG Ishimura after communications 
 failed on the ship and a lone footage of Isaac Clark's girlfriend asking for help. The **** hits 
 the fan you are fighting off some alien DNA that is able to mutate and re-animate dead corpses 
 on the ship.
  
  So dead space hits on the Sci-Fi-Horror experience by going into space and leaving you to defend 
 against some alien/human/zombie hybrid while you try and suss how what the hell want happened on 
 the mining station and try and get off at the same time.
  
  Without giving away the story too much, I found it predictable and obvious in places what was going 
 to happen. I think the writers went for the easy option when developing the story; not as easy 
 as the Resident Evil way of things, but no means is it Silent Hill. I've heard it being compared 
 to Event Horizon by Zero Puncuation's Ben Crowshaw, but I can't say if it does or not as I haven't 
 seen the film, but reading the Wiki article I think Event Horizon does it better.
  
  Zero-Gravity
  
  One thing I found cool about this game that I think a lot of other games with 
 space elements can miss is zero-gravity. While Dead Space isn't all zero-gravity; you are required 
 to head outside and into rooms with zero gravity. This doesn't mean that Isaac can fly about in 
 a traditional sense but it does mean you are given the freedom to go where-ever in a room and clamp 
 on there while you got enemies from a 360 degree angle coming at you. Once you killed the enemies 
 they will fly about along with the items they drop until, if you can, turn the gravity back and 
 and then they fall as they may.
  
  The game-play other than that is nice; you are given a real sense of weight of Isaac as he walks 
 around in his heavy engineering suite. Throwing a punch or doing a stomp you know there is some 
 weight behind him. But oddly, you don't feel slow because of it, it just adds to the game-play.
 
  
  The weapon mechanics is good too; you assign 1 weapon to one of the 4 direction slots on the D-pad. 
 This allows for a quick switch over and smoother game pacing. If you have played Resident Evil 
 4 then you can imagine how aiming works, but with the added perk that you can move as well! As 
 with movement, you really feel the weight of these weapons, either walking around or firing them.
 
  
  Node Your Average Engineer
  
  An interesting addition is the ability to upgrade your weapons by using power nodes. So you're 
 given a starting point on a circuite system on your weapon and you have to connect the power nodes 
 in a given direction. Some of the connection points do nothing, but others will add damage, capacity, 
 reload speed. You can see all the points you can connect to so it's upto you to work out whats 
 the best route to go when upgrading weapons.
  
  Despite all the crap that went on the station, there is also a shop where you can purchase these 
 power nodes as well as ammo, weapons, health packs and armor upgrades. Throughout the game you 
 will come across schematics as well to give to the shop that will then allow you to purchase the 
 new item.
  
  Isaac also has addons as well; stasis pack and the zero-gravity gun. The stasis pack slows down 
 objects and the zero-gravity gun allows you to pick up objects and move things. I found these two 
 a little tacked on in story progression; they are pretty useless and I only upgraded the zero-gravity 
 gun just to grab items when in zero-gravity zones. These features I didn't find impressive, just 
 something to add to puzzle elements which you are normally told by the scenery what to do or it's 
 blaring obvious: i. e. that door is opening and closing too fast, use the stasis to slow it down 
 and run through.
  
  It has to be said also that this game doesn't operate a normal pause screen to sort your inventory 
 out; the game will keep on moving. So you are standing there wondering what do on the map, reading/listening 
 through logs or sorting out the inventory and you are still getting attacked! Everything is real 
 time! There is a pause screen, but this is out of game-play stuff so you can go grab another beverage.
 
  
  There are points where the game tries to add puzzles, but these fail in that it just ends up telling 
 you what to do on way or another. It's a shame as this is a short game (you could complete it in 
 a weekend following the story) and those elements could have really added to the game as you are 
 sat there trying to figure out a puzzle but keeping that one eye open for a monster that may pop-out.
 
  
  Dark and Gory
  
  The graphics can't go wrong in this game. The enemy creatures are reminiscent of H. P. Lovecraft 
 mythology (there are points where it looks like you are battling Yog-Soggoth) and some you do see 
 and think "oh **** and make Isaac run a mile! The games (very) dark corridors may really annoy 
 some and the fact the only torch you got is on the end of your weapons will annoy more, but it 
 adds to the affect on danger. Yes, these guys should of had other torches on them, but the same 
 time, the story could of worked so Isaacs didn't work as he got the batteries from a Dollarama.
 
  
  There is no issues with the camera as it's solidly fixed to Isaac's right shoulder. But there have 
 been times I was lost in the zero-gravity and had no clue apart from the path finder Isaac had 
 (pressing on one of the analog sticks showed a line where to go) showing some what an idea, but 
 failed when it hit a wall.
  
  Does Space Thrills Do It?
  
  I really enjoyed this game, but I think the story and narrow game-play held it back a bit. One 
 to play through again but they could of done more for it such as more secrets, better use of the 
 zero-gravity (I did play the basketball game all the way through it has to be said!) and stasis 
 pack. Puzzle elements could have been a hell load better implemented but I loved the no-pause element 
 that was added.
  
  8/10
  
  Give it a go, it may get annoying and you notice some of the flaws in game-play and story, but 
 it does make up for it being a good little romp! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  Dead space, the new child of EA electronics.
  
  Dead space has a very great graphics and story baseline. Starting from the character, it has been 
 designed very well. 
  
  
  Overall, graphics are impressive and let the player enters the mode of the game as he would be 
 really in the dead space. Enemies are horrible and hard. You must know a technique to beat them 
 all or you will be beaten. 
  
  
  
  Various weapons are introduced. You can choose whatever you prefer to play with or hunt with. Trophies 
 are not that easy to earn since there are some difficult ones that need more time to acquire.
 
  
  
  
  if you finished the game once, you will return back to beat it again and again. It somehow challenge 
 the player.
  
  
  In short words, dead space has great graphics, great story, great weapons, great design, great 
 of everything.
  
  Regards, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjja807
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead space is a exiting and highly addictive game that is a horror experience everyone should buy. 
 This game is a definate buy for anyone who enjoys horror games, and it will also bring pleasure 
 to those who are new to the horror genera. The thing that most impressed me about dead space is 
 that after finishing it you have the opportunity to start the game over with all your current weapons. 
 This perk is the thing that makes dead space a highly addictive game, due to the fact that it gives 
 you the urge to play the game over and upgrade your weapons. The only problem i found with this 
 game is that it is actually very easy. The boss battles are fairly easy and dont bring much action 
 to those who are on easy and normal. So if you are a first timer you should try normal, but to 
 those who are skilled gamers mabey try hard your first time through. Overall this game is a must 
 buy and will set a great example for new games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Were to begine? Some people have called this a RE4 in space. Yea well.... thats was my first thought 
 as well lol. And you know what? thats not a bad thing. But the game is so much more as well. it 
 realy is IMHO one of the very best games i have ever played and iv been playing games pretty much 
 from the begining. It does make me sad and scratch my head at what little hype i had heardabout 
 this game. in fact it was not realy even on my radar untill after release when i heard a few people 
 talking about it, also its very sad that the game has not sold better than it has. sure its far 
 from a flop but a game of this ones caliber should have sold threw the roof. I dont know if its 
 the medias fualt or if the gen gamer was just unwilling to take a socound look because it didnt 
 have a 2,3,4 ect after the name. Im sure it didnt help for it to be released so close to a number 
 of high profile games like LBP, resistence 2 gears of warect, of wich IMHO it is a better game by 
 far than a good number of those tittles. Its actualy impressive athow well this game is considering 
 its a first in the series and horror is actualy imho a hard thing to pull off in games. So many 
 have tried and failed, but not this one. this game came, saw, took names and kicked ***. 
  
  The graphics are jaw droping, compaiable to MGS4 and killzone 2. The enviroments are so very 
 well done and belevable its scary. Some of the best use of lighting and shadows iv ever seen in 
 a video game. light sources play a huge part in the game. Not only in setting the tone or feel 
 but in actual game play. you will see so many shadows moveing around that look like they would 
 belong to one of the games mutiude of walking horrors just to find out its a light fixture swining 
 back and forth in frount of a group of shelves or some other high tech looking gizzmo that you 
 kind of get almost used to it just to have one of those shadows turn into something from your worst 
 acid ridden dillusions lol. The textures are amazing, pleanty of AA to keep the jaggies at bay, 
 what looks to be bloom lighting effects and pleanty of partical effects. it all works at creating 
 a very beleavble world. The art direction is some what reminiscent of Doom 3. Wich again is not 
 a bad comparision lol. the NP charicters faces how ever are def not up to MGS4 or gears of wars 
 level of detail but thats no big complaint as you dont see many human faces. but over all this 
 game looks breath takeing. its amazing how clean, crisp and clear every thing looks dispite being 
 coverd in blood and grime. I have seen both console versions of the game and there pretty much 
 identical. Wich goes to show you that when you have a devloper who has some tallent and actualy 
 cares about his or her work makes a multiplat game there is no hang ups on wich hardwear is more 
 powerfull or wich is harder to work with. goes back to the old saying that its a poor craftsmen 
 that blames his tools.
  
  The Sound also hits a rather high note. in fact i cant think of a single game or movie for that 
 matter that has impressed me as much as deadspace. the sound qulity is brilliant even on my cheapo 
 Vizio tv's stock sound. every thing is deleverd crisp and clear. The sound effects are amazing, 
 every thing from the screatching, clanging and back ground hum of the deffernt ships systems. Just 
 as with the lighting and shadow work the sound can trick you. you hear so many nasty sounding gurrgles, draging 
 sounds, tapping ect that at time you cant but help to look behind you thinking a nercomorph is 
 sneaking up to gut you. then just as you figure its a leaking pipe BAAM you lose half your health 
 as something nasty trys to gut you. its actualy very convensing. The sound track does alot as well. 
 it will fake you out often by building up in tempo or volume just to go silent, while at other 
 times it just has a nice huanted creepy tone that sets the mood perfectly. I dont think i have ever 
 thought enough of any games music or sound effects to realy bother talking about much less wrighting 
 about in a review but this game just grabed me by the ears and twisted.
  
  The story is very interasting, i wont go into any details otherthan to say its set in space, is 
 set on a very large spaceship that mines planets by way of riping them apart all borg like, its 
 a very unique. sure the main base's of the story seems like same old same old, awnser a distress 
 call, board a ship, find out its full of killer monsters. But the details such as the uniatolagist 
 religion, source of the monsters ect is very cool a kind of new. 
  
  The gameplay is actualy pretty great. I didnt go into the game thinking it was going to realy do 
 any thing new, and well it did mange to surprise me a bit. its simular to RE4 in that its 3rd person, 
 you aim and shoot things, buy or find new weapons that can be upgraded by way of power nodes, you 
 can buy items with cash you find or selling extra ammo ect. Your suit or rig can also be upgraded 
 by way of the power nodes as well as full suit upgrades that can be purchased. and doing so will 
 change the way the suite looks. Tjhe weapons are very cool and pretty dang origanol, not your standerd 
 done to death starwars lasers or assualt rifles. these weapons were ment as tools and mineing equipment. 
 but as it turns out a spinning saw blade cuts up eveil bad guys as well as rock... who knew right?
 
  The aiming is well done and the game incorperates a system that iirc is called stratigic dismemberment. 
 unlike in most games head shots are not one hit kills in fact in some case's there not very effective 
 at all. you can just aim for the center of a given creature and blast away till it dies. This is 
 effective in easy settings but in harder settings you will waist a ton of ammo. the trick is to 
 try and shoot of boady parts. Legs, arms and tails ect. its very fun and add's alot, way more than 
 RE4's head shots or shooting weapons ect. 
  The AI is impressive. this games killers are a BIG step up from the mostly lumbering unzombies 
 of RE4. these things will try to surround you, sneak around, even crawl threw airvents to get behind 
 you. The AI is very impressive. of course some Necro's will just come right at you, some will stumble 
 along others will run while some will jump at you. there is pleanty of varity in the AI.
  
  In conclussion, if you have not already buy this game ASAP. if you at all into action, horror ect 
 i cant see any one not enjoying this game a lot. Its deffenitly one ofthose games you remember 
 for a long time and by wich you judge all games after.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I was going to skip this game until my friend convince me to play it. The game is best played with 
 a surround sound and a large screen tv to truly take advantage of the sound effects. There are 
 lots of moments where I was spooked with the monsters popping out of no where. Every little thing 
 in the game is intended to scare the crap out of you. The game is gory and very detail. The graphics 
 are great. The character movement could be better: The ability to turn around and gun movements 
 should be faster. The doors in the game are opened too slow, especially when you're trying to run 
 from the monsters. I guess that actually adds to the heart pounding action of the game. There are 
 lots of moments where your heart will pound so fast because you're panicking to run from monsters 
 or fending off multiple attacks from multiple directions. Get the game, get the large screen tv, 
 get the surround sound system, turn off the light, turn the sound on really loud, and feel the 
 goosebumps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anwar1998
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is really scary almost scary as silent hill but this is on a ship sometimes it gets dark 
 and those alien things come from behind you almost to make you feel something is in the room with 
 you and feel like it is happening to you there are no health and ammo cheats but the guns are good 
 and strong and almost everywhere on that ship has blood, dead bodies and all those things and if 
 youkill those aliens they will drop some ammo and health. If you see any vents in the room your 
 in becareful because one could come out and if you see their bodies be ready to shoot them when 
 you get close to them because they are still alive but playing dead they like to make surprise 
 attacks from anywhere your front, left, right and back. P. S. If your a parent to a kid and he or she 
 wants this game and you buy it make sure your child is brave for blood and gore because this game 
 is going to scare them really easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The survival horror genre has, up until recently, been dominated by such notable series as Resident 
 Evil, Silent Hill and more recently F. E. A. R. Enter Dead Space, the futuristic science-fiction component 
 that rounds everything out.
  
  At first glance, Dead Space comes off as a curious combination of Alien and Resident Evil. The 
 game does very little to shake off this initial impression, but the game certainly takes advantage 
 of this atmosphere and mood.
  
  You assume the role of Isaac Clarke, an engineering specialist part of a crew sent to answer a 
 distress call from a now derelict mining ship called the Ishimura. A critical system failure lands 
 you and the rest of your team inside the ship itself, with your ride permanently immobilized. The 
 premise of the game has you and two other survivors working together to stay alive and find out 
 what went so horribly wrong on the ship.
  
  Dead Space does everything it can to fully immerse you. One thing you'll notice immediately is 
 that there is no heads up display in this game. Your health and other pertinent data are displayed 
 on Isaac's back via his special engineering suit. Accessing your inventory is also done in real-time, 
 so you're still quite vulnerable when you're browsing through your loot. Luckily there's a quick 
 health button so you're not getting chewed up while trying to select your med packs. 
  
  Aside from the usual running and gunning you're probably used to in survival horror games, Isaac 
 also has a unique ability called 'stasis' in which he can literally slow whatever he targets to 
 a crawl. Applicable targets include malfunctioning doors that open and close too rapidly for you 
 to go through to virtually any enemy in the game. Some enemies, such as the huge and grotesque 
 Brutes, are quite a hassle to beat without this crucial ability.
  
  Rounding out Isaac's repertoire of abilities is kinesis, which many people have no doubt seen by 
 now in games such as Half-Life and BioShock. Still, it makes a great addition to the game and makes 
 it incredibly satisfying to launch explosive barrels or scythe-limbs at your horribly mutated adversaries. 
 Kinesis has no charge so you can use it indefinitely without consequence, but it doesn't come off 
 as unbalanced or cheap because ultimately your weapons are far more effective at repelling your 
 foes than anything you see in the environment around you. Isaac can also club and stomp enemies 
 with his gun or boot, which is excellent for a short sun but prolonged abuse of his melee attacks 
 will almost always result in a very messy counter-attack. It should be used only sparingly.
  
  The age-old convention of aiming for the head will not serve you well in Dead Space. The developers 
 of the game introduced a curious new gameplay mechanic called strategic dismemberment. What this 
 boils down to is that enemies will become aggravated if you try to blow their heads off. Instead, 
 shooting off legs and arms are much more effective. However, when dismembered, several of your 
 enemies will begin crawling towards you and exhibit new behaviour. The Brutes, for example, begin 
 launching acidic bombs from their chest once you take off a leg.
  
  All of Isaac's weapons are upgradeable via power nodes. Each weapon has a unique tech tree that 
 gives your weapons greater magazine capacity, increased rate of fire, faster reloading, and more 
 damage per shot. His suit can also be upgraded for greater air reserves and increased health. Stasis 
 and kinesis are also fully upgradeable, increasing the range at which you can use kinesis and the 
 duration of your stasis ability (crucial for tight spots) . These present serious tactical considerations 
 when you're at a bench deciding to either beef up your suit or pack a little more punch with your 
 gun. Also, the game does a great job of keeping track of how you play. You will very rarely, if 
 ever, pick up ammunition for a weapon you do not already have. In this way, you're never really 
 deprived of firepower, but you'll rarely ever feel you have too much or be too comfortable with 
 what you've got.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are, however, only half the reason as to why this game is as good as it 
 is. The atmosphere and overall presentation are flawless. The music in particular goes a long way 
 to set the mood and is often your best cue to expect the worst when you reluctantly walk into a 
 new room. You frequently hear the passing of the Necromorphs as they run through air vents and 
 ducts. The sound of metal falling against metal is nothing short of disturbing when you're strolling 
 through the ship in absolute silence. You will also regularly see members of the crew who are deformed 
 but not yet turned, bashing their heads against walls and creepily urging you to 'make us whole 
 again.' Dead corpses will regularly fall from the ceiling when you walk into a room, and the high 
 screech of your enemies never fail to create a sense of anxiety and peril.
  
  Dead Space is an incredibly gory game, but there is also a subtle psychological element that creeps 
 up and explodes on you as the game comes to a close, leaving many parts of the game open to interpretation 
 once you finally beat it. Though the game builds up towards an inevitable plot twist, it still 
 takes you completely by surprise by grabbing your expectations and running completely the opposite 
 way with them. It's very easy to become emotionally attached to Isaac as he searches desperately 
 for a dear friend aboard the ship while doing his best to keep himself and the rest of his crew 
 alive.
  
  Dead Space does everything it sets out to do flawlessly. From the ingenuity and execution of its 
 gameplay mechanics, to the utterly dark and terrifying atmosphere of the Ishimura, Dead Space sets 
 a new standard for survival horror games and has established itself as an excellent entry into 
 the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIchigoxRukiax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an amazing game; hands down, no doubt about it. It definitely rises to meet the standards 
 of other survival-horror games like Resident Evil. There are several plot twists and turns but 
 in the end, you'll definitely find an awesome adventure. 
  
  The storyline premise is fairly simple. Basically you're part of this Maintenance crew or whatever 
 and you've been called to investigate a disaster on the USG Ishimura. Your crew apparently hasn't 
 been given any information on this disaster, but all you know is that your girlfriend is on that 
 ship and you're concerned that she may be in danger. Once you arrive on the Ishimura, you soon 
 discover what the "disaster" is. 
  
  The entire crew of the Ishimura has been turned into vicious alien-like monsters called Necromorphs. 
 
  
  You're separated almost immediately from your team and from there your "adventure" begins. 
  
 
  You play the role of an engineer named Isaac Clarke. He's a silent protagonist; I personally hate 
 silent protagonists, but at least you never get to hear him scream whenever a Necromorph pops out 
 of nowhere. 
  
  Dead Space follows a single gameplay mechanic called "Strategic Dismemberment" which is the only 
 way to defeat the Necromorphs. Unlike Resident Evil 4 where all you had to do was shoot the zombies 
 anywhere and eventually they'd fall, Dead Space forces you to shoot the Necromorphs in the limbs 
 to dismember them and ultimately defeat them. This mechanic is interesting in that you're able 
 to cut off virtually every single limb and see the blood squirting out rapidly. Usually you will 
 have to shoot off a few limbs to defeat them. For example, you can shoot off a head, but that still 
 won't stop it from coming at you. You can also dismember the legs, but then the Necromorph will 
 crawl to get to you. It makes the game satisfying, interesting and fun. 
  
  There are a large variety of weapons that you'll come across on your adventure, and each have their 
 own strengths and weaknesses. My personal favorite weapon is the Ripper, a gun that literally shoots 
 out a buzz saw that can cut up enemies in a bloody and gruesome way that is always satisfying to 
 watch. As you can dismember the Necromorphs, the Necromorphs can also dismember you. Whenever your 
 health runs dry, you get to see yourself die in a particularly gruesome way. A Necromorph might 
 impale you and then lop off your head or another might slice you in half. All in all, dying has 
 never looked so satisfying, and you'll almost want to die sometimes just to see what terrible fate 
 the Necromorph has in store for you. 
  
  Lastly, Dead Space is an extremely impressive game when considering graphics. This game looks awesome. 
 Just from the beginning you'll be impressed wholly by the graphics. Another up to this is that 
 all of your HUD items that should be on the top corner of the screen are instead located in the 
 back of your suit. This makes the game look even better, as the terrific graphics are not blocked 
 by an annoying HUD. 
  
  In the end, Dead Space is an amazing title that should not be passed up by anyone who is a fan 
 of Resident Evil. The game will probably take around 12 or more hours to beat on your first playthough, 
 so you get to experience all the satisfying horror action for a long time. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9
  Gameplay-10
  Sound-9
  Replay Value-7
  
  
  Dead Space, one of the most surprisingly succesful games of 2008. Virtually no hype was centered 
 around Isaac Clarke's perils among the Ishimura and when it finally came to be, it blew the critics 
 and survival horror fanatics away in a giant stream of blood n dismembered limps.
  
  Dead Space is far from revolutionary and in fact isn't all that unique either, but it still manages 
 to give players an incredibly horrorific journey with its gameplay managing to hit perfection with 
 how its all executed.
  
  It is, deep down, a 3rd person survival horror game similair to the likes of Resident Evil 4. But 
 unlike its said inspiration it gives you tight corridors and alot of eerie noises to be severly 
 creeped out by. Its certaintly still leaning to the action side of survival horror, but it has 
 alot more 'survival' based gameplay than RE4.
  
  So then, as Isaac Clarke, you and a small team are sent to the mining ship Ishimura, to make some 
 repairs due to a lost contact. Arriving onboard theres already plenty of worry and the team are 
 already aware something bad has happened to this ship.
  Soon enough your split from what remains of your team and left to fend for yourself against the 
 monstrosities that lurk all over the newly formed Ghost Ship.
  
  The enemies you'll come across are the Necromorphs, distubing creatures that are somewhat humanoids 
 but with alot of demented ''extras'' to make you sure there certaintly not friendly. Necromorphs 
 were once human and its evident of that with the victims face still there, somewhere. With razor 
 sharp talons and a very aggresive AI, the necromorphs are certaintly a foe to be remembered.
  To make sure of that, Dead Space has a rather unique take on killing the foes you'll constantly 
 come up against. Long gone is the ''shoot em in the head'' tactic and now to make best use of your 
 limited ammo you must instead aim at the limps of the necromorphs to put them down. Killing them 
 is still possible with enough razor blades and plasma shots to the torso and head but it won't 
 leave you with much ammo afterwards if you try for a kill like that.
  
  The weapons of gorey destruction you have in Dead Space is surprisingly varied too. You'll initially 
 come across your trusty Plasma Cutter, which is say the equivalent to the games handgun. Thats 
 not to underestimate it however, as it could very well possibiley last you to the very end. Still 
 though to rival up things you'll have your Razor cutter which can shoot a temporary razor in mid 
 air and for you to simply walk it through whatever.
  You'll have your Force Gun which acts as your shotgun of sorts which it shooting a mass of... well 
 force at your enemies.
  Then theirs still the predictable assault rifle and flamethrower, but overall theres a nice amount 
 of weaponry to give you a few different ways of taking down the hordes of necromorph, all of which 
 can be upgraded too.
  
  The upgrading system in Dead Space is down to making a chain through a sort of circuit board. For 
 each weapon, your own armor and some other ects. you will place NODES into spots to be able to 
 upgrade your said weapon or whatever in a number of different aspects from reload speed to ammo 
 capacity. However sometimes there'll be some empty NODE slots that don't give you anything besides 
 carrying on the path to another upgrade. That way theres a few different routes you can take to 
 eventually upgrade your weapons to max. Its definatley a intricate idea that will have you thinking 
 before you use your NODES.
  
  The weapon variety is strong, but it does seem only for the variety alone. As said before, it is 
 very possible for you be able to get through on just one weapon. You are able to equip 4 weapons 
 at a time mind you, so you'll possibley at least have 4 weapons to play with, but some will seem 
 unecessary and only for abit more fun factor. Not a huge predicament, and afterall could add some 
 replay value to play through with a different set too.
  
  Throughout your travels among the ishimura, you'll not only be slaughtering necromorphs in a bunch 
 of delightful ways, but also engage in some puzzles, commonly associated with the kinesis and stasis 
 modules you'll pick up. The kinesis is what it sounds like, te ability to pick up objects and move 
 at will. The stasis is able to slow down the enemies or even machinery usually, however you may 
 only use stasis so often without you needing more energy, which is usually conviently placed whenever 
 a puzzle requires stasis to solve. Kinesis however is unlimited but not quite as effective in battles 
 as the stasis.
  
  Using those tow you'll have to hurl boulders, slow down malfunctioning doors and plenty of other 
 actions to help you further the game. It plays a significant part in the game and is frankly a 
 great way to break up the pace from the alien slayage and in fact can be rather fun.
  Sometimes you'll also have the extra worry of doing both puzzles and combat in a 'Vacuum or even 
 zero gravity or even both. The Vacuum is enacted when their is a link to outside space, thus oxygen 
 is unavailable. In this state you'll have a limited amount of air to breathe but again like the 
 stasis, theres usually an oxygen replenisher located nearby.
  Zero Gravity is just what it is, playing through in zero gravity. Though that doesn't mean you'll 
 be able to float all over the space. Instead thanks to Isaac's boots you may perform gravity jumps 
 were you can jump from one place to another, allowing you say to reach the ceiling or anywhere 
 in fact when zero-G is enabled.
  
  With so much going on at times, with you in a vacuum, jumping around in Zero-G trying to kinesis 
 shoot some radioactive matter out of the ship, all the while with necromorphs choming at Isaac's 
 boots it can be very intense indeed, sometimes a little frustrating maybe, but more often than 
 not it all adds to the survival horror fun.
  
  How this all sounds is very effective. When simply traversing through the ship, you'll hear a few 
 things, all varieing at times from where about you are. You'll always hear the loud steps of Isaac's 
 boots but also you may come across some random roars from the larger species of necromorphs. Theres 
 hardly ever any theme music, but the silence works all the better for setting one creepy atmosphere 
 with you always wondering just 'when' this thing is going to jump out. The vacuum though will alter 
 things greatly, having everything muffled almost like you yourself are listening through Isaac's 
 ears. Instead though Isaac himself with be amplified with his own breathing being the only tune 
 you'll find yourself listening to.
  The Necromorphs themselves too all have their own appropiatley unnerving crys and shreiks. The 
 small little baby like necromorph and their quick fired screech should always send a shiver down 
 your spine. The standard necromorphs and their frantic wails as they charge at you will also give 
 you a good dose of fear and panic.
  All the more so do your weapons sound as powerful and loud as they should. The squilching of the 
 body parts as you stomp on them to Isaac's own crys of pain all sound efficient and from what I 
 can assume, exactly how they should sound.
  
  The voice acting too is of very good quality, strangely enough Isaac himself is a silent protagonist, 
 which is certainlty rather dated but it didn't cause any serious harm to the story but did of course 
 limit his character development incredibly. Hammond and Kendra however, the other two main characters, 
 more than make up for it with plenty of dialogue and all of it performed brilliantly.
  
  The story however isn't quite as succesful. Its enjoyable at least and has plenty of different 
 less notable story elements that were left explored, the main story and its twists espeically nearing 
 the end would of already been figured out. Not to say its not somewhat effective at the end mind 
 you, but its not entirely unexpected.
  
  How long the game will last you depends. For one its not a very long, took me under 10 hours to 
 complete and considerably shorter on my next runs through, sometimes clocking at around 6 hours. 
 But thats not to stop you from playing through again, theres plenty of audio dairies you may have 
 missed, different weapons to possibily try out and still just tons of addictive gameplay to go 
 through all over again. An easy and accessible list of trophies are available also that alone should 
 take around three runs through.
  
  So your stay in the Ishimura will only last as long as you make it, it could very well become one 
 of your favourite games of 2008, otherwise at least a fun ride that didn't manage to garner anything 
 more. What people really can't deny, is how much of a damn successful horror game it is, built 
 up from many other gaming franchises maybe, but this is one type of Frankenstein that can handle 
 a few pitchforks and torchs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  The visuals and the lighting are superb, as are the sound effects. Combine these technical achievements 
 with an immersive environment, edge of your seat story, smooth as butter gameplay and you have 
 an overall winning package. A game I knew was a possible dark horse for one of the best titles 
 of 2008, and thankfully it proved to be true.
  
  The lack of multiplayer is quickly forgotten because of the quality of the campaign, upgrades and 
 unlockables that give you incentive to start again in order to strategically dismember your way 
 through with even more sadistic precision than you did the first time through.
  
  EA Redwood has made their mark with this one, and have proven that they are indeed a force to be 
 reckoned with. This game is the definition of both polished and balanced. Needless to say, I will 
 be anxiously awaiting to see what they are able to pull off with their next project, Dante's Inferno. 
 If Dead Space is any indicator of the quality to expect, then I think we will all be in for a treat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  The moment I saw an ad for this game, I thought to myself, no more than a 7.0. Unfortunately, the 
 reviewers loved it and have called it revolutionary. I was surprised and when I looked into it 
 in more detail, I bought it and gave it a shot.
  
  This one of the scariest games I have ever played. I mean I got got my neighbors complaining about 
 my constant girlie screaming rather than the high volume of my TV. At a point I actually ran out 
 of my house crying like a little Swedish girl. 
  
  Game play:
  Very repetitive, kind of a linear game. Somehow, it is still worth the chopping of monsters and 
 punching them in the face. YEA TAKE THAT UGLY !!
  
  Graphics:
  One of the far best out there on the market. 
  
  Atmosphere:
  You are in space ... with monsters/mutants/zombies/w/e 
 ... good luck my friend.
  
  Controls:
  It has very similar controls to RE4 and soon to be RE5. One problem is that you cannot turn 180', 
 but you can at least run backwards which can be very very helpful.
  
  Story:
  Very interesting and breath taking. A lot of twists and turns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammersd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm on my second run throught of this game now and im going to go throught again for the trophies 
 and yet i'm not bored.
  
  It contains many similarities to resident evil 4, the camera angle, aiming controls and the whole 
 shop and upgrade idea is very similar. Lucky enough i loved Res 4 and in turn i love this. The 
 similarities end there though and dead space is an idea little used. The only other example i can 
 think of using the space scene in a horror context is martian gothic on the ps1. However that was 
 nothing compared to this, it has its own feel to it, and when u turn the lights down and the sound 
 up, with the new HD consoles, you are IN this game.
  
  The cons list is very concise to say the least. A few minor issues may be that it could have incorporated 
 a few more common enemies, through out the levels u pretty much know what to expect in this way. 
 Also more weapons would have been a nice touch, i got all the weapons within the first 3 or 4 levels 
 if i remember rightly which kind of sucked.
  
  Yet this is is, the rest is all good points. For example i do'nt think i have found a glitch on 
 the game yet, or atleast any decent ones that you notice or affect you. The graphics also are top 
 notch, everything is clear, crisp and really realistic. The realism is also one of the major points 
 of this game for me, if you're the type of person to play a game and really get into it then this 
 will get really creepy for you and if you get scared easily you have been warned! When you play 
 throught the game you can hear faint voices in the background, chattering, setting a spooky atmosphere 
 throughtout and making you feel like you're walking throught a kind of shadow of the past. On top 
 of that enemies jump out right in your face which makes you jump again. It is literally like being 
 catupulted into a nightmare.... and i love it!
  The story-line itself is epic, with many twists and turns throughtout it keeps you on your toes 
 as to what will happen. The game itself is not too long so it gets boring but also you will not 
 be disapointed with the money you spent, with the feature of re-playing with all your unlocked 
 weapons also, the game is never ending.
  Its also really easy to get trophies on the game, i got 3 bronze in about 5 minutes so if you do 
 want to boost your level then definatly a great game to play.
  
  The only game which my rival this currently is gears of war on the 360 or the up and coming Res 
 5 which is going to be amazing i believe. This has to be one of the best games i have played in 
 a while and as a hardcore horror fanatic was right up my alley.
  
  Dead Space is a definate game to add to your collection if you can hold your nerve long enough 
 to play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of the scariest and goriest shooter games yet. Every corridor has plenty of spooky 
 imagery to keep you on alert for the necromorph alien species which are taking over the spaceship. 
 Great weapons to dismember each gruesome and fearful looking alien, which can also be upgraded 
 at the shop using power nodes you find on the spaceship. The hud is also very classy as it isn't 
 shown around the screen but on the weapons (ammo) and holograms (inventory) without freezing the 
 game and keeping you on the edge of your seat. Dead Space not only has brilliant gameplay, but 
 a fantastic story. You can find many text and audio logs from the crews remaining few minutes until 
 death or more information about the aliens over-throw of the space ship.
  
  Story- 5/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 5/5
  Controls- 5/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 5/5
  Length- 5/5
 
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: Gory dismemberments, great story, solid gameplay, scary imagery and sounds, good upgrade 
 system, hologram hud keeps you in the action, zero gravity environments, amazing bosses
  
  Bad Points: Melee combat is difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Most people view Dead Space as a survival horror game, i see it as a stealth game as well.
  
  Dead Space has to be one of the best stealth/survival horror games out there, just becuase 
 of it's pure scare factor and the even more scarier creatures on board.
  
  Getting to the story, you play as Isaac Clark who basically comes to the Ishimura along with others 
 to repair the ship, but there's a change of plans when some alien life form known as the Necromorphs 
 start picking off the crew one by one.
  
  Along the way Isaac will get (or need) suit upgrades and you'll also have quite an erray of weapons 
 that you use throughout the game.
  
  Getting to those, the Plasma Cutter, The Line Gun, and some others, of course from time to time 
 you'll run out of ammo.
  
  Now getting to the Necromorphs, there are various forms such as the Infector, Slasher, Leaper, 
 Pregnant, Baby, Twitchers, and a couple more.
  
  Now the bosses in Dead Space are increasingly hard, you have the Levanthion, the first boss battle, 
 which is to say the least, challenging.
  
  Then comes the Slug who you battle in Chapter 8 when you have to clear the blast doors.
  
  
 Then finally comes the Hive Mind who, suprisingly is the easiest.
  
  I'm not going to go into detail of the story for obvious reasons, but you can pretty much get a 
 picture of this game from what i just described to you.
  
  In all, Dead Space is a fun and just plain scary ass game, i hope more people play it and can relate 
 to what i'm saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexD337
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  In Dead Space no one can hear you scream. No one can see you jump when a mutated alien comes at 
 you either. 
  
  Story 1.5/2
  You play Isaac, sent in with a crew to fix a ship. You board it, and survival is your main mission. 
 
  
  Gameplay 3/3
  The gameplay for Dead Space is flows pretty smooth. 2 minutes figuring it out at the start, gets 
 you ready for the rest of the game.
  
  
  Graphics 1.5/2
  The graphics in this game are awesome. From the detailed blood and guts to the imersive ship. They 
 could have been better, but im not complaining.
  
  Sound/ Music 2/2
  The music in this game makes you want to play with the lights on and have buddy with you. The sound 
 effects go perfectly with the gameplay.
  
  Replayabiliby 1/1
  Once you complete the game, you can start a new game with all the upgrades
  you comepleted it 
 with. You cant change the difficulty if you choose to do this, but it makes it more fun.
  
  All in all, if you enjoyed the Resident Evil games, you will enjoy Dead Space.
  Especially if 
 you need a game to play while waiting for Resident Evil 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DethSkematik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:27 am PT
Review:  I consider it a brave move for EA to release this game to the public without a disclaimer that 
 someone just might have a heart attack from playing Dead Space. It's not frequent that I can say 
 I've dreaded playing a game, and call that "dread" a wonderful experience. It's not just one of 
 the finest horror games of all time, it's one of the finest games in general. 
  
  What is so impressive about Dead Space is that it takes a cue from all the best horror franchises 
 such as Resident Evil, Doom, Aliens, The Thing, and some disturbing parts remeniscent of Silent 
 Hill and Hellraiser, and still manage to create an original concept. In other words, this game 
 takes what makes these video game and movie experiences so compelling, and boils it down into one 
 neat little package. Even then, Dead Space is an experience that is so brilliant in its execution 
 that it has firmly dredged its roots into the genre right next to the heavyweights.
  
  The moment you board the Ishimura, you can already sense the fear. Your ship has crashed, there 
 isn't a living soul that answers the distress call, and the first door you open shows you just 
 how bad the terrifying situation is. However, it isn't until you pick up your first firearm that 
 you'll realize how intimidating a single enemy can be. In the history of videogames, the one sacred 
 logic is that aiming for the head leads to the ideal victory. It worked for zombies, supersoldiers, 
 and just about every enemy you've faced in any game you've played. But then again, Necromorphs 
 aren't your typical enemy. It also isn't your typical battlefield, either. The only way to kill 
 the monsters in this game is the often ignored part of the body in every other game: the limbs. 
 It is also the single hardest part to strike with a steady hand, due to the fact that your enemies 
 can literally come out of any part of the ship, and run after you, arms flailing. 
  
  So in a way, as if the thought of thousands dead shipmates coming back to life in a horrific form 
 due to an alien infection wasn't already a sinking feeling, another fact is that shooting off their 
 heads not only does nothing, it pisses them off. It's the unique strategic gameplay it offers that 
 makes you finding yourself seldomly using the run function, rather taking a careful step with your 
 gun always aimed in front of you, both because there is no safe place on the ship, and because 
 it's the only source of light you have on you. 
  
  And, in a way, it also caters to whatever style you play. If you have favored any particular weapon 
 in any game, it's most likely in here. From the plasma cutter, to the pulse rifle and flame thrower, 
 it also offers devastating weapons such as an area affect contact beam, or better yet, the brutal 
 and resourceful buzzsaw launcher, which is thus far the most unsettling firearm in any game. You 
 either launch it away from your direction, or suspend it in front of you and listen to the most 
 gruesome sound effects any gun has ever made. In other words, if you've ever wanted to re-live 
 the chainsaw scene in Dawn of the Dead, this is your dream come true, my friend. 
  
  But, a gun is only as good as its ammunition stock. Expect to run out of ammunition for your favorite 
 weapon at least once or twice, in which to offer some sort of relief, you can purchase weapons 
 from the stores among the Ishumura (vending machines that sell weapons. I don't get it either, 
 but it is very uplifting at times) . Among other things, health packs and other useful resources 
 that you will desperately need on your journeys. 
  
  But if all else fails, you could get into fistfights with these gruesome creatures. You see, Isaac's 
 a big guy, and his blows are just as effective as the ones you receive from your enemies. In fact, 
 this dude's so strong, that he actually rips faces off with his right hooks. And even though fisticuffs 
 are usually a last resort, stomping on an enemy is just as brutal as dismembering its limbs with 
 a gun. (just... make sure you have enough health packs if you're planning on doing boxing matches 
 with Necromorphs)
  
  Throughout the majority of the game, you're spent repairing the Ishimura than fighting for your 
 survival. Actually, it's more like repairing the Ishimura WHILE fighting for your survival. Rather 
 than having a monster pop out of the ceiling and yell "Boo!", for no apparent reason, Dead Space 
 offers lots of panic moments. This isn't the typical "see a zombie, shoot it or run away" type 
 of game. They are determined to find you, and these elusive creatures will pop out of vents and 
 ceilings. You can't exactly run away from these guys in the next room and actually feel any safer. 
 
  
  To ensure your survival, the Ishimura must also survive. You're either repairing the engine, fending 
 off asteroids, or walking outside the Ishimura with minimal air in your tank (hey, you're an engineer, 
 it's your job, unfortunately) to fix something aboard this massive airship. As such, a lot of dangerous 
 moments aren't always from the monsters (although, they do drop by when they're a bit lonely) . 
 At times, you have to reconnect separated machinery, or reallign a sattelite, or dispose of hazardous 
 materials before you can fathom deeper into the most unsettling enviroments to willingly dispose 
 of bigger threats. Actually, you're forced to do it, with Isaac being a big guy and all...
  
  Other times, Dead Space will throw a good share of curve balls at you. Long enough into the 
 game, you'll begin to think you've seen it all, and you think you'll be able to handle it. Then 
 out of nowhere, a giant tentacle will grab Isaac, and you have a small window to shoot it off before 
 being slaughtered in pitch black. Other times, Dead Space will bend its own rules, and throw enemies 
 that don't die from a simple dismemberment, and you're left alone to figure out how to kill something 
 that doesn't die. Oh, and it follows you. Everywhere. These moments don't necessarily make you 
 scared, but rather make you panic. You really haven't been this tense as to being sealed off in 
 a room, having used up all of your ammunition prior to this moment, and still have your enemy come 
 back from the dead to beg for more punishment. In these moments, nowhere is safe. Not even the 
 women's bathroom. 
  
  As impressive as the game's ability to deliver frights that never get stagnant, what makes it that 
 much elaborate is the detail to everything. From the chilling audio files you pick up along the 
 ship to witnessing how decomposed of alien virus the Ishumura has gotten upon your arrival, the 
 effects are mindblowing. From the sickening splatter of dismembering a Necromorph to muffled sounds 
 gunfire makes in deep space, it's the detail to every little thing that makes this title an artistic 
 masterpiece to behold. 
  
  Dead Space is truly the kind of title that I would recommend not only to survival horror fans, 
 but anyone who owns a gaming console. Just like the movie Aliens, you can't possibly say this game 
 wouldn't be memorable. It just establishes its own brand into the horror genre, that it's far from 
 being just another face in the crowd. Where Dead Space 2 picks up, I have no idea (hopefully in 
 space, though) . But make no mistake: Dead Space is on par with the greatest of horror legends out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw previews of Dead Space long ago I feared that the game looked a bit corny and 
 wouldn't be as good as the developers and gaming media said it would be. Luckily those fears were 
 relieved once I started playing the game and I have to say I wish I bought the game sooner. 
  
  The first thing that gets you are the enemies. Having to cut off the limbs of your enemy makes 
 the fights much more dramatic and gripping. You want to just run backwards and shoot away, hoping 
 that eventually you will put enough bullets in your foes to make them die but it just doesn't happen. 
 Instead you have to try to be calm as they run towards you, concentrating on when the perfect shot 
 will present itself so you can take off one arm, then a leg, or the head. Plus the enemies are 
 smart. Sometimes they'll jump into an air duct, then pop out of one that's behind you. You've got 
 to be on your toes at all times, especially when fighting on zero gravity or the vacuum of space.
 
  
  Overall this game has very high production values, something that I am not used to from EA. The 
 audio is excellent, the graphics are also impressive, and the game will make you as scared as you 
 were the first time you played Resident Evil 1. The only complaint I have is that sometimes your 
 aiming laser might be right on an enemy but for whatever reason your bullets fly right past their 
 limbs. This can be frustrating when you know you should be hitting them but nothing happens. 
 
  
  With that one small frustration in mind, I enjoyed Dead Space a lot and it's one of the few survival 
 horror games I have played that didn't really disappoint me in any way. With Resident Evil I sometimes 
 felt it was a bit long or that the gameplay wasn't as action packed as it should be, and some other 
 games like Clock Tower just didn't interest me story wise. Dead Space has great pacing (though 
 some backtracking can be a bit tedious) , the length of the game is just right (it's not so long 
 you don't want to play it again but not too short where you feel ripped off) , and as I mentioned 
 above I don't think any area of the game outshined the other. There is a harmony of all the different 
 parts which come together and offer an excellent playing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makiveli100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space, I'll start from when I went and got this. I went into Gamestop and pick it up and when 
 I went up to the counter the guy working got all excited and said he loved it. So, I had high hopes 
 for it, and when I put it in started playing it didn't disappoint. This game has a few things I 
 liked about it. The first being that you dismember everything that moves, and some that don't. 
 The next thing would have to be the active inventory screen, meaning the game doesn't stop and 
 let you heal yourself while pausing enemies. After that comes the story, fantastic but more importantly 
 the way it's told. I mean there are like two "cutscenes" where you can't control Isaac. In my opinion 
 this game is best horror genre game out for the next gen systems. Unlike Bioshock you will be scared 
 at moment. All in all a great game I would suggest to all types of gamers. It may seem like this 
 game scared into writing this but hey, it's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobby4u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I loved how everything works just perfectly. I has the MOOD you look for in a HORROR game. I brings 
 new and diverse gameplay with all the futuristic and customizable weapons you can use without beign 
 stupid. Not a typical "Shoot for the Head" game; with Dead Space, it's different: CUT OFF THEIR 
 LIMBS!!! And you will do it with pleasure when all of those different and horrifying monsters/aliens 
 are RUNNIG TOWARDS YOU!!! The voice acting is amazing and the graphics are BREATHTAKING! Sometimes 
 you will just want to stand by a window just to stare at that GORGEOUS and BEAUTIFUL abyss in DEEP 
 SPACE. One of my favorite things of the games is its AUDIO. With every sound you hear you will 
 jump; since you'll be paranoic because it just might be one of the Necromorphs sneaking up behind 
 you! And it happens.... it does happens and when YOU LEAST EXPECT IT. I just hope all the wispers, 
 scratches, screams, growls and crawling sounds all around you won't make you crazy or give you 
 a heart attack!!! And on top of it all: it has a STORY YOU CAN BELIEVE. You actually will want 
 to keep playing because you'll feel like the characters: YOU JUST WANT TO GET OUT OF THE SHIP!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jfisch93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a true horror game. The graphics are incredible. The amount of detail really helps 
 enhance the game's creepiness. The way the HUD is integrated into your suit is genius. It helps 
 immerse you into the game even more. The graphics and design are brilliant and are sure to be copied 
 in the future. The only problem with the game is the limited amount of enemies to cut apart, but 
 cutting said enemies apart is still crazy fun. I mean, really. How couldn't chopping an necromorph's 
 explosive arm off and flinging it at a group of more necromorphs not be fun? The environment is 
 crazy. It also helps keep up the creep factor. 
  
  Everything about the game is just right. This game is definitely an instant classic. Overall, this 
 is a game that should not be missed. Period.
  
  Graphics- 10/10 
  Game-play- 9.5/10 
  Sounds- 10/10 
  Buy it. 
  Now. 
  It will make you whole again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancefd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw Dead Space was in Gamespot. At 1st I thought it was just another survival 
 horror game. But along the way it got me interested. The screenshots were stunning and the link 
 to the Dead Space site, with all the comic videos, got me hooked. The story in the comic videos 
 made me very interested in the game. It's just so compelling. And so I bought a PS3 and Dead Space 
 and MSG4.
  
  Dead Space gets you before you even start the game as I have mentioned. Even if it didn't, the 
 1st chapter will! The strategic dismemberment system is a very unique feature of this game. It's 
 logical that abominations in the game don't feel pain and will attack you until it really can't 
 anymore and so you must cut them limb by limb. This feature adds to the survival horror theme of 
 the game as imagine as multiple necromorphs attack you at once. You will panic shooting all those 
 limbs! Hahaha.
  
  There are also a variety of necromorphs that you would encounter along the way. Like the Lurker 
 (a baby necromorph) which is my 2nd hatest necromorph to kill coz you have to wait for its tentacles 
 to come out. Putting them on stasis (a skill were you can slow time) on the wrong time will have 
 them on stasis running without their tentacles out and you can't do nothing. My hatest to kill 
 is the hunter which DOES NOT DIE. The times were you fight with the hunter is the time you would 
 panic as it and other multiple necromorphs attack you all at the same time! These necromorphs also 
 use the vents so most of the time even if you are cautious looking at all directions all the time 
 like I did, a necromorph would slip through to surprise you from your back.
  
  Another great feature of this game is zero gravity. There are zero gravity areas in the game that 
 you can jump around all the sides of the area. With this, there is no up or down, and hence every 
 side is a platform. Imagine multiple nercomorphs attacking you at zero gravity. It's one of the 
 most intense fights in the game!
  
  There will also be times where there is no oxygen, well because you are in space. This adds to 
 the intensity of the game as you run to an area with oxygen... and with necromorphs appearing! 
 The sound effects are awesome in this moment as well as everything else in the area is muffled 
 are you can hear your character breathing as really like you really are wearing a helmet. I'm comparing 
 as I play airsoft with balaclava and helmet.
  
  The areas of the Ishimura add to the survival horror theme as well as the entire ship is dark. 
 The flashlight of your Plasma Cutter is very important so be on aim mode almost all the time to 
 see where you're going or for items and most especially for necromorphs. As sometimes when you 
 turn around, your flashlight hits a necromorph! The guns are great as well as there are 7 guns 
 all in all that you can use although I used only the Plasma Cutter from start until the end of 
 the game to get the "One Gun" trophy. All these guns are also upgradable to your preference. Your 
 body armor, stasis module, and kinesis module, are all upgradable as well.
  
  The story is really deep if you have watched the comic videos or even the prequel movie. The last 
 audio log that you will get on the last chapter is of Sgt. Newman of PSEC who is the main character 
 of the comic videos.
  
  The graphics all in all is great. The textures of your body armor, the necromorphs, the environment, 
 even your guns and objects in the environment looks awesome. Each object has its own shadow rendered. 
 If you'd notice, even each of the metal plates on your characters body armor renders a shadow to 
 the rest of the suit!
  
  There is high replay value as well as you get new body armor, all your items, money, and a new 
 Impossible Mode at the end of your 1st round and there are the trophies to earn. As all the guns 
 are upgradable by using power nodes, you cannot fully upgrade them all in just one round of the 
 game and so you must do another round. Where the necromorphs would appear may be predictable already 
 on your 2nd round as you might remember where they would appear but how they will attack you, or 
 leap to you will definitely be different during your 1st round. All this said, I actually planned 
 to do a 2nd round even before I started the 1st round!
  
  Dead Space really got me hooked from the start, or even before the start, until the end. The visuals, 
 audio, gameplay, and story are all great. This game defines a new kind of survival horror game. 
 This is a game that I will not forget and would love to play again. I can't wait for the sequel!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeye1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  Of all the scary games I've played, Dead Space is the scariest. The story starts off as a mission 
 to repair the mining vessel USG Ishimura but when hailed by your shuttle all is quiet. When you 
 board the ship everyone is dead. But they didn't stay dead; they came back as terrifying monsters 
 called Necromorphs. Throughout the game you try to uncover the mystery of the crew's demise and 
 also finish the job you came to do, repair the Ishimura.
  
  You play as repair engineer Isaac Clarke and you are accompanied by Hammond and Kendra. But as 
 with all good but yet cliche horror games you're all alone through it.
  
  The gameplay is sometimes tense and one thing I think is an excellent idea is that the ingame menus 
 don't pause the world around you so you could be checking ammo or health pack stocks and a necromorph 
 comes and gives you a smack. This idea keeps you on edge at all times and... if you're constantly 
 on edge the scary moments become more scary. The controls are cleverly made so you have to ready 
 your weapon before firing; hold L1 for weapon controls. Other controls like healing are accessed 
 when you aren't in weapon ready mode. The melee attacks are often unreliable because the necros 
 block weapon hooks and when you move to perform a stomp you more times than not you miss and get 
 smacked by the necromorph for your trouble. However when you do land a stomp attack it's incredibly 
 satisfying because you crush their head which is awesome and very amusing.
  
  Dead Space has a choice of 8 weapons starting with the Plasma Cutter. To unlock these weapons (excluding 
 Plasma Cutter) you find and download to the store Schematics. You do the same thing to unlock suits 
 of body armour.
  
  The game is let down by a lack of communication from Isaac and an annoyingly stiff ADS turret aiming. 
 ADS stands for asteroid defense system; so the turret would want to move a bit faster to blow up 
 asteroids a lot easier to protect the ship.
  
  Despite those small things Dead Space is a gripping, frightening and has an original story. Anyone 
 who says Dead Space is boring didn't play it any longer than 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1DustyBowers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. Flat-out. Great example of survival horror. As an RE veteran, this game was reluctantly 
 bought thinking nothing comes close, but I was very happily surprised, as my stubborness was badly 
 mistaken. The storyline was Engaging to say the least. The gun play was extremely intense at times. 
 (of course, the first time I played it, was in hard mode) So intense, that I had to pause it to 
 take a breather. This game is not for the faint of heart, as there is enough blood and guts to 
 make Jason blush. The first time I beat the game, I was able to do it with just two guns, the pulse 
 rifle, and the plasma cutter. As you go along, I strongly reccomend focusing on upgrading just 
 these weapons, because at their height, they are extremely formidable. 
  As for the only thing i didn't like, was the fact that there was not enough time or power nodes 
 to upgrade everything fully, the first time through. (without cheating, of course.) The end was 
 too abrupt, I would have liked the game to be a little longer; I was absolutely addicted and am 
 currently going through withdrawl! And what's with no on-line mode? I'm getting tired of playing 
 Resistance!
  All in all, Great Game. Can't wait for the sequel; there better be one, or I'm going Necro-morph 
 on EA's collective A__!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paco1000_99
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best horror game I have played in my life to date. Every facet of this game 
 compliments one another so well that the game flows with no mistakes.... at the expense of the 
 gamer (especially if you have the lights out haha) .
  
  This is the most terrifying game I can think of since the Resident Evil series. I'll try to break 
 down this game the best I can.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are by far the best graphics I have seen in a game since this 
 game was released with only one exception... shadowing! I noticed that the shadowing is fine from 
 a distance, and even up close a lot of it is fine, but the main character's shadow sometimes becomes 
 real blocky, almost like I'm playing Doom from the Sega 32X!!! (yes I owned that game on that system 
 so thats what im comparing it too haha) . I also really like the fact that there is little stat 
 displays like in most other games because you can literally see all the action on your tv with 
 no stat display in the way. The creators of this game did a good job of putting vital stats in 
 cool places, like the health status appearing as a gauge on the characters back, and the ammo is 
 displayed on the gun when you ready it.
  
  Sound - Sound is by far the best attribute of this game. The right sound effects and music pop 
 up at the right times to completely throw the gamer off balance and scare the poop out of'em! The 
 sound I believe compliments the game so well compared to other games because I feel like I'm watching 
 a movie as I play this game, and I'm sure others may agree!
  
  Controls - The controls were done well with this game, and are not confusing at all, so A rating 
 for this, but at the same time there is nothing that really sticks out with the controls.
  
  Trophy System - I think the trophies in this game aren't really that challenging at all.... 
 they are just time consuming. I almost have all the trophies as I write this review. Nuff said.....
 
  
  Overall - .... As I stated above..... best game I have played to date... the scariness and suspense 
 of this game is what will draw you to this game, and overall rate this game A+.... 10.0 all the 
 way!!!!
  
  Let me know what all you people think of my review... first one I have ever done and decided to 
 do it because I liked the game so much. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:53 am PT
Review:  Some how this game has captured the pure intensity of "Aliens" (ridley scott) . I cannot describe 
 the feeling you have playing this, it simply took my breathe away, right down to it actually feels 
 like you have each weapon in your hand. It just all fits together in a way i ve never experienced 
 before.
  
  From the beginning your treated with a beautiful opening fmv to then which looks like a feature 
 film. Your main character (the engineer) is equipped with a suit which looks very detailed like 
 every bit of this game, the detail blows you away in 1080p. 
  
  It plods along at a steady pace with a run button, an all important feature in any game i feel. 
 Soon your treated to various weapons, which you can buy and upgrade. I think its worth mentioning 
GET THE PULSE RIFLE ", this will just keep a smile on your face until you run out of ammo or 
 die horribly !! Other weapons are varied with the favourite flame thrower introduced very early 
 on and a free plasma cutter, very accurate and just a joy to use.
  
  Your suit is upgradable, and you will use anti grav boots later on!! But the real deal here is 
 the stasis button. The player is able to slow down or move objects using a field (nothing new) , 
 but keeps things fresh and gets you out of sticky situations. The attention to detail just rocks 
 you off the planet, even down to the orchestral sound effects (whining violins!!) ans music that 
 tells you something is just around the next corner. This game will make you jump, and not just 
 for joy, its scary!!
  
  I cant think of a 1st person shooter with this much "spunk" since doom 1st arrived. An absolute, 
 unequivocal must have for your collection, if you dont buy this, throw your tv out, because they 
 re is nothing else worth showing on it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  There is always a lot of risks involved when introducing a new series to the world. The first reaction 
 most people will have is 'this game is a lot like' We are skeptical because most gamers want to 
 play something they know will be good. When Dead Space was announced, most people claimed 'this 
 game is a lot like Resident Evil in Space' and while that a fair assessment, when you actually 
 start playing, you notice that this is a very different game and a good one at that.
  
  The plot behind Dead Space involves a crew that has been called to assist with some problems that 
 has occurred on the ship USG Ishimura, touted as one of the biggest and most powerful ships in 
 the fleet. When they arrive, the Ishimura fails to respond to the calls and it seems that something 
 else has occurred. At first, you're under the impression that the problem is the communication, 
 but once you arrive on board, you realize that something else, much larger, is the problem.
  
  You play as Isaac Clarke, who is an engineer capable of fixing what is initially believed to 
 be the problem. As you begin the game, you and your crew members thing that the communication is 
 what is causing the problem, but once you begin walking around the ship, you notice that people 
 are no where to be found, feared dead. Now it's up to you to get the ship online in order to escape 
 and at the same time, try to figure out what exactly has gone wrong with the ship and its crew.
 
  
  The game is played from a 3rd-person, over the shoulder view. You will also not have a HUD (Head's 
 Up Display) , rather all of your stats are available on your person. Your weapon's ammo shows up 
 on the weapons when it is drawn; your health bar is located on your spine and your Stasis strength 
 is shown on your shoulder blade. Lastly, in levels that require you to venture into space, you're 
 oxygen supply timer will also appear. It's a great mechanic that works really well. Since the screen 
 is not cluttered with data so it allows that game to really look good. Also, everything that occurs 
 happens in game. When you bring up your items menu, a holograph appears which will allow you to 
 continue moving and access key items. Also, whenever you crew members appear to communicate with, 
 it too happens with the use of holographs. This is really nice as it never stops the flow of the 
 game.
  
  The enemies you will encounter are called Necromorphs, Some are fast, others are slow but all of 
 them are extremely deadly. Your arsenal begins with a simple weapon, but as you progress and obtain 
 credits you will unleash more powerful weapons. Since Isaac is an Engineer, all of his weapons 
 are actually modified tools, such as Cutters and other Mining Tools. All of the weapons are upgradeable 
 and necessary for you as you progress into more difficult stages. 
  
  For the most part, Necromorphs are relatively slow, so you should be able to attack them before 
 they get to close, but that's not to say they are easy to take down. The game puts the emphasis 
 on dismemberment. Most Necromorphs can actually morph into different shapes, so in order to stop 
 them you will have to strategically cut off limbs, to slow them down even more then cutting off 
 their heads or targeting certain parts of the body to destroy them.
  
  The attacking is where Dead Space gets the talk about being similar to the Resident Evil franchise, 
 specifically RE4. In RE4, character perspective is similar to what you encounter in Dead Space, 
 but here you're character is able to move while aiming. This may seem to make the game easier, 
 and as it may be the case in some situations, the fact that the game often puts you in small corridors 
 and dark locations, the best way to approach any area is to constantly move.
  
  The majority of the game is played on the USG Ishimura, but the environments are not that repetitive. 
 There are plenty of situations where Isaac will have to work in areas with Zero Gravity and even 
 outside of the Ship. In areas with Zero Gravity, every section with a flat surface can be used 
 and you will have to move to them in order to advance. In those parts where you'll have to be outside 
 of the ship, or areas with no oxygen, you will have to move quickly as you only have a limited 
 amount of air available to you. These portions are always frantic since not only will you have 
 to battle enemies, but work against the clock.
  
  In terms of graphics, Dead Space is absolutely stunning. Majority of the game is played in dark 
 locations, so the atmosphere really makes things difficult for you. Often, you will have to walk 
 around with your weapon drawn, since each one of them has a flashlight. You can walk around without 
 it, but be prepared for attacks, which can be really fun and challenging. Some environments look 
 the same, but in actuality there are subtle differences to each of them. As you trek through the 
 game, you may want to walk off path just to check out what you might find. There is a lot of secrets 
 available throughout the ship, which will appease those who actually go through each nook and cranny.
 
  
  The game's sound is also top-notch. The voice work from the small cast and the sounds from the 
 Necromorphs all stand out. There isn't a single weak point throughout the game. The sound both 
 the ambience and the score is also extremely fantastic. In those key moments where it seems like 
 something bad is going to occur, the music is right there to reassure you. I really enjoyed those 
 moments when your oxygen gets low since you can hear the panic breathing of Isaac. It doesn't stop 
 there. When Isaac is low in health, if you try to run, his breathing will also point sound weird 
 giving you the hint that you should be hunting for health packs and using them. In survival horror 
 games, sound is just as important as 'shock value' and Dead Space truly delivers.
  
  Dead Space's story plays out in 12 chapters, each of which will take about an hour or so to complete, 
 so you've got a minimum of twelve hours of gameplay here. If you stick to the path, given to you 
 by the objective assister, you will only get a portion of the story here. There are a lot of audio 
 and text logs that you need to uncover to understand the storyline. Also, what some people might 
 miss out is that Dead Space the videogame is actually only the final portion of a three tier story. 
 Also released prior to the game hitting stores was a six part comic book story which chronicles 
 events that lead to the discovery of the key plot to the game. On top of that, there is a full-length 
 feature animated film which then connects the comic book mini-series to the game. If you want to 
 understand the full lore behind the game, picking up either of the two will help understand the 
 game just a bit more. Thankfully, you can easily pick up the digital versions of the comic book 
 which were made available free on Xbox Live and PSN.
  
  In the end, even with all the connections made between Dead Space and Resident Evil 4 and films 
 like Solaris and Event Horizon, EA has done a great job in giving gamers a fantastic playing game. 
 There is plenty of action, suspense and horror to satisfy just about any gamer out there. Some 
 might be put off by the fact that you're only getting a portion of the overall story, there is 
 still enough that you can get an understanding of everything even without going that extra mile. 
 If you've been looking for a game to keep you at the edge of your seat but were annoyed with questionable 
 tank-like controls, Dead Space delivers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkXXVI
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:16 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is the type of game that gives me hope for the future of the survival horror genre. 
 What with Resident Evil turning into an action series and Silent Hill becoming a poster child for 
 why Japan shouldn't outsource one can only hope that something decent will come along. 
  
  Now some will say that Dead Space is nothing but a Resident Evil 4 clone. This can't be further 
 from the truth. The only elements Dead Space borrowed from Resident Evil 4 were the presence of 
 an infection and the over the shoulder camera. Of course the means of infection are different, 
 in fact they're pretty much unknown but I'll let you figure that out for yourself. 
  
  One of the main elements in Dead Space is a tactic called dismembermant where instead of body shots 
 and head shots you go for the limbs, well pretty much everything except the head. This is pretty 
 well documented by every videogame medium so I won't go into detail but needless to say it makes 
 for some very intresting gameplay. 
  
  On top of that you have features such as a telekenis beam on your gun as well as area's of the 
 game where you're able to experience a hybrid of zero gravity. What this means is while your feet 
 are firmly planted on the floor the option remans for players to fly to basically any flat surface 
 they can aim at and walk on it. Best way to describe it is you'd be able to walk on virtually any 
 wall, including the ceiling, in your house if it was a real life deal. Weapons and suit custumazation 
 also insure that you'll be finding new ways to approach the game long after you've finished you're 
 first run through. All these combined make for some of the most fun I've had playing a game in 
 a long time. In fact the last game where I had so much fun all the way through would probably be 
 Dead Rising back in 2006. 
  
  Did I forget to mention the game is scary. Now it isn't as scary as Silent Hill, but it's definately 
 up there, though the weapon of choice for scares in Dead Space is monsters popping out at you. 
 Nevertheless the point is it works. Unless you're stone cold to all things fear you will find this 
 game scary. Oh the graphics are also top notch especially the interactive menus that blend in with 
 the game. 
  
  Now for the bad. Dead Space itself has an intersting underlying story. However the developers of 
 the game thought it a good idea to use a mute main character as well as make sure the game is limited 
 to two short cut scenes. One at the beginning and one at the end. Now why I need to feel like the 
 characters in the game are talking to me I'll never know. Sure I'm not a hollywood celebrity but 
 I do like to think I have enough of a life where I don't need video games to make me a part of 
 the story where people finish my sentences and presume what I'm thinking. 
  
  To be honest the whole style of storytelling is nauseating, so please if anyone at EA is reading 
 this, no more skimping on the story. Surely you've stowed enough money away for a cut scene or 
 two, coupled maybe with a quality script writer. The game itself is riddled with sci-fi cliches, 
 which is fine, but when you lack presentation it becomes an eyesore. My only constellation is that 
 the game doesn't stick you with a first person view. 
  
  Also theres a DVD that details what happened leading up to Dead Space. My advice is not to waste 
 your time. It's basically a Saturday morning cartoon with blood and way to many F* bombs, which 
 don't exactly offend me, but they're not a substitute for an actual plot. 
  
  Anyway I think it's worth it for any fan of survival horror to at least give Dead Space a rental. 
 The gameplay is hellafun and the story probably isn't as bad as I made it out to be. At the very 
 least you'll jump up in your seat a few times especially when you're in the vacum of space without 
 sound and an enemy creeps up from behind. Happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaNiKore
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  I only got my PS3 with X-mas, so I'm not that well know with all the games. But I must say, this 
 games is the SH! ZN! T!!!!!!
  It's scary as hell, even now after playing it for just over 8 hours. You'll be walking throw a 
 corridor, and suddenly the power breaks down. FCK!! It's dark and you know something is gonna happen. 
 You feel the cold shiver crawling up your spine, your waiting for it. Weapon locked and load, something 
 screams, it sounds pure evil and big. A flicker, the lights turn back on. You feel relieved nothing 
 happen. Then outta nowhere you get jumped buy a multiple of hideous creatures, screaming and slashing 
 at ya, and all hell breaks lose. That was just a small taste of the action, and there is more then 
 just action, there's a bit puzzling in zero grav. Where you also have to keep an eye on your oxygen 
 level and trying not to get disorientated. Otherwise you'll die. And the graphics..... they are 
 just perfect. The surroundings are great, especially the character Isaac, nice sharp and straight 
 lines. What really makes the game scary is the back ground music, PURE HORROR!!! But enough chitter 
 chatter, this game is highly addictive. So I'm gonna play some more. I need my daily dose!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  When it comes to the Survival Horror genre, developers always have their hands full. They have 
 to scare you, surprise you, and balance to the game out with an engaging story so that it all never 
 becomes so frustrating that the gamer never finishes the game. The balance can be so delicate at 
 times that even a misplaced item can ruin an entire portion of the game. 
  
  Fortunately, Dead Space manages to avoid most of these pitfalls and provide you with a gaming experience 
 that's nothing short of outstanding. The game can easily stand with the Resident Evil series, and 
 actually manages to beat Dead Rising in the face with its own guitar. EA actually managed to put 
 out a very solid game the first time around, and should be commended for it.
  
  You play as Isaac, a space engineer, who has been sent with a small security detail to the deep-space 
 mining ship Ishamura to repair a downed communications array. There's just one problem: the entire 
 ship has been overrun by infected humans that want to cut you in half and play soccer with your 
 body parts, so it's up to you to get to the bottom of the story, prevent the infection from spreading 
 beyond the ship, and trying to return things to normal before one of these things gets the chance 
 to hand you your butt on a platter.
  
  What actually adds the element of fear is the amazing graphics (I have to say "graphics" as a whole 
 because I'm talking about everything from the environments to the actual character design) and 
 the equally brilliant sound design. Everything is done in such painstaking detail that you are 
 constantly on your toes, looking around, wondering where the next assault is going to come from.
 
  
  Which leads to the combat itself, which is always frantic. You see, this isn't your typical zombie 
 game. The creatures that are going to come at you during the course of gameplay were obviously 
 human at one time, but figuring out exactly what part to shoot at can be a little tricky. The one 
 key element is, and I'm not really giving anything away here, that shooting one of these suckers 
 in the head won't kill it about 90% of the time. It will, however, tick it off. So instead of just 
 ripping your head off, it will tear you a new one and then rip your head off for good measure. 
 Even a gamer who's a good shot is going to have to shoot more than once to take an enemy down. 
 
  
  While the storyline isn't the absolute ultimate in gaming, it is still good enough surprise you 
 more than once along the way. Most of the story is imparted via text, audio, and video logs laying 
 about the ship (intermingled with a few cutscenes) , which works to help keep the feeling of desperation 
 alive as you struggle to make your way through the ship. It's not perfect; it does feel very contrived 
 as far as the missions go and fails to give you any real connection to any of the characters (except 
 Isaac) . Still, it does its job to help move the game along and certainly maintains the creepy atmosphere.
 
  
  There is so much here that was done so well, including one of the most fantastic curb stomps and 
 Zero-Gravity jump mechanics I have ever seen, that you almost have to nit-pick to find the problems. 
 Nonetheless, there are a few issues that creep up. Once in awhile, the A. I. of your enemies just 
 seems to go brain dead and they completely stop moving for no reason. There are also a handful 
 of "invisible walls" in the game. You open a door larger than the state of Kansas, and the creatures 
 simply act as if they're walking against hurricane-force winds (as opposed to just walking through 
 the door) .
  
  But the largest of the problems actually rears its ugly, deformed head right in the middle of the 
 game. For no apparent reason, the pacing and balance of the game go off into outer space. The game 
 literally drags through certain sections, and becomes tedious as the item drops simply aren't enough 
 to allow you to defeat the next wave of creatures. I'm not talking about having to be careful with 
 your ammo, as that's always a key factor in any Survival Horror game; I'm talking about the fact 
 that they simply throw wave after wave of ammunition-wasting monsters at you with no breaks and 
 not enough items to make it all the way through a given section. Soon fear and anxiousness are 
 replaced with sheer frustration that could literally cause some gamers to just give up without 
 ever finishing the game. At one point I actually thought to myself that I would have more fun whacking 
 myself in the head with a hammer than taking another step.
  
  Then, about two levels after that confusion starts, it stops just as quickly. Everything goes back 
 in sync, and the game puts breaks from the all the monsters in their proper place. It goes back 
 to properly building the tension and releasing hoards of creatures on you when you least expect 
 it. Suddenly the game is fun again and no longer such a steep, uphill battle. 
  
  It is worth it to work through the unbalance, however, as the game has a tremendous ending that 
 should not be missed, not to mention the sheer fun that most of the game brings with it. The eighty 
 percent of incredible play easily outweighs to twenty percent of unbalanced play. Yes, it's fun 
 to be scared.
  
  There is an additional strong point for the game that deserves special mention, and something that 
 Capcom always seems to miss. For all of the fear and anxiousness the game throws at you, they don't 
 rely on the save system to create any of it. If you get thrown into a particularly nasty section 
 and die (and you will die a lot on this game) , you're only taken back to a checkpoint. You're not 
 busted all the way back to a save point where you're forced to duplicate your efforts a second 
 or third time (I'm looking at you Dead Rising) . The fact that they were actually able to create 
 the fear of death without the actual fear of death is quite an accomplishment, and something that 
 few games have ever accomplished.
  
  So for my final recommendation I will say that anyone who loves a good scare, is looking for good 
 challenge, and appreciates Survival Horror for what is will fall head-over-heels for this game, 
 and this a definite purchase for anyone that falls into that category. Everyone else should at 
 least rent it and give it a try, as the only gamers who probably won't enjoy this game are those 
 who take offence to strong content, or those who prefer run-and-gun to delicate, precision aiming. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicookie1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  When this game made it's way into news, (for gamers) I knew that this game would be good. I don't 
 know how I knew it, because did I really have much to base that on? No. But did it live up to my 
 expectations? Yes.
  
  Story:
  You play as Isaac, a man sent on a routine repair mission for the USG Ishimura, which they lost 
 contact with. You arrive on the ship, then you find out something horrible... The massive crew 
 has been turned into flesh-eating aliens! Your ship is destroyed, and it's up to you to fix the 
 ship, get home, and discover the secrets of where the "necromorphs" came from. The story will keep 
 you hooked to the edge of your seat, as you delve deeper and deeper into what really happened on 
 the Ishimura...
  Story: 9.3
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay on this game is refreshingly innovative, because with all the shooters out today for 
 the PS3 and Xbox 360, it's hard to find and good innovation, but Dead Space has a great combat 
 system that requires you to think outside how most people normally would. Flesh-eating aliens (zombies) ... 
 How do you kill them? Destroy the head. Heh. In this game you must shoot the limbs off of your 
 enemies, causing combat to be even more frightening, as the slasher (or whatever enemy) makes it's 
 way towards you.
  Gameplay: 8.9
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very good in this game, adding the scary atmosphere of... dead space. (Referring to 
 dead space as a common noun, not the game) . The loud thuds and clanks as lights come on is frightening, 
 because you never know where an enemy is going to come out of in this game. The distant screams 
 of the victims of the aliens makes you almost want to the quit the game... (Hopefully you won't, 
 of course) . There is no music in this game, unless it's in-game. It adds to the eerie feeling, 
 knowing you are all alone...
  Sound: 9.8
  
  Online/Multiplayer:
  N/A
  Online/Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are rather amazing, definatley 
 utilizing the PS3 or Xbox360 (Or PC...) capabilites to good use. The blood on the walls is gruesome, 
 while the disgusting faces and bodies of the necromorphs makes them even more terrifying...
  Graphics: 9.2
  
  This game is a great IP, and be sure to pick it up... (Considering you have 
 the time or money)
  
  -Yoshicookie1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Well you'll get a chill up your spine when big eight tenticled monster jump out at you when you 
 round a corner. You'll get a chill the whole way through the entire game. Its scary, sadistic gory, yes 
 but blimmin brilliant. One of a kind. Its creepy combat system works well and the graphics are 
 fantastic even in the dark. A lot of the time you'll find yourself stuck in a room and wont know 
 how to get out. Thats one of the problems you face about this game. The story mode should take 
 a while to complete due its big undefeatable monsters and mazes of "dont know where to go" mazes 
 of corridors. Its a great game with a creepy motion. The audio has been cleaned up nicely as you 
 hear his footsteps wherever you go and also has great sounds for the alien and monsters. The gore 
 gamesplay is really cool. For example at one point this massive monster with tentacles tried to 
 kill me, then I shot its legs off before stuffing them back down it with my hand. And yes th e 
 result was messy. It produces a high standard and will keep you drawn. Though there is one problem, 
 that its a third person shooter which will get the first person shooter fans disapointed. But its 
 still a great game with cool cutscenes as well. See yah next time for my other Playstation 3 reviews. 
 Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I am not the biggest fan of the survival horror games, but this game was different. The controls 
 were really smooth and the combat is prefect.
  
  The story of this game is good. You are an Space engineer and are you sent to a distress call on 
 the mining colony ship. Since i don't want to go to deep into the game, i just going to say. EA 
 did an great job at the beginning and with the tutorials.
  
  The combat is a lot like Resident Evil 4 as the camera goes behind you an you shoot. The different 
 guns are get are really cool since most of them are mining tools. All of the weapons have their 
 strengths and weakness against the many different kind of enemies. Also something that's useful 
 in combat is the knesis and stasis. Stasis allows you to slow down enemies making them a lot easier 
 to kill, while knesis is able to shoot objects at the enemies.
  
  The enemies in this game are very scary and unique. Each of them have a different tactic to kill 
 you. There are ones that spawn enemies and some that change dead bodies into necromorphs. 
  
  Overall i Love this game and i still have to complete it. But now it's more scary then ever!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sturshel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  Blood, guts and gore, could one ask for more? YES you can!!! - AND -Dead Space delivers, easy and 
 responsive controls, which is great as most of the action is carried out in very tight environments 
 (as the game takes place in a space ship) , with scripting at a high but excellent level, providing 
 the player, with many harmless, and oh not so harmless scares.
  
  Music and sound are exceptionally well done, in fact they really complete the experience, as they 
 have been woven into almost every aspect of the game, an audio queue ignored is done so at one's 
 peril, however they do a great job of keeping you on the edge of your seat, what, whats 
 that? Surround sound - wow!
  
  Good lighting, good environmental effects, being weightless? Seen that before? Not ike this....
 
  
  Story is also good, makes sence, though some missions get repetitive at some points, however, it 
 is actually part of the excperience, and I assure you, you will understand once you play through 
 it once or twice, so it is all great fun, and the story will slowly but surely unfold, only to 
 confound you in a mass of twisting plots, which leave you hanging - wow! The game is immersive 
 without becoming overbearing.
  
  Weapons, upgrades, and what a unique interface, the in game menu of your character, i. e. inventory 
 is projected in 3d in front of you, but hey for the real technical stuff read the G. S review, BUT 
 stay off the forums, spoilers are lurking everywhere, this is a story that you need to experience 
 on your own.
  
  Trophies, of which I consider 2 to be cheap (you'll know them when you get them) , but the rest 
 - well done!
  
  All in all an amazing game, full of splendour, and good fun - best enjoyed at night, with the lights 
 down, and full surround sound!!!!
  
  And yes there are issues, as mentioned some repetitive missions, one or two cheap trophy tries, 
 one cheap death checkpoint, but thats it.....
  
  In the words of J. T. "I say God-damn what a rush!"
  
  Well worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_4_Fun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a survival horror shooter from a developer not known for AAA games, EA Redwood. However 
 in these days, EA is different company as a whole and are willing to put their poor annual game 
 business practices aside to try new thing such as Mirror's Edge and the hit survival horror shooter, 
 Dead Space.
  
  The game takes place in a distant future, where mining is a big industry, so big in fact that there 
 are ships build big and powerful enough to crush and harvest all the valuable minerals of a planet. 
 You play as Engineer Isaac, and you along with a support team are asked to investigate the crown-jewel 
 of a vessel, called Ishimura ' The largest vessel in her class' as said by one of your commanding 
 officer. What appears to be a regular recon mission turns into something straight of the nightmare 
 once inside the ship. You immediately realize that the inhabitants of the ship turned into walking 
 and limping creatures from hell, as you and the support team (or what's left of it) , find out what's 
 going on, what happened to Isaac's gf and more importantly, how to get the hell out of here. The 
 game tells the story by cutscenes and audio and text logs which are scattered throughout the ship 
 to find out what happened before everything fell apart.
  
  The gameplay borrows a lot from the Resident Evil and Gears of War franchises with over the shoulder 
 view and slow movements to keep you on your toes. There is good variety of nontraditional weapons 
 in the game, as with this comes a twist to the gameplay. Normally shooters require you to aim for 
 the head, but not this one if you want to save ammunition. The Necromorphs (the hideous baddies 
 in the game) should be taken out by cutting off their limbs as much as you can, so the weapons 
 are focused on cutting rather than firepower, as rational weapons in the game like the pulse rifle 
 doesn't do well against them. 
  
  The game basically has no HUD, all that information instead is displayed in a holographic screen 
 emitting from your helmet. From here you can manage inventory, weapons, listen to audio dairies 
 and view the map. This helps the experience to stay intact and leave you vulnerable whenever you 
 want change something.
  The game allows you to upgrade your weapons and armored suit with 'nodes' which you can acquire 
 throughout the ship, or buy from one of the machines. The 'upgrade path' insures that you cannot 
 jump from one desired upgrade to another and keeps it balanced.
  
  Some cool sections in the game involve Zero-G. With you magnetic boats, you can make the roof your 
 floor and vice versa, it changes dramatically and you can use it to reach places you wouldn't normally 
 able to reach. Nice touch is how the sound of the ambiance decreases compared to your breathing.
 
  
  The graphics are good with terrific lighting and shadowing which elevates the atmosphere of the 
 game. The character models are good and the necromorphs are hideously designed, perfect.
  
  The sound is the best technical aspect of the game, there isn't much of a soundtrack as it is a 
 survival horror game, but the environmental sounds does all the work to scare you s***less. Amazing 
 sound system, it gives you shivers when a person or something screams and you can hear it crawling 
 in the vents. Dead Space has the best atmospheric sound of all games in 2007.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about the game is I guess the story isn't all that great, in fact 
 I bet many of you will completely ignore it. Also it could have used some sort of a multiplayer 
 last standing mode where you and a friend could fend off a never ending group of necromorphs.
 
  
  Solid game, if you are into third person shooter or horror. You definitely shouldn't miss out on 
 one of the sleeper hits of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, it should be said that I started my play-through on an assumption that this game would just 
 be disappointing... as I'm not a big space or sci-fi guy anyway.
  But that's the thing with great games... even if you may not be a big fan of idea, if a game delivers 
 like Dead Space, you are hooked right in.
  Part of the hooking process is the countless monsters popping up and rushing towards you, jumping 
 on you, shooting projectiles at you and huge tentacles pulling you through hallways. Bam, you're 
 in the game now.
  Dead Space reminds me a lot of Resident Evil 4, with the targeting system working very similarly, 
 and most of the enemies preferring to run up to you and bite you rather than sitting from afar 
 and firing at you. Just like Res 4, you are allowed multiple play throughs, which gives you at 
 least another reason to play through the game and get all the upgrades (and the corresponding trophy)
 
  
  The boss fights, though few and far between, are for the most part exciting, although they could 
 be a bit more challenging.
  
  If you get anything from the ramblings above, it's that you should definitely consider playing 
 through Dead Space. While not as scary as a game like F. E. A. R., it does get your heart pumping 
 and forces you to survive with often low ammo and low health from the variety of challenging enemies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I started to play this game without thinking how great this game could be.
  
  I recommend watch the movie Dead space before playing this game, believe me they have great connection 
 each other.
  
  This game can be classified as a terror one. The environment, the sound, the acting make you sit 
 in the edge of your chair meanwhile you are playing it. Maybe I had the plus to play it in the 
 night when I was alone. Additionally the sound system can help you to get the whole scary potential 
 the game wants to achieve. The sound of this game in my 7.1 home theater system is great, well 
 design 360 sound environment makes me feel if I were there in Ishimura trying to survive from 
 the monsters.
  
  Even though the enviroment is always in a ship they try to make it different level to level.
 
  
  I think it is short enough. This kind of game should not be last long.
  
  I felt involving in the storyline of the game.
  
  This game was the unexpected great game I 
 didn't think it could be. I highly recommend this game to everyone to want to chance the classical 
 shooter mode. You won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:47 am PT
Review:  Some people liked it, some didn't while the others were like "Hmm??... Aaaahhh!!... not again... Aaaaaahhh! 
 Jeez! Stop following me." As for me, I think Dead Space matches and even beats Resident Evil 4 
 : Wii Edition, RE4 was awesome. People who didn't like it believe it's a pale RE4 or even the Resident 
 Evil series. Compared to RE4, Dead Space was actually scary because of the lightning effects but 
 it was sometime predictable. AHow can you say that RE4 was scary, it was way too easy and on the 
 hardest mode a little bit normal. In Dead Space, you actual fight against infected dead bodies, 
 as for RE4, you fight against some infected spanish angry farmers (Whooo! That's scary.) The Equip 
 Menu sure is different from RE4. In RE4, Ii sure makes your life easier when you can stop the game 
 to check your inventory, but it makes the game less scary due to the fact that it reduce the stress. 
 As for Dead Space, everything you need know (Lifebar, Stasis power, Inventory, Map) are included 
 within the character spacesuit, which makes the mission look more real and more scary, cause you 
 don't have time to choose or even think about what you need and in real life, you shouldn't have 
 the time to think. Anyway, it's time to get back to the review.
  
  
  The Story
  Sent on a rescue mission on a mining station, that's what the crew thought when they arrived there. 
 As soon as they get near of it, the problems are starting. When they try to run a diagnostic of 
 the ship's state everything is broken or not working properly. That's when their problems gets 
 to worse to nightmarish. That's when you realize that running does take some courage when you crazy 
 angry monsters dashing at you trying to rip you apart. As get through the game, you'll find out 
 that these monsters are not only monsters or even aliens and that there's still somebody on board 
 who's responsible for all of the deads. Also, as you get through the chapters, the survivors of 
 your crew and you will do anything to get this ship back to work in order to get out of here. Pretty 
 simple, uh! That's how it seemed. It's a complex story but enough interesting to be understandable. 
 The voice acting was so-so and seems a little bit emotion less. Anyway, in overall, the story was 
 interesting to the point where it can be totally immersive.
  
  The Gameplay
  The most easy gameplay... why? cause through the first 30 minutes, the producer of the games made 
 everything to make you understand that there was only one way to get rid of these monsters... CUT 
 OFF THEIR LIMBS!! CUT... OFF... THEIR... LIMBS!! Wasn't it clear enough? Why are you even complaining 
 about that? Why do you think it doesn't make sense to cut their head off and that they continue 
 to follow you? If you really have played at RE4, one of the monster was actually invincible unless 
 you killed the monster it was carrying within him. I think that's how the things were working in 
 Dead Space. Without limbs, what would a monster do against you? Anyway, in general, the gameplay 
 was just great.
  
  The Sound & Visual Aspect
  This is where all of the Horror part takes place. They are the things that makes so creepy and 
 so immersive. The lightning and shadows and the environment's sound are so great that they can 
 give you the scare of your life every second you play. In overall, these elements are just simply 
 awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuilSSJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  History: Set in the 26th century, Dead Space revolves around Isaac Clarke, a space engineer who 
 works for the Concordance Extraction Corporation, a company that operates giant mining ships throughout 
 the galaxy. When the C. E. C. receives a distress call from the USG Ishimura, Isaac and four other 
 C. E. C. employees set out on the USG Kellion to rendezvous with the Ishimura in orbit above Aegis 
 7. Isaac is first shown watching a video from his girlfriend Nicole, who is a member of the Ishimura 
 crew. Their assumption is that a mechanical failure is the only problem. While attempting to dock 
 with the Ishimura, the Kellion crashes and is badly damaged. While investigating the Ishimura, looking 
 for a way to repair the Kellion, Isaac and the rest of the crew are separated when they are unexpectedly 
 attacked by a Necromorph. The security members and pilot of the Kellion are quickly killed off, 
 leaving only Zach Hammond, Kendra Daniels and Isaac. It soon becomes clear that most, if not all, 
 of the Ishimura's crew are dead, or have been converted into Necromorphs. The Kellion is then completely 
 destroyed and Hammond, Kendra and Isaac begin looking for alternative escape methods.
  
  GamePlay: The player takes the role of Isaac Clarke an engineer who must fight his way through a 
 stricken mining ship infested by the Corruption, a hostile, virus-like, free-roaming alien DNA 
 with the ability to reanimate the bodies of the dead, turning them into grotesque monstrosities 
 called Necromorphs. The game features an 'over the shoulder' third-person perspective, similar to 
 games Resident Evil 4, Dark Sector.
  Zero gravity and decompressed environments also appear in Dead Space, and Isaac can navigate through 
 them using his pressurized suit and magnetic boots. Some levels even lead out onto the surface 
 of the ship's hull. Floating debris presents a hazard, however, and Isaac can lose his footing 
 and simply float off into space. [6] Isaac's suit also has a limited amount of air while in airless 
 environments, which can cause him to suffocate, forcing the player to move faster when in these 
 situations. In keeping with Isaac's profession as an engineer rather than a soldier, weapons in 
 the game are mostly improvised from mining tools, such as a plasma cutter, a hydrazine torch used 
 as a flamethrower, and a force cannon emitting powerful shock waves, although a triple-barreled 
 automatic military rifle is also available. Stasis can be used in the game to slow down enemies 
 and objects temporarily, and a kinesis module allows Isaac to pick up and throw items. Text, audio 
 and video logs can be found throughout the game which serve to explain some of the game's plot.
 
  Characters:
  Isaac Clarke - The main character and protagonist of the game. Isaac is a system ship specialist 
 and an engineer traveling aboard the shuttle Kellion to investigate and repair the USG Ishimura, 
 accompanied by three security personnel and a computer specialist.
  Kendra Daniels - Kendra is a technologist and part of the team sent aboard the Ishimura to repair 
 communication systems. She helps the player through the Ishimura in many ways, giving directions 
 and assisting through areas of the ship that would otherwise be inaccessible.
  Zach Hammond - The senior security officer on board the Kellion who travels with both Isaac and 
 Kendra to the Ishimura. Hammond's initial desire to complete the original mission and not immediately 
 abort puts him at odds with Kendra, who finds this suspicious.
  
  this game dont have cutscenes and online game but is very long
  and the graphics are exelent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really into space stuff and aliens (except for Starwars) , didn't thought that I'd buy this 
 game and eventually like it a lot. It made me curious and interested by hearing good things about 
 it and watching reviews and gameplay videos of the game, plus it also got good scores in almost 
 all the reviews. It's environment is indeed creepy and eerie, also the sound. It has good upgradable 
 weapons and suits which are very much of a necessity in fighting against these monsters that are 
 to be dismembered or else they'll continue to get to you, coz the basic weapons wouldn't take them 
 out in one shot. The monsters are darn fast, thanks to the help of the stasis that slows 'em down 
 and get a shot from a distance, but you'll get freaked out sometimes coz they're already behind 
 your back! You really have to sever their arms and limbs and then stomp them to death, or else 
 they won't stop from coming at you! This is a great game! It has quite a decent scare! It's a scary 
 experience. Don't think twice about getting this game! Get it now if you don't have it yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafita619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Woow it is a survival-horror game Very impressive meeting the kind (genre) of horror in the space 
 with great blood, excellent graphs and easy manners d very interesting game. 
  
  In the bold and often-bloody Dead Space gamers step into a third-person sci-fi survival horror 
 experience that delivers psychological thrills and gruesome action. Set in the cold blackness of 
 deep space, the atmosphere is soaked with a feeling of tension, dread and sheer terror. In Dead 
 Space, players step into the role of engineer Isaac Clarke  an ordinary man on a seemingly routine 
 mission to fix the communications systems aboard a deep space mining ship. It is not long before 
 Isaac awakes to a living nightmare when he learns that the ship's crew has been ravaged by a vicious 
 alien infestation. He must fight through the dead silence and darkness of deep space to stay alive. 
 [Electronic Arts] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _daystealer_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was one of the best survival horror games I've ever played. While playing it I remembered 
 when i first got Resident Evil 2 and all the hour I poured into playing (and replaying) that classic 
 title. The game implements any information you need right into your gear. All the info whether 
 it be health, Stasis, or ammo can be read by looking at the corresponding gauge or readout. This 
 draws a player into the game world as there are no floating or static numbers at the edges fo the 
 screen. Combat in some survival horror games can absolutely turn an otherwise excellent game into 
 just an ok one. That is not a problem in Dead Space as combat controls are tight and responsive. 
 You are presented with many unique weapons to blast your enemies to bits. Who needs a shotgun when 
 you can just use the Ripper. The story, while not epic, is better than average. One complaint I 
 did have was that the text logs were very hard to read (a zoom in/out feature would have helped 
 here) . The graphics were amazing. Of special note are when you are outside the ship, the lighting 
 from the nearby star and floating debris is just awesome. Extra modes and unlockables add to the 
 games replayability. If you are a fan of survival horror or action you should definitely check 
 out Dead Space.
  
  Worth Renting? YES
  Worth buying at discount price? YES
  Worth buying at brand new price? YES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHECKTHISTA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  Hey guys, welcome to my personal review of DEAD SPACE.
  
  First of all, there were alot of good games coming out in 2008.
  
  For example: 
  -Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots
  -Gears Of War 2
  -Fable 2
  -Far Cry 2
  -Resistance 2 (Lots of "2"'s huh? ^^)
  -Bioshock (for PS3)
  
  Sorry if i don't mention more.
 
  For me, this would have been the year that would have considered to be the year of MGS4... but 
 that was about the time I didn't played DEAD SPACE.
  
  I must admit that i would take DEAD SPACE for me as the game of the year. I'am pretty big fan of 
 horror games and since i played DOOM3 i was never that thrilled by a game out of that genre.
  
  This game truly is one of the most terrifying games on the market.
  
  So now to part everyone 
 is waiting for ;)
  
  Objectively told:
  
  ++THE GOOD++
  - Stunning Graphics
  - SUPER S atmospheric
  - Very good controls
  - VERY MUCH of innovations in there:
  ~ The 
 inventory is COMPLETELY in 3D and embedded in the game
  ~ "Zero-G" environments where is NO gravity
  ~ The 
  ~ Innovative 
 way of scaring folks just by sound
  ~ A great method to upgrade your equipment
  ~ Using the objects in your environment as weapon (or even parts of the enemies) by lifting and 
 throwing them with your "Kenesis-Module" (like the Gravity-Gun from "Half Life 2")
  ~ Good variety of Weapons
  
  
  ++THE BAD++
  - Some minor clipping issues
  - No Cutscenes, 
 you always look over Isaacs shoulders
  
  Overall there aren't much bad thing about this game.
  
  
  I hope my review could give you 
 better image of the game and i'am glad if i could be of a help for you ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an extremely environmental game. Right when you start it up you get lost in the beauty 
 and the depth of the environment around you. With the eerie music/noises going on around you it 
 really sets up a very "on edge" gaming experience. This game also has no breaks from that constant 
 on edge feeling, the menu screen is done in game, informational cut scenes are done in real time 
 and even using the shop is done in real time and you are always in danger of being attacked. So 
 there is never a break from the tension and constant fear that something could get you at any time. 
 This really nailed it home for me. One of the first games I've ever played that really gave you 
 a sense of terror all throughout the game. 
  
  The battle mechanics worked fine for the game. Extremely similar to Resident Evil 4 mechanics. 
 You switch weapons on the fly similar to Gears Of War and being able to upgrade the weapons throughout 
 the game was a nice touch. The weapons were highly innovative and very exciting to explore.
  
  Everything about this game was truly a masterpiece. A truly terrifying game that was fun to 
 the very end. The trophy system also keeps you playing which is always a plus with these type of 
 games. I would recommend this game to anyone that enjoys horror movies and shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper32311
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  To get the full effect of this game you should turn up your speakers, wait to play it until dark, 
 and sit close to the screen. I did this when i played and i got so scared but it is not for the 
 faint-heart ed so don't sit too close if you are. I played this game at least 5 or 6 times through 
 and i still enjoy playing it so it is worth the 60$ or rent it from gamefly and buy it but you 
 have to get it because this is a one of a kind game. Silent hill was good but they just keep getting 
 worse because they aren't like the second or third one. But you and dead space will click together 
 and you will enjoy this years from now because they dont really come out with games like this. Hope 
 this review helps see you later. Oh and you should also buy the downloadable content because it 
 will help you to get the trophys like beat the game on veteran so take that into consideration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archangel_hp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game plays pretty much straight forward. You start the game as Isaac Clarke, and engineer 
 who's also a very well trained killing machine that is trapped in an old spaceship full of mutants. 
 In the beginning of the game the story seems pretty simple: they send you to a mission that gets 
 awry, you find that you are not alone in there (it's contagious!) and there's the feeling that 
 someone is going to betray you to get something out of it (something like the screen adaptation 
 of Doom) . However, as the game progresses the story gets more and more interesting (I personally 
 believe that the ending was really good) . The graphics are great. They help to create the gruesome 
 atmosphere that characterizes this game. Some of the human models look a little bit flat (well, 
 compared to games like MGS4 at least) , but that the least of your concerns since your favorite 
 companions are going to be the necromorphs that you will encounter the whole game (enemy design 
 is great) . The action is really good; every time you get ambushed by the enemies you are really 
 into some fun. The only drawback I found of this game is that the game gets a little bit too hard 
 sometimes, but nothing that enough practice won't solve. I really recommend this game to anyone 
 that enjoys the survival horror genre, and I hope that EA will keep making games this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  I spent 18 hours on this game. It took me about three days to beat it. And basically, there is 
 one thing that I have realized. All other typical survivol horror action adventures, Resident Evil, 
 Silent Hill, House of the Dead... every other survivol horror game seems lame when compared to 
 this game. Dead Space is different than all other games in its genre. EA has combined Sci-fi, shooting, 
 horror survivol, and action adventure all in one single masterpiece and they have done it so successfully 
 that.. well, I dont have enough words to describe it. All I can say is that Dead Spae sets the 
 standard for more upcoming games in that genre to follow. 
  
  The game features a deadly, immersive, compelling and an inmnovative story that sucks you in from 
 the very beginning and forces you to play through the entire campaign, no matter how much you pee 
 in your pants. And the story is made even more masterful when it is conveyed via beautifully crafted 
 cutscenes. 
  
  This game features Isaac as the protagonist. Isaac is an engineer. He is on a ship that is overloaded 
 with deadly mutated monsters called Necromorphs and has to do several things at once- save his 
 butt. Re-unite with Nicole, and fix athe ship as it travels through space. 
  
  The sound of the game, horrifying yet beautiful, is the most bone chilling, blood curdling sound 
 I have ever heard in a long time. The shrieks of the victimc of the Necromorphs, the distant haunting 
 songs of the mentally unballanced survivors, the clanging inside the ventelation shafts, which 
 the Necromorphs use as a travelling system and from where they attack at us and catch us unawares, 
 the muffled voices and our high pitched breathing and groaning in vaccum, the distant shrieks of 
 the Necromorphs.... always, throughout the game, there is a horrifying sound to be heard... the 
 sound is done so beautifully, that Resident Evil's sound sounds lame (but, well, I have made that 
 point clear, haven't I?) .
  
  The graphics of the game too are terrifying yet brilliantly crafted. From engineering to hydroponics 
 and beyond, Dead Space never fails to impress with its visuals. Whether you're watching the torrential 
 rainfall of asteroids across the hull of the Ishimura from the bridge atrium or witnessing the 
 way a corpse spins serenely in a zero-g vacuum, the haunting yet beautiful graphics of Dead Space 
 have a way of sticking in your mind long after you've quit playing. 
  
  Semi-interactive cutscenes such as the one in which your team's rescue ship explodes within the 
 Ishimura docking bay simply must be seen firsthand, and the tremendous lighting and environmental 
 effects lay the groundwork for an intense horror adventure. 
  
  You know this game is different when you see that there is no health bar or ammo bar o be founf 
 on the screen. All you have to do to have a look at the health bar is look at the spine of your 
 character. The health bar is to be found there. And to have a look at the ammo bar, all you gotta 
 do is simply check the display readout visible whenever you raise it into the ready position. 
 
  
  Throughout the game you find health upgrades, ammo upgrades, many new weapons and a lot more. Two 
 new weapons in this game that will always deserve a mention anywhere are the kinesis and stasis. 
 
  
  Stasis, a finite resource that must be replenished at recharge stations across the ship or with 
 booster packs, allows you to temporarily slow down fast-moving objects, while kinesis gives you 
 the ability to lift, move, and throw objects in the environment at no cost. Each can be used independently 
 or in tandem to solve puzzles or navigate the ship, and each has useful battle applications as 
 well. 
  
  For instance, stasis can be used to virtually stop incredibly fast-moving Necromorphs and give 
 you the time to tear them limb from limb, and kinesis can be used to throw explosive canisters 
 or even severed extremities to conserve ammunition. 
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to this: Dead Space is a spectacular game and a lot of work and labour 
 has been put in to masterfully craft this game- and it shows. Dead Space is the best Horror game 
 I've ever played and is probably oneof the best games one can find on his PS3 or X360. If you haven't 
 bought this game, go out there and buy it right now. If you dont, you're missing out on one heck 
 of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fissurestriker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  this game has been highly anticipated and it was worth the wait. the story is a bit short but fantasticly 
 put together. this may be seen as a hack and slash game (which it contains ingredients of) but 
 its much more than that. the ingame camera it uses is the over the right shoulder which has become 
 very popular and loads of trophies to collect. the gore is very good and this game is so fun and 
 has impressive replay value. you can purchase suits and gun upgrades from the psn store which will 
 make it easier and you can do that in game with suits already avaliable. this game was expected 
 to be game of the year for good reason and i think it beats gears of war BY MILES and even though 
 it has no online play WHO CARES!!!! its so fun it doesnt need it. i mean you can cut off monsters 
 limbs which has to be done to kill them and who doesnt love a horor game like that, eh!!! i give 
 this 10 out of 10 and there is absolutely nothing in it that is dissapointing (please EA make a 
 sequel !!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I have played through lots of survivor horror games, and Dead Space is my favorite. The game is 
 fantastic. It can be very scary at times, but only if you let it draw you in (as with any game) 
 , and Dead Space does this well.
  
  This is what makes the game: Sound Design. The sound was done so well in this game... It will drive 
 you crazy. As you play through the game exploring the ship the variety and quality of all audio 
 is astounding. From the sounds of the necromorphs to random ping pangs of the ship, the audio is 
 what keeps you on edge throughout the game.
  
  The graphical presentation is also very well done. Issac is very detailed as are his weapons. Some 
 creative thought really went into the design of the weapons and how they function. Environments 
 and enemies look fantastic. As you progress through the game there are subtle differences, like 
 more flesh on the walls and floor, that really make you feel you are dipping deeper into hell, 
 or in this case a hellhole ship. There were a few instances where the graphics did disappoint a 
 little, small things like supporting character models being less detailed, but nothing too noticeable. 
 
  
  The game plays extremely well. The controls feel clunky at first, but you quickly get the hang 
 of it and start bustin' necromorph ass.
  Dead Space plays similar to Resident Evil 4, but better, everything seemed to be more tight and 
 responsive once you get going. The game is as long as I expected, between 10 to 15 hours depending 
 on skill and difficulty. You do get cool unlocks once you beat it if you want to play through again 
 (only on the same difficulty though) .
  
  The story is great. I downloaded the free prequel comics from PSN and watched them, as well as 
 the prequel Dead Space: Downfall blu-ray movie before playing the game. They set up the backstory 
 and reveal some things that would not have made sense by playing the game alone. I would recommend 
 doing the same before playing the game.
  
  Dead Space is a fantastic NEW survivor horror game. It feels good to play a fresh game. Sequels 
 are great (Dead Space 2 is probably in the works) , but having an all new, scary, great game to 
 play feels good. Play Dead Space!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYEboi50
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  It is really scary. I will admit that. But I bought this game for the action I saw in trailers 
 and gameplay videos. Isaac Clarke just looked to beastly not to lay as a main character with. For 
 me it took a while to beat this game. Why? Because I was in awe... and to get over some scares. 
 (Thanks gamespot for the gameguide.)
  
  The story is killer. Well after all the interviews and trailers, you say to yourself "Well... what 
 type of plot twist could their be to survivng an ordeal in the far reaches of space?" Well I will 
 answer this. In the game you don't know who is friend or foe apon your "crew mates" of the USG 
 Kellion ( The ship you arrive on into the Ishimura in) . But yes the story has a few twists. The 
 biggest are towards the end. It'll be a while, but it's worth the wait for the gruesome ending 
 of the game. Whether you survive or not, that's for ppl that beat the game to know and for any 
 of you reading this to find out.
  
  The gameplay is outright brutal. Limb from bloody limb is how you will dismember the necromorphs. 
 Each has a faster way of dying, by ripping off tentacals or just going straight for the legs. The 
 gameplay is extremely & completely immersive. After you put the controller down to get back to 
 your life the subtle noises will keep you paranoid if you were playing in the darkness of your 
 own home. If your alone that is (was for me) . If ripping necromorphs isn't enough to quench your 
 thirst for awesome beatings then let them kill you for a chance. The death scenes in this game 
 are awesome. The missions are a bit repetitive. But, hey what did you excpect. You are Isaac Clarke. 
 A bad@$$ repair man. Other than that they actually do have some varied missions where you would 
 have to move around satilites to get a comm ray going. Or you may have to step out into the vaccums 
 of space just to release an asteroid with an S. O. S beacon. Great Gameplay. Strategic Dismemberment 
 is nice. You must completely dismember or the won't stop coming.
  
  The sound effects and music make you scared out of your mind. This is what basically this game 
 keeps you scared with. To the awkward silences that scare you to the epic music with mind blowing 
 realistic sound at the game's ending, Dead Space will keep you coming back to the many decks of 
 the Ishimura. 
  
  Oh yeah the graphics. Best I've seen since ever. Great lighting. Not much to say here. Just make 
 sure you set the adjustment on your T. V. the best possible because these are jaw-dropping graphics.
 
  
  And the dlc could've been like some unlockables in the game instead of for actual money. But ah, 
 who cares.
  
  All in all, Dead Space was a perfect game to me. I give it a 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingJbc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The best survival horror game around with loads of dark corridors with flickering lights which 
 make you think what's lurking around each corner or even behind you!!! This game has it all from 
 terrifying sounds, amazing gameplay, superb visuals and a creepy and unexpected storyline which leaves 
 you on the edge of your seat and your always wanting more. I highly recommend this game to any one 
 who like survival horror games, shooters, horror fans or people that just likes gaming on the edge! 
 Even when you finish this game you'll want to try finish it again and again its such an addictive 
 game!! It also has 49 trophies which means you can have lots of fun while collecting some trophies 
 and because it has trophies it also makes you want to get them all so you want to play it even 
 more!!
  
  Gameplay- 9.5/10
  Graphics- 10/10
  Sound- 10/10
  Singleplayer- 10/10
  Multiplayer- Doesn't have one
  Overall- 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  EA is usually known for Need for Speed, Fifa and so on, it's usually a family friendly company 
 but lately they've begun to make other titles that aren't family friendly. Such is Dead Space, 
 EA's first survival horror game. Will it fare just as well as Konami's first survival horror effort 
 with Silent Hill, or is this a game that should die in space?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You play as Isaac, he's part of a small time sent to the spaceship USG Ishimura to fix some communication 
 problems the ships has been having, while looking for his wife. However something is wrong with 
 Ishimura, monsters (called Necromorphs) have taken over the ship and killed almost everyone on 
 the ship. The story is clich and predictable, so there's nothing new here. Furthermore Isaac never 
 says anything, so liking him is completely impossible, it ruins a few key moments in the game, 
 particular one twist is surprising, which is ruined by the lack of feelings for Isaac. Additionally 
 you can analyze each of the chapter names to make out a small sentence. The story is told in-game 
 and around the level are audio logs and text logs scattered, which does a good job with the creepy 
 atmosphere. It should be noted however, that the story is a homage to the science-fiction movie 
 Solaris.
  
  5.5
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 gameplay is a mix of Resident Evil 4, the camera is placed behind you, so there's no camera trouble 
 you'll run into here. It's typical survival horror, you run around collecting important items that 
 advance the plot, and shoot monsters. The monsters (Necromorphs) aren't like normal monsters however, 
 if you shoot their heads they won't die and will sometimes become even stronger, no you have to 
 cut off their limbs. It's a nice change and it's really fun cutting off their limbs, the weapons 
 are designed with this in mind too. The game also has a store, where you can buy items and you 
 collect power nodes which you can use to unlock certain doors or upgrade weapons. You'll also get 
 a stasis device which can slow down certain objects and enemies, and kinesis, which can move objects, 
 both of these things can be upgraded as well. There are also zero gravity sections, where you can 
 jump all around the place, these sections are really fun to play, especially those that are in 
 space. There's also sections where you have to hurry because some rooms doesn't have any oxygen, 
 but it's somewhat made easier by having oxygen stations around the rooms.
  
  There's not really any hub in the game, stasis and health gauge are displayed on the back of Isaac's 
 suit and the ammo counter are displayed when you pull a weapon. Granted you can open the inventory, 
 it doesn't stop the game, but you rarely need to open it, considering there's a button to use health 
 packs and you can switch weapons with the d-pad.
  
  If there's a few complaints, then it's the fact that towards the end, the game becomes predictable, 
 it's easy to figure out which rooms are gonna be put under quarantine, which enemies will appear 
 and so on. There's even a part where your chased by a monster that keeps regenerating itself. Dispite 
 killing it once, you still have to deal with it twice, which is really annoying. I guess you can 
 saw that it becomes repetitive towards the end and a bit tiring. That and I always found lots of 
 ammunition for most of my weapons, pretty much most of the time. The game also pulls most known 
 survival horror clich's, considering story, puzzles and so on. The way the story progresses is 
 kinda weird too, you always end up seeing people standing behind glass, talking and talking and 
 when their done they just walk away, it's like a play you'd go to see in a theater and it's a really 
 stupid way to progress the story in. Also the gameplay is a big rip-off of Resident Evil 4, but 
 it's ok, mainly because the game is fun, seriously I found it so fun that I honestly don't mind 
 playing it it through a few times, it's fun to explore the ship and fun to just blast off everyone's 
 limbs.
  
  The game also has a great atmosphere, the game is mostly dark, but there's the right amount of 
 scary noises and even crazy survivors that commit suicide, it's a scary game, really scary and 
 the enemies are so disgusting, that their even more scary. One nice addition is that the enemies 
 will sometime play dead in order to fool you; unfortunately it does get old the longer you get 
 in the game and stops being scary.
  
  The game has 12 chapters, which roughly takes around 10-12 hours to complete, good length, but 
 there's not a lot off extras to unlock so replay value is mainly set in the achievement/trophies 
 the game has.
  
  8.5
  
  Graphics
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 graphics are really beautiful, the character looks nice and the environments are good looking too. 
 The highlights are when you're in space or even in areas that has a hole to the space, it looks 
 beautiful. Granted though there is an awfully lot of violence in the game, almost everytime Isaac 
 dies, he gets some part of his body sliced off, the same goes for the enemies too. Overall it's 
 a very beautiful game and it's violent as hell. There are a few frame-rate dips, but they rarely 
 happen.
  
  10
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 sound design is good too; the background noises are really creepy and do a lot of make the game 
 scary. The voice acting does it's job well, especially for some of the scary sections of the game. 
 The music fits the atmosphere well, but sometimes it just goes crazy over nothing, it's just weird.
 
  
  9.0
  
  Overall
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dead 
 Space is a surprisingly good game, even more surprisingly scary. Sure we all know it was a horror 
 game from the moment it was announced, but it's EA's first horror game, so that's a surprise. It's 
 just a shame the gameplay get's repetitive and predictable near the end and that the story is very, 
 very crappy. However it is very fun so I don't mind going through the game a few times, and since 
 it's so fun to kill enemies, you might as well call the ship the USS Kill Beast Buffet. (Yea I 
 know Ben "Yahtzee" Croshaw aka. Zero Punctuation said that, but it's a hilarious name nevertheless.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wafflezorz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game with a difficultly ranging from easy to really really hard. It has an interesting 
 story that really captivated me, it felt apart of it. The variety of enemies is fun and allows 
 for surprises all of the time. The item customization also allows for a large variety in game play 
 strategies and tactics. Overall it is a varied game that is for those who can stand to be hopped 
 up on adrenaline while playing. Gotta love the crazy lighting and sound effects that come bumping 
 through the entire thing. I'm hoping that a second dead space is coming soon, i cant wait to dismember 
 some more necromorphs next time. The gamesplay is smooth and the menus feel like actual parts of 
 the deadspace world, not forced gameplay mechanics that are needed for a game to run well. Hopefully 
 if a second is done they will keep many of the very well done menus and cinematic like scenes that 
 feel oh so real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Forget the genre, forget the arguments over whether the game is "scary enough." Dead Space is an 
 amazing game. 
  
  Often, when games get lumped into that "horror genre," they are only judged based upon the ability-to-scare 
 you aspect. Unfortunately, being scared is up to the individual playing the game, and there is 
 no subjective way to judge that, so many great games get screwed because they weren't "scary enough."
 
  
  Has Dead Space scared me? Absolutely. But that's not it's A+ game.
  
  Dead Space shines where most games don't: it combines a great atmospheric experience, innovative 
 gameplay, immersive gameplay- even little touches that just seem to make sense.
  
  For example, they have computerized stores to purchase equipment and upgrades throughout the game. 
 This could've been a black eye spot in the game- after all, you're examining a seemingly abandoned 
 spaceship for crying out loud. How could there be shops?
  
  Most games would just dump a shop in the game and let you stew over that oversight. Dead Space 
 brings a technical, computerized aspect to the shops so they are not only plausible, but appealing. 
 It's the little things that really matter.
  
  This may be one of a handful of games where the first weapon you're given actually has a measure 
 of interestingness to it. Little things.
  
  As for the big things, they're certainly there. The visuals are superb, sound is amazing. Nothing 
 like walking through a dark room with a flickering light giving a strobe effect, litter and gore 
 strewn about on the ground.
  
  Zero gravity sequences? Frickin' awesome.
  
  The controls are very good, the view is over the should perspective (not quite first person, not 
 quite third. 1.5 person?) It works well, with the lack of Heads Up Display (HUD) . You pull you're 
 weapon up to check your ammo, you're bio-suit shows level of damage done to you. I find this far 
 preferable to invisible HUDS that only show your healt damage done by flashes of red on the screen. 
 What's that all about anyway?
  
  As for why I don't give it a higher score, my criticisms are minimal but are there:
  
  In some 
 cases, the over the shoulder view is cumbersome in fight sequences. It's a bit difficult to see 
 enemies approaching from blind areas and can block out sequences that happen rapidly, such as an 
 enemy dashing behind a wall.
  
  Some of the monsters are less scary than silly looking on close inspection.
  
  Dead Space is 
 a microtransaction game. Some of the "cooler," weapons and skins are stored away on the Playstation 
 Network, available for $1-3 each. In one instance "better graphics" are available for the flamethrower 
 and another weapon, but must be purchased. This is abominable, in my opinion. At the price paid 
 for a new game, these extra transactions just seem wrong. If the game price were reduced, I might 
 be a bit more inclined to go along with this idea.
  
  As it is however, I can only give it a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:47 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Space you play as a futuristic engineer named Isaac Clarke. His mission was a rather simple 
 one; accompany the crew of the shuttle Kellion to make repairs on the USG Ishimura. His simple 
 repair mission soon turns into disaster. Something has happened to the crew members of the Ishimura. 
 Many of them have been torn from limb to limb, and those that have survived have turned into horrible 
 monstrosities called Necromorphs. What begins as a repair mission soon turns into a fight for survival 
 for Isaac Clarke. Dead Space's plot was interesting but sometimes hard to follow. When I was approaching 
 the end of the game many important story elements began to be unraveled, the only problem was that 
 I had no idea why those key points were even important. Ironic huh? I actually had to look up online 
 what had happened in the game, I know I'm pretty sad. Those of you that can follow and understand 
 the plot may find themselves enjoying one good videogame story.
  
  Dead Space is a third person survival horror shooter. What really impressed me about this game 
 was that there was no heads up display on the screen whatsoever. Information concerning ammo, life, 
 etc. is all attached to the Isaac's back. This in effect gave Dead Space a more cinematic experience 
 and was more engrossing in my opinion. There are varieties of weapons you can choose from within 
 your arsenal such as the classic flamethrower for those toasty evenings, or the side splitting 
 fun of the ripper blade. The only problem is that weapons are no good if the person wielding them 
 doesn't know how to use them. Headshots are about as useful as a wad of paper. Necromorphs are 
 not zombies, and shooting them in the head is just like tickling them. If you want to conserve 
 ammo, and actually survive then strategic dismemberment is the way to go. Shooting off the monsters' 
 limbs is the only way to kill them quickly and effectively, not mention it's incredibly fun. You 
 can also upgrade your weapons and your armor by spending money which you get by killing Necromorphs 
 and selling items you don't need. Dead Space takes the typical elements of horror game and brings 
 them to a whole new level. 
  
  I'm just going to put it out there; Dead Space is an incredibly GORY game. Everywhere I turned 
 there were severed arms, dismembered limbs, rotting bodies; this game is just disgusting and sick 
 (it's not necessarily a bad thing) . Those of you with a weak stomach may find it hard to hold down 
 your last meal. The atmosphere in the game is as intense as it gets. Great lighting effects, walls 
 and floors tainted with blood, monsters that jump at you from out of nowhere, dark and creepy corridors, 
 this all adds up to provide an experience that will not only impress you but also scare the living 
 (insert word here) out of you. The necromorphs are just disgusting; they look like something that 
 crawled from the deepest part of the underworld. Graphics wise, Dead Space does not disappoint. 
 
  
  The sound design is absolutely phenomenal. I can't really put it into words but I'll try. When 
 you are walking down a deep dark corridor and all you can hear is screaming and wall pounding off 
 in the distance, paranoia will strike. The sounds you hear in the game are something to fear entirely. 
 Windows and doors that break open suddenly are some of the few sound effects that can and will 
 make you jump like a terrified kangaroo. Just know that if the sound design doesn't make you shutter 
 even once, then you should check if you're even human, you might be a necromorph hahahaha! 
  
  Overall: Dead Space delivers a horrific experience that many games try to accomplish but fail 
 utterly in the end. With unique gameplay elements, terrifying creatures, and superb yet horrifying 
 level and sound designs, Dead Space is an experience you don't want to miss out on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4bd3r3k
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of the Creatures from Resident Evil, the Scares from FEAR, the excellent boss battles 
 from God of War, the graphics from Metal Gear Solid 4, or the shooting mechanic from Uncharted, 
 buy this game. This game has it all, action/adventure, drama, suspense, horror, everything EA needed 
 to make a extremely original game, the game characters think theres a minor problem with an asteroid 
 mining spaceship, Called the Ishimura, but find out it was a huge problem for the old attendants, 
 and a hell of problem for them. the story is very well written, the graphics are VERY-well-rounded, 
 and the enemies are as different as night and day. the Trophies (or achievements) are relatively 
 easy to obtain, all you need to do is beat the game, then again on impossible and you should have 
 gotten them all, thats what i did (i suggest you beat it on easy first to get the ONE GUN trophy 
 with ease, then load your cleared saved game to get the MAXED OUT trophy because guns are easier 
 to upgrade on easier difficulties) . so if your a gamer of any kind, buy or rent this game ASAP 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, another game that uses part of the PS3 machinery to bring us a really good game. Dead Space 
 is great, due to the sci-fi formula of creating a terror driven atmosphere with Resident Evil 4 
 gameplay. Outstanding, to say the least, plus all the game effects and such, bring light to this 
 game. Now, on regards to the story, it's your typical Alien movie storyline... in the end it might 
 fickle into a B-movie story, but it's totally valid with all the action going on screen.
  
  Graphics really enhance the experience of this game... from the bloody intestines, to the foot smash 
 on dead mutants, to the horror of the morgue, the graphics are top notch.
  
  The gameplay is as easly summed in 2 letter and a number, RE4. If you played Resident Evil 4, this 
 game is like using a bicycle. Response is great and the dismemberment always adds fun to the game... once 
 you play you will understand, please don't think am a sociopath, jajaja!
  
  And for the bad of the game... well it's the weapons and the main character
  
  This game brings 
 an interesting topics to the table.. Why don't our armed forces use power tools instead of actual 
 weapons? 
  
  Yup, the plasma shooter is like a machine gun right, you can shoot rounds onto the freaks, one 
 problem though... it only scratches their belly. On the other hand the power tools, let's say the 
 Plasma Cutter, is totally effective and bad arse. So to answer the question, giving our armed forces 
 power tools instead of guns, actually would be more cost effective and far more deadlier... this 
 game is proof. Sorry for the sarcasm, but i had to do it.
  
  And our hero is an engineer, how come he's so deadly? this dude has assassins blood all over his 
 veins. He never hesitates to hack the living crap out of the monsters... but he's just an engineer. 
 That somehow takes away, part of the fear factor and turns the game more into an action/horror 
 game, that you immediately relate to Resident Evil 4. On RE4 the main character, leon kennedy is 
 a trained soldier... and still has a really tough time during the game, trying to grasp the stingy 
 situtation he's in. Isaak on Dead Space, is absolutely calm. So calm, that once you get the hang 
 of the combat controls, you simply storm forward to fight the evil meanies. Not only that, Isaak 
 still has to fight his way around the ship itself, which is about to go down. But Isaak is stone 
 cold. Man, I wanna be an engineer!!
  
  So in other words, Isaaks attitude hurts the stories creepy approach but at the same time, the 
 graphics, sound and atmosphere still keep the idea of it going.
  
  Besides this, still the fighting is TOTALLY FUN! the game is totally great and it will keep you 
 on your toes.
  
  This game is a must have... not rent, MUST HAVE! BUY! the $60 bucks are totally worth it.
  
 
  Ciao! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:27 am PT
Review:  I was surprised to see EA come out with a game that was great right off the shelf. Technically 
 speaking, its great. Solid frame rate, awe-inspiring graphics, and sound that will make you crap 
 cinder blocks. The plot is good, but gets monotonous after a while, but you wouldn't notice that 
 until you give it a second go. It lives up to its premise of being scary, but by power of surprise 
 only. Having a necromorph jump at you will scare the living day lights out of you, but then when 
 (if) you play it again you know what will happen and it looses it touch. Unless you like getting 
 all of the trophies/achievements it has close to no replay value. If you have the money and plan 
 to play this a few times over buy it, but if you just want a go-around with the story, just rent. 
 Either way anybody who loves action and horror should absolutely play this game at least once! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daffydaniel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the PS3 I was advised to get an xbox 360 because I was told the games and graphics 
 are better than the PS3............... but this game is everything you hope and wish a game should 
 be like no matter what console you get. The graphics are AWSOME, the storyline is impressive and 
 keeps the action moving, it's loaded with nailbiting suspense, it keeps you hanging on and relieved 
 when you get to the next stage or somewhere you can save your game.
  
  From the moment you start the game it is very easy and clever to follow from using the inventory 
 screen which houses the mission logs, mission objectives and the map screen....... to the way you 
 upgrade, the use of the store and exchange facility and the way the inventory screen comes up in 
 front of your character. 
  
  All together it helps makes the game addictive, fun, breathtaking, fast paced, unique ......... 
 need I carry on? I have yet to get to the end of the game but at this rate I sought of hope it 
 will never end CRACKING fun 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_gender
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:40 am PT
Review:  When I started to play this game I thought:'' Well, another shooter with some taste of action''. 
 But after 10 minutes of playing a realised that this is something new I actually experience in 
 last 10 years. Graphics in this game are so realistic that you barely feel like you are a part 
 of another horror movie where anything is unpredictable. When I took control over the player I 
 liked that 3. person view from right shoulder that I found very comfortable playing style. Sound 
 effects in this game are so brilliant and creepy, that you sometimes want to look around and make 
 sure that there is no one behind you :) . This game reminds me that horror movie ''Alien'' - difference 
 is that this time there is Isaac instead of Ripley, who has to experience all that horror that 
 happens on that space ship, bloody, gory messes and dead crew members without arms, legs, heads...
 
  In this game you are engineer named Isaac who is also working on this space ship ''Ishimura''. 
 Unexpected attack of these monsters - Necromorphs really changes everything. You and few crew members 
 are still alive and you have to find out what is happening on this space ship and where did these 
 necromorphs come from. You will be able to get new weapons and upgrades through the game because 
 these necromorphs can die only by severing their limbs or spending A LOT of ammo trying to shoot 
 them somewhere else until they die, but this is not a blind shooter game - you have to aim correctly 
 and dismember them or you will face some problems. 
  AND I FORGOT TO TELL YOU THAT THIS GAME HAS MANY SCARRRRY MOMENTS, AND I MEAN SERIOUSLY. 
  Mostly 
 monsters attack unexpectedly.
  Don't be a noob - buy this game and you won't regret it I promise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilmititis
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space was a tad bit overrated.
  The fear factor was spectacular, and how the cutscenes and story development took place was great, 
 it was a brilliant new way to go about it! That new style of game has great potential and could 
 go far to really make a game have that realistic feel. The real time cinematic feel to the game 
 was a definite bonus.
  Although, there were many complaints I have for that as well. I found it quite hard to actually 
 care for the main character, he never really took a place in the story, he was just the armor and 
 the gun. He hardly ever said anything or contributed vocally to the other characters, he didn't 
 set his place in the story, and so, it drew rather pointless looking from his direction while playing 
 the game. I liked the other characters, but he didn't strike my interests at all, and didn't help 
 to develop the story in any way.... Basically, in part from his lack of involvement vocally, the 
 story felt very watered down even though it was a good one. Meaning the whole monster, marker, 
 twists and turns toward the end thing was good, but not drawn out enough. The lack of true involvement 
 of the main character made you feel more like a catalyst for the story development, rather than 
 completely submerged into it's dark depths.
  The gameplay, I felt it was lacking, it was very limited to only aim and shoot. Don't get me wrong, 
 I LOVED the realism to the environments, how you felt the enemies were real and they were dangerous 
 and the death scenes were vivid and the camera was pretty decent in really executing the overall 
 feeling. But, there was no variety in the game, there was no difference, no spark, even if a scary 
 one to the feel of the environments. You were constantly traveling around, completing missions 
 that closely resemble the last ones completed since the beginning. You feel you are doing the same 
 thing over and over.... It was much too redundant and missed that needed feeling of, "omg, what 
 is gunna happen next?!!". 
  The combat was really good, but that is all that was there that is only fun for so long. There 
 was too much pattern and too little story involvement with the main character
  Then sometimes, the enemies felt much too overwhelming, which subtracted the feeling of fear or 
 enticement. With certain bosses and sometimes a flush of outrageous alien groups added this feeling 
 of irritation equaling a residing feeling of just simple disdain after completing the game. Some 
 points weren't enjoyable, or when finishing off the aliens made you feel as if you actually were 
 just lucky to get passed the scene, and not as if you did things right, and completed it with real 
 success It drove me crazy trying over and over and over to kill the cretins who seem to always 
 be much more advanced than the main character.
  All that the game really had to go for was it's use of fear, b/c without it, the game would have 
 been nothing to set a mark in the game world. The only unique aspect setting it apart from all 
 the other first person shooters and war games being mass produced
  The alien thing did give it a little sense of individuality!
  But, for the good that it had, 
 I feel it deserved an 8.0.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kar_91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Dark Space is a gaming gem, and should be overlooked by no one. It is definatly the scariest game 
 ever made. It is one of those games where you don't want to carry on because you are scared of 
 whats going to happen next, but you just have to carry on.
  
  The visuals are amazing, especially in the opening sequence. 
  
  Strategic Dismemberment is 
 a brilliantly innovative combat technique, and means more tactics are required then most games 
 which use the basic aim for the head method.
  
  The sound on DS is amazing, you should definatly play it with surround sound. Every sound in the 
 game, from the screaches of enemies to the clanging of machinery, sounds great, and gives a real 
 sense of size.
  
  Overall, DS is the best horror survival game ever made, and has an amazing feel equal to that of 
 sci-fi movies such as Alien. I recomend this to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kussese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is a must buy for any horror fan. Read that again. If you've liked any 
 game from the genre, go out and buy it right now. It'll scare you more than any game ever has. 
 Although this game's main attraction is its scares, it's a game that just about anyone with a PS3 
 or a 360 can enjoy.
  
  Since I've hyped up the scares this much, it had better be pretty damn scary, right? Well it is. 
 Even in the beginning areas, you'll be peeking around every corner out of fear that you'll get 
 mauled by one of the games various enemy types. I've never been on the edge of my seat for so long. 
 The second you sit back, the game will hit you with a new scare, and rest assured, you'll be screaming 
 some foul language time and again.
  
  Again, these scares are part of what makes this game a must buy, but the gameplay itself is pretty 
 impressive too. If you've played Resident Evil 4, it can be related to that fairly easily. It has 
 the same over the shoulder camera view and a similar shooting control scheme. The main difference 
 here is that you aren't just shooting to kill, you have to blow the limbs off of the enemies to 
 kill them efficiently. It's simply amazing how EA managed to make the limb removal so precise. 
 Oh, and it's also more bloody. I mean A LOT more bloody. This game rivals Ninja Gaiden in terms 
 of blood release from enemies. That said, if you're not a huge fan of the red stuff, this game 
 may not be for you.
  
  The game reeks of polish. There's just so much detail that was put into this game that you'll be 
 in awe after playing it for just a few minutes. In short, buy it. You won't regret it, that is, 
 until you crap your pants after one of the gruesome death animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demio123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a masterpiece and is even better than it is rated. This is the most exciting, 
 entertaining, and realistic game i have played in years. EA really went all out on the visuals 
 in this game and they really did a good job, some of the best graphics i have ever seen in a game, 
 comparable to "Uncharted, Drakes Fortune", which i also found to be amazing. There is a certain 
 lingering darkness that adds to the scariness of this game and not knowing what could be around 
 every corner adds to the suspense created by this. The missions are quite repetitive but there 
 are so many different enemies which you encounter along the way, each more grotesque and scary 
 than the last, that it is impossible not to be surprised and entertained every step of the way. 
 This game is definitely worth buying and should never be overlooked as possibly the best game of 
 it's genre to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boonerr79
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  From out of no where it seems, EA has come up with a real winner. If I hadn't have been watching 
 the review scores, this game would have flown under my radar. I am glad it didn't. 
  
  From start to finish, Dead Space is an enjoyable and memorable experience. I don't think I can 
 remember when the last time the survival-horror genre has been so well executed. The story and 
 setting is kind of a mix a Doom and Aliens with a bit of Bioshock thrown in for good measure. It's 
 pure sci-fi entertainment delivered to you on a silver tray with a side of space zombies.
  
  If you have any interest in survival-horror games at all, you owe it to yourself to pick up 
 a copy of Dead Space. You won't regret it. Let's all just hope EA decides to stick with this "quality 
 game" trend for a while longer. 
  
  I can't wait for the sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game worth playing if you want to get scared playing at 2 A. M. Dead Space is a 
 game where Isacc, the silent protagonist (does not speak) , arrives at a large mining ship that 
 is infested by horrifying monsters that want to kill you. Instead of being a heavily armed soldier 
 you are an engineer. Instead of grenades, you are armed with tools like cutters. They would work 
 just as well as an assult rifle : in fact, even better. As you walk around the space ship, monsters 
 call necromorphs jump out of vents or walk around the corner to start sprinting towards you inorder 
 to kill you. What makes this game unique is the death scenes. In FEAR, as soon as you died, the 
 loading screen would pop up. In Dead Space, if you mess up, you must watch poor Isacc be ripped 
 to peices, choke to death, be decapitated, turned into a necromorph, etc. They typicly last 10 
 seconds.
  The graphics in this game are ausome. You dont always have to stare at the constant dark metal 
 hallways. There are many unique areas of the ship that you would want to explore, if there wasn't 
 a small horde of monsters wanting to kill you. You can sometimes have the pleasure at staring at 
 a man or what was once a man being stuck to a wall. Appearently he shoots these evil sacks out 
 of it's stomach that spring tenticles that shoot toxic liquids at your face. Once the thing dies, 
 it screams untill its head slumps down. You wouldn't think these monsters are happy.
  There isn't just one type of monster. In fact, there are about 6 monsters you will encounter. You 
 will also have to face off the bosses. Sound in this game is great, from the monsters threatening 
 growls to the falling wrench ten feet under you. Why did it fall? Whats around the corner? HOLY 
 CRAP! Gameplay is your basic third person shooter. Some 3rd person shooters have awkward controls 
 but dead space. The controls are easy to master. One great gameplay feature is the gravity-less 
 areas. Imagine the floor becoming the ceiling or the walls around you becoming the floors. It disorientates 
 you. There are no annoying logic puzzles or areas of the game to get lost in. The hologram map 
 they provide with after pressing select should do the job. Even better is when after pressing a 
 button, you are shown direction by a line that follows the floor to your objective.
  The game plot is intelligent. Like most horror games, there has to be a great plot and with more 
 horror games, you are given tid-bits of information slowly. Audio and text recordings litter the 
 ship. You can learn the accounts of unfortunate people trying to understand the situation. There 
 are also video recordings.
  
  Overall , this game is great, if you want to scared, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aarontwhitehead
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game from start to finish. The story is very linear but keeps you interested throughout. 
 It reminds me of the original Resident Evil as far as the actual scale of the game.
  I would have liked a little more variety in the monsters but they were challenging. I enjoyed the 
 boss fights.
  It is a very gory game. I can't remember stomping off peoples limbs prior to Dead Space. The weapons 
 are innovative. I pretty much stuck with the plasma cutter throughout, as I really liked slicing 
 up the villians.
  The story is really kind of stupid and reminds me of a really cheap B-movie. They even tried to 
 inject some romance in at the end. Give me a break, I am running back and forth trying to get the 
 ship repaired so we can fly away from this planet. The last thing I want is to worry about romance. 
 Maybe when I am not being ripped to pieces by aliens, then I will consider it.
  Anyhow, it kept me interested for several days and I actually got to finish it. It was worth the 
 money to me. It was nowhere as epic as Oblivion which seems to never end, nor was it so short that 
 it felt like a waste of money. It had continuous action and you never knew when something was going 
 to jump out on you so I was never bored.
  I would reccomend it to pretty much anyone as long as the gore doesn't bother them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Dead Space Review!
  
  Ok i have just completed Dead Space ( watching the credits now ) .
  
  My 1st thoughts of this game where that its amazing. Not only does it make you make sure that 
 all your guns are filled with ammo the next time you turn that corner.
  
  Gameplay itself is very good but 1 think i hate is probably he walks to slow for my liking and 
 there isint enough weapons.
  
  The enemys are mixed variety and the new disarm limbs method is way more fun in a shooter.
  
 
  The boss fights are equalled out good.
  
  lol im getting hungry im just gonna stop the review here. basically i would recommend you get this 
 game!.
  
  btw im only borrowing it. i suggest you all do the same.
  
  thanks for reading my review of Dead Space please feel free to read my other reviews.
  
  lllllll 
 lllllll lllllll lllllll lllllll llllllllll lllllllllll llllllllllllll lllllllllllllll llllllllllllll 
 lllllllll llllllllll llllll lllllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4life15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  It has its ups and downs but mostly goes up. I think it was a fun and good game to play great use 
 of the blood and gore with a bit of horror mixed in with a smart plot line. its fun to run around 
 with any of the selection of powerful guns and rip apart the monsters of dead space and even the 
 corpses of the ishimora crew members. the story line has some twists and surprises that you don't 
 see coming so thats good and its not that predictable. Its not that scary than what it was hyped 
 to be but has a few jumpy bits in it. the downside to this game is no online gameplay or split 
 screen co-op which could of been great and that the game ends. And the trophies well some of them 
 are a pain in the ass to get which for some people it might mean have to finish the game multiple 
 times which can get annoying. Otherwise it was well done and for the more serious gamers and others 
 that like the style of game it is defiantly something to get and try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a 3rd person Sci Fi survival horror game. One way to describe this Master Piece is 
 that its absolutely immersive and fun... not for the faint of heart though!
  
  Dead Space main protagonist Isaac Clark takes the "one man army" concept to every sense of the 
 word... in his face to face with the Necromorphs (the aliens) in the the chaotic, death struck, 
 massacred sectors of the biggest planet cracker in its class the "USG Ishimura". You are soon separated 
 from others and become the only hope of survival and escape.
  
  The gameplay elements are very well crafted and the full interface of Isaac to the environment 
 is a holographic interface which really makes you immerse into the game even more. That's the only 
 HUD in the game... even the map, upgrades to your RIG and purchases of items are through this interface. 
 Even Isaac's health bar and energy are in the back of his suit. All this adds to the feel of the 
 games... and not taking your attention from the gameplay at all. The environments are really atmospheric 
 and perfectly gives the feel of the horror aspect of the game not to mention you will be spending 
 a lot of time outside in ship as well and in Zero gravity ares. The weapons mainly used by Isaac 
 are industrial wielding tools and all have secondary fire which gives a whole lot other alternatives 
 to take out your enemies. 
  
  Apart from the weapons, Isaac has kinesis (telekenesis) and stasis (slow-mo) at his disposal... both 
 are very useful in many situations through-out the game. Side games are also present in the game 
 similar to Resident Evil 4's shooting gallery and you also have a Zero G basketball game! Winning 
 these will five you rewards.
  
  Personal Opinion and view:
  Ever since i saw the first teaser trailer for this game i was hooked to it. I always wanted to 
 experience a Sci Fi horror that was solid... and dead space is the answer. This game is by far 
 the best Sci Fi horror game i have ever played... yes even better than Doom 3 because this game 
 gives you the whole package and a whole lot more! Always wondered how it would feel like to be 
 trapped inside a big spaceship in deep space with no contact and only deadly aliens to keep you 
 company... This game is dark, gritty, chilling and gory... just how it should be. I also enjoyed 
 the Zero G and vacuum parts of the game. I finished it in hard mode and strictly played it only 
 after midnight in total darkness... highly recommended game! This is survival horror gaming in 
 one of its finest moments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Wow! What a game. If you are a fan of sci-fi games and love horror and gore - this game is for 
 you. If you love great 3rd person schooters - this game is for you. If you've never really gotten 
 into the genre but are open to new things - this game is for you also. 
  Last year I picked Call of Duty 4 as a GotY for myself, this time its Dead Space. While they differ 
 drastically in many aspects one thing that is common to both of these games is the quality. Quality 
 of presentation, quality of gameplay, quality of visual and audio design. All of these aspect are 
 of EXCEPTIONAL quality. The only thing is that the story is pretty straightforward, but its done 
 just right for this type of a game - it keeps you interested in finding out what happens next. 
 The new dismemberment approach to gaming is great and makes you wonder how you've played games 
 without dismemberment before. There are tons of places where you'll be staring at the TV in awe 
 of the great visuals. Zero gravity jumps, vacuum, huge bosses, fantastic scenery - all of it makes 
 the game an easy buy. This game is pretty scary but it is not quite in the same league as System 
 Shock 2, which I remember scared the hell out of me. But all in all this game is great and if you 
 have not played it I'd recommend going to the store and getting it (should be 40-50 bucks now) . 
 It's well worth your money.
  
  P. S. Anxiously waiting for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrOho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  From the stunning cinematics that open the game, to the long sigh of relief (and then scream!) 
 I breathed following the final Boss battle, this game had me absolutely hooked. Sure it's just 
 a shooter, and sure the story is massively derivative, but there are just enough differences between 
 Dead Space and something more run-of-the-mill to make this the best shooter I've played since Bioshock. 
 There's just enough variety within the levels to keep it interesting and just enough of a story 
 to keep the pace rattling along so that you don't have time to get bored.
  
  Alongside Isaac Clarke - his laboured breathing, occasional grunts and roars of desperate rage 
 - and his wonderful RIG suit, it's the things he has to fight, the necromorph monsters, that steal 
 the show. And the point of difference here is that to make a quick, effective kill, you've got 
 to chop their limbs off. Headshots don't do the job; you'll just be wasting a lot of precious ammo 
 pummelling the face of some horrific beast-thing while it works itself into a kill-crazy frenzy, 
 then comes at you in a rage. You'll find yourself being gruesomely disembowelled whilst clicking 
 away on an empty magazine swearing to God you'll be good for the rest of your life. Shoot their 
 arms off, their legs, their tentacles or anything that sprouts from their twisted, bony/ fleshy 
 mass and pray that you've got enough ammo to kill the hundred others that'll come pouring out of 
 the vents and grilles surrounding you. I have to say that the monsters are astonishing. Right from 
 your first encounter with a couple of them in a tight, claustrophobic corridor, you're running 
 scared. They move quickly, some move incredibly quickly. The big ones rip you to shreds while others 
 explode to release masses of horrible, squirmy crawling things - so be careful how you handle those. 
 Don't shoot the bellies off the pregnant ones. There's a particularly gruesome type of squirming 
 thing that wants to remove your head and replace it with one of its own. There's a thing that you 
 can't kill which you've just got to run from while it roars and bellows and pounds after you. There's 
 a thing that drags a heavy, exploding .... something .... with it (so don't let it get too close 
 because it doesn't half make a bang!) and there's a vicious tentacle the size of the Channel Tunnel 
 that often finds its way into the ship and whips you off you feet to drag you screaming and gasping 
 towards a gruesome fate.
  
  From the off, the necromorph are difficult to kill because your weapons are pretty weak. They don't 
 care about that, they just want to kill you. So find their weak-spots. Pick one weapon that works 
 for you and make sure that's the one that's upgraded first and foremost. For me it was the plasma 
 cutter. There's nothing you can't kill with the plasma cutter (apart from, obviously, the 'thing 
 you can't kill') .
  
  In the later levels they come at you in wave after wave, plenty of them in all varieties - stronger, 
 faster, totally relentless and not giving a flying f**** that you're virtually out of ammo and 
 the only thing you can do is try and beat them off with some wild and desperate swings from your 
 metal. And boy, something about this game makes you just want to kill them; you hate them, you 
 despise them, you just want them out of your face. You want them reduced to a pile of mess that 
 you can stomp or kick around because they've brought you to this, they've made you this killer.
 
  
  Ahem.... and I'm a nice guy.
  
  Set-design, lighting and music. All great. I mean I couldn't fault them. The environments physically 
 add to the game, they don't just frame it. The environment affects how you tackle that part of 
 the game, because it may be there's no oxgygen, or there's no gravity. It may be that the lights 
 have gone out and all you've got is the muzzle-flash from your pulse-rifle to show where the monsters 
 are coming from. It's that intense. You've got to negotiate terrifying runs and zero-G jumps across 
 the outer hull of the ship, and there's a truly heart-stopping battle in a giant pipe near the 
 end the game which is so tense, and so involving, you really feel like you're there. There are 
 isolated rooms which are suddenly locked down while a computerised voice calmly announces she's 
 put it into quarantine: the vents open and the monsters come screaming at you and you know there's 
 no way out until every last one of them is reduced to squirming tripe on the sole of your boots. 
 One particular highlight for me was a disorienting, simply gigantic chamber, littered with asteroid 
 chunks which you've got to fire into space - and all I can say about that is, watch out when the 
 gravity comes back on.
  
  Tension builds. The pace ratchets up and at the end of it....... you really really need that sigh 
 of relief........ enjoy it, because the relief doesn't last that long.
  
  Great game.
  
  Buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Better than most high rated games this year. This game is as good or even better than Resistance 
 2, which is more diverse in scenary and in gameplay, because it has a longer campaign, actual scary 
 aliens, excellent in-game score that changes with atmosphere and alien presence, and a more indulging 
 beliavable story. The one thing that stands out here is the scare tactics. The atmosphere feels 
 unbelievably real. Backgrtound score makes the game feel scarier than it actually is, especially 
 with the surround sound and bass is on. I have never actually been starteled (scared) so many times 
 in one game or movie my entire life. This game does an outstanding job at making every second feel 
 like a restart moment. Your gun is always cocked because anything and everything is expected. The 
 bad thing about this game is there are very little cutscenes which has become a norm in the blockbuster 
 gaming world. but this game does do a good job at making you feel aparrt of the game. Also you 
 revisit many of the same areas meaning you better make sure you kill your enemies the first time 
 your run into them because if not, there will be a second round. You find yourself backtracking 
 in every chapter to advance to the next chapter. This may not be a bad thing, but it is quite annoying 
 at times. 
  
  The graphics are also a plus because there is no slow frame rate and system crashes that many games 
 are plagued with these day. The main character is on mute through the whole game which makes communication 
 with in-game characters seem weird, but the game pulls this off quite well. The voice acting is 
 top notch which adds to the believabilty of this game. Alien diversity and mini puzzles make you 
 use strategy to advance which is always great. I think the best thing is this game teaches you 
 that the rest of the body is a vulnerable as the head because dismembering aliens is the best way 
 to kill them in this game. I think this key feature sets it apart from most games, even Fallout 
 3. I will say I have never been a fan of Silent Hill or Resident Evil (scary games) , but with a 
 mix of sci-fi ation and scary drama, this game is actually the best of both worlds. One of the 
 best games this year, above Resistance 2 and just maybe, Fallout 3 (which is sometimes a little 
 too much free world to handle) . This appears to be the start of a New and Fresh series. 
  
  Pros: The game takes place on a ship that seems abadoned and aliens are ready to pop out any moment 
 and take a bite out of your a**. The character is clunky, but moves fluidity. The game does a great 
 job at creating the "every moment is you last moment" feel. You will be scattering all over the 
 place trying to pull out a gun and shoot is properly because their is no pause and choose a gun 
 in your inventory option, all of this takes place during close combat, you can be fighting of f 
 a million enemies while looking at an in game ammunition box menu tyring to figure out which gun 
 to use. The games lineartiy makes it easy to navigate because you can just follow the navigation 
 beam that comes from your hand. The best thing on this game is the in game score which makes the 
 game so much more appealing and intense. From its heart jumping scary music when aliens arrive 
 to sad music playing over a video of your girlfriend commiting suicide, this game does a good job 
 of mixing what could of been cutscenes into gameplay. The guns are fun and different thing most 
 games since you have to cut limbs off rather than shoot for the head or the body. My recommedations 
 arethe plasma cutter and line gun. Also the game has 12 levels, with 12th level being the most 
 creative and appealing of all. The game ending was unexpected and plot twists keep you on your 
 toes and waiting for more. The weapon upgrade system also test your strategy ability and also is 
 effective make weapon more suitable and readily able to take down foes. 
  
  Cons: First you will be revisiting the same areas alot. Everytime you collect some equipment or 
 complete an objective, lockdown is intiatied and a million monsters come swarming which adds to 
 the scare factor, but after a while it kind of gets repetitive and annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCHIPSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what I expected it to be. 
  
  -The story is simple but interesting. 
  -The characters are believable. 
  -Very intense action 
 with some jaw dropping moments. 
  -The game is full of scares from scene & psychological to jumps scares
  -Many different weapons 
 to choose from to fit one's liking
  -realistic gore
  -zero G and outer space areas
  
  In terms of a sci-fi horror game it almost did it perfectly. The minor cons are:
  
  -the melee 
 attacks are totally useless, lack of melee weapons
  -no free flow in space, the player must walk or jump around
  -small imbalance of weapons, a few 
 weapons (flamethrower and Ripper) are much weaker and less effective than others (personal opinion)
 
  
  Overall, this is an awesome game. If you are a sci-fi horror fan (e. g. Event Horizon, Aliens, etc) 
 this is a must get for you. Even if you are not I am sure you will have a great time with this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon1412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an amazing game and is extremely fun to play! When I first heard about the game from 
 a friend I thought ehh ok so what. Then a couple of months ago I saw the cover for it in a EB Games 
 before it came out and I thought to myself wow, I gotta have it. When it hit the stores, I was 
 there so fast.
  
  Dead Space, if could be compared to another game, would be Resident Evil 4, another horror survival 
 game thats freakin great!!! They're both games that involve a person sent to some place where something 
 extremely twisted and messed up happened. As you progress through the game, you pick up weapons, 
 kick some butt, meat people, kick some more butt and continue to go on till the end. But even though 
 both games are alike, there are some differences. One (the biggest difference) is that Dead Space 
 takes place in
  space where RE4 takes place in Europe. Also, RE4 has more weapons to choose from than Dead Space 
 but in Dead Space, you can change your suit and download skins for the guns. Dead Space also has 
 more scarier moments than RE4 that make you say Holy S So basically, they're very alike.
 
  
  Dead Space is really great though. The graphics are incredible. Once you start to get more skilled 
 and take some time to look at the details they put into like the necromorph's faces or the designs 
 on the guns and your surroundings, you'll see that everything looks great, especially on the people 
 who survived till you got there. From their decapitated limbs to the flesh missing from their faces 
 or their chest. The plot to the game is good as well even though you're constantly running around 
 from place to place and you visit some levels twice. The characters are great and all have their 
 own special personalities and make them seem really alive and stuck on the USG Ishimura. All-in-all, 
 Dead Space is incredible and hopefully it'll continue to a Dead Space 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space from Electronic Arts is a brilliant survival horror game set in space, and it comes 
 close to matching the genre king Resident Evil.
  
  
  Positives:
  Incredibly creepy atmosphere
  Amazing graphics
  
  
  
  
  In Dead Space you play as Isaac, 
 a space marine sent to repair a large mining ship known as the Ishimura. After a crash landing 
 on the ship Isaac who is accompanied by fellow space rangers Hammond and ? have to fix a communications 
 array that is in need of repairs. Things go wrong from the second they crash land on the Ishimura 
 as the ship is over run with nasty space creatures and most of the crew is dead. Not only does 
 Isaac have to find a way off the ship, but his girlfriend Nicole ( a crewmember on the ship) may 
 still be alive. In the opening cutscene a message from Nicole to Isaac is cutoff halfway through. 
 What does this message mean? Is Nicole still alive? These are questions you will find answers to. 
 The story itself does a serviceable job, and after a few playthroughs there were twists in the 
 story I failed to pickup on. The story may be hard to understand after one go through of the game, 
 with the ending being confusing, but once the story clicks you will realize that it was well written. 
 Despite this it is not the main draw of the game.
  
  The main draw of the game is dismembering and disfiguring nasty alien creatures. Most of the game 
 will consist of traversing through small corridors and rooms, while fighting for survival by laying 
 a severe ass whooping on hundreds of alien creatures. Believe me, this will not get boring. The 
 combat is fresh due to the number of tools or weapons at Isaac's disposal. The main weapon in the 
 game is the plasma cutter which is a pistol that can shred the limbs off of any alien. One of the 
 best weapons in the game is the ripper, and it uses saw lades to absolutely rip alien creatures 
 to pieces. Other weapons include a flamethrower, a force gun that unleashes a shockwave knocking 
 any alien near to the ground, a line gun that sends three shots through any limb, and a contact 
 beam that requires a recharge before firing. The ripper and the plasma cutter are the best weapons, 
 but all of the weapons feel fresh and are useful at points. Finding ammo is not a problem as all 
 kinds can be found lying around, and plenty can be bought in the stores that are stationed throughout 
 the ship. The concept of having stores on a space ship to sell weaponry and health may sound like 
 a questionable idea, but it works. Dead Space also features an incredibly deep upgrade system for 
 weapons and equipment, and it closely resembles a system used by many RPG's. The upgrade system 
 combined with the ability to use telekinesis and other powers creates a deep, deep game. 
  
  The health system in dead space is displayed on the back of Isaac's spacesuit, and there is 
 no HUD in the game. The game does an excellent job by including what would normally be on the HUD 
 on Isaac's spacesuit and on the weaponry. This contributes to the feel and atmosphere of the game 
 immensely. You really feel like you are a part of this game, especially when playing in the dark 
 and with a good sound system. There were a few times was I nearly jumped out of my seat due to 
 scares and unexpected moments. In my opinion, dead space creates a scarier environment than the 
 resident evil franchise. The game also features boss fights that are huge fights, but none of the 
 bosses really puts up a challenge. The game has its difficult moments, but overall it is not terribly 
 difficult.
  
  The graphics in Dead Space are incredible. This is one of the best looking next gen games, even 
 though a lot of the interior spaceship environments don't show much difference. There are no glitches 
 or graphical hiccups in this game. The sound is really where Dead Space shines, as the audio is 
 absolutely stunning, and really plays into the creepy atmosphere. 
  
  A Playthrough of Dead Space will last about 7-9 hours. I wish the game was longer, but the story 
 is already flushed out enough that it was probally best that this game had a shorter length. I 
 usually look for longer games, but dead space is so much fun that it warrants multiple playthroughs 
 of the game. Overall dead space is a fantastic surprise for the year, and will provide you with 
 thrills that can be matched only by a few other games. Dead Space is my runner up game of the year, 
 and it gets a score of 9.5. It would have gotten a 10.0 if the story was better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Story 
  
  Dead Space starts off with a look-in on Isaac and his crew as they are heading to the USG Ishimura 
 for what seems to be a routine fix-up. After problems with the landing they finally make it. The 
 things that happens next are quite a bit disturbing...
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Dead Space's gameplay can be a bit repetitive seeing how most of the missions have you go from 
 point A to point B and fix it. All of this doesn't matter since the combat is amazing and you are 
 having fun while you are doing it. It is a third-person shooter almost exactly like Resident Evil 
 4, and just as scary. You know it's good when a game is in the same company as a Resident Evil 
 game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control 
  
  Dead Space has very fluid controls. You don't turn very fast which emphasises the "watch your back" 
 statement. While everything else is amazing, the close quarters combat can be a bit clunky.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics 
  
  By far one of the best looking PS3 games yet. Every little aspect of the game, excluding your own 
 shadow, looks sooooo amazing.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound 
  
  I have never played a game where the sound helps the gameplay out so much. The sound scares you 
 just as much as anything else. Well done EA. My only problem (this may just be my TV) is that some 
 of the sounds in the game sounds like it's going to blow my speakers out even when the volume is 
 low.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall 
  
  This game is a masterpiece from beginning to end. If you like scary stuff and you have a PS3, I 
 recommend you get this game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The game itself took me by surprise. I was expecting something decent at best when I bought it (I 
 was looking for something to hold me over until Fallout 3 came out) . Right after the opening credits 
 and Intro cinematic played, I knew I was in for a wild ride.
  
  Dead Space takes place in the dark reaches of space on a mining colony ship known as the Ishimura, 
 where you play as Engineer Isaac. With a small group who accompany you things go from bad to worse 
 as you traverse through the bowels and darkened hallways of the Ishimura fending off Alien-like 
 humanoids known as Necromorphs, all the while looking for your lost love, Nicole, who had sent 
 you a previous distress signal from before as well trying to figure out just what in the hell happened 
 to the crew.
  
  The game definitely makes you feel alone and fighting for survival constantly. The only things 
 that make you feel sane are are the transmissions you receive from your surviving teammates. I 
 felt that EA had definitely set the atmospheric and disturbing aspect of the game beautifully. 
 Scattering around audio logs of the previous crew, and hearing the cries for help and agony make 
 you really wonder what took place here. Gameplay mechanics work great, having to dismember enemies 
 adds a more strategic approach to typical 3rd person shooters. Albeit may be basic at times it 
 works very well in this case and reminds me a lot of Resident Evil 4, one of my all-time favorite 
 games, so you can see why I truly enjoyed playing Dead Space. The story in this game I feel was 
 well done and adds a couple of twists and turns, and the ending just makes you think "What a minute, 
 what the...?" I feel EA will benefit greatly if they make a sequel. Weapons in the game have their 
 strengths and weaknesses as well as each having secondary fire and the ability to upgrade all your 
 equipment from how strong your weapons are to enemies to increasing maximum health of your character.
 
  
  The graphics and audio department in no way disappoint. Probably the one of the high points in 
 the game. Everything is very pretty to look at. Gore and blood is grisly and the necromorphs look 
 like something out of people's nightmares. The audio itself is very well done and eerie as you 
 hear the distant screams of dying crew members and creaks and groans of the ship. The only drawback 
 is, you will need and HDTV and good audio setup to fully enjoy what this game brings to the table.
 
  
  Of course the game is not perfect by any means, it has a few drawbacks from making this game a 
 definte must-buy. The overall Campaign will clock in at around 10-12 hours on your first playthrough, 
 depending on your skill and difficulty you have it on. but once you complete it, there is not much 
 else to go back to. You unlock "impossible" mode and have the ability to do New game + where you 
 start the game with all your equipment. There isnt much else as far as unlockables are concerned 
 and longevity only depends if you are willing to get all the achievement/trophies for the game (which 
 I did) . Also I experienced some clipping and slight slowdown a few times, but its not a big issue 
 here.
  
  In spite of its few shortcomings, Dead Space doesnt fail to impress. I would recommend everyone 
 to at least try the game out by either buying it or at least a rental. Game is definitely one the 
 sleeper hits of 2008 amongst so many other games that came out during the holiday season. Dont 
 miss out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Anyone that has watch Nightmare on Elms Street will attest to how powerful the feeling of the unknown 
 can be. Having no idea of what waits around the corner can cripple men and send most running for 
 their security blanket. What makes these experiences so powerful is the atmosphere laid down by 
 the creators and in most survival horror games, it is this atmosphere that is most affecting. With 
 just the right amount of shriek coming from the speakers and the lights flickering at the right 
 moment, these can be the most intense experiences on the medium. Games that manage this are instant 
 classics, those that fail peter away in to oblivion. Dead space... One of the greats.
  
  Dead Space has you filling the boots of ship engineer Isaac Clarke, sent on a routine repair mission 
 to a distant deep-space mining ship, the USG Ishimura, which has lost radio contact with the rest 
 of its fleet. Upon crash landing on the ship, Isaac and his team find something sinister lurking 
 in the dark. What was once a productive mining facility has become a floating crypt for the previous 
 residents whom have been converted into monstrosities called Necromorphs, thrusting for blood. 
 The story has a bit more to it but you won't find any spoilers here. Just know that this engrossing 
 story, albeit reminiscent of a bit too many sci-fi flicks, keeps you on the edge of your seat till 
 the very end, as shocking and bloody as the end might be.
  
  What Dead Space does right is the setting. The USG Ishimura is as haunting and desolate as Rapture 
 was in Bioshock. Throughout the experience it feels as if the ship itself is against Isaac, doing 
 everything it possible can to trap him and isolate him from help. Its blood drenched walls remind 
 of the constant danger and its failing systems trip up when you least expect them. Add that to 
 the nightmarish Necromorphs and the USG Ishimura is not the homiest of places in the galaxy.
  
  Since Isaac is an engineer, his tools are rather unorthodox. Gone are the trademark horror 
 game weapons like shotguns and assault rifles, replaced by tools of his mining trade. When you 
 consider that some of the tools he has access to are used to chip away at a planet, you can only 
 start to imagine the many gruesome and disturbing ways you have to take down oncoming Necromorphs. 
 
  
  The Necromorphs aren't your typical zombie/alien either. They are rather foreboding and require 
 some skill to take down. Normally head shots are the order of the day but with Dead Space, it is 
 far from fact. A well placed head shot will more likely than not result in what you had intended 
 morphing your enemy into a more terrifying creature, leaving limb dismemberment as the only way 
 to stop them for good. The stasis and kinesis modules play a big role in handling enemies allow 
 Isaac to slow down enemies and propel objects at them.
  
  The visual presentation of this title is stellar. The lack of a HUD immerses you even more into 
 the world. The traditional health bar has been replaced by a bar attached to the back of Isaac's 
 upgradable engineering suite indicating how close he is to death. The stasis and kinesis charge 
 indicators also has a place on Isaac's suite. The ghostly holograms that display in-game menus 
 or videos fit into the structure of the world feeling nature and completely plausible. The audio 
 presentation raises the overall presentation of this title to a new level and the experience is 
 five times better with the lights off and the surround sound turned up to maximum. 
  
  But as with most games in the genre, things aren't always perfect. Isaac has a rather laboured 
 movement speed. Even though this works greatly towards adding to the immersion and tension of the 
 title, it means that you cannot easily escape confrontation. Adding the fact that accessing your 
 inventory doesn't pause the action, it makes for some hair raising moments as you try and run for 
 your life while battling to access your health packs. Isaac also seems to have gone to the Gordon 
 Freeman School for the emotionally mute and says absolutely nothing throughout the game, making 
 it hard for you as player to really connect to his plight for survival.
  
  The final issue with this outstanding title is that even though the overall sense of dread and 
 despair is maintained throughout the experience, the scare factor drops rather sharply towards 
 the end of the experience making for a more action game feel. The patterns just become more predictable 
 by the end with almost ever scare being expected. That is not to say it's a bad thing, the game 
 manages to creep you out the whole way through and even though you stop getting scared once the 
 fiftieth monster you thought was dead jumps up at you, you can't help but feel like something is 
 watching you, waiting to puck Isaac's soul and tear him to pieces. 
  
  As survival horror games go, Dead Space is right up there with the best the industry has had to 
 offer. An engrossing story; a rich, disturbing atmosphere; excellent gameplay that takes advantage 
 of the dismemberment concept and an overall polish that has been lacking in this genre for some 
 time makes this an instant classic that fans of the genre will enjoy and morals fear. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clientel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game that has so much more difference than any other horror game. It is different 
 in two good ways... First of all, never in my years of gaming has there been a game which is set 
 in outer space.... It is also a truly amazing view. Secondly, the features a so called 'strategic 
 dismemberment ' guide to killing the the beast known as necromorphs to be slain. 
  There is no game that has this acquired skill , rather than just shooting heads... 
  Another 
 thing that i want to say that this is one heck of a scary game... As soon you step foot on the 
 USG ISHIMURA you are taken into a hell which is a lot worse than dying... Dying... well... The 
 game monsters has its moment where when it comes close to you.... it will give you a chance to 
 kill the enemy by pressing a certain button. Kills also in include dicing your head off, dying 
 from lack of oxygen and etc. 
  The game also has a feature similar to resident evil 4 such as buying weapons and upgrading them 
 including your suit. 
  All in all the game is pretty cool in a way that is so haunting yet beautiful... If you have any 
 gaming console, Be sure to pick this one up... No Regrets... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry688
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a survival horror game that puts you in the shoes of Isaac Clarke, an engineer that 
 is sent to the USG Ishimura on a routine repair mission. Of course, things go terribly awry like 
 they always do and Isaac is thrown into a dark and terrifically atmospheric journey that forces 
 him to fight for his survival, and possibly the survival of all mankind.
  
  Dead Space doesn't revolutionize the survival horror genre, but it's solid storyline and dreadful 
 setting set it apart from other games in it's class. Here's the breakdown.
  
  -- Graphics --
  
  The graphics are bloody, gruesome, and gorgeous. The textures have amazing 
 detail and the art direction fit the concept of the game perfectly. Guts and blood splatter in 
 satisfying bursts and animations are smooth. Aside from the rare case of limbs being stuck in a 
 wall, the graphic design of Dead Space does nothing but further engross you into the horror experience.
 
  
  -- Sound --
  
  The sound design is right on the money. You can hear the Necromorphs lurking in the vents, groaning 
 and longing to rip your throat out. The weapons sound powerful, and each limb you dismember is 
 met with a gratifying crunch, slice, and/or smash. The voice actors do a good job in making each 
 character feel real. Each step you take will be a wary one, thanks to the amazing atmosphere the 
 sound brings. Along with the beautiful graphics, Dead space packs a one-two punch that makes sure 
 you never forget the USG Ishimura.
  
  Now, on to what matters the most:
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Taking your first steps in the shoes of Isaac Clarke is quite reminiscent 
 of Resident Evil 4. One way Dead Space differs is in how it presents information to the player.
 
  
  The HUD is integrated into Isaac's exosuit, or RIG. Your Health and other gauges are on the back 
 of the RIG, so that there is never a fixed bar to take you out of the action. Inventory screens, 
 Maps, and etc. are all displayed on a holographic image in front of Isaac in real time, so he can 
 still move and be attacked.
  
  These innovations make it so that the player is never pulled out of the game, and preserves the 
 horrific atmosphere very well.
  
  Another way Dead Space sets itself apart is the way you deal with your enemies, which are called 
 "Necromorphs." These creatures are former ship crew and engineers, but they have lost all sense 
 of humanity and only wish to rip Isaac to shreds.
  
  In order to deal with these deadly foes, you have to dismember them, and cut off their limbs. This 
 creates a sort of strategic layer to the game, as each enemy can be dealt with differently than 
 the last. For example, you can shoot off a Necromorph's head, but instead of dying, it will begin 
 to swing wildly since it cannot see you.
  
  You can shoot their legs and decrease their mobility, but they will undoubtedly drag and lunge 
 themselves towards you with every chance they get. Maybe the Necromorph will feint it's death, 
 and strike once you walk past. The Necromorphs are bloodthirsty, resilient enemies that won't go 
 down without a fight.
  
  Dead Space also boasts a decent selection of weapons, all of which feel and sound great. Each weapon 
 has it's strengths and weaknesses, and should be utilized to as such. Isaac can wield pistol-like 
 Plasma Cutter dismember his foes with ease, or a Line Gun that slices anything in it's path to 
 pieces. Perhaps you'll use the Flamethrower to incinerate your enemies, or the Force Gun to smash 
 them into goo. Or if all else fails, Isaac can brutalize the Necromorphs with melee.
  
  Gunplay is extremely satisfying.
  
  There is also an upgrade system that allows you to spend 
 "Power Nodes" in order to make your weapons more deadly and your RIG and other items more effective.
 
  
  Now onto the shortcomings with the gameplay of Dead Space.
  
  Mission objectives become quite tedious, even though each objective has a legitimate calling. You'll 
 be doing a lot of fetch missions and the routes are pretty much as linear as you can get. But don't 
 let that discourage you, you'll surely find a lot of fun in decapitating Necromorphs and learning 
 about the people that were aboard the USG Ishimura.
  
  Besides that, you'll find that many of the other characters boss you around, and you end up doing 
 tasks for them. You'll be running around being attacked while the others will be sitting around, 
 barking orders at you through your comlink.
  
  The times in which you are actually in close proximity with the other characters are rather restrictive; 
 most of the time they'll be behind some sort of barrier in which you can't pass, or they'll give 
 you the next objective. Lame, for lack of a better word. It would of been nice to see some kind 
 of AI help in the fight against the Necromorphs, beyond them telling you what to do next. It really 
 makes you want to dismember them, but wait, every time you try to shoot them, Isaac lowers his 
 weapon. Come on EA, throw us a bone. :P
  
  These nuances detract from the game in that they take you out of the experience. When you're going 
 to grab that third Navigation card, it's a little difficult not to be annoyed. One character in 
 the game actually goes as far as saying, "I don't know how much more of this I can take." as she 
 sits in her cozy room, safe and sound from the evil Necromorphs. It really makes you think, "Why 
 the hell don't YOU do something $%#$!?"
  
  I sincerely hope that in the sequel, (if there is one) that the player is able kill the other characters. 
 Heck, I'll take the "Mission Failed" screen. It would have made me feel a lot better playing this 
 game.
  
  Rant aside, in all, Dead Space offers about 15-20 hours of terrifying, heart pumping gameplay.
 
  
  -- Replay Value --
  
  In your first round with Dead Space, you won't be able to fully upgrade your gear, and some elements 
 in the story will be a little hazy. So, the game allows you to restart the game with all of your 
 gear, along with a few goodies to help you out.
  
  Beating the game (on normal difficulty at least) gives you 10 Power Nodes and 50,000 credits, aside 
 from unlocking a few other things. Upgrading your weapons all the way also changes the way they 
 fire. For example, upgrading the Line Gun changes the color of it's fired ammunition, and the sound 
 effect is beefier than it was initially. It's a small change, but a cool change in any case.
  
  Subsequent playthroughs won't yield any new story arcs or content, but it gives the player 
 an opportunity to understand the story of Dead Space better, and to own Necromorphs with bad-ass, 
 upgraded guns.
  
  -- The Final Verdict --
  
  Dead Space is a great game, and even if you're not a fan of the survival horror genre, you should 
 definitely check this game out. Again, Dead Space doesn't completely revolutionize the genre, but 
 it's extremely solid gameplay and enthralling story will leave you saying, "This game is awesome."
 
  
  If you haven't tried it, go get it.
  
  9 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddust
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  i have had the game when it first came out and im taking my time on it to savor every ounce of 
 splendor this game has to offer. now i haven't finished it cause i've had some technical difs with 
 the location of my tv and playstation never being together but from what i've play (still wait till 
 night fall to play, gives it that omg am i ganna die feeling hahahaha scares the crap out of my 
 friends who just like watching me play cause that cant hack it!!! ;) pun intended) well back to 
 the game its is a new set of scary and man i don't get cared but seeing my friends grab hold of 
 me to let me know i should go in there is all to worth it.
  
  love the old goth meets space age tech definitely sets the feel of the game. the weapons oh how 
 i cant get enough of the weapons the only draw back is the flame thrower it runs out to fast but 
 other than that man do i love the carnage.
  
  story line haven't gotten tired of it still waiting to see if there are anymore survivors ( always 
 searching for there pda logs) .
  
  and the biggest thing i love about this game is when something makes you just and your trying to 
 get your baring you don't screw up the action by accidentally pushing the menu but and halting 
 the suspense cause your waiting for it to load. everything in game who ever thought that up should 
 get a substantial bonus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystall3d
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  What is the point of telling whats already been told? this is a gamer review and i will skip alot 
 of things which can be read on other reviews...
  
  You will need to be extremely calm and wise to select your upgrades on a difficulty higher than 
 "medium". You will realise how awesomely crafted this game is once you pay attention to you foe's 
 and think twice before entering a room ,looking for a loot...
  
  AI becomes perfect , they change strategies dynamically. when they go low on health , they begin 
 roaring and stay out of your cross-hair , finishing them of by melee is crucial as they try to 
 deplete you ammo on one-on-one stiuations.
  
  
  My first game play was on medium and it was uninteresting... i was walking through corridors , 
 checking every room looking for items and upgrade nodes... although enemies were easy to kill , 
 i was looking for an upgrade to keep me excited... i found the story boring , the elements in the 
 game did not change through out the game.. only one section had me use a plasma canon to shoot 
 of the asteroids before hitting the hull of the ship... and that was it , same thing over...
  
  my only motive was to finish the story so i could get another game instead but the story ended 
 and the "impossibledifficulty setting unlocked...
  
  i took a spin and it was absolutely breath taking... ammo was very limited compared the previous's 
 and i had to make strategies , i had to act quicker...
  
  
  i realised i had to cut the limbs to kill them on time and save ammo... although i knew that before 
 i realised some enemie's legs were harder to cut as they are the strongest muscle in a body , had 
 to go with the arms.. and head , had to use line gun on groups and ranged enemies. and use melee 
 attacks to finish off single enemies to conserve ammo.
  
  When you are afraid , the game's dynamical backgroud music doubles that fear...
  
  
  all 
 critism about Isaac's robotness and silence canceled them selves out after i realised "Dead space" 
 is such a terrific Horror package. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja010764
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space Review 
  
  For my review style I strongly believe in "innocent until proven guilty" so to me every game I 
 play starts at a perfect score of 10 and then based on the flaws I personally find in the game 
 I subtract point accordingly. So let's begin . . .
  
  Graphics: 
  -Technically the graphics were amazing; definitely one of the games strong points having smooth 
 animations, great lighting and the integrated HUD is very cool. 
  
  -There were some minor issues with the occasional monster stuck in a wall, and some collision detection 
 problems when I clearly hit a limb and it went completely unregistered. And frankly the camera 
 is just to close, I understand that it is for dramatic effect but being blindsided by a monster 
 is irritating and having a close 3rd person has been done great before. (RE4) (Minus 0.5 Point) 
 
  
  -Artistically the atmosphere was again amazing, very dark and scary, nice use of the flashlight, 
 the writing on the walls, good monster design, creepy atmosphere, and subtle details like blood 
 trails and canisters rolling from around the corner ahead add tension and can make the game very 
 scary at times. 
  
  -I also thought the outer space and zero gravity segments looked and felt great; they really gave 
 you the sense of being in a desolate vacuum. 
  
  Controls: 
  - Definitely my biggest gripe about the game; the controls them self are not bad but rather the 
 character movement. It can be clunky and somewhat unresponsive at times; this game desperately 
 needs a quick 180 feature and leaves fighting in tight spaces almost impossible. (Minus 1 Point)
 
  
  Sound: 
  -Music is powerful and very scary it can get your heart pounding when there is not even anything 
 happening so I found myself geeking out for no reason at all, which says a lot about how good it 
 is. The only very minor complaint was that the Alfred Hitchcock like screeching of the music can 
 get annoying when you are just managing inventory or shopping. 
  
  -The sound effects are amazing from the clang of your big heavy boots, the subtle sounds of monsters 
 crawling around in the air ducts above, to the compression/decompression of air locks, and the 
 nullified sounds of outer space sound spectacular. 
  
  Story:
  -The story is decent if not a little vague at times. I felt that your background, and motivation 
 was a little lacking; Nicole is never really fleshed out completely, was she an ex-girlfriend, 
 ex-wife, sister, what? And the importance of the marker seemed undermined. Your objectives are 
 largely based on something always breaking on the ship which can make the game feel a little under 
 creative and repetitive at times. The ending is a cliffhanger and feels a little unresolved but 
 that is to be expected in this day of franchises. (Minus 0.5 Point)
  
  Game play: 
  - I played on normal mode and found the game above average on difficultly, with lots of cool graphic 
 deaths, but not annoyingly hard. The puzzles are not hard but do cause you to look around and think 
 a little The combat is satisfying with strategic dismemberment playing a very unique and awesome 
 part of it, but is hampered only slightly by minor detection collision problems (particularly when 
 using stasis to freeze enemies) Upgrading your weapons and rig (armor) seemed slow going at first 
 but definitely picked up and was great by the end of the game. Dead Space seems to be going back 
 to a more "survival" horror game, with less ammo, life and tougher monsters then the recent Resident 
 Evil "action" horror games the series has become, and it feels refreshing. The staged events in 
 the game are fantastic being some of the scariest moments in gaming, leaving you panicked and frantic. 
 
  
  Conclusion:
  - In all this was a great game with interesting combat, fantastic sound, and great visual style. 
 The story is somewhat lacking but this is only a minor part of the game and is easily overlooked 
 to enjoy this scary game. Atmosphere is what this game is all about and it does it perfectly; I 
 see it as the new bench mark in horror games and will want to play the sequel when it hits store 
 shelves. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKungFool
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a fantastic hybrid of the survival horror and action shooter genres, and it is a 
 game that should not be missed by fans of either. If you happen to be a fan of both, you are in 
 for a treat.
  
  Gameplay is very similar to Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War, which certainly bodes well for those 
 who appreciate fast paced and exciting combat. The game boasts a slew of unique and interesting 
 weapons, some of which relate to the game's unique combat tactic, which is the dismembering of 
 limbs. Some of the weapons are crude, but usefull, while others fall into familiar categories. 
 Its set in 3rd peson view, and uses an over-the-shoulder aiming technique, though you'd be silly 
 to consider it merely a shooter. The game also contains a slew of completely original gameplay 
 elements, found in the form of its zero gravity environments and two interesting abilities that 
 will be at your disposal. The zero gravity situations include some fantastic truly 3D enviroments, 
 as well as some instances where you're at the mercy of being exposed to space aswell, so air consumption 
 plays a role in this deep space adventure. The unique abilities include "stasis", which acts like 
 a sort of energy field disruptor and "kinisis", which allows you to move objects and hazards. These 
 abilities factor into both the combat, as well as puzzle/obstacle related situations. These features 
 give the game quite a few "holy crap that was cool!" type moments, and make the game memorable 
 amongst the other games of its type.
  
  Obviosly, combat and the various encounters with the game's enemies are a focal point, as is the 
 zero gravity and obstacle/puzzle sections, but the game goes well beyond other titles like "Gears 
 of War" and "RE4" in that it offers up a much more intense sense of atmosphere. This game is truly 
 a treat to play because it will keep you on the edge of your seat, mostly because the writing and 
 mood is so well developed. It borrows heavily from the film series "Alien (s) " in terms of its settings 
 and story, but that is hardly a bad thing if you like the combination of horror and action. The 
 story is well written and well acted, but most importantly, the graphics, sound and situations 
 all work well together to produce a very intense experience and a genuine sense of terror.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game is a visual feast. The lighting, graphical detail, and especially 
 the level and creature design produce a truly horrific and engrossing experience. Also of note, 
 is the game camera, which is almost perfect. While many games still suffer from wonky in-game camera 
 mishaps, Dead Space somehow manages to implement fully 3D and zero gravity enviromnents and situations 
 in which the camera is rarely a hinderance. You can tell alot of care went into making this game 
 play well, which is a good thing, since the playability is so directly related to the effectiveness 
 of the game's atmosphere and settings, which range from frighteninly claustraphobic to entertainingly 
 diverse.
  
  All those positives aside, Dead Space is not without a few hickups. For starters, 90% of the game 
 is a very believable survival horror in which you honestly feel like every encounter could be your 
 last, and every room may hold a new terror. Unfortunately, the other 10% falls into some familiar 
 trappings. For example, the game uses a "shop" feature for its items, as opposed to having the 
 player need to survive and find what he needs like you would in a more typical survival horror 
 like Silent Hill. Ammo consumption and health regeneration stop being a concearn when you know 
 there's a seven-eleven on every level. Also, the game's wonderfull sense of pacing and realism 
 is sidetracked a few times because the devs couldn't help but toss in some generic sequences and 
 features of the shooting gallery, mini-game, and gun turrett variety. Some people would argue those 
 sections were fun and entertaining, but to me, they broke up the game's intensity and sense of 
 atmospheric realism. Shooting ranges and Basketball games might indeed be fun, but stopping to 
 shoot some holographic dummies or playing a game of hoops doesn't really make a tone of sense, 
 and it certainly distracts you from the intensity of the situation.
  
  To summerize, Dead Space is full of fantastic and intense combat, contains a slew of unique and 
 impressive new gameplay features like zero gravity environments, and is easily one of the most 
 bloody and intense games ever released. For the mostpart, it plays out with a great sense of believable 
 horror atmosphere and some truly terrifying and bone-chilling moments...... which are unfortunately 
 slightly tarnished by some odd choices (using shops instead of 100% item collection) and some unnecessary 
 gameplay sections (such as shooting ranges and mini-games that break up the atmopshere) .
  
  All said, Dead Space is a fantastic title, but one that ends up as a 9/10 instead of a perfect 
 10/10 thanks to a few odd choices, granted ones that action gamers won't hate as much as the hardcore 
 survival horror fans might. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is filled with solid gameplay , frights , and disturbing yet atmospheric moments that 
 will keep you up at not only because its so scary you won't sleep but because youll be playing 
 it non stop thanks to its addicting "stretagic dismemberment" style of play. The "strategic dismemberment" 
 is abosluety nescasry to surive this terrifying roller coaster ride thanks to your wickedly terrifying 
 enemys with countless limbs that will shred you apart if your not careful. Visually the game pleases 
 , although not the greatest graphics you will find , it has a distinct art style that only contributes 
 to the games atmosphere. Oh, and the atmosphere it has will keep on your toes awaiting the next 
 ferocious encounter. Sound is allright, its not amazing but it gets the job done. Overall this 
 is a solid title that horror fans should pick up and any fans of action and shooter games should 
 atleast give a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  after becoming famous with franchises such as medal of honor, EA games just went through a horrible 
 era of mediocre games.
  but Dead Space is without a question a great fresh start for a new franchise.
  it may sound cliche 
 at first but in the end delivers a very fun and unique experience.
  
  You play as Isaac Clarke an astrounat send along with a team to rescue Ishimura, the biggest ship 
 for mineral explorement developed by men.
  but the situation becomes worst when you find out that Nicole, Isaac's Girlfriend is missing along.
 
  
  as soon as you go in you get separated from your team, so the scary moments can begin ;) .
  
 
  the most awesome thing about dead space is the dismemberment, because truly delivers an unique 
 new type of combats.
  and garantees a lot of cool gore for the hardcore players.
  in Dead Space you wont try to aim for the head, actually in almost all the ocassions the secret 
 here is to cut off the monster's limbs, specially the legs.
  and it is just awesome to do that.
  
  other great thing is the upgrade system, in Dead Space 
 you can upgrade all your weapons, your suit and the stasis duration.
  the stasis is a cool device that allows you to slow down enemies and fast objects for a certain 
 time.
  helps a lot when there lot of enemies to deal with.
  
  another highlight is the incredible sound system.
  the sound effects are very realistic and the 
 orchestral themes that plays along with the game are amazing.
  
  well but unfortunately there are bad points to talk about.
  even though it may have it surprises 
 the story wasnt really great, was no more than acceptable.
  and the level design are just way to tricky sometimes.
  specially when they are a lot of little 
 corners.
  
  but still dead space is dark and immersive.
  unique and just pretty awesome.
  it is a must play for hardcore gamers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space takes a formula that already has been proven to work, and shoots it into outer space, 
 but a few kinks have emerged.
  
  Gameplay- This is an action-horror, third-person shooter set on a space ship that has been ravaged 
 by some new alien species. The story gets pretty deep, eventually getting to the churches point 
 of view and a few twists. It gets the job done but it didn't do much for me. The most accurate 
 way to describe the gameplay mechanics would be to compare it to resident evil 4. The camera is 
 the same, buttons are mostly the same, and the general feel is replicated quite well. One noticeable 
 annoyance is that if your inventory is full but your weapon isnt full, you have to drop an item 
 to pick up ammo for it. It wouldn't be a big problem, but since the gameplay is so polished otherwise, 
 you definitely will notice it. The enemies are generally same throughout the game. I won't spoil 
 anything, but there's a few iterations on the same basic enemy plus a few things like a vampire 
 bat and others. The mechanic is always to shoot off their limbs. It's not terribly complex, and 
 because of it, by the end of the game you get very tired of shooting the same enemies. The environments 
 are mostly dark corridors as you'd expect in a space ship, but every once in a while you get into 
 a large zero-gravity environment. These are a nice change of pace, but getting disoriented is all 
 to easy. Perhaps the greatest little gameplay mechanic is the ability to press a button which tells 
 you where to go. It made the flow of the game really even, and I only got stuck on what to do once. 
 It's around 10 hours to complete, but I was ready for it to be over by the end.
  
  Graphics-Dead space is a great looking game. Nothing is too spectacular, but nothing is bad either. 
 The frame rate is mostly steady but dips a few times. The lighting is exceptional though. Shadow 
 effects are top notch.
  
  Sound-Voice acting is solid throughout the whole game and the music is wonderful. It sets the mood 
 perfectly and has it's moments when you really admire it. Throughout the whole game, you hear creepy 
 noises, whether it's clanging or running in vents. It really gets you creeped out if you're alone.
 
  
  Value-Technically the game has a lot to offer but the gameplay itself just gets old. You start 
 to feel bored by the end. The weapons upgrade system is pretty lengthy and their are some cool 
 items to get, but I just couldn't see playing through it more than once or twice. It's a great 
 rental though.
  
  Dead Space is just what I thought it would be; a scary way blow through a weekend. It's a lot of 
 fun and it's definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game with such ambitious as this; who knew EA can make such a near perfect 
 game. The story is fantastic as you travel through a doomed ship and try to find Issac's , the 
 main character's Girlfriend and of course to survive. The graphics are fantastic, except for the 
 shadows that look like something out of a PS1 game, a bit odd, but doesn't take away from the game 
 at all, just a weird side note. The voice acting is great as most of the story is told through 
 logs and holo-phone thing on Issac's suit, this is a good and bad point in the game. Unfortunately 
 there is little known about the characters in this game and so, it does take away from really caring 
 about them. This is a survival/horror game, but is light on scares, but is creepy as hell. This 
 is a recommended game for anybody who is into Resident evil and Sci fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmalignancy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  EA decided to give a gore-loving gamers something to scream about, because Dead Space is definitely 
 the most violent game I've seen on a new console. So violent, in fact, that I question how they 
 managed to sneak past the dreaded AO rating on this one. But regardless, it is something truly 
 amazing. It will leave you screaming and pausing the game, then not wanting to resume. If you love 
 survival horror, this game is a must-have. To simplify the story, you are a mechanic on a futuristic 
 space ship. You were summoned to fix the ship, but upon arrival you discover that everyone aboard 
 is dead and a variety of mutated creatures have taken over. So as you try to survive, you must 
 also fix the ship and find your girlfriend. Not a particularly original plot, but it works to the 
 advantage. The game is full of disgusting creatures, and they all look different even though they 
 are a clone of the same monster. There actually are a variety of enemies, none of which are humans, 
 which I greatly appreciated. But what I think really cripples the game is the similar design of 
 all the levels. Each level looks exactly the same. Same lighting, same metal walls. They should 
 have made different arenas, like the kitchen of the ship or something. It is mostly heading down 
 long hallways with monsters jumping out of the air ducts.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a great game. It's not perfect, but it is definitely a unique gem that will 
 go down in video game history. It has left a huge mark on the survival horror genre, and has set 
 a new standard in terms of blood, violence, gore, and horrifying creatures. It makes games like 
 Alone in the Dark, Condemned 2, and Silent Hill: Homecoming look like Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  In space no one can hear you scream... yet the sound of an electric saw tearing through flesh, 
 dismembering creatures of pure evil, can be heard extremely well.
  
  Dead Space follows the journey of an engineer named Isaac Clarke who is trapped on a interstellar 
 mining ship him and his team were sent to repair after their ship collided with it. The ship is 
 dead and Isaac soon finds himself battling a polymorphic, virus like, alien infection called the 
 corruption, which turns people into necromorphs.
  
  Dead Space is one of a certain few; those horror survival games that we deem worthy of placing 
 in our collections. It is full of nasty surprises that will keep you on the edge of your seat, 
 with a gripping story to match. The game doesn't include any online capabilities other that the 
 trophy system but once you play this game that won't bother you one bit.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Space is good: Although it might take you a little while to get used to the 
 positioning of the third person camera that doesn't effect the gameplay. The problems with the 
 third person camera are minor but can still become quite the irritation at times, for example: 
 the camera is sort of looking over Isaac's shoulder so at times it can be difficult to see things, 
 like when the player is trying to read thier next objective from the menu screen floating infront 
 of Isaac but can't quite reach it. Other than minor camera issues the rest of Dead Space's gameplay 
 is perfect for a horror-survival game.
  The sound is good aswell: it's clear and full of those freaky noises and little girls slowly singing 
 songs we all know very quietly and scary like, the usual in a horror game. It works well every 
 time.
  The graphics are great: it's as if your watching a movie from behind the scenes, your always looking 
 at the back of the protagonist from beside the stage. This impacts the games horrific purpose very 
 well.
  
  Overall i would reccommend Dead Space to those who enjoy Sci-fi or Horror, or those potential serial 
 killers seeking a little dismemberment fun. It's a bloodbath out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanasrj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  review coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming 
 review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming 
 review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview 
 coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review 
 coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review 
 comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview 
 coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review 
 coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review 
 comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview 
 coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review 
 coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review 
 comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview 
 coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review 
 coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review 
 comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview 
 coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review 
 coming review comingreview coming review coming review comingreview coming review coming review 
 coming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I REALLY like this! Whilst not exactly featuring a totaly original plot, everything referenced 
 is brilliant. There are elements of Solaris, Event Horizon and many other films here but somehow 
 cast in a way that feels quite fresh.
  
  The action is totally engaging. There is a real sense of suspense and jeopardy in this game. Constant 
 thrills and twists add some real hooks. I kept playing many a time after swearing "only another 
 five minutes!"
  
  The shop I loved. Weapons have to be found and then upgarded like Ratchet and Clank. The choices 
 of where to invest power nodes and credits adds a nice extra dimension to the shooting.
  
  And the shooting.... awesome. Dismemberment rules!!!!! The designers stated that gamers would need 
 to "re-think the headshot". This is certainly the case. Their is enough varitey in enemies and 
 methods for slaugthering them to keep even a competent FPS gamer interested.
  
  The camera I found great. It was a refreshing perspective to be over-the-shoulder. The holograms 
 projected from suit for the map and messages were also a very good touch. It is thinking about 
 detail like this that makes games work for me.
  
  Finaly, Dead Space is BEAUTIFUL. These are to-date the best graphics I have EVER seen in a game. 
 Environments, enemies and charcters are all well rendered and the lighting is something to behold.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draknaar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game, but I have played it around my friend's, and let me tell you, it is well 
 worth going out and buying - once I get my new PS3 this is the first game I'm getting!
  
  At first I was a bit sceptical about the idea of Resident Evil in space, but I soon learned the 
 absolute genius behind the game. If you love horror games, this is deffinately for you. Although 
 the enemy aren't flesh ripping zombies, they are much more terrifying sything aliens that can burst 
 out of walls and air vents whenever they please! The first enemy I came across - and this is no 
 lie - I screamed, 3 of them just burst out of the fans around me and everything became a confused 
 jumble of button mashing!
  
  Also, they came up with the genius idea to have all the inventory menus and that kind of stuff 
 in game, so it doesn't pause the action while you quickly cycle through to find a health pack or 
 some other item. This caused me a lot of distress at first as it is hard but it can be a real laugh 
 once you get used to it.
  
  It is an extremely tense game to play though, it keeps you on edge and unlike Resident Evil, the 
 music is on perminantly, not just when an enemy is about to pop out, and this really leaves you 
 aiming around every corner and slowly creeping through the corridors. One thing they could have 
 done though, is make aliens drop down when you are in a lift, but I suppose they make up for this 
 when half the time and alien leaps at you as soon as the lift doors open!
  
  I highly recomend this game to all players as it is an amazing thrill and an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3NeGaDeAnGeL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. I would not recommend buying it but merely renting it; the replay value 
 is the only gripe I have with this game. Yes you can re-beat it to unlock more secret backstory 
 logs on some characters and get a new costume but the game is short; I rented it to try it out 
 and ended up beating it in 4 days, clocking in at around 10 hours while taking my time! I also 
 felt that the game was too easy upon the player as well, at least in the medium difficulty. My 
 regret is that I did not higher the difficulty, but I didn't know the game was going to be so forgiving. 
 I ended up beating the game with nearly 20 Large med pacs, 25 medium health packs, and countless 
 ammo as well... don't be afraid to go gung ho sometimes!
  
  Besides that small gripe, the game is freaking awesome. The story is scary for the fact that you 
 are slowly discovering what happened to the crew as you go along the game... and thanks to EA, Necromorphs 
 are now THE most scary monster you will ever encounter in a videogame to date. There are numerous 
 enemy types, and "strategically dismembering" them never gets old.
  
  The weapons are what makes shooters great as well. Mostly all the weapons are modified engineering 
 tools, such as a buzzsaw or blowtorch. You truly feel badass shredding apart the limbs of your 
 undead enemies. Having a limited space in your inventory for weapons, health, and ammo adds to the 
 terror of the game for the fact that you always seem to have BARELY enough ammo for each section 
 you go through. 
  
  The graphics; some of the best I've ever seen, period. Playing this thing on a high def nearly 
 made my eyes bleed and tear due to how beautifully horrific everything I encountered was. 
  
  
  My opinion; you MUST PLAY THIS GAME, however... if you are poor and on a limited budget 
 like I am, RENT IT. Amp up the difficulty and have a blast... literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Labeckio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  EA's answer to BIOSHOCK. To simular in concept to be ignored. Deformed, demented, kill crazed former 
 humans. Although Dead Space has a zombie feel there are too many things that reming me of BIOSHOCK. 
 Recorded records, someone having you do all the dirty work while he's doing what ever he pleases, 
 an a conflict with two characters opposing one another.
  
  Don't get me wrong the game is gorgous, plays well, near invisible level loading, and its own twisted 
 one man trying to survive it all cost story-line. Is great and sets athe bar a little higher. Yet 
 I've already done this countless times. If it wasn't for the hair raising combination of sight 
 and sound, this game would have been a sleeper.
  
  EA is heading in the right direction with this one. Now all they need to do is put all that money 
 to good use by defining an all new genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidum-jurgin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  men its so amazing shooting out undead in real game like playing a lot of action with this game 
 as me i love it and i will repaetly play it to solve more secrets this games are designed to morve 
 your hands with full of excitement and fun so come on now try it and fee lthe horror in this gsmes 
 like in RE games sure you will love to feel as that also it has similarity to the RE games only 
 differences is the story , characters, events and others as well but its just like target practice 
 while you areplaying games like this so come on now buy a copy and grab your joystic and strat 
 playing just try to consolt other gamers to help you and to deal with other games maybe you can 
 gain a powerful info that surely make you more competent any way just stick online so you will 
 gain more info or chat me at yahoo this is my adress solidum. jurgin@yahoo. com better have more 
 freinds to guide you or share more well try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Um_Wut
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I didn't high hopes for this game after seeing who was publishing it, in fact I fully expected 
 it to suck. But I'm not too proud to admit I was wrong. This game is everything RE4 should have 
 been and everything I hope RE5 will be. This game follows the survival horror genre better than 
 any game since the early resident evils and silent hills. Limited life, limited ammo, unknown creatures 
 lurking in the darkness and the goriest deaths in a video game I've seen so far. The story sucks 
 you in and the beautiful graphics, awesome controls and tons of upgradable items, weapons and abilities 
 make this game a joy to replay over and over. The in game item use and weapon switching works remarkably 
 well and keeps the game flowing and the action intense. This is a game that needs to be played 
 by everyone fans of Classic survival horror and RE4 alike because it mixes the two styles remarkably 
 well. Keep up the good work EA, you're not such a dirty word any more, and let's hope RE5 took 
 some notes to remember what survival horror is all about.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple months I have been anxiously trying to find a horror game that could make me 
 feel even the slightest feeling of fear. Siren: Blood Curse was a good game but still lacked the 
 feeling of suspense and horror that I was so eagerly searching for.
  
  Then Dead Space arrived.
  
  When I first began to play I expected the worst. Though Dead Space 
 had gotten a decent score that wasn't proof that it would be a good horror game. Upon being chased 
 into an elevator by a monster so repulsive that words cannot describe it, I knew that I was in 
 for a treat.
  
  The game had all of the features that I missed and loved about old PS2 horror games. Like a real 
 ship there were several noises that would occur that would be innocent but, to me, sounded hostile. 
 The sound of a pipe hitting the floor in the distance would be enough to make me draw my gun and 
 keep it drawn for a while.
  
  The atmosphere in the game was excellent. From blood stained bedrooms to fog filled corridors the 
 game kept you nervous with each and every corner that you took.
  
  Final Note: If you want to play a game that will truly frighten you, get Dead Space. Rare is the 
 game that keeps you in aim mode even though there is no threat to be seen... yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is twisted. I really didn't expect this game to be this good. I haven't played a game 
 that was both good and scary at the same time since of course Resident Evil 1. It dosen't have 
 the deepest story line but it's a very good one. Having the prequel movie and seeing the comics 
 make it more understandable. With a surprise ending that'll trip you out and make you come back 
 for a second round, this a game you should not miss.
  
  Gameplay: It's obvious it borrows it's controls from Resident Evil 4, but it works very well so 
 you wont complain. Whenever you go through your menu screen for items or map, it displays in a 
 holograph whichs keeps the game going in real time. The enemies are feirce and creatively disturbing. 
 But you have to kill them in a certain way, so not to ruin it for you I wont say how. Puzzles are 
 pretty straight forward though. 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful, gory, dead bodies, blood, everything in the atmosphere of the game will pull 
 you in and keep you paranoid.
  
  All in all get this game already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  It was supposed to be just a routine job. A maintenance team was sent to the space station USG 
 Ishimura, but communications were down. After an accident the team find themselves trapped aboard 
 the space station, where something hellish has been set loose and they must cling to survival.
 
  
  If you just read the above paragraph out of context it would be hard to know what it is that you're 
 reading about. From Event Horizon to Doom 3, Dead Space borrows many elements of other Sci-Fi plots. 
 You will not find an original story here, but if what you're looking for is an excellent gameplay 
 with great production values, you can't go wrong with this game.
  
  Taking control of the silent hero Isaac Clarke, through a third person over the shoulder perspective, 
 you will, little by little, discover what has happened aboard the station. By recovering some logs 
 left by the now deceased crew of the Ishimura you'll learn about the creatures called Necromorphs, 
 who now infest the ship and are hunting you. It is when fighting them that one of the most interesting 
 aspects of this game appears, the Strategic Dismemberment.
  
  You can kill Necromorphs by repeatedly shooting them at their chests, but you'll certainly waste 
 a lot of your precious ammo with it. The way to faster dispose of them is to dismember their limbs, 
 like their legs, tentacles, tail or even head. Even though some of them retain some humanoid form 
 the usual weak spots, like a good placed head shot, will do little more than to stagger them for 
 a little while. Only by tearing their limbs can you effectively kill them faster and conserve ammunition. 
 This makes for an extremely exciting combat, for you must take each type of enemy in a different 
 way. No matter how many times you may run into a Necromorph, severing their legs and later cutting 
 of their arms never gets old.
  
  Now, to properly get rid of an enemy you'll need a good arsenal and Dead Space is not short on 
 supply. There are seven weapons in total, but they are all varied and have a second fire mode. 
 It's true that the most reliable is your initial weapon, the Plasma Cutter, and some of them - 
 like the Flame Thrower or the Ripper - don't feel very useful; but their "coolness" alone will 
 make you'll want to go back to them from time to time, just to see how they feel like. Aside from 
 the weapons, Isaac's Rig (his armor) gets upgraded early into the game with the Stasis and Telekinesis. 
 With Stasis you'll be able to slow down objects, which is how most puzzles in the game are solved, 
 and enemies, which makes dismembering them a lot easier. Telekinesis will be used mostly to solving 
 puzzles. Although it can also be used for combat, like throwing an explosive barrel or a severed 
 claw back at enemies, this part never feels fleshed out and is underused. Only when playing at 
 the hardest difficulty of the game did I start paying attention to how I could use this for my 
 advantage, so I could conserve more ammo. All weapons and armor can be upgraded by going to a bench. 
 You can implant nodes into your equipment, making them do more damage, have greater ammo capacity, 
 shoot faster, etc. You can find these nodes in some cabins or you can buy them at the store.
  
  Throughout the Ishimura you'll run across stores. In here you can buy ammunition for your guns, 
 health packs and even new suits or weapons, given that you find the schematics for them. It's never 
 explained in any log exactly how these stores function. Though it may not be the point of the game 
 to wonder about such things, it strikes me as weird that a civilian is able to buy a flame thrower 
 while working in a space station, but that's okay. Once you leave these thoughts behind you'll 
 see that the store is a nice implement. It may not be very deep, but the combination of the store 
 and the bench provide you with some strategy at how you may want to tackle the game. You may prefer 
 to keep a lot of health and stasis packs stashed in case you need them later, or you might feel 
 that selling them and buying as many power nodes as you can to upgrades your weapons is the right 
 thing to do. As I said, it isn't really deep and you'll most likely only wonder what you want to 
 upgrade on your first playthrough, but it's something nice to have.
  
  Your objectives will be given to you by the surviving members of your team. They are mostly consisted 
 on you repairing something that needs immediate fixing or you'll all die, like turning on the asteroid 
 defense system of the ship or finding out why the air is becoming toxic. It seems that every time 
 you have just resolved a problem another thing, bigger this time, has appeared. Even though it 
 may seem artificial the way these threats show up they never seem tackled on and you never feel 
 that what you're doing is pointless. Getting to the end of a chapter after guaranteeing your survival 
 for a while longer is a reward in itself.
  
  One aspect though that is not so rewarding are the boss fights. They are short in number, only 
 three, and each of the bosses look a lot alike. There is a in game reason for their similarity, 
 but a greater variation of their designs would be more appreciated. This does not mean they do 
 not look good, in fact their sheer size and greatness will leave you with your mouth ajar. Unfortunately 
 you'll quickly remember to close it when you see how easy it is too kill them, even at greater 
 difficulties. On a side note, if you consider yourself as part of the "hardcore" videogame audience, 
 do yourself a favor and go straight to the hard difficulty. Not that you'll breeze through normal, 
 but there was not a moment on normal where I felt I had overcome something. You'll have a good 
 amount of challenge without feeling like pulling your hair out on the hard difficulty.
  
  As I mentioned about the bosses, they look really good. But this does not apply only to them. In 
 fact, the entire game is an eye candy. The Ishimura's interior looks good and is very detailed, 
 as well as the enemies. Two places specially, the ships bridge and the last chapter, look incredible. 
 This, allied with a great sound design make up for a very immersive experience. Hearing asteroids 
 bumping on ship's hull, or enemies crawling around the vents really adds up to the horror atmosphere 
 that the game wants to provide; and trust me, you will jump a few times out of seat. It's a shame 
 though that about a third into the game the horror starts to fade away; I could always predict 
 where enemies would jump out from, and thus not be scared. Also your weapons will start to get 
 stronger and you'll know how to effectively kill each enemy. The game will still manage to give 
 a fright or two, but the atmosphere goes away.
  
  Dead Space does not create a new paradigm, but that's okay because it's not what it wants to do. 
 Its story and some aspects of its universe may not be strikingly original or very well explored, 
 but they are enough to make you want to go all the way through. It fulfills its role of being a 
 very good and well made action game focused on its gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space, while far from a masterpiece, is surprisingly heavy with great ideas executed almost 
 to perfection. Graphically the game is stunning with high textures and a solid frame rate throughout, 
 creating a mood and an atmosphere in a new environment we haven't been before (well, not in the 
 survival - horror genre at least) . Adding to this atmosphere are the fantastic sound effects which 
 are so vital to our immersion into Dead Space. The audio is so good it's difficult to realize just 
 how important sound can be in creating a virtual reality.
  
  Dead Space borrows some of the best ideas from successful titles of the past. It borrows from titles 
 such as Half-life (gravity gun) , Bioshock (audio logs) and the movie 'Alien' (story) and even comes 
 up with its own unique ideas such as zero-g mechanics. Actually, the plot is almost exactly that 
 of the movie 'Alien' and the vibe and feel of the title is also the same deep space horror that 
 propelled director Ridley Scott to fame Dom. Even though the story is nothing new, it's executed 
 wonderfully. I related to the story and the characters so much and was sucked in by the scattered 
 audio logs much more than Bioshock which I felt was slightly cold and distant. I felt that the 
 actors were actually talking to me, which leads me to point out another point: The voice acting 
 is amazing and adds that much more to the immersion of this game.
  
  Gamespot commented that the game will take between 15 to 20 hours of gameplay. Sadly, this is not 
 the case! I managed to complete Dead Space (while not rushing - actually taking my sweet ass time) 
 in 11 hours! Even though this was the case I jumped right in and began a new game immediately whilst 
 able to carry on with my suit and weapon upgrades (Ratchet and Clank anyone?) and was even awarded 
 a new suit and 10 power nodes amongst other things. 
  
  Highly recommended
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidus171
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Whatever people say to you, Dead Space is scary. People who claim its lack of horror are those 
 who sped through it during the day, whilst there was still light outside.
  I ruthlessly kept myself from playing this game during the day, and only when the sun set and my 
 house was empty, did I turn the PS3 on, turned up the volume and sunk down into my seat. But yet, 
 whilst I booted up the game, I was saying to myself: 'Do I really want to do this...' I was a pansie 
 and I'm ashamed of how I behaved, Dead Space makes you act in strange ways. It's really addictive 
 once the story gets its meat hooks between your shoulder blades, and the gameplay never lets up. 
 But you have reservations... are you ready to face the necromorphs once again?!
  
  You see DS takes the Half Life approach to story telling, with no cutscenes to interupt gameplay 
 and everything occurs real time. This means that you are finding fragments of the puzzle and are 
 putting them together, exactly like BioShock if you will. This also means that the game never pauses 
 and whilst you read articles in you data bank, a morph can burst through a vent at any time. This 
 keeps the tension at a constant high, and even looking in your inventory for a couple of seconds 
 can give you shivers as you wonder what that clanging sound was.
  The action is ruthless and revolutionary. Never has a game asked me to BLOW THEIR DAMN LIMBS OFF! 
 No wonder it got banned in Australia before it was released. Enemies will lose their legs and still 
 come for you. I have never seen such a determined enemy, it's refreshing to say the least.
  Your weapons are beefy and varied but they do conform to the usual stereotypes - shotgun, sniper 
 rifle, assault rifles and pistols to name the least, but they are all tools, rehashed for a killing 
 purpose. Funny thing that I considered the one actual gun in the game - a pulse rifle - to be the 
 most useless gun in the game. Your adapted tools are highly specialised and ruthless, but hey! 
 so are the enemy.
  
  One thing that helped the game to never get boring is the appearance of new enemies throughout 
 the game. The standard necros don't stay standard for long, as the bigger, faster and more brutal 
 necromorphs start appearing more frequently. This makes some of the last sections in the game very 
 nerve wracking - you face off against some absurd abominations very frequently. 
  Unlike in Doom 3 where the enemy pops down to Earth (or Mars if you know your stuff) via runes, 
 in Dead Space they smash down through vents or are just there. You may be thinking: so.... what 
 does that have to do with anything? Well you see, when I replayed Doom 3 several times, I remembered 
 where most of the enemies spawned. This meant that upon the entrance of a zone I would run in corner 
 A with my shotgun and kill the imp before it fully materialised. In Dead Space, the fact that the 
 ventilation system acts as a transport network, it means the necromorphs can one play through be 
 down the other end of the corridor, and the next they will pop down through a vent above you. It 
 makes it inconsistent and always unerving. Simply put, it keeps it in its place as a horror game 
 and never too far into the action realm, which is what Doom 3 did. Hiding in a corner in this game 
 will not work, because although the necros can't operate doors, they can use vents to travel from 
 room to room.
  
  The story is multi-layered and intriguing, exactly like Bioshock, where the collection of data 
 and information will put the pieces together so you can imagine what happened. This is possibly 
 the area where Dead Space falls down. You are, in effect, looking for your girlfriend or wife (you 
 aren't told directly) and you find her, but you don't quite know if she's a halucination or the 
 real deal. So what do you think eh? Well it's revealed at the end. Partially. The story has purposefuly 
 left a gaping hole on purpose as to leave EA Redwood the ability to pick it up with Dead Space 
 2. I was somewhat unsatisfied, as I'm left making assumptions that I simply don't want to make 
 after spending 20 hours with Isaac.
  
  The setting and atmosphere work brilliantly, and although the game has openly ripped off aspects 
 from some of the finest horror films in existence, it does it with efficiency and pride. If anything, 
 if the game is made into a film it could rival, or in my opinion, be better than the Alien Trilogy. 
 I always believed that the true makings of a horror title is - vulnerability. Isaac Clarke has 
 a very close, behind the shoulder camera and a rock shredder. The Marines in Aliens have flamers, 
 pulse rifles, grenades, the lot and there's many of them. Dead Space works because you are weak 
 (an engineer) and you are simply not trained for this nightmare scenario. But you push through 
 anyway because you are a man! You are a gamer!
  
  Overall I believed the game is unmissable. It's revolutionary in what it does and it's got some 
 balls trying to be something brash and different and it payed off. The game is frantic, horrific, 
 scary and unsettling. It's been a long time since I played anything like this. Highly recommended 
 for anyone looking for a great, modern gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SocomSaint04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the trailer for Dead Space I immediately knew that this game was for me. I didn't 
 buy it, but if I had the money, I would. Right off the bat the game makes you dive in head first 
 into a pool of suspense, especially when playing in the dark ;) The game takes place in space obviously 
 and involves a few characters exploring a drilling/mining station that lost contact with the rest 
 of the world. You and your team are there to check it out, and trust me, you find out why they 
 lost contact! I'll leave that up to you though :D
  
  This game is just flat out fun! The upgrades in the game are cool, making the replay value very 
 good because you want to upgrade all your stuff to the max, and well, you just wanna kill more 
 scary, crazy, messed up dudes!! The controls are very smooth, camera control great, the environments 
 are nail biting and graphics are some of the best I've seen. The story isn't super in depth, but 
 there is a nice twist, and heck, it isn't meant to be in depth, it's meant to set things up so 
 you can play the game and enjoy it. It's like some movies, they aren't meant for a deep plot, they 
 are meant to entertain, and this game is like that, and if you aren't entertained by this I dunno 
 what to tell you. 
  
  I highly recommend it if you like shooters, any type of shooters, but fair warning, there are massive 
 amounts of blood, gore, guys popping out at you, etc. etc. Meaning, go rent/buy it now!! Zero gravity 
 environments were cool so you can float around, and sometimes you have to venture outside the ship 
 so you can only breathe for certain amounts of time. Your character also has a few tricks besides 
 just lock and load which were a very nice addition, aka telekinesis and stasis (slowing down objects) . 
 The game doesn't take long to beat, little over 10 hours, but you will definitely want to replay 
 it. So what are you waiting for, go play Dead Space!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollism
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  About halfway through the game and with no let up of the horror i just have to say this is one 
 of the best games I've played to date. I'm a huge fan of scary/atmospheric games and this one has 
 it all. My only advice is to play alone, at night, with the lights off.
  Fantastic!
  
  Cheers :)
  
  dam i need 100 words.. errrr copy/paste :)
  
  About halfway through the game 
 and with no let up of the horror i just have to say this is one of the best games I've played to 
 date. I'm a huge fan of scary/atmospheric games and this one has it all. My only advice is to play 
 alone, at night, with the lights off.
  Fantastic!
  
  Cheers :)
  About halfway through the game and with no let up of the horror i just have to say this is one 
 of the best games I've played to date. I'm a huge fan of scary/atmospheric games and this one has 
 it all. 
  My only advice is to play alone, at night, with the lights off.
  Fantastic!
  
  Cheers :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  In the Dead Space universe, mankind has long since mastered space transportation and the ability 
 to siphon the resources off of other celestial bodies via a process known as 'plant cracking' and 
 send them to Earth.
  
  The story begins when one of these plant-cracking vessels, the USG Ishimura, has its communications 
 cut off from central command. A small team of mechanics and engineers are sent to investigate what 
 caused the problem and, if possible, to fix it. You take control of Isaac Clarke, a systems engineer 
 and member of this small maintenance crew. As soon as you get anywhere near the Ishimura, it immediately 
 becomes clear that something is wrong and upon approaching the dock, your craft crashes and unknown 
 creatures (later revealed to be called Necromorphs) begin to attack you and your crew.
  
  After a hasty escape, it is up to you and the remainder of your team to round up survivors and 
 fix the multitude of system failures the Ishimura is experiencing due to the Necromorphs and ultimately, 
 find a way off the ship. As Isaac, you will be charged with fetching items and enabling systems 
 around the vessel, all while searching for your girlfriend (a crew member of the Ishimura) .
  
  Since Isaac is an engineer and not a soldier, he must do what he can with the tools he finds. 
 Therefore, the majority of your arsenal will be made up of tools generally used for planet cracking. 
 They do, however, make for very effective dismembering equipment. This is a novel combat feature 
 of Dead Space that works well for the most part; your enemies are generally resistant to blows 
 to the head/chest, and the only way to severely damage them is to cut off their limbs. However, 
 the close quarters combat can get a bit cumbersome and annoying. Also, you may find some weapons 
 are slightly overpowered and make the game fairly easy, but either way it's pretty satisfying to 
 down an enemy by slicing off both legs and finishing it off by blowing their arms away.
  
  The game mechanics will be familiar to those who have played Resident Evil 4, as the over the shoulder 
 camera (which makes shooting enemies a lot less troublesome) is employed. A nice addition to the 
 gameplay is the Zero Gravity feature. In such places Isaac can jump from wall to ceiling while 
 fighting off flying Necromorphs or even play a game of Zero-G Basketball! The way dismembered limbs 
 and dead crewmembers float around in these environments is quite realistic and the environment 
 also makes for an interesting boss fight in the middle of the game.
  
  There is a weapons upgrade system, which is again done quite well. Isaac must find schematics of 
 weapons in order for them to become available at the store, and then he must find a Bench on which 
 to modify the equipment via use of Power Nodes. The trick is, you will not get enough credits or 
 Power Nodes to max out all weapons in your first game, so you must choose what to upgrade carefully. 
 You can also upgrade your suit, health, Stasis and Kinesis modules, I will explain what I mean 
 by the latter two.
  
  The Stasis module allows you to slow down your enemies and other objects for a temporary period 
 of time, which comes in very handy for solving some of the games puzzles and also when fighting 
 some of the faster enemies later on in the game. The Kinesis module allows Isaac to pick up and 
 manipulate objects from a distance, as if he had telekinetic powers, which is again used to solve 
 some simple puzzles or pick up random limbs.
  
  Atmospherics play a major role in any survival-horror game, and can make or break a game of this 
 genre. I'm pleased to say Dead Space doesn't disappoint on this front. The Ishimura is a somewhat 
 unsettling place and the sounds the player hears, from a gentle lullaby in the distance to a dropping 
 pipe and growl of an unseen Necromorph, are bone-chilling throughout. The game also throws in some 
 jump moments, some of which are implemented well, others which are quite predictable.
  
  In an attempt to immerse the player even more-so into the environment, there is no conventional 
 HUD to speak of. Isaac's health is read directly from his back and the remaining ammo is displayed 
 in holographic form when you ready your weapon. It works surprisingly well, aside from times when 
 your forced against a wall or ceiling and cannot see your remaining health, making you unsure as 
 to whether using a med pack would be wise. Use of the inventory screen is done in real-time, meaning 
 the game doesn't pause while you look through it and hence you are vulnerable to any scurrying 
 Necromorphs in you area. This again, is a small detail which makes the gamer feel more involved 
 with the action at all times.
  
  Becoming absorbed by the action is easy, however, the same cannot be said for the main character 
 though. It is extremely difficult to become attached to Isaac, even if he is searching for his 
 lost girlfriend in the middle of all this mess  basically because he's a mute and doesn't have 
 a single line of dialogue making it almost impossible to sympathise! The game progresses well however, 
 but will not have you coming back for more based on the plot, which is somewhat of a mash up of 
 Event Horizon and Alien.
  
  Dead Space turns out pretty good visuals with both environments and Necromorph models being excellently 
 represented and the detail Isaac's weapons and suit standing out in particular. However, the sound 
 is the chief characteristic of Dead Space, with ear-splitting screams and unnerving moans designed 
 to freak you out, it is hard not to become immersed in the action. Another stand-out piece of sound 
 design is that when you find yourself in a vacuum, all you can hear is Isaac's heavy breathing, 
 grunting and the thud of your weapon being fired at silently screaming foes.
  
  All in all Dead Space turns out to be a really good game, and one I didn't expect from EA. However, 
 it is not without its flaws. The storyline is a bit weak and the main character isn't very well 
 developed making it difficult to care too much about him. The close-quarters combat is a bit cumbersome 
 and I never felt compelled to play through the game again. Although, Dead Space is a game where 
 the positives outweigh the negatives significantly and should be bought by fans of the survival-horror 
 genre and at least tried by everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  What makes a good survival horror? loads of jumps? scares? or does it involve more of a solid atmosphere? 
 Dead Space is a mixed bag and takes a lot of its pros from other games.
  
  You basically play as Isaac Clarke, a mechanic sent to the USG Ishimura, a planet cracking ship. 
 However all is not what it seems. When you arrive on the Ishimura you realize that it is empty, 
 or so it appears.
  
  The game has no HUD which actually works a lot better than you might think with everything vital 
 to the player located on Isaac's rig. Health is shown on your characters back and ammo shown as 
 a holographic image on your weapon whenever aimed. 
  
  This game takes a lot from games such as Resident Evil 4 and Silent Hill. The set up is generally 
 like Resident Evil 4, you use over the shoulder aiming but there is an addition of the ability 
 to move slowly. When you are not aiming R1 and R2 act as basic melee attacks such as a punch or 
 stomp. The Zero gravity sections add a new pace to the game and is one of the few real innovations. 
 The game has a lot in common with Silent Hill with the fact that the game is mostly atmosphere 
 with very little scares.
  
  The graphics are superb. Lighting effects are generally top notch and character detail is also 
 very good. The bloody corridors of the USG Ishimura are enough to make anyone feel unnerved. The 
 art design though is generally very dull with much of the USG Ishimura looking pretty much the 
 same, you won't even realize your backtracking half the game. 
  
  Sound plays quite a big role. There are so many sound effects which help build up atmosphere from 
 the scuttling of a necromorph to the sound of a woman singing twinkle twinkle. Overall the sound 
 is one of the bigger highlights in the game. 
  
  The game isn't all that scary but this is not to say there are no horror elements at all. Its just 
 not what you were promised. However one enemy in the game is potentially the most terrifying creature 
 i have ever come across in a video game and this makes for one hell of a section. Shame it doesn't 
 last all too long.
  
  The story to the game is actually pretty good. There are many twists and turns but some are pretty 
 predictable. The overall plot though is fairly straight forward but the pretty interesting characters 
 add an element to the story telling. Unfortunately Isaac is not one of the more interesting characters 
 for he is a mute. This worked very well in Bioshock but at least they gave the character an amazing 
 back story. Isaac however is just your boring hero looking for his girlfriend. Another element 
 that does not work in favour of the story telling is the fact that most of the story is told via 
 tape recordings and hardly any real communication between characters which is a real shame.
  
  Think of this game as a mix between Event Horizon and Alien. 
  
  Overall Dead Space is 
 a mixed bag what it lacks in originality is more than made up for with some interesting elements 
 such as Zero gravity sections and Vaccuums. Just don't go expecting the next Resident Evil and 
 you'll have a good time with this game. You just probably won't come back.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I was not expecting this alright. This game is amazing and it about damn time. You 
 know when it comes to horror games you don't have a lot of choices. Resident evil has become more 
 of a action game and silent hill is pretty much all you have with a couple games here and there. 
 Lets just hope this one isn't a here and there. Storyline. Well the story basically goes your a 
 engineer coming to the Ishimuru space ship to figure out what happen to the crew and to fix it. 
 Or so you thought. Almost immidately you are separated from your crew and and you find out that 
 the crew has been turn into mutant freaks. Now you must figure how all this happen and how to get 
 off the Ishimuru before you are killed. Gameplay. What EA really tried to focus on here was the 
 gameplay. They started this whole new thing called dismemberment combat and let me tell you it 
 feels great. You can not get this feeling anywhere else in any video game. I mean how many video 
 games do you know where you can shoot off a alien's legs only to figure out he has hands on his 
 back with eventually greats you with a huge razor sharp blade. Better let how many games can you 
 shoot a pregnant alien in the stomach only to be greeted with another. This is the type of experience 
 that can only be experienced through dead space The controls are also dead on and my only complaint 
 is this. You see when you press r3 a little line will so you where you have to go. This gets confusing 
 when there are multiple different floors and a elevator because the line doesn't go up. And I know 
 you guys will probably say thats a minor problem so you should give it a ten however a ten stands 
 for perfect there fore only a perfect game can receive that score. Replayablity. Yes because no 
 matter how many times you play this you can not predict when these monster will scare making it 
 a game that never loses it's scare. So all in all a This should be a game in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space. 
  
  "This game was worth the wait, as it was for the hype".
  
  Dead Space starts you off as Issac Clarke, a space engineer ready for anything that comes his way. 
 Your are summoned with your team to a distress call coming from the USG Ishimura, which you all 
 believe are just mechanical issues with the mining ship. But what awaits you is a darkness and 
 horror which will truly shock, and frighten you.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  By far one of the best graphical game for the PS3. Horrific sights, great scenery, gore to the 
 extreme, and of course, it runs in 1080p. 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Walking alone just makes it spooky and creepy as you hear every little detail of noise that's made, 
 too the sound of your Plasma gun firing, to simply just all the warning noises going off, it will 
 knock you your ears off.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Gameplay was very satisfying. Upgradeable weapons and armor such as the Plasma Cutter to a Force 
 Cannon, made the game worthwhile and exciting. Enemies on the other hand, made things even more 
 interesting. If your aim is right, you'll be able to shoot off there limbs and heads, making most 
 baddies just fall straight down to the floor and taking a dirt nap! Just coming up to them afterward, 
 and floor stomp them, just makes you feel happier that there dead. The other cool thing that made 
 the game jump out, is the Zero Gravity. In some rooms on the mining ship, there will be no gravity 
 and will allow you to jump onto the walls and ceiling of the ship, making for some interesting 
 battles. The only problem I had with this game, was that the main story missions were very bland. 
 It simply had you running from point A to point B, not mixing up the gameplay too much.
  
  Conclusion: This game is a must have for all PS3 gamers. Whether you like futuristic battles, upgradeable 
 equipment, or just blowing limbs off, you will love the game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantom513
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when playing this game was the graphics. The textures and every little 
 detail just look amazing. There are times when I just stopped to look at stuff in the game because 
 it just looks so incredible. I would have to say my favorite part of the visuals is the way the 
 health system and the heads up display works. Your health is shown as blue bars on your back and 
 your displays are all holographic and come up in real time. This makes the game feel so much more 
 realistic than the games where you have a little health number in the corner of the screen and 
 can pause at any time to use your inventory or look up missions. Another cool part of the game 
 is the combat system. The whole idea of killing enemies by dismembering limbs feels like a breathe 
 of fresh air compared to the usual shoot "it" the head horror game. The best part is that dismembering 
 limbs never gets old because there are several weapons to chose from and each has a primary and 
 secondary firing mode, meaning there are many different ways to take apart your enemies. Each of 
 these weapons can then be upgraded to be stronger, faster, or have more ammo. On top of that you 
 get the stasis ability which allows you to slow down enemies and object. I mean lets face it there 
 is nothing cooler in a game then taking apart an enemy limb by limb in slow-mo. You also get the 
 kinesis ability which allows you to throw objects like saw blades and explosives at your enemies 
 if you don't feel like using ammo. Another great part about the game is the scary atmosphere. The 
 game designers did a great job with the sounds, music in the game to keep you scared from beginning 
 to end and always give you the feeling that at any moment something might jump out of the wall 
 or drop from the ceiling. The best part of the game however is the story. Never have I played a 
 horror survival game and become so wrapped up in the story. It feels like you are actually trying 
 to figure out what is going on in this game instead of just trying get out alive like most horror 
 games. The story constantly leaves you asking more and more as you get further on, until you just 
 can't put the game down because you want to know how it ends. Dead Space is a definite must buy 
 to any fan of the horror/survival genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Who saw Dead Space coming? An EA game? With little hype up til the last minute. DS is your typical 
 survival horror game, set almost entirely in a Space Ship. Yes you'll backtrack to areas from time 
 to time, but it never feels like everything you see is exactaly the same, and each trip thru there 
 are new things to keep a close eye out for. If ever there were a FPS that required you to keep 
 your gun of choice drawn, DS is it. You pretty much stay on constant guard, and with a good sound 
 system you'll have a jump or two. Gameplay is easy to pick up, controls are good. Only minor problems 
 are: running is barely faster than walking, and your menu screen where you can look at objectives 
 or use certain items leaves you totally exposed. Which is a big problem from time to time. Graphics 
 are top notch, I mean has anyone played a PS3 or 360 game recently that had bad graphics? The weapons 
 are great, each different, and each with gory results. The way you kill enemies is a cool change 
 of pace, and there is a good variety of enemies. The storyline was fine by me, nothing epic, but 
 very good. All in all a very good game that I'd love to see a second one of on down the line. A 
 must play for fans of the genre, I finished fairly quickly and played thru one more time, so if 
 you have a long weekend you may want to rent it, but don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgisforme
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  What I heard was it was Silent Hill, in space. They were wrong. This game is in no way shape or 
 form anywhere near the same class as a Silent Hill game but for what it is, Dead Space is a heck 
 of alot of fun.
  The graphics in this game are sharp and nice. A great example of what our next gen consoles are 
 capable of. The sound is exactly what you'd expect. The atmosheric music, all the unfounded bumps 
 and bangs that keep you on your toes and generally creeped out. The voice acting is well done. 
 The controls were fluid and easy to get the hang of and the special powers like telekinesis were 
 really cool to play with.
  The storyline to me at least is straight out of the Doom movie, and almost every other sci fi on 
 a spaceship movie or game to come along. It's not revolutionary by any means. It's the standard 
 fare, the Ishimara is damaged., You go to do repairs only to end up with your own ship damaged. 
 There is now no way off and the ship is full of monsters. To save yourself you must traverse back 
 and forth the large monster ridden spaceship and repair everything so you can get the heck home 
 and extinguish the menace aboard the ship. All while also trying to find your ex girlfriend who 
 was supposedly aboard.
  As my screen name might imply I'm not a huge shooter fan, but I will play the ones I find fun and 
 this one fit the bill. The only way to take down your baddies is to dismember them. A little over 
 the top but nonetheless incredibly fun. If you shoot off the legs they'll still come at you, arms, 
 head, doesn't matter. You have to remove multiple appendages to bring them down. The variety of 
 different monsters keeps things changing and the upgrades you can make to your suit and weapons 
 keep things fresh as well.
  Not overly gory as you might expect dismembering everything that comes at you could be. Though 
 it's still not a game I'd play around the younger ones. It does tend to have some good jump at 
 your parts that might be slightly disturbing to some of the more sensitive ones. Dead Space was 
 not what I was expecting but was still worth the time. Alot of fun. 
  AND, it has trophies! We all love showing them off don't we? I'm not completely through the game 
 but I can tell you there are at least 49 of them which will you keep you replaying this game to 
 get them all. Well worth the money. You certainly won't regret getting this game even if it doesn't 
 bring a whole lot of anything new to the scene. It's still good old fashioned kill everything that 
 moves fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monochromatic-7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  at the beginning of the introduction of this game, i couldn't make myself love or also like it anyway. aliens 
 never scared me and i could never think maybe someday i play a space themed horror game but when 
 i read the reviews i couldn't believe how great it is and so it went! for the first time in my 
 life i bought a space themed game called Dead Space. i believe this game is really cool but not 
 for survival horror fans like me. fantastic graphics is the best reason for playing this game. physics 
 are very well based and lighting is a really good fake of the legend F. E. A. R.. sounds are really 
 loyal to the game and voices are really good. the gamplay of this game is very enjoyable and it 
 really uses those two functions (vibration and sixaxis) in the best way. you really feel good when 
 you just pummel the head of those aliens and dead friends, too!! i don't wanna say much about the 
 horror because i see no true horror in this game. of course this game is really good but the scaring 
 methods in this game are very repetitive. the blinking lights can't scare me when i know there maybe 
 is a stupid alien, not a ghost! with all those i said, this game is a good Sci-Fi shooter but not 
 true to the horror genre and lacks the weak storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hororsurvive
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  many months ago i have seen dead space pictures and i hated them, because i hate the space games 
 all of them, but after i saw it in a game channel a fall in love with it.
  let us travil with dead space friends
  the story : it is good very good, you will go to save people 
 from the unknown, you go to repaire ishimura ship but.... you will stock in a dead space, i think 
 EA did terrific designe in this game ,it is the beautifull game from EA at all. the story is fantastic, i 
 idvise all horor adventure lover to play it. its will your best game.
  the graphics :it is terrific ,the designers did not had many options; because the game was in ark 
 ship so there is nothing just steal, may you see how the designers creat these terrific graphics, some 
 times when i was played the game i was stoped to see how much beautifull graphics mixed with blood 
 and light and sounds , oh boy what a game.
  the designera in this game are really artists
  the sounds and effects : it is the only game which has great happening wich never stop exciting, it 
 makes you feel that you always in danger, the ship is made of danger
  you can not feel boring with sounds and effects like that, but i believie Dead Space beter than 
 resident evil 5 and the best horor game released until now.
  the control: it was very good , maybe some bodies say no, but i will say the characters have slow 
 movement because he wears a heavy suit wich has many devces and gears, and i hope the scond part 
 of dead space the movment will be faster.
  this game has a spcial surprise element and i loved it . i think it is a perfect game, the only 
 failing is Isaak cant talk myabe he is speechless and his face is not face of champ ,i hope part2 
 of this game give us a strong face have carisma or a beauty girl it is will be beter
  my advise if any body not buy this game he missed alot
  any way i fall in love with thise game 
 and i hope there is part 2 from it and i hope it will be in a planet we wanna see trees, rocks and 
 waters 
  in the end i want to say becarful capcom dead space is a strong contender 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holandes-voador
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  It was supposed to be just a routine job. A maintenance team was sent to the space station USG 
 Ishimura, but communications were down. After an accident the team find themselves trapped aboard 
 the space station, where something hellish has been set loose and they must cling to survival.
 
  
  If you just read the above paragraph out of context it would be hard to know what it is that you're 
 reading about. From Event Horizon to Doom 3, Dead Space borrows many elements of other Sci-Fi plots. 
 You will not find an original story here, but if what you're looking for is an excellent gameplay 
 with great production values, you can't go wrong with this game.
  
  Taking control of the silent hero Isaac Clarke, through a third person over the shoulder perspective, 
 you will, little by little, discover what has happened aboard the station. By recovering some logs 
 left by the now deceased crew of the Ishimura you'll learn about the creatures called Necromorphs, 
 who now infest the ship and are hunting you. It is when fighting them that one of the most interesting 
 aspects of this game appears, the Strategic Dismemberment.
  
  You can kill Necromorphs by repeatedly shooting them at their chests, but you'll certainly waste 
 a lot of your precious ammo with it. The way to faster dispose of them is to dismember their limbs, 
 like their legs, tentacles, tail or even head. Even though some of them retain some humanoid form 
 the usual weak spots, like a good placed head shot, will do little more than to stagger them for 
 a little while. Only by tearing their limbs can you effectively kill them faster and conserve ammunition. 
 This makes for an extremely exciting combat, for you must take each type of enemy in a different 
 way. No matter how many times you may run into a Necromorph, severing their legs and later cutting 
 of their arms never gets old.
  
  Now, to properly get rid of an enemy you'll need a good arsenal and Dead Space is not short on 
 supply. There are seven weapons in total, but they are all varied and have a second fire mode. 
 It's true that the most reliable is your initial weapon, the Plasma Cutter, and some of them - 
 like the Flame Thrower or the Ripper - don't feel very useful; but their "coolness" alone will 
 make you'll want to go back to them from time to time, just to see how they feel like. Aside from 
 the weapons, Isaac's Rig (his armor) gets upgraded early into the game with the Stasis and Telekinesis. 
 With Stasis you'll be able to slow down objects, which is how most puzzles in the game are solved, 
 and enemies, which makes dismembering them a lot easier. Telekinesis will be used mostly to solving 
 puzzles. Although it can also be used for combat, like throwing an explosive barrel or a severed 
 claw back at enemies, this part never feels fleshed out and is underused. Only when playing at 
 the hardest difficulty of the game did I start paying attention to how I could use this for my 
 advantage, so I could conserve more ammo. All weapons and armor can be upgraded by going to a bench. 
 You can implant nodes into your equipment, making them do more damage, have greater ammo capacity, 
 shoot faster, etc. You can find these nodes in some cabins or you can buy them at the store.
  
  Throughout the Ishimura you'll run across stores. In here you can buy ammunition for your guns, 
 health packs and even new suits or weapons, given that you find the schematics for them. It's never 
 explained in any log exactly how these stores function. Though it may not be the point of the game 
 to wonder about such things, it strikes me as weird that a civilian is able to buy a flame thrower 
 while working in a space station, but that's okay. Once you leave these thoughts behind you'll 
 see that the store is a nice implement. It may not be very deep, but the combination of the store 
 and the bench provide you with some strategy at how you may want to tackle the game. You may prefer 
 to keep a lot of health and stasis packs stashed in case you need them later, or you might feel 
 that selling them and buying as many power nodes as you can to upgrades your weapons is the right 
 thing to do. As I said, it isn't really deep and you'll most likely only wonder what you want to 
 upgrade on your first playthrough, but it's something nice to have.
  
  Your objectives will be given to you by the surviving members of your team. They are mostly consisted 
 on you repairing something that needs immediate fixing or you'll all die, like turning on the asteroid 
 defense system of the ship or finding out why the air is becoming toxic. It seems that every time 
 you have just resolved a problem another thing, bigger this time, has appeared. Even though it 
 may seem artificial the way these threats show up they never seem tackled on and you never feel 
 that what you're doing is pointless. Getting to the end of a chapter after guaranteeing your survival 
 for a while longer is a reward in itself.
  
  One aspect though that is not so rewarding are the boss fights. They are short in number, only 
 three, and each of the bosses look a lot alike. There is a in game reason for their similarity, 
 but a greater variation of their designs would be more appreciated. This does not mean they do 
 not look good, in fact their sheer size and greatness will leave you with your mouth ajar. Unfortunately 
 you'll quickly remember to close it when you see how easy it is too kill them, even at greater 
 difficulties. On a side note, if you consider yourself as part of the "hardcore" videogame audience, 
 do yourself a favor and go straight to the hard difficulty. Not that you'll breeze through normal, 
 but there was not a moment on normal where I felt I had overcome something. You'll have a good 
 amount of challenge without feeling like pulling your hair out on the hard difficulty.
  
  As I mentioned about the bosses, they look really good. But this does not apply only to them. In 
 fact, the entire game is an eye candy. The Ishimura's interior looks good and is very detailed, 
 as well as the enemies. Two places specially, the ships bridge and the last chapter, look incredible. 
 This, allied with a great sound design make up for a very immersive experience. Hearing asteroids 
 bumping on ship's hull, or enemies crawling around the vents really adds up to the horror atmosphere 
 that the game wants to provide; and trust me, you will jump a few times out of seat. It's a shame 
 though that about a third into the game the horror starts to fade away; I could always predict 
 where enemies would jump out from, and thus not be scared. Also your weapons will start to get 
 stronger and you'll know how to effectively kill each enemy. The game will still manage to give 
 a fright or two, but the atmosphere goes away.
  
  Dead Space does not create a new paradigm, but that's okay because it's not what it wants to do. 
 Its story and some aspects of its universe may not be strikingly original or very well explored, 
 but they are enough to make you want to go all the way through. It fulfills its role of being a 
 very good and well made action game focused on its gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhaed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is the best horror themed game I have experienced in years. I am a huge long-time fan 
 of the Resident Evil, Silent Hill, and Fatal Frame series of games. I have completed all the games 
 in all three series, so I think it's safe to assume I know my survival horror genre pretty well. 
 I have also played a number of other horror themed games such as Call Of Cthulhu, Cold Fear, Parasite 
 Eve, Alone In The Dark, Doom III, Dino Crisis, and Clock Tower. I am very familiar with the horror 
 genre, to say the least. I don't mean to come off like I know it best, but I think it will be helpful 
 for readers to know that I have a vast knowledge and understanding of what to expect in a horror 
 game.
  
  Dead Space is not quite as scary as I expected or wanted, but it is thrillingly suspenseful and 
 intense. Your palms will be sweating through the whole game. Dead Space favors jump-out-of-your-seat 
 thrills over atmosphere. It is very atmospheric, but it doesn't wear you down like Silent Hill. 
 It's not depressing and hopeless, but more exciting and nerve-racking.
  
  You are a normal guy and you have pretty normal, non-combat weapons at your disposal. The sense 
 that you are an average Joe trapped in a hellish situation, forced to use tools at hand, is relatively 
 implied. You are not a combat Marine, nor are you a warrior. But you are fairly well-off, given 
 what you have to work with. The game is tough at points, but the average gamer should have no trouble 
 completing it with a little patience. There are plenty of health packs and you'll get plenty of 
 credits (money) to buy what you need when you need it. All in all, you are well equipped and won't 
 ever stumble upon a situation empty handed and hopeless. If you die, you'll load your game and 
 buy some ammo, health, or a new gun, and make it through that tough area with minimal trouble.
 
  
  As I said before, I was a little disappointed with the game because it really isn't that scary. 
 Sure, it's dark, and there are some really nasty and disgusting enemies. But there is always a 
 plentiful supply of equipment, weapons, ammo, and health to get you through every instance. Once 
 you get over the Doom III-ish lighting and graphics, and the creepy aliens, the game really isn't 
 scary at all. It becomes simply a horror themed shooter much like Resident Evil 4. That certainly 
 isn't a bad thing though. If you liked Resident Evil 4, Dead Space will be right up your alley. 
 It controls almost identically.
  
  You'll encounter some memorable bosses (which require creative techniques to overcome) , disturbing 
 enemies, and disgustingly awesome events, as well as a few well-thought puzzles. The game steals 
 HEAVILY from movies like John Carpenter's The Thing, and Event Horizon. Which is fine with me, 
 because I loved both.
  
  All in all, while not as scary as I'd hoped, Dead Space is awesome. The game runs flawlessly, and 
 it is clear that time and care went into developing it. The game is so polished and looks fantastic. 
 The enemies and weapons are balanced, and the games difficulty flows at a nice pace. Dead Space 
 is also a fairly long game. It took me about 15 hours to complete. Games coming out today are pretty 
 to look at but they are so damn short, especially for their price tags! Dead Space is the first 
 game I've played in years that's worth its price tag in presentation, length, polish, and creativity.
 
  
  So if you like horror games, by all means, give Dead Space your full attention! If you like games 
 like Resident Evil 4, this will please you as well. If you purchase Dead Space, and understand 
 that it isn't all that scary, you'll be pleased and thrilled with it. It really is a work of art, 
 certainly a game deserving a place in the horror genre.
  
  Lastly, Dead Space is the kind of game that will make you feel like you've accomplished something 
 at its end. You'll walk away remembering all the tough fights, and feel great having narrowly escaped 
 its clutches with your head, and limbs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  The horror genre has been set up into some well built franchises. The first ones that usually enter 
 your head when you think of the genre are Resident Evil, Silent Hill and maybe Project Zero/Fatal 
 Frame. It's not often you see a new title enter the genre, but Dead Space is trying to push its 
 way through. A surprising thing is the title is from a group that you wouldn't associate with even 
 trying a horror game EA. Yes that's the publisher that brings you all those license games and 
 sports games you see in the charts. You do have to give credit when due though as EA over the last 
 year or so are really trying to get into new genres. You've got them publishing Mirror's Edge, 
 which comes out later in the year, but what we really want to talk about is this surprisingly grand 
 entry into the survival horror genre by EA Redwood Shores.
  
  It's a shame that Dead Space has come out at the time it did. There's going to be a lot of people 
 that are probably going to shun it to the side because there's a large amount of great games coming 
 out from now till the end of the year. It's a title I can see selling more later on in time, due 
 to word of mouth, and it should sell too because it's a game that deserves any horror fan's attention.
 
  
  Dead Space takes place hundreds of years in the future, on a "Planet Cracker" ship, so as you might 
 have guessed, the game is sci-fi based. The story for Dead Space revolves around an engineer called 
 Isaac Clarke. Mr Clarke works for C. E. C, that's Concordance Extraction Corporation in case you 
 wanted to know. The C. E. C comes into some problems when one of their biggest "Planet Cracker" class 
 ships sends out a distress signal. A "Planet Cracker" is a ship that's sole purpose is to extract 
 minerals and resources from planets, it cracks them apart funny enough.
  
  It's now Isaac's job to go and see what's up on the USG Ishimura. Isaac and his team travel to 
 the USG Ishimura assuming that the problem is a mechanical failure. All is not what it seems when 
 they finally arrive there. There's also something else on Isaac's mind. His lover was also stationed 
 on that space ship. With an unpleasant last video from her in his hand; he has a goal himself to 
 see what exactly is going on in there. We knew it wasn't going to be something as simple as that, 
 it's a horror game and we've learnt that nothing goes right in the horror genre.
  
  The story might seem like a bog standard affair and that's probably a perfect saying for it. Overall 
 when you look at Dead Space, it doesn't really do anything that much different from other horror 
 or 3rd person shooting games. It's the way it presents itself as a whole that makes it shine out 
 with high splatters of gore.
  
  This is seen from pretty much the get go with an awesome interface system. There is actually no 
 HUD (Heads Up Display) for Dead Space. Instead everything is represented by what you see displayed 
 on and around you. The back of your suit's spine has a blue colour running down it. This is to 
 act as your health gauge. The less blue that is shown on your spine is to let you know that you 
 are closer to death. The ammo for your weapons is shown on the display of your gun. The best thing 
 though is how you look at your inventory and maps. A simple press of the triangle button brings 
 up your interface to look at items, maps and other bits and bats. It comes up like a hologram display. 
 The map is done in 3D also, something that Metroid Prime fans will be used to, and it really does 
 smell of a Metroid Prime interface when you look at the map features.
  
  It's not just the map that has a hint of Metroid Prime. The way the game plays out is also similar. 
 There are locations scattered around the ship that you travel to and from on a rail system. Apart 
 from these parts, there is actually no loading during a chapter. The loading is done behind doors 
 just like how Metroid Prime hid its loading times. Some of the locations on the ship would feel 
 right at home in a Metroid Prime game. I wouldn't be a surprised if some inspiration came from 
 that series.
  
  Another thing about the interface is that it will not freeze the game. This means if you need to 
 use some medi-packs, you can't take in the safety of knowing the game will stop everything while 
 you heal. Dead Space wants to keep you on your toes, so the only time you can heal is when it's 
 not hectic around you. Try to heal yourself while you are in a fight with some alien hybrids will 
 most likely result in you having your head sliced off. You do have the ability to move around while 
 you have the interface up, but you need more than two hands if you want to dodge and select items 
 all at the same time. It's a great little touch that makes you feel you are still in this atmospheric 
 grip that Dead Space has on you while playing it.
  
  It really does have you grasped too. You feel as if some hands are coming out of your TV and grabbing 
 you by the neck, forcing you to keep watching the game. Everything about it is done to the point 
 where you can always just sit and be taken in; you never feel there's a moment which pushes you 
 out of the game's tone.
  
  The designers at Redwood Shores have given the enemies steroids or something. Normally in games 
 you can just blow some bullets into enemies and once their hidden health is depleted they die, 
 not in Dead Space. Things that might seem dead are probably not going to be in a couple of seconds' 
 time. Blasting at the body or taking a head shot doesn't mean instant death here. There's been 
 countless times where I've blown some Nercomorph's head clean off in one shot, only to see it act 
 like a chicken with its last body instructions still acting out as it comes slashing after me. 
 To really be effective against the Nercromorphs, you have got to dismember them. It might sound 
 gimmicky but it works well. You have to look at it as if you are trying to make them bleed to death 
 instead of simply blowing them away. It gives the enemies that sense of randomness, which keeps 
 you on your toes. It beats seeing the same enemy die the same way, which is what you get usually 
 in other horror games and even on wider scale, most other shooters.
  
  You're going to need lots of tools to protect yourself against the Nercromorphs. The game features 
 some design twists compared to your standard collection of guns. The first weapon you come across 
 is the Plasma Cutter. It's a kind of weirdly shaped pistol with three laser aiming points. It packs 
 a mighty punch and is like a compact shotgun made into a pistol. It's devastating for a starter 
 weapon and it shows because you will still be using it towards the end of the game. The rest of 
 the weapons are found as blueprints around the ship. If you find any of these luscious blueprints 
 then take them to the shop. Once you arrive at the shop terminals, the blueprints will be uploaded 
 and then that weapon will become available to buy.
  
  Shops are also useful for other reasons. I always found myself running out of ammo for my favourite 
 weapons. Shops sell ammunition for guns, which you buy using the money you get from enemies and 
 locations. They also sell health packs, oxygen, stasis packs and power nodes.
  
  Now, since the game is set in space, you are probably wondering if you always need oxygen to stay 
 alive. The game has some sections; stuff like walking outside of the ship, where once you are in 
 those zones, a timer will appear on your suit telling you how many seconds you have left to live 
 before you die of suffocation.
  
  The oxygen is one of the few game mechanics that pop up over the course of the game. Another one 
 is the zero gravity sections. These are fun areas of the ship where you have freedom to jump around 
 from wall to wall, running up on roofs and so on. These sections are featured quite a bit. They 
 start from simple solutions to get around, to more complex ones which might blag your head a bit. 
 One fantastic part of zero gravity is when you are dismembering enemies. Their parts float freely 
 around the area. In some sections where they are a high amount of enemies, some areas are just 
 so pack with floating body parts that you have to push them aside when you are jumping from one 
 part of the room to another, it's grotesquely great.
  
  It seems that games nowadays need to have some sort of gravity or time effecting devices. It's 
 the new hip thing at the moment. Dead Space has both of these used to change the flow of gameplay. 
 The stasis packs you gain are used to allow you to slow-mo the enemies. Isaac has the ability to 
 send a wave at the enemies which traps them in a stasis lock, bringing their speed down to a level 
 that would even give an old age pensioner a chance to win a 100 metre sprint. This makes it a lot 
 easier to pop their arms and legs off. It's kind of a sadistic way to have your revenge on these 
 ugly alien life forms.
  
  Isaac has a gravity tool on his right arm. It plays a bit like the gravity gun from Half-Life 2 
 and is used to solve some puzzles that require you to slide things around that might be a little 
 heavy for Isaac. It's also used to throw things at enemies when you run out of ammo, which trust 
 me happens a lot. It actually comes in handy and gets away with just been another "it's cool to 
 have a copy of the gravity gun" because of the uses it has.
  
  Dead Space isn't all smiles though. It is EA's first attempt and you can never be perfect on your 
 first try. For starters there is a fair bit of backtracking. I don't mind backtracking and the 
 game kind of just gets away with it. It wouldn't help though to have some extra places to visit 
 on the ship. I know it is a ship and there's certainly a variety of locations to explore, but more 
 can never hurt if it stops backtracking.
  
  I said earlier that the story wasn't exactly anything exciting. This also affects that main character 
 you play as. To say that he is worried about his lover, he doesn't seem to have any emotions. He 
 doesn't speak at all and you hardly ever see his face. It seems that EA decided to go for a Gordon 
 Freeman type character. This doesn't work at all though because the interaction with other characters 
 is always mostly through videos. The fact that the camera is 3rd person takes away the feeling 
 that you are the character. He doesn't react to anything that is said. He instead just listens 
 like he doesn't give a crap. Half-Life 2 got away with a silent protagonist because of the first 
 person view.
  
  Don't let that turn you away. Dead Space as a horror action game is simply good. Screw the story 
 and play for the action and you'll enjoy it. The graphics at times can be really beautiful, with 
 some gorgeous architecture in the design of the rooms. Sometimes it can look a bit rough around 
 the edges when you get up close to stuff. Some of the surrounding facilities, for example toilets, 
 look a bit iffy, like they couldn't be bothered making them look good. It's either that or in the 
 future we are all sitting on square toilets, guess it must be something to accompany the three 
 shells.
  
  Immersion is one of Dead Space's top specialities and the sound follows suit. Exploring the Ishimura 
 is a pleasure to the ears in a sort of freaky way. They are pipes clanking, weird screams, bangs 
 and other spooky sound effects. This is always happening throughout the game. It never ever pauses 
 in the sound department and this is what grabs you. The only thing that could probably make this 
 better is the true HD sound that was featured in Battlefield: Bad Company. Even without that though, 
 a good sound system will supply great suspense to your playing.
  
  I think I have gone over everything that is needed to be said. Dead Space is a well made action 
 horror shooter. If you are a fan of the genre then you should really take this advice and check 
 it out. It is a short experience, lasting around 8-10 hours depending on how experienced you are. 
 It does give you the option to replay with the same upgrades you finished with, but apart from 
 Trophies/Achievements, there really isn't any incentive to do so again because it's quite a linear 
 game.
  
  Still you should buy it. I even think fans of general shooters should check it as well. It will 
 most likely fulfil their needs with the gore fest action that it brings along. This isn't a slow 
 game.
  
  Dead Space is welcomed with open arms here and to think EA have brought this a long is a nice surprise. 
 Another thing we know is that EA love sequels and we can expect to see Dead Space 2 next year or 
 at some point in the future. I sit here waiting to see what they do because this franchise can 
 really be created into something memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten Dead Space and I'm half done with my second go around. I feel like I can review this 
 game with plenty of hours playing. 
  I love this game. I scared the crap out of me the entire time. The graphic are excellent. The scenes 
 of out space are sweet. The sounds are made to grab your attention at all time. QuietQuietQuietScreeeech!!! 
 It's perfect. The game play was just right. Some people might get distracted by all the back tracking 
 but I enjoyed it. It gave me a chance to collect at the items I missed the first time. The lack 
 of a HUD is a great innovation. It takes your focus off the little things and keeps you in the 
 action at all times. The one thing I would change would be more guns. I have bought all the guns 
 and upgraded them. I still use two guns to venture through the game. If you like horror this is 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok I got this game on sheer word of mouth, yea i read the reviews and did my home work but in the 
 end I went on what my friends and others I had talked to told me about it so I went for it. Well 
 no mistake in the purchase other than i should have waited a couple of more weeks and I could have 
 paid twenty less than the new price but hey I am happy with this game so no big loss. Game play 
 is fluid and smooth to a point I wish EA would have put in an option for your turn and aim speed 
 to me its a little sluggish especially when several of the (turned) crew comming at you in closed 
 spaces. The lighting effect gives the game a very spooky feeling at times and downright spine tingling 
 at others. I especially like the way the way the music is set with the game just as it is in a 
 scary movie the closer you get to the bad guy the more intense and nerve racking the music gets. 
 If you want a diferent experience out of the game turn the music completly off and get a whole 
 new game experience, talk about things that just jump right out and grab ya well get ready because 
 sometimes, (me personally I get so involved) I could almost swear at times with my surround sound 
 theater that these things are right in the room with me. Graphics in this game are amoung the best 
 I've ever seen, even though it is set in space and on a space ship the depth of the game is utterly 
 amazing and the few shots of color that you do get such as in the food locker with the Leviathon 
 the colors are vibrate and brite. My only gripe with this game and dont get me wrong because I 
 could sit here and praise it all day long, but when it comes to upgrading your weapons and your 
 suit and your accessories it just seems a little pricey and the nodes are few a far between to 
 do substantial upgrades fast enough. One other missed item that I wish EA would have put into the 
 options menu that I think would be a great way to play this game would be with motion sensitive 
 option in the zero gravity areas to where you could fly yourself through and area instead of jumping 
 from wall to wall i dont see why it would not be possible all that would have to be done is to 
 add some directional O2 jets to the suit and as you move your controller from side to side or up 
 to down your jets would move you accoringly, astonauts do it everyday so why not in a video game 
 set in space. Overall Dead Space is a very solid game in all points and I can't wait for the second 
 in the series if there is one comming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omerg1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  well basicly dead space is a mix of resident evil and the thing in space. 
  you will play as issac an engineer sent to a huge mining ship the ishimura to fix it and there 
 is a lot of fixing to do beacuse the ship is full of killer zombies calld necromorphs.
  the game is sacry as hell most of the time but its not the enemies who scare you but the atmosphere 
 and enviorment of the ishimura, you'll fell like an enemy is waiting at evry corner and you will 
 be prepred to take them out with you'r impressive arsenal of weapons, at first you will reacive 
 the plasma cutter which helps you killing your enemies in the brutal way af cuting them limb to 
 limb in a way thet just make you scream out "bloody gore!!", in time you will obtain even more weapons 
 like a pulse rifle contact gun flamethrower and my personel favourite the ripper a gun launching 
 saws at your enemies and making you scream bloody gore once again.
  one of the coolest faetures is the zero gravity zone in which you can jump from wall to wall solving 
 puzzles.
  in the overall view this game is something you dont want to miss even if you not a fan of the survival 
 horror genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-417
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. Dead Space look FRIKKIN awesome! but i didnt have the money to buy it, so i rented it.. and 
 i'm SO glad i did because of how it felt...
  
  the reason so many people are saying that its like doom 3 bioshock and silent hill combined is 
 because it IS those 3!!! except with a different name.. 
  
  for example.. the kineses gun thrower is EXACTLY like the gun in DOOM 3 R. O. E.. the first level 
 of dead space is Intensive Care... What Was the name of the first Level in Bioshock?? Medical Pavillion... 
 
  the aliens.. look like the nurses from silent hill...
  
  dont get me completely wrong.. its a good game.. pretty scary.. but it just seems plain and unoriginal... 
 reminds of halo as well.... no running capability.. the camera angle is pretty sick i gotta admit 
 though...
  
  so all in all... 5... GOOD game.. but very unoriginal..
  and yes, i am a HUGE fan of Bioshock... thats why i noticed these things... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Dead Space review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: * * * * * (Very Strong)
 
  Bad Language: * * * * (Strong)
  Fear: * * * (Mild)
  Sex: * (None)
  Drugs: * (None)
  Discrimination: * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
  
  Age Rating: 18 years and over
  
  
  
 The Good:
  Outstanding Visuals and First Impression
  Nice Game-Play
  Great Sound Effects
  It's Gory
  
  The Bad:
  The game just feels unfinished
  The ending
 
  It's not that scary
  
  Intro:
  I never review a game on the first day of it release. First I will play the game from start to 
 finish and while playing I will sometimes write down the good points and the bad points I experienced 
 played the game. Something it will take me a good few days of thinking about the game to come to 
 a final decision about the overall score. 
  When it comes to new games sometimes we can tell a game will be good before it even comes out whether 
 you've played there prequels or see a lot of game-play video or even played a demo, but what I 
 got from watching Dead Space trailer was just a good looking game. Dead Space to me was all about 
 first impression. Yes, the first impression was great, but I was still about 50% sure wither I 
 would find the game good or whether I would even get the game. I got Dead Space on release date 
 because I wanted something to scare the **** out of me for Halloween. I like scary film and games, 
 and to just clear something up, to me a film or a game that is GORY, is not classified as a scary 
 film or game.
  Read on to find out what I though.
  (As usual bellow is my review of the game and right at the bottom of the review will be my final 
 say on the game.) 
  
  Plot: 7/10
  The story continues on after the comics (Which you can see at youtube) and after the Dead Space 
 movie that is out to buy and I recommend you watch them first before playing Dead Space. 
  You play an Engineer Isaac Clarke who embarks on a mission to repair the Planet Cracker-class mining 
 ship, the USG Ishimura, however, Isaac is on a mission of his own. Isaac received a massage from 
 his ex-girlfriend, Nicole Brennan, a medical officer onboard the USG Ishimura. Upon arrival, Isaac 
 and his team get attacked and uncover a nightmare bloodbath. Now Isaac is cut off, trapped, and 
 fighting for his life. 
  
  Graphics and Presentation: 10/10
  The graphics are with out a doubt fantastic and disturbing. The details on the creature and the 
 monsters are just disgusting (In a good way) . The surroundings are just as disgusting as the creatures 
 with bodies and living things coming out of the wall. Brilliant special effects and the deaths 
 scenes are just brutal to watch and if you like, you could just stand and look out into outer space, 
 which is beautiful. So yes, it's fair to say the graphics are just outstanding. 
  
  Game-Play: 8/10
  The game-play is great. Isaac's movement is very nicely done along with the 
 creatures themselves. You can buy and sell items and weapons as well as suits and you can upgrade 
 the weapons. Weapons are cool, but not a lot to choice from. You probably find yourself using all 
 one weapon and that is most likely the plasma cuter. The creatures you face the Dead Space are 
 different for creature you may have faced in other games. You have to cut of the limbs of the creatures 
 to finish them of otherwise there very hard to kill and waste a lot of ammo. Zero-G is amazingly 
 done. You can walk on wall, ceiling and so forth.
  
  Sound Effects: 9/10
  The sound effects are amazing. From the stir of echoes to the sound of nothing in Zero-G (No gravity 
 or out in space) , from the sound of cutting limps to the scream creatures are just stop on. 
  
  Lifespan: 7/10
  The game will probably take you about 10 to 15 hours to finish depending 
 on how you handle the game. Dead Space is a good game to play again, but can get a bit boring at 
 time. 
  
  My Say: 8/10
  Dead Space is a great game, and a great first experience, but just like every survival horror game, 
 the game looses it's value because you know what's coming up know on the second play through. The 
 visuals are just outstanding and the game-play is great. But I think the main question is, is the 
 game scary? Is the game scary enough to make you panic and cause you to drop your controller with 
 fear? Well to tell you the truth, I didn't find the game that scary at all. Yes there was moments 
 were I may have jumped but that is just a normal reaction everyone has. A good scary game (To me) 
 needs to make you paranoid, need to make you sweat, needs to make the small hair on the back of 
 your neck stand up. Dead Space did not do that for me, which I found quite disappointing. (And 
 just incase your wondering, yes I did play the game in the dark and with full volume. I always 
 do) . Dead Space is indeed gory and may make you feeling a little disturbed. The game does feel 
 a wee bit unfinished and some pasts in the story may make you a little bit confused. I thought 
 the ending was a wee bit of a disappointment but I want say anything more. 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  Overall I give dead Space an 8/10. An outstanding looking game and a great game 
 if you looking for lots of gory. 
  
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironoutlaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Put simply this is a monster of a game in which you kill monsters in space. But it's much more 
 than that. The graphics are tight. The PS3 pumps out some amazing visuals that sometimes cause 
 you to stare out a porthole when you should be 110% alert for those living-dead things that like 
 to take nasty chunks out of you. The story, while not new is interesting and the levels and options 
 to power-up are addictive. Turn up the sound and try not to squirm as whispers and screeches ring 
 in your ears. This is one hell of a scary game. And one which you'll need to take the occasional 
 break just to get back into the real world. Luckily there's plenty of save stations so when you 
 finally get torn to shreds you won't have to replay a whole level just to catch up. The hero is 
 a run of the mill Joe who happens to wear some of the best outfits seen in video gaming since the 
 Master Chef suited up in the original Halo. Weapons are functional and very effective. And while 
 you won't find mega-death atomic disruptors to blast the bad guys, the armoury is still impressive. 
 What's more the urge to update and improve your boom sticks is one of the driving forces in the 
 game. Dead Space, you'd have to have dead-space between your ears to miss out on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexchapman25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Just completed it and boy what a game! Story is great, graphics are damn fine (video merges in 
 with actual gameplay) and its spooky as hell. Play this on a HDTV with 5.1 sound with no lights 
 on at 2am and you will have nightmares for weeks! The game itself I finished in apparently 8 hours 
 but ive been sessioning it for pretty much 4 days to complete properly. The puzzles require thought 
 but they are not that hard to work out so the primary role of the game is to scare you and for 
 you to shoot at everything you can. You must take time though to find all the items kicking about 
 as you sure will need them even only to sell. Anyways a great great game which I thoroughly recommend.
 
  
  Didnt see any real glitches and played it on 1080p setting.
  
  Go and spend your dollars NOW.... What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAPALMSHARK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a must buy for all, a definite goer if your into scary space movies (eg Event Horizon) 
 or just scary games in general (eg Residant Evil) . I dont buy many games but am for sure happy I 
 bought this soon to be classic. It is so immersive I just cant stop playin, probably due to the 
 fact that the graphics are so, so sweet. It really feels like your in deep space in some parts of 
 this game with an unreal sound echoing through the rooms and cabins. The controls are easy to pick 
 up straight away aswell. The story line isnt anything special though but it seems to need to be 
 this way for a scary space game to be scary, but as written above, the graphics, the sound and 
 the controls are so good that is doesnt matter. so do yourself a favour, dont listen to the negative 
 feedback on this one because the good outways the bad in every part of this game, so go out and 
 buy Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reagan2012
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  a good game at first sorta reminded me of the doom series but after about 8 hours or so it started 
 to get repetitve and dying after you complete an objective then having to go back and do it all 
 over again really was annoying but overall it was a good game i wouldnt recomend buying it but 
 i would recomen that you rent or borrow it because it is a decent game in the horror genre. The 
 scares could have been a little better it was pretty predictable towards the end. The death system 
 could have been beter like after you complete an objective and die you respawn right at where you 
 completed the objective, that would have kept me hooked on the game a little longer. overall good 
 game but could have been better.
  
  Couldnt think of anything else to talk about this game so to meet the minimum requirements im just 
 taking up space and your time so i appoligize. If for some reason you read this far i would recomend 
 you give this game a try at least because it definetly is a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SebastianJanius
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  For starters I'm actually surprised a fps game on the console could be as good as this was. Usually 
 when I play fps games on consoles I have it in the back of my mind all the time. But during this 
 game I never thought of it.
  
  I could easily recommend this to anyone, though people with tendencies to get scared easily should 
 probably play it with less sounds, that's what really cracks you up!
  
  The whole interface is genius, I've never experienced a game that has a interface that I've been 
 100% happy with. And seeing it HAS NO INTERFACE it really shows of as innovative. It's more or 
 less gauges on your suit that shows your health, ammo and etc. which makes the whole experience 
 more movie like.
  
  Also seeing the trophies and achievements will keep you going even though you've completed the 
 game once!
  
  If you don't like the whole idea of cutting up zombies or other kinds of mutilated bodies I do 
 not recommend this to you, even though it varied it's still about killing zombies.
  
  And if you didn't think that sounds good enough, the story line! I mean the storyline is insane, 
 but not the bad kind of insane just the kind of "killing zombies in space and save the world insane". 
 And it really works, half the time I could've sworn I was starring in some new horror movie.
  
  In short, buy this game you will have lots of fun playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  One of the best horror games that i played in the last years... a really cool title !!!
  In short and to the point
  
  POSITIVE
  --------
  - Good graphics (if it had better shadows 
 it would be awesome)
  - Excellent overall game design
  - Awesome sound system
  - Great Sci-fi horror story
  ---------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------
 
  CONS 
  --------
  - Becomes a bit repeative after a while
  - Some little bugs
  ---------------------------------------
  OVERALL:
  A great Resident Evil killer in my opinion 
 and possibly one of the most scary games released the past few years Forget that hyped cr*p Doom 
 3 this game is way better Play it in your room with your lights off and with your speakers loud 
 and i guarantee you that you will see nightmares in your sleep... hehe
  
  Graphics = 8
  Sound = 9.5
  Gameplay = 9
  Final score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mixture of Metroid Prime and Resident Evil. Well I only have one flaw in the game 
 and that's your just in a space ship, it would of been cooler if you got to go more places but 
 still its a good game.
  
  Its not as scary as some people hype it up to be, but let me put it this way, if I could be any 
 video game characther Issac would be on the bottom of the list because he dies in the most gruesome 
 ways. The enviroment Issac is in can be scary to. Usually a game player would like it to be nice 
 and quit, but not in this game, when its quite and everthing seems peaceful a alien will just at 
 you when you least expect it.
  
  The game does have puzzles, that can have you stumped a bit. The map on the game can be confusing 
 at times, especially when your in Zero-G , but it just takes getting the hang of it. I can't put 
 my finger on it but its really hard to get use to another game, its just something about blowing 
 the aliens limbs off are stomping them off, that makes you think ever game should be like that. 
 
  
  The game isn't to small but it isn't to big either. If you take the time to get all the trophies, 
 it should last a decent while, I probably beat the game in normal in 12 hours, but if I take the 
 time to get all the trophies, it keep me going a good bit.
  If your a fan of Resident Evil or Metroid prime you should like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbrooks28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  You are stuck on a derelict ship, in a solar system far from home, wishing you anywhere but here. 
 Step by step, you inch your way through a darken hall, low on ammo and air, you take a gasp as 
 you plunge into the next door way. 
  It really does sound like a "Resident Evil" or classic zombie game, with a setting of a deep space 
 mission. I think of it as a "Event Horizon" mixed with a solid action game. If you don't know the 
 movie "Event Horizon" is, and enjoy horror / sci-fi movies, you owe it to yourself to find and 
 watch the movie. 
  Anyway, I digress. I've broken my review into a few categories, which are the following; graphics, 
 story, sound, game play, and miscellaneous.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is one thing you will notice right way. The opening scene has one of the most gorgeous 
 backgrounds I can remember. One thing this game does well for me, is to drum up some old memories 
 of artist concepts of space and NASA photographs. You'll see a star emitting spectacular lighting 
 effects on yourself, your teammates, ship (s) , and debris. One could imagine that this world is 
 completely plausible. 
  
  STORY: It is a really well rounded story, told through audio/visual/text logs, and events. With 
 each log collected, which you may not find all of them with one play through, paint a rich back 
 drop of your current situation. If you want even further detail, which I HIGHLY recommend, is to 
 watch the animated comics free for download on PSN or the Internet, as well as the Bluray/DVD movie 
 prequel "Deadspace: Downfall". 
  
  SOUND: This game is made for surround sound! It just isn't the same without it. Sound plays a key 
 roll in this game. From the sound of the ship, dying and falling to pieces, the creatures scurrying 
 while following your every footstep. And the most creepiest thing of all, subdued voices chatting 
 from a distance. One I really enjoy is a a darkened room with bodies strewn about, blood splattered, 
 and multiple female voices singing the twinkle twinkle little star song. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is a mix of something old and something new. It feels much like an Resident 
 Evil 4 style control scheme, which isn't bad at all. I thought it was easy to jump into. One thing 
 they did do is to tie the menu into the gameplay. It's interwoven into the game itself and no longer 
 detached from the gameplay/story. Which is a new and refreshing look. It really does draw you into 
 the action, like what every critic has said.
  
  MISCELLANEOUS: Well I threw a lot of things into this category. There are a lot of fun trophies 
 in this game to collect, none of them seem to be impossible to collect. One would just have to 
 spend time playing through a couple times to collect them. Weapons in this game are like many others 
 in similar games, but they all feel like they would fit in the world of the game. There are seven 
 weapons, which are all upgradeable and have alternate firing modes. You have a telekinesis and 
 time shifting abilities that help you solve minor puzzles, but are really fun to use to help slaughter 
 the monsters. DLC is there, but not much. If you act soon, you can get a free level 5 suit (obsidian) 
 and purchase another. The other suit is 2.50 or around there which for just a suit doesn't seem 
 worth it. You could use that to download a tv show or anime. What I would love to see is an side 
 story or something of that nature. 
  
  Over all, this game is one of the best I've played in 2008. You'll probably beat the game in about 
 ten hours or less. And you'll want to play through again because of the rewards you get. So go 
 out and get this game, or at least rent it! The graphics, story, and sound draw you in close only 
 to make you jump back! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulgrocott69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  After watching the reviews on this game I wasn't sure if I should buy it or not, but now ive got 
 it id recommend it to anyone who enjoys RGP/FPS games its just so addictive.
  
  The graphics are amazing although as your viewpoint is over the characters right shoulder throughout 
 the game it can take some getting used to, as this isn't the typical view in this type of game. 
 I do like the fact that if you need to access your inventory or map its real time during the game 
 through your suits holographic HUD without the game being paused, so if your being attacked and 
 fancy a break while your topping up your health like you can in almost every other game in this 
 one your still taking damage so make sure you find a quiet spot before you let your guard down 
 lol
  
  Ive given this game a 10 and I think it deserves all of it, looks amazing, really addictive in 
 my opinion its a must buy :o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aox5k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  surv/horror games is pn the top of my list , when i bought DS i got it with silent hill : homecoming 
 and blood siren , i play little of each but i fall in love with DS it was what im looking for , 
 i dont have enough time for games !! but when i got an hour or 2 i stick to dead space, i admit 
 i never jump out of my chair as much i did on this game but later i get use to it , the way i kill 
 and slay the alien is WOW speically when i smash them under my foot , HELL YEAH BABY! 
  the amtosphere is great the sound effect with sroound system is amazing , the map is complicated 
 but thaks for L3 blue line that gives me the path . simply its one of the greatest games i ever 
 played and i still on it , when i got time i will watch downfall for sure i already got it, finally 
 i hope there will be a 2nd part next year .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcope22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm new to the horror genre of video games and this was just amazing. Whats most impressive is 
 the immersive nature and gameplay involved with Dead Space. Boss battles are here as well as mini 
 boss battles. Leveled up weapons and suits, and the weaponry by the way is freakin awesome!!! The 
 game gave me just enough of everything I wanted out of a game and load times are minimal or just 
 not there. Plus, no installs on the PS3 HDD which is awesome if low on HDD space. The game was 
 very well made and thought out. Not a whole lot more they could have packed into a game like this. 
 Zero G levels are very well done. I can go on and on about this game. Do not wait to play this 
 title it's well worth the play time. 
  The final element to this game that is worth mentioning is that like a great movie you walk out 
 of and talk to your friends about for days you will do the same thing after finishing this game. 
 Again don't wait. Just buy it. "Warning" you will be startled or may I even say scared. I jumped 
 out of my chair on several occasions while playing this game, which added even more bonus points 
 to my review of Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joanhm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Game, it made me play it, then straight away delete my game save to start again.
  But Replayabillty, is this games middle name. 
  
  it has a plot that makes you gamble with, 
 werther you should play that extra hour, you know! that hour before nine in the morning ,that you 
 really should be getting up for work. 
  
  And then go into work with the redest blood shot eyes ever. or just question your self. do I really 
 need this job, or should I just call in, with the most un-original line ever. like! I've got man 
 flu. all in all, the lighting, graphics/animations for all the charactors also not foregetting 
 the programing of this great work of interactive art, is on the money, all the puzzles are great 
 to work out too. this games is a must for real gamer. jonahM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbowl54
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is incredible, I can't believe I wasn't looking forward to it until after it was released 
 (wasn't even on my radar honestly) . I heard alot about how scary it is in the right atmosphere, 
 so I bought it and didn't play it until it was dark outside with the lights off and the sound up. 
 Well, it's definitely got me creeped out (first game to do that since the original Silent Hill) 
 and now that I'm about halfway through it, I figured now I can comment on more than just the atmosphere. 
 The combat is excellent and controls are tight. The weapons (save for the flamethrower) are pretty 
 fun to use. There's your normal pistol and assault rifle (plasma cutter and pulse rifle, respectively) , 
 but my favorite has to be the contact beam (you charge it up and it basically blows up whatever 
 you point at into a pile of goo and body parts) . The story is also pretty good (this was the reason 
 I didn't have it on my radar- a space station gone wrong, how many times do we need this intro 
 to a game/movie?- but it's better than I expected) . Atmosphere and sound really draw you into the 
 game once you're in the right mood (i. e. lights off, sound up) . Graphics are great, it's amazing 
 to look at the planet from outside the station)
  
  Overall, you have to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smc1770
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I love Dead Space. The gameplay is awesome, the enviroments are creepy and have me watching my 
 back all the time. After reading the review, it made sense that the enemies could "toy" with you. 
 It kept me in constant parnoia!!! I loved it!!! THe weapons and the rig are pretty sweet. I thought 
 that the rig itself was difficult to like for me in the beginning. But it grew on me very quickly. 
 Also the healthbar being a part of the suit was very inventive. 
  
  One thing I felt was too convenient was the trail marker or finder feature. I was using it constantly 
 and felt a little cheapened from its experience. However, seeing as how the enviroments were dark 
 and elaborate at some parts, it was really handy...
  
  I give this game a 9 out of 10! Definitely a great experience. But I didnt see the need to buy 
 it personally, I rented and played for a week and beat the game a couple of time. The relpay value 
 is somewhat stale after experiencing all the gameplay and cinematics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alstevens83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  When EA announced that they was releasing a survival horror game I became very interested, normally 
 EA is one of the safer bets publishing games, however after the Marmite game Army of Two, a stupidly 
 good fun game Battlefield: Bad Company and in my eyes a very disappointing release of Mercenaries 
 2. Truth be told some people could have used Army of Two and Mercenaries 2 as a reason not to buy 
 Dead Space. However from playing it I do believe that Dead Space is a game that everyone needs 
 to try. If I was to compare it to any sort of movies then I would say it's like a hybrid of Alien, 
 The Thing, Event Horizon and the sort of gore which would make Hostel and Cabin Fever seem like 
 an episode of Doctor Who.
  
  The basic story is that Isaac Clark (who was named after two Sci fi authors Isacc Asimov and Arthur 
 C. Clark) is a repair man sent to the USG Ishimura after they have lost radio contact. Also to 
 add to the problem Isaac's girlfriend Nicole is working on the Ishimura. When his team arrive on 
 the USG Kellion they find that the ship is empty and there is blood everywhere. Also to add to 
 the problems the ship is in a bad state and there is a hostel alien race on board called the Necromorphs. 
 So Isaac has to try and repair the ship, stay alive long enough to find out what's caused the aliens 
 to arrive on the ship and well save his gal.
  
  Graphically the game is very, very good. I mean there are going to be some games which are going 
 to struggle with trying to compete with the game. They have done well with the designs of the levels. 
 Sure most of it takes place in corridors but it works to a level of sheer fear. After playing this 
 in the dark with a set of good quality the sounds of something crawling above and around you helps 
 to build up massive amounts of tension and when something does drop down at you it actually makes 
 you jump so far out of your skin it's stupid. Also the really cool thing is the HUD is all in game 
 which appears as a hologram, your health is on the back of your suit and even an oxygen meter when 
 in the vacuum parts appear on your back.
  
  The lighting and sound is amazing at points, the only light you can legitimately have is the light 
 off your tracking device (which acts like a GPS to the next section of the level) and the light 
 off your weapon. Other than that expect to be walking down a few dark corridors or having your 
 weapon primed and ready for action. The sound in the game is stunning, whether it's the moans and 
 gowns of the ship, the Nercomophs moving around or the sections of game that combines the vacuum 
 of space where everything goes from being clear as anything to nothing and the dull sounds of your 
 own footsteps. It adds to make a great experience.
  
  The Combat in the game is one of the best ones which I have seen in a long time. The Nercomorphs 
 can only be killed by "Strategic Dismemberment" and boy that gets bloody. Basically aim for a limb 
 (arm, shoulder, legs ect) take them down and then finish them off. Basically if you don't they 
 grow stronger and quicker. My normal tactic is shoot one that's running towards you in the leg 
 and cause it to lose a limb and then finish it off with the old classic Kurb Stomp. You do get 
 other skills like Statics (slow time down) which is a cool and important part for later puzzles 
 and then is Kinesis which means you can move objects around (also at some points important for 
 some puzzles)
  
  Some people might complain that the game is around roughly 10 to 12 hours long, however I think 
 it's ideal because while its short it gives you a chance to play through again and again (which 
 I believe there is a real re-play value) , it plays to the advantage that this game is aimed towards 
 horror fans.
  
  I really cannot go into more on the story because there is a shock at the end of the game not to 
 mention it has been already announced a sequel is being pre produced at the moment as well.
  
  In wrapping this up, it's a really fun and gory game which will take fans by the scruff of 
 the throat and pull you into a world which openly reminds me of my first experiences with Resident 
 Evil 1, 2 and 3 and Silent Hill. With the release of the Resident Evil 5 next year it's going to 
 be interesting to see if Resident Evil can actually match up with the scares like this.
  
  For Dead Space I will give it a 9 out of 10 and also check out the film Downfall. That acts as 
 a prequel to the game perfectly as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibanezach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game had me at hello. 
  
  The first time I watched a trailer for the upcoming Dead Space game I knew it was going to be a 
 very immersive experience. I'm not going to get into the story or anything because those reviews 
 are plenty. What I will comment on, though, is that this game is a complete blast to play. On top 
 of being scary as hell the game is also very fun, immersive, pretty, gory, and well.. a delight 
 to play through. 
  
  The graphics of course are great. But, I would really like to comment on the games sound engine. 
 It never ceases to amaze me. All the little details are there, such as crawling in the walls, whispering 
 down the hallways, the squishy sounds from stepping on mutilated bodies, the echoes, and the screams 
 of oncoming necromorphs to name a few. All in all, the game is just a totally immersive experience. 
 
  
  When my wife asks what im playing.. I tell her "I'm Boarding the U. S. G. Ishimura". She hits me 
 for being a dork.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, after the terribly dissapointing Silent Hill Homecoming, I needed something new to whet my 
 horror whistle. Fortunately, Dead Space deliverd above and beyond any expectations that I could 
 have had.
  
  I honeslty don't know where to begin describing this AMAZING game. Action is intense, environments 
 are unsettling, the story is clever (although somewhat cliched and I figured out how it would end 
 less than half-way through, but only because I was really paying attention) , monsters are tough, 
 sound effects are immersive, and upgrading weopons and equipement is surprisingly satisfying.
 
  
  I guess I'll begin with what might very well be the game's most interesting and unique feature: 
 its entirely real-time, in-game user interface. While all other games have the user rely on a HUD, 
 pop up menus or pause screens that stop the action of the game to switch inventory items, examine 
 documents or clues and so forth, this game's entire interface is a series of holographic projections 
 that your character interacts with in real-time during the game. Control panels and so forth on 
 the ship are 3-D holographic displays, the character's health is displayed as a lit guage on his 
 back, and opening your inventory projects a holographic display in front of your character (he 
 even moves his head to focus on whatever item in the menu you have highlighted) . So this game has 
 NO HUD, no screen clutter at all. The only time the action stops to take you to a menu is loading 
 between missions, saving the game, accesing the in-game item store or the "work bench" from which 
 you modify equipment. It really helps to make you feel like you are the character.
  
  But that is not where this game's sense of immersion ceases! The graphics are sharp, crisp and 
 highly detailed. The ship itself seems to have been designed to be very functional, as this is 
 one of the most realistic depictions of space travel that I have ever seen in a video game (the 
 only thing that would have made it cooler is if the developers had made the ships rotate to simulate 
 gravity, but they didn't, settling on the cliched and somewhat disbelievable "gravity plating" 
 setup) . Segments in a vaccuum have virtually no sound effects except for things you hear over the 
 radio or from your suit's computer, but instead of hearing the action, you feel it through the 
 vibration function of the controller and a powerful bass boom whenever a gun is fired that although 
 not very audible, can be FELT. This game makes me really wish I had surround sound! And in case 
 you're wondering, no, the flame-thrower does not work in a vaccum. Corridors and rooms are incredibly 
 detailed and excellent use of lighting effects such as flickering lights, shadows and the occasional 
 power failure also help to bring yo uinto the game and provide a sense of suspense. Further adding 
 to the level of immersion, almost every door in the game has a sign above it telling you what is 
 on the other side. And when you try to open a door, you will sometimes have to wait for it to respond 
 (the game uses this time to load the next area in real-time) , but while sometimes irritating, this 
 little nuance means you'll never be taken out of the action to sit through a load screen (except 
 for between missions) , and it adds to the impression that the ship is derilect and not fully-functional, 
 as well as adding tense, "unlock the car door" moments in which you are in a panick waiting for 
 a door to open while a monster is chasing you down from behind. This game is not for the faint 
 of heart.
  
  Monsters are very hard to kill, but the game gives you an incredible amount of freedom on how you 
 want to dispatch them. Most enemies must be killed by dismembering them, so the player is tasked 
 with coming up with new and creative ways to try to take out their arms and legs by using the different 
 weapons main and secondary fire modes as well as the environment itself. The inclusion of a kenesis 
 gun that operates almost identically to Half-Life 2's gravity gun means that you can pick up explosive 
 containers, fan blades, and even dismembered enemy body parts and use them as weopons. And the 
 fact that the game is VERY stingy about giving you ammo, and its usually very limited inventory 
 capacity means that you will often be forced to use unconventional methods to defend yourself. 
 In addition to the kenesis gun, you also have a stasis beam that slows enemies and objects for 
 a duration of time, allowing you to either quickly dispatch them, avoid obstacles, or reload and 
 regroup while the effect wears off. but don't think that the weopons in the game are weak or boring. 
 quite the contrary, every weopon in this game is very satisfying (especially after they've been 
 upgraded) , and fun to use. And every weopon has unique situations in which it is most useful.
 
  
  There are also several zero-gravity encounters in which your character must jump from platform 
 to platform using his magnetic boots. THese segments usually involve picking objects up with kenesis 
 and either throwing them off the ship or placing them somewhere, often while enemies harass you. 
 But these areas require the player to be both quick on his or her feet and very creative. There 
 is even a boss battle in zero gravity that is quite fun to play.
  
  The game is not perfect however. For one thing, it is fairly short, but makes up for that shortness 
 by being very hard. Make no mistake, you will be repeating segments of this game. Fortunately, 
 EA was very generous with providing you with ample save locations and checkpoints, so you don't 
 have to worry about losing an hour or two's worth of progress on a cheap death. But the sudden 
 jump in difficulty about a third of the way through the game provides a huge obstacle to overcome, 
 and will no doubt discourage many players from continuing with the game. The game also compounds 
 some of its difficulty by not providing the user with any customization for certain settings. Yes, 
 you can invert the x and y axis, but you cannot adjust the controller mapping, nor camera or aim 
 sensitivity (and the player aims very slowly) , or which shoulder to aim over (which is problematic 
 since you can't zoom out the camera or use any kind of first person view, so Isaac often will block 
 almost a third of the screen) . Ammunition is in frustratingly short supply and meelee attacks, 
 while insanely brutal and powerful, are clumsy and difficult to use and never a very reliable option 
 once you're progressed beyond the second or third mission. The game rewards you with more and better 
 ammunition for successfully dismembering enemies, so early in the game when enemies are few and 
 easy, you will be very efficeint at killing them and will probably spend 3 or 4 shots from Plasma 
 Cutter to kill one, and he will drop 6 or 8 Plasma Cutter rounds. So by the end of the first or 
 second mision, you may find that enemies are dropping more ammo than you can pick up since your 
 inventory is so limited. But after a couple missions, when the enemies get stronger, faster and 
 more numerous, you'll be firing off shots in desperation, hitting whatever you can, and will get 
 significantly less ammo and find yourself running on empty very often.
  
  The game structure can also feel repetitive at times, as you spend the whole game playing fetch 
 for the other characters, grabbing items, fixing ship systems, unlocking doors, or removing obstacles. 
 You are constantly being told what to do, and the game is very linear. Fortunately, we are provided 
 with a very effective way of always knowing where to go, since you can press R3 and Isaac will 
 emit a blue line on the floor that points exactly where your next objective is. This line also 
 appears on the menu map, so you should never get lost in this game. The game also relies very heavily 
 on the old tactic of locking you in a room and forcing you to defend against an onslaught of several 
 waves of enemies. These parts range from very fun (if you do well) to very frustrating (if you 
 just can't seem to kill them fast enough) .
  
  I also have to say that the ending was not quite what I had hoped it would be. I can think of two 
 ways off the top of my head that the game's ending could have been significanlty improved. The 
 game gets very interesting towards the end, but then falls into cliche. Some people will probably 
 think the ending is very interesting, but I didn't. Giving us a little more creativity and room 
 to work with the last boss would have been nice. The game also gives us a very cool way that we 
 could have killed the final boss, but then ignores it and instead forces us into a typical "shoot 
 the weak spots" boss fight with a couple interesting (and challenging) twists.
  
  I have heard some people saying that Dead Space could very well win game of the year in several 
 magazines. And I definitely think that this game deserves to a contender for that honor, but I 
 would not go so far as to say that it is a shoe-in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METSFAN11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Really fun and scary game definitely recommend it BUY IT TODAY Really fun and scary game definitely 
 recommend it BUY IT TODAY its better very good sci-fi game i went to gamestop and was looking for 
 a game and picked up deadspace, farcry2, and fallout3 but the guy at the register said to take dead 
 space and its a great game. Really fun and scary game definitely recommend it BUY IT TODAY Really 
 fun and scary game definitely recommend it BUY IT TODAY its better very good sci-fi game i went 
 to gamestop and was looking for a game and picked up deadspace, farcry2, and fallout3 but the guy 
 at the register said to take dead space and its a great game. Really fun and scary game definitely 
 recommend it BUY IT TODAY Really fun and scary game definitely recommend it BUY IT TODAY its better 
 very good sci-fi game i went to gamestop and was looking for a game and picked up deadspace, farcry2, and 
 fallout3 but the guy at the register said to take dead space and its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead space will make you cringe, but in a good way. I realy beleive that this is the most violent 
 and scary game of all time. You will see limbs cut off, dozens and dozens of gallons of blood spilt, 
 people being brutaly ripped to pieces and stabbed with random sharp things, and soooooo meny explosions. 
 The story is actualy very good for a horror game, far better than most horror movies. Dead space 
 will wow you and disgust you with it's brutaly beautifuly grusome and yet oddly elegent crisp visuals 
 (top notch) .
  Sound also is amazing, from the eerie ominous music that plays in the background while walking 
 though a creepy moment, to when a necromorph jumps out from nowhere and the music ramps up to when 
 you blast off there limbs. both the guns, voice acting, crunchy, bloody and noises along with beautifuly 
 orchestrated music are all amazingly top notch. Gameplay is tight, responsive, and feels very fresh 
 and brutal. Turning is intentionaly slow and your movment is restricted, though I don't see them 
 as problems, because it is ment to be that way. But not all is perfect with dead space. I told 
 you everything that is positive about the game, but here comes the negatives. Shadows can randomly 
 become pixilated and look pretty ruff at times. While dead space visuals are beautiful to behold, 
 it can slowdown at times when you are being swarmed. This is rare, but it happens. Shooting is 
 perfect, but melee is absolutely wonkey. Your stomp is hard to use as well, sometimes you can stomp 
 on things 2 or so feet away from your foot, or you stomp directly on-top of a crate and it will 
 magicly slide out from under your foot and not break. Also meleeing with your arms is strange. 
 You would need to "punch" a bad guy about 10-15 times to kill it, so melee is very pointless. While 
 the length of the game is perfect for me, about 10-15 hours, because I like playing my games multiple 
 times, but for those who play there games only once, the game is rather short for a single-player 
 only game. Dead space is amazing, a AAA 10/10 title, BUT it has it's share of issues to hold it 
 back. But if you want to get scared or have fun, then buy this game. AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Now I don't like EA, this is only due to having no interest in a lot of their titles (sports games 
 and movie tie ins don't do it for me) So when i heard about Dead Space i was pleasantly surprised 
 that they were dipping a toe into a genre i enjoy and with an incredibly good result i have since 
 discovered.
  
  The story to Dead Space is a fairly simple one, in the future, giant planet cracker ships have 
 been designed to pop the core of planets and take valuable minerals from them and take them back 
 to earth, a modern deep space mining industry. Having lost contact with the USG Ishimura, the biggest 
 ship in her class, a small shuttle with a comms repair crew is sent to find it and repair what 
 ever is wrong, you play the role of a technician called Issac and what you discover, isn't so easily 
 fixed.... the crew has been mutated into hideous looking creatures known as necromorphs.
  
  Dead Space rips off a lot of it's ideas, taking obvious influence from such films as Event Horizon, 
 aliens, the thing as well as game play mechanics from Resident Evil 4. That's not to say that Dead 
 Space doesn't have a few unique tricks up it's sleeve however, with the extra influence it all 
 wraps up together in a heavily atmospheric horror title.
  
  Issac is controlled in 3rd person as he explores around the USG Ishimura, the first thing to notice 
 is that Dead Space doesn't use a heads up display, everything is shown though something in the 
 game world, Issac's health bar is set in sections down the spine of his rig (spacesuit) his ammo 
 for the current gun is shown on a holographic display when aiming. Even his inventory and video 
 / audio files found on the ship come up on a holographic display in front of him as if he is looking 
 at it, giving a much deeper game experience as it takes away a lot of the signs you would subconsciously 
 associate with making it a game.
  
  When Issac is in combat it's very much RE4, holding L1 makes Issac aim in an over the shoulder 
 view and R1 fires whichever weapon he has equipped, with some weapon quick change on the fly set 
 to the D-pad. There are about 8 weapons in total found though out the game, most of which are pretty 
 original in themselves as the Ishimura is a mining ship so sci-fi buzz saws, flamethrowers and 
 plasma cutters are standard. 
  
  Each weapon also has a duel function when pressing R2 while aiming, my favorite being the plasma 
 cutter which was 3 shots in a line that can fire either vertically or horizontally depending on 
 which mode it's in. I found this handy for one of the selling points of the title, dismemberment. 
 The easiest way to kill, or even just slow down the mutated crew of the Ishimura is by shooting 
 off legs, arms and tails, head and body shots do nothing, and the various weapon functions allow 
 you do do this with pretty gruesome and brutal results.
  
  This however is not entirely one way as Issac can get dismembered by claws, beheaded by tentacles 
 or even smashed apart by asteroids all of which are obviously, pretty horrific.
  
  Issac can also melee attack in a blind swing which is mainly good for clearing firing space or 
 giving him time to make a break for it, as well as being able to foot stomp on any enemy who is 
 crawling around due to having it's legs sliced out from under it, normally with some pretty chilling 
 snapping noises.
  
  Aside from that Issac also has some other benefits of it being a sci-fi and has a couple of modules 
 he can equip into the glove of his suit that allow him to make an enemy move in slow motion with 
 stasis or pick up an item like say... an explosive canister and launch it at a group of necromorphs 
 for utter carnage as well as saving ammo. These abilities will be used in some basic puzzles outside 
 of combat to allow Issac to move around some of the more damaged parts of the ship and have their 
 own little arc power bar on the shoulder of Issacs rig, this has filling up points on walls as 
 well as items that can refill it.
  
  As mentioned before some of the ship is damaged and to survive Issac has to fix it, this often 
 means going out on the side of the ship, or into areas with zero gravity. I have to mention that 
 these parts are really a perfect example of the atmosphere that Dead Space is about. In a vacuum 
 there are only two things that can be heard, Issac's feet walking and even they come through muffled, 
 muted from him feeling it through impact rather then the actual sound and his heart beat, that's 
 it. It's like really being there, amazingly well done and completely absorbing. 
  
  Being a ship of human design there is money as well as mini stores Issac can go into on pretty 
 much all decks allowing him to buy items, though he has to find new schematics to add new stock 
 to the store, this includes first aid, ammo, weapons, oxygen cans for being outside as well as 
 upgraded rigs and power nodes. 
  
  Power nodes are small items that are essentially just for upgrading Issac's equipment though they 
 can over ride some locked doors as well. To do this Issac has to go to a work bench, in which he 
 can upgrade what ever he is carrying with him at the time. Each piece of gear from rig, stasis 
 module or weapon is upgraded in the same manner, a grid is shown that each node fills in a slot 
 before you can move onto the adjacent one, some of these slots will increase a stat of of some 
 sort from more hp in the rig to increased damage for a weapon.
  
  Visually Dead Space hits the nail on the head with some amazing atmospheric design and lighting 
 effects leading to a near traumatic playing experience. The necromorph designs are pretty good 
 as well with the obvious signs of them once being human with torn uniforms and human arms sticking 
 out of an otherwise horrible looking creature. As good as Dead Space looks however, what makes 
 this game really stand out as a horror title is the sound, or in a lot of places lack of it. Maybe 
 some machinery working here and there, or the sound of his footsteps walking on the steel grating 
 all add up to a very suspenseful atmosphere. The balance is really just right.
  
  My one, and only complaint about Dead Space is that Issac is a silent protagonist. Every other 
 character you meet, and some even that you don't is voice acted brilliantly but Issac's lack of 
 interaction with them really took away some of the realism of the title and took away some of the 
 atmosphere.
  
  The game lasts for about 12 hours with plenty of trophies and a harder setting unlocked to encourage 
 extra play throughs, and with how fun the game is, it's well worth it. If you like horror games 
 or sci-fi then this is at least worth a weekend rental, if not a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Set in the distant future, Dead Space revolves around Isaac Clarke, a space engineer who works 
 for the Concordance Extraction Corporation (C. E. C) , a company that operates giant mining ships 
 throughout the galaxy. His company receives a distress call from the USG Ishimura, a "Planet Cracker" 
 class ship that destroys planets in order to extract valuable ore. Assuming that a mechanical failure 
 is the only problem, Isaac and two other C. E. C employees set out to rendezvous with the Ishimura. 
 However, they discover that the ship has been overrun by Necromorphs, a hostile alien race dependent 
 upon necrotic flesh. Separated from his party, Isaac must survive the Necromorph infestation and 
 battle his way to safety through the Ishimura's various environments.
  
  Here's a game that truly knows when to be loud and when to be silent. Music and sound effects have 
 been used to maximum effect to create suspense. The voice acting is top notch, the Necromorphs 
 sound terrifying, and the weapon sound effects are dead on. Someone mail the audio designer a cake 
 that is both delicious and moist. The environments are well designed, and the use of lighting and 
 shadow to create tension is brilliant. Dead Space features amazingly detailed character and alien 
 models, while weapon and particle effects are similarly spectacular. This game has some of the 
 best visuals on the Playstation3 rather than other platforms, but don't get me wrong, it looks 
 amazing on every platform.
  
  While it all makes sense to the game's story, I felt there was a little more backtracking than 
 necessary, and the mass-driver mini-games didn't work for me as a way to mix things up. These are 
 my only complaints against otherwise stellar presentation. If you've played Resident Evil 4 or 
 Gears of War, you'll have a handle on these controls very quickly. The controls are smooth as silk, 
 with only a bad menu map and a periodic lack of peripheral vision hindering playability.
  
  Ok now to Brake this down, there are 12 chapters in this game. Each chapter is roughly 20-30 minutes 
 long (Depends on Chapter) The game is around 6-8 hours long. Bare in mind that this could all change 
 if you get stuck or lost in the game. To get the full 1000 in this game you will have to beat the 
 game 3 times. There are 4 difficulties, Easy, Medium, Hard and Insane. The only way that you can 
 get insane is to beat the game on any difficulty.
  
  Overall one hell of a game. It has to score a 9.5 out of 10.0 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I played Dead Space from beginning to end in one 15-hour sitting, playing from a rental copy, and 
 I sincerely regret not buying this game when I had the chance, because, quite honestly, I cannot 
 think of a single thing wrong with this game.
  
  For the Classification, I chose "Amazing" because it's the one word that can sum up this game, 
 but feel free to take your pick from any of these, too:
  All it's cracked up to be
  Highly addictive
  Immersive
  Rocks
  Solid
  Worth Playing
  Worth the Wait
  
  So, for 
 those of you that do not know, here is the story for Dead Space:
  
  You are Isaac Clarke (a clever combination of Sci-Fi authors Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke) , 
 an engineer of few words, and you are stranded aboard the USG Ishimura, a mining ship, that has 
 somehow become infested with strange, deadly life forms known as Necromorphs. You quickly find 
 yourself in a struggle for survival against an intelligent, numerous, powerful enemy whose only 
 purpose seems to be to destroy you and the remaining handful of survivors and create more of its 
 kind. To top it off, one of the survivors of the Ishimura crew is your old girlfriend, and, suffice 
 it to say, it wouldn't be too cool if she got eviscerated on your watch.
  
  Your main objectives throughout the game are to repair various parts of the ship in order to stay 
 alive. On more than one occasion, Ishimura's life support systems suffer a critical failure, for 
 example. While that may not sound daunting, it really is, for the USG Ishimura is a MASSIVE vessel, 
 designed for the purpose of destroying entire planets. You'll travel throughout its various decks 
 via a tram system, and the first real mission of the game is to get said system up and running.
 
  
  Overall, it's a great story that will most likely keep you enthralled from beginning to end. I 
 mean, this was the first game I played through in a single sitting (albeit a sitting long enough 
 to make sore my butt) .
  
  So, lets start with the technical aspects of the game.
  
  Visuals:
  This game looks freaking INCREDIBLE. Pictures and videos do not do it justice; you 
 have to see it for yourself on a large widescreen television in full HD projection. There's no 
 point in singling out certain visual elements, because they are all gorgeous. Every bit.
  
  Audio:
  Standard horror sound, with creepy ambient music, harsh, piercing noises to accompany 
 "jump" moments, and heart-pounding numbers in the background during the fights.
  
  Controls:
  Intuitive and useful. You hold one bumper to aim, tap or hold the other to fire, as 
 you would expect. There's a hot-key for health, too, which is incredibly useful, and I'll tell 
 you why in a minute. You've got a melee-button, a run-button, a stomp-button (stomping random corpses 
 is surprisingly satisfying and incredibly distracting) . You can carry up to four different weapons, 
 and each is automatically mapped to one of the four D-Pad directions, which makes for quick switching 
 on the fly. You'll never find yourself fighting with the controls in tight situations, unless you 
 really suck at shooting games and/or following directions, in which case, it's not really Dead 
 Space's fault, is it? The only thing that is lacking is an about-face button implemented into later 
 Resident Evils for immeasurable effect. But, you probably won't find yourself missing it. One thing 
 that really stands out in Dead Space is the fact that there is no HUD or menu-system. Everything 
 is displayed in real-time via holographic read-outs and indicators on Isaac's suit and weapons. 
 When you access your inventory or map or something, the game does not pause, which adds to the 
 tension. Even accessing one of the numerous shops around the ship does not take you out of real-time.
 
  Luckily, you don't have to exit a complicated series of menues when being attacked while your 
 screens are opened. Simply pressing the Aim button closes everything and brings up your weapon.
 
  This clever system is why the hot-key health and weapon-switching is important, and I'm quite 
 thankful for it.
  
  Speaking of shops, there are a lot of them strewn throughout the Ishimura, and it tilts the odds 
 a little too far in your favor. Beating this game on Normal difficulty is pretty easy, and, if 
 you've finished Resident Evil 4 or are a shooting veteran, I would suggest playing on Hard, even 
 during your first playthrough. You'll enjoy the experience much more. If a survival-horror game 
 is too easy, it sort of ruins the entire point, don't you think? This is why customizable difficulty 
 is a good thing. But, for those of you who want to play but kind of suck, luckily there is an Easy 
 mode present to save the day. If only Ninja Gaiden were so blessed.
  Back to the point, there are a lot of shops, a lot of dropped items, and a lot of Credits, which 
 means that you'll probably never have an ammo or health crisis on anything less than Hard. Casual 
 gamers rejoice.
  
  Another interesting and slightly unfair implement is a sort of GPS navigator in Isaac's suit. Simply 
 clicking and holding the right stick while display a blue line directing you straight to your next 
 objective. This is useful because Ishimura is such an incredibly vast and complicated ship, and 
 the pitch-black corridors and alien lifeforms don't make navigation any easier. It also increases 
 the desire to explore, because you can't really get lost. You also have a 3-D map which you can 
 manipulate to get a complete understanding of the area, which, by itself would have been enough.
 
  
  The gameplay in Dead Space is highly addicting and extremely immersive. If you've got a large screen 
 and surround sound, you can really feel like you're there, despite the third-person view. Everything 
 is really, really, really creepy. Your only light comes from the small flashlight attatched to 
 your makeshift weapons, and in pitch-black areas it doesn't help much. Enemies are definitely frightening. 
 You will never exit a large-scale fight without a long, drawn out "whew", and chances are your 
 heart will be pounding so fast you'll wonder why you didn't have a heart-attack. Dead Space isn't 
 scary in the same way Resident Evil is scary; instead, Dead Space is more of an adrenaline-pumping 
 thriller, constantly leaving you to wonder how you managed to survive your last encounter and worrying 
 how you're going to survive the next one.
  
  Nearly all the weapons are fun and extremely satisfying to use. My favorite, by far, even though 
 its practicality is limited, is the Ripper, described by the game as a "Remote Industrial Saw." 
 This weapon has two modes utilizing circular saw-blades: one mode fires the blade in a fashion 
 similar to that of the Ripper from Unreal Tournament, except the blade does not bounce. The second 
 mode launches the blade, but tethers it to the weapon at a set distance. You simply cannot imagine 
 how gratifying it is to manually dismember your enemies with this weapon. Since "Strategic Dismemberment" 
 is one of Dead Space's selling points, and often the only practical way of eliminating foes, you 
 can see how the Ripper could be of use.
  Other weapons include the Plasma Cutter, which fires... plasma, I guess, and is great for dismembering 
 foes; a triple-barreled machine-gun; something called a Line Gun, which can launch wide beams similar 
 to Plasma Cutter shots, and also some type of very powerful delayed grenade, which, if used correctly, 
 can be invaluable; a flamethrower which consumes fuel too quickly for its own good; a Contact Beam 
 akin to Doom's BFG; and the kind-of-useless Force Gun, which apparently only fires non-lethal blasts. 
 I can see how such blasts could be strategically useful, but it's better to just cut things' limbs 
 off from the get-go.
  
  All of these weapons, and Isaac's suit, can be upgraded at work benches with Power Nodes that you'll 
 pick up along your journey.
  
  These Nodes are also required to unlock certain doors to rooms containing various goodies of various 
 values. I like this, because Nodes are in short supply (even though they can be bought for a high 
 price at shops) , and each time you reach one of these doors you are presented with a predicament, 
 forced to choose between a collection of items that may or may not be worth something, or upgrading 
 one of your pieces of equipment. You could always exploit the checkpoint system and just commit 
 suicice if you don't like what's behind Door Number Onr, but, that's not the way to play.
  
  While the standard running-about is great, the game also implements two other forms of traversing 
 the Ishimura, often at the same time: Zero Gravity, and Vaccuum. Zero Gravity is pretty self-explanatory. 
 There ceases to be walls and ceilings, and everything becomes floor. You can propell yourself to 
 distant surfaces, and Isaac's boots will keep you upright and on the surface. In a Vaccuum environment, 
 which is almost always outside the ship's atmosphere and therefor a 0-G environment as well, Isaac 
 is forced to survive on a very limited oxygen supply, which makes these modes absolutely frantic. 
 If survival-horror needed a new scare tactic to add to its arsenal, Vaccuum is undoubtedly the 
 best choice. Not only are you on a timer, but there is also no environmental sound (usually there 
 is still music, but when there's not you can't imagine a more ominous scene) . The weapons, for 
 some reason, still make a little bit of pressure-like noise, but it is extremely muffled. Moreover, 
 in these Vaccuum environments, enemies are completely inaudibly, meaning they can sneak up on you. 
 I dare you to come up with something scarier than wandering around an almost pitch-black environment 
 in outer space, 30 seconds of oxygen left, dead-silent, where one wrong move will have you hurdling 
 into the depths of the galaxy, and then turning around to find a Charred Slasher breathing down 
 your neck.
  
  Which brings me to my next and final item of discussion: the enemies.
  
  The Necromorphs are extremely varied in form and function. There are at least a dozen varieties 
 of enemies, and more still if you count the "ultra" versions of some of them, and they come in 
 mixed packs all over the place; you can never guess what kind of mutant freak is going to pop out 
 at you. Each Necromorph, like most multicellular creatures, possesses a number of limbs, most of 
 which can be severed. And this is how you defeat them. It's up to you to figure out how to kill 
 your enemies, as you are not given any clues. Figure out what parts of your enemies are dangerous, 
 then chop those parts off. Simple in theory. It's usually pretty obvious, though, and there are 
 multiple ways of taking down foes that are just as effective.
  
  For exmaple, the most basic enemy of Dead Space is the slasher. This beast resembles a man, but 
 with two large scythe-like arms growing out of its shoulders. It has a head, two legs, and the 
 two scythe-arms. What do you shoot for? Well, you could spend two Plasma Cutter shots to chop off 
 its two scythes, rendering the beast harmless (and dead in most cases) . You could sever its legs 
 and watch it crawl pathetically towards you whereafter you can stomp it into a paste. Either of 
 those work just as well as the other. Ironically, cutting off the thing's head will just make it 
 angry, and trying to kill it by pumping round after round into its chest will just waste ammo.
 
  
  So, you see, Dead Space strays from conventional methods of killing and requires a bit of on-the-go 
 forethought to get through the encounters unscathed. Each new Necromorph will require a new method 
 of dismemberment.
  
  Not only is this system strategically clever, it's also extremely fun to execute. There will be 
 blood, guts, and goo everywhere, wall to wall. Add to that the fact that you can use your stomp 
 to continuously dismember dead corpses of humans and Necromorphs alike to your heart's bloody content.
 
  
  As with all my reviews, this has been long-winded and drawn out, but Dead Space is a game that 
 truly deserves it. As I said, I could not come up with a single thing wrong with this game. If 
 you're a survival-horror fan, or a shooter fan just looking for a pants-crapping scare fest, you 
 will not regret buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taka666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Hype. 
  It can be so very deceptive. It blinds the foolish, leads them by the hand, their hard earned money 
 in the other and essentially forces them to lie to themselves that the game they are spending $100 
 on will be worth it, while hype stands in the background, laughing to itself. Ahh hype can destroy 
 a game. 
  Ahh so blessed it be that literally no hype surrounded Dead Space, or at least none that I was 
 aware of, as I picked it up from the game store shelf and bought it at the reduced price.
  First off Dead Space is a title thats exactly how it sounds. Your a man, in space, sent in to check 
 out a space ship that is not responding to calls and messages that you and your team have been 
 sending out. Essentially it is dead. The space ship your traveling on crashes and you and your 
 crew end up getting trapped on this eemingly dead ship. You, are sent in to investigate and it 
 just so happens the ship aint dead at all. Ironically the inhabitants are quite alive, just not 
 in the way you hoped. There introduction done.
  But its this brief and scary introduction that sets up for the most immersive, atmospheric and 
 well told stories to come out this year and im glad I came by it by accident.
  I wont ruin the story but it is fantastically told. In hommage I presume somewhat to Half Life 
 series, the game contains no cutscenes and is all told in game with your character remaining mute 
 and drips and drabs of the story and plot are fed to you via other characters, video, text and audio 
 logs. (Plus some crazy people) .
  Gameplay wise its essentially a first person shooter with an over the should view. It plays very 
 similary to Gears of War, Resident Evil 4 and Dark Sector but with a few unique twists. Unlike 
 in the games mentioned and hud does not exist, with Dead Space it does but not in the way you expect. 
 In game hud tells you all the information you need. Its hard to describe so you will have to check 
 it out for your self, but its truly awesome.
  The enemies and some of the most horrifying, pant staining, ugly mother fecking sons of a female 
 dog you will come across, and for once they pocess something that has not happened in a while. 
 Originality. These enemies are scary yet sickeningly fun to kill. Each encounter with them could 
 result in your death which make this scary experience even more petryfying. They are well created 
 with smart AI and most importantly you want to kill them.
  Above all Dead Space is simply one of the best games I was pleased to have not known about. Hype 
 would have probaly distorted my view and ruined this fantastic game. You must play this game. Don't 
 belive the hyoe. Dead Space is amazing, and definatley a contender for game of the year. Unless 
 a certain other first person shooter can live up to the hype.
  *cough* Gears... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arodmell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  A quick review of Dead Space
  
  PROS:
  
  -Beautifully atmospheric environments
  
  -A well put together storyline which is just the right length
  
  -Flawless game engine
  
 
  -Innovative game concept (No HUD of any kind - all info is on your suit) Gives a whole new degree 
 of immersion into the game
  
  -Scary as hell..... not as often as I expected... but most of the time....
  
  -It is Indescribably 
 satisfying when you blast the limbs off your enemies.... really it is... :D
  
  -PSN Trophy Feature.... a vast array of rewards for your efforts....
  
  
  CONS:
  
  -Lack 
 of a "quick turn" feature which you find yourself needing quite often....
  
  -Difficulty curve increases rapidly with the different difficulty modes.... easy is... well.. easy. 
 Normal is a lot tougher... god knows how tough "Impossible" mode is
  
  -The final boss...... FAR, FAR, FAR too easy. I lost very little health on my first encounter with 
 this guy. Something that big should be epic tough on ANY difficulty level.
  
  However.... even though I was a little disappointed with the massively under-powered final boss 
 I honestly don't think it spoiled the game as a whole.
  
  Dead Space was a magnificently crafted terror-filled alien-blasting blood-filled splatter-fest 
 of a space-romp.... and I loved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmarkz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'd just like to say for my money Dead Space has not been a disappointment. With all the comic books 
 and even an anime movie coming out, the story is very immersive and an enjoyment to play. What 
 i have noticed about Dead Space, that a lot of other horror games don't seem to do all that well, 
 is that they were able to do a great job with the lighting. It doesn't get to bogged down with 
 places that you cant see but want to, and places you can see but don't really care if you do or 
 not. I think that can really slow a game of this magnitude down if done improperly. 
  Another great aspect of this game is the ambient sound that is going on around you. You always 
 feel as if something is creeping up on you. To keep that going through most of a game is quite 
 an accomplishment. 
  Dismemberment that is mandatory? Also a fantastic treat that any horror fan will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedmk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I didn't really follow this game before it came .. i just saw some clips about the game ... and 
 than the game came ,many good reviews about it so it got my interest ... although i didn't believe 
 that there is any more good horror games after re3 or sh2 . but i guess i was really wrong .
  
  Dead space , is an work of art , its mechanics makes you really live in Isaac's place ,immersion 
 is the main subject of this game ,and it got it perfectly right . this will remind you a lot of 
 silent hill style with the action mechanics of Resident evil . and the thing is it got them better 
 even than those games , although the story isn't better than those 2 games , but its just different 
 . event horizon anyone ? .
  
  well , i was really enjoying playing this game ... although i wished if they made it more scarier 
 ,because it could have more in that .
  
  Deep Space , is a great horror action game ,and worth buying for everyone . (well ,just don't be 
 a Pu**y and get scared :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANTHOLOGY-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  a very nice piece of work here from EA. Horror at its best with all the blood and gore you want 
 and scary aswell and with a good story line too the monsters are loud fast and scary and if you 
 do not take care of them quick well you know. With every corner you go around your thinking what 
 the hell is coming next. Also its not so simple to kill these monsters shooting in the body or 
 head thats right head shots wont bring these bad boys down you got to shoot them in the limbs which 
 makes killing them all the more bloody theres lots of different monsters to bring down and have 
 there own weakness's. With lots of weapon's and suite upgrades it makes the game play more fun. 
 The story push's you to go on makeing you want to know whats gonna happen next and to discover 
 the truth to all the madness. Dead space is a good first horror from EA and im sure im not only 
 one who hopes EA brings more horror to the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Just finished this game last night, and I'm still thinking about it now the next day about what 
 a great game this was! I was actually dreaming about it! First game in a long time that I actually 
 couldn't wait to sit down and play it, and took time out of my busy schedule to play. I actually 
 woke up early one day to play it before work, that hasn't happened for many years.
  
  I loved that they combined so many gameplay elements into this. I loved that they rewarded you 
 for exploring the environment and it wasn't just all running and fighting things, I like my quiet 
 boring time too so I can explore and go off the intended path. I loved the details in the environments 
 and walking around checking out all the little things they crammed in there. I loved the sounds 
 and sound effects. I love how they hid the loading screens so well making me feel totally immersed 
 in the game. I loved the references to other games and pop culture - anybody else catch the 3 Stooges 
 reference. I had to put the game on pause and let it sink in that I actually heard "Calling Doctor 
 Howard Doctor Fine Doctor Howard" over the loud speaker in the game. That was amazing. It's the 
 first game that truly had me feeling like I was walking around in the original Alien movie - it 
 was that good.
  
  I especially love that they made it not too frustrating even on the normal level. I think one thing 
 that helped was I downloaded the free suit that eliminated the inventory limits. I hate inventory 
 management.
  
  Even the boss fights, which I normally hate, where pretty ok.
  
  In summary, this game was great - get it and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space was labeled as a Gears Of War/Resident Evil 4 rip off when it was first announced. I 
 too thought the same and foolishly passed it off as a another mediocre EA game. But as the game 
 got near to release, the previews and the eventual reviews seem to prove doubters wrong. I went 
 against my instincts and delved into a EA game. I came back as a different being. Not only is Dead 
 Space an technical accomplishment, it is also a tense roller-coaster ride with the thrills and 
 spills of the combination of Resident Evil 4 and Gears Of War, but to my astonishment, System Shock 
 2 as well. Dead Space is one of the most tense, frightening and terrific games I have ever played. 
 Although it doesn't quite match the tensity of Resident Evil 4 - it does come oh so close and with 
 a bit more variety with its mission structure and enemies I believe it could have surpassed Resident 
 Evil 4. But as it stands, this is a horror game that sits out the gluttony of the genre. This review 
 does nothing to state just how great Dead Space is. Please don't overlook what could be 2008s sleeper 
 hit. It deserves to be played and for once, EA have my respect once again. I cannot wait for the 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon79
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game up until chapter 6 or so.
  and so far I have enjoyed every minute of it. I must say that the graphics are nothing short of 
 stunning. The weapons are very cool especially the line gun.
  
  What really made me buy this game was the animated film and the comic series. I was looking at 
 the game after hearing some freinds talk about it , but was really convinced after the film and 
 the series. I would advise though to play without watching the film or series, then you really 
 get thewhat the heck happend here idea". It is obvious that this game has borrowed from alot 
 of other influences but they did like the Japanese. Take a look and make it better. Love it.
  
  I cant wait to finish the Game and when I do I will start again with all my nicely upgraded 
 tools.
  
  
  Take my word for it this game is an instant classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SvV_Ying
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Dead Space puts you in the shoes of Isaac, an engineer who's task is to repair a communication 
 error with the Ishimura, a huge space ship. Once landing on the ship you find out that somethin 
 bad happened here, blood everywhere and not a single crew member to be found. Isaac gets separated 
 from his team members soon and is on his own now, trying to find out what happened on the ship 
 and how to get off.
  
  First thing you notice are the graphics and sounds. The game looks good, the environments are worked 
 out well and there are some nice graphical effects in the game. The sound really works in this 
 game, walking down a small scary hallway really becomes scary with the sound in Dead Space. Mentioning 
 scary, I've to say Dead Space is sometimes. Monsters coming out of nowhere with alot of noise and 
 great sound effects put me on the front of my seat. Mixing this with alot of blood and bodyparts 
 flying everywhere and you know what you're playing.
  
  The game plays really well, you may need to get used to some controls and using the map but when 
 you have there is no problem. The monsters you fight against in this game are dealt with on a special 
 way, most of them you need to dismember which is very cool to do. Isaac's weapons and abilities 
 provides more than enough methods for dealing with the monsters. The weapons in this game are very 
 nice to use and upgrading them through the game make them even better.
  
  The story of Dead Space unfolds nice throughout the game but you should play it for yourself to 
 find out. The best thing about this game IMO is originality. Zero G- zones, Vacuum zones and some 
 other things around the ship are great and I've never seen them in a game before.
  
  Overall Dead Space is a great game, it has great sound, plays well, it's very original and it is 
 scary sometimes. It has a little bit of Bioshock, a little bit of Resident Evil but in the end 
 it stands on his own and is a great game which you must check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  We have been given the Doom 3 + Mass Effect + Silent Hill + Resident Evil 4 into one solid and 
 amazing game. Reasons I combined these games are as follows:
  
  Doom 3 presents us the fictional "outer space" feeling and includes the famous "outside in space" 
 scene. Now, Doom 3 only presented it once I think, and here Dead Space presents it numerous times. 
 What I love about this game is how well it gives you the feeling that you have stepped out into 
 the open. The sound gets secluded to what you can hear inside your helmet and almost actually causes 
 your ears to pop from the strategic frequency adjustments that were used as the air rushes out 
 of the room you are standing in. That gets my A+ since I am extremely picky when it comes to music 
 and sound effects.
  
  Mass Effect is of course the "RPG" element of upgrading your guns and your armor et cetera. The 
 only unfortunate thing is that they used my least favourite style of "leveling" and that is the 
 Final Fantasy X style where you put little orbs or "Power Nodes" in the spots where you want to 
 add certain specs. Unfortunately you have to waste a lot of them trying to get to the actual spec 
 increase. This is unlike the style used in both Resident Evil 4 and Mass Effect where you pay money 
 and upgrade the certain attribute on the gun. This although irritating to me being a hardcore Final 
 Fantasy fan, was at least a more creative way of presenting a leveling tree than some other games 
 out there.
  
  Resident Evil 4 is pretty much the style of horror that this game provides. I do not feel scared 
 really at all when playing this game other than the times when it is possible to die at the accidental 
 flick of a joystick, or all of a sudden without knowing it. This is actually a major pitfall, I 
 cannot stand when there are games that allow you to just all of a sudden die and this game isn't 
 that bad since you just pretty much spawn 3 seconds before you died (in most cases) but it is irritating 
 if you accidentally walk into a blast of air coming from the ground that causes you to fly into 
 the ceiling and be obliterated in the middle of fighting enemies. Ironically, I never had that 
 happen and I just accidentally walked into the thing when trying to walk into a storage room... 
 I have jittery hands ok! But with the same style of rapid button mashing that we found ourselves 
 doing when fighting the giant ogres in Resident Evil 4, and decapitating the grotesquely deformed 
 heads of "Los Ganados" throughout the game, and we can remember the good times of 2005. Also, Dead 
 Space does everything better than Resident Evil 4 did which makes me drool everytime I am forced 
 to knock an enemy off myself from rapidly smashing "x" in order to begin ripping limbs off the 
 creature. 
  
  Now onto the Silent Hill aspect. The only relevence of this point is the music. All of the BGM 
 in this game create an extremely well-suited atmosphere for every point in the game, along with 
 the sound effects. There is very little repetition as well which I thought was amazing. The only 
 problem was the unnecessary use of shrill violin screeching when there isn't anything presently 
 occurring on the screen. There were a couple points where I heard something but there was nothing 
 to go along with it visually so I was left thinking "Uhh.. okay... who mistakenly put that effect 
 there?" But with that minor "glitch" or problem, the music and sound effects are unbelievable.
 
  
  Now I know that was a different style of review than I normally give, but seriously, this game 
 took the aspects of 4 of my top 50 favourite games and made them even better. I can't wait to see 
 what they come up with if they create a sequel to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTechGeek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite fun and exhilarating. But the thing it reminds me of the most is Doom 3. The 
 game feels like Doom 3 done right. It takes place in a secluded vessel, people mutate into monsters, 
 strange growths all over, weird writing on walls and on video screens, voice logs, text logs, lots 
 of freaky sh@%.
  
  While it is like doom 3, it does have its differences. It is in third person view, there is a very 
 limited weapon selection, and you can stomp on baddies. I like how the voice and text logs are 
 done in this game, no having to pause the game to listen to them, you just pick them up and they 
 play automatically. 
  
  The graphics are pretty nice (no complaints) but I have seen better.
  
  Zero gravity and space 
 adventures are cooler than I'd thought they be.
  
  Gun variety is limited, but the guns are mostly original, and handy in taking off limbs.
  
 
  The game is long compared to most that come out these days.
  
  I've been playing it for about 10 hours now, and I still don't feel close to being done.
  
 
  Sounds are eerie.
  
  Baddies will surprise you!
  
  Your ship will burn!
  
  People will DIE!!!
  
  Your body will be ripped in half!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Get this game if you 
 want tear baddies to shreds and then stomp on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapan17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  First game i played which made me have to put the volume down, turn on lights or play during daytime, 
 but simply could not stop from finding out what came next story wise. Great job with trophies since 
 it will make you want to play over and over again (great replay value) . The story is great, visually 
 very well done, creative weapons (taking in consideration that you are not a soldier but an engineer 
 with cutters, flames, and force guns) , will make you jump with every appearance of an enemy and 
 delivers all the way till the end. On the downside its not that long and when put on 1080 seems 
 blurry. However its still an amazing game and for a new horror game its bound to stick and become 
 a classic or even a series such as silent hill, resident evil or clock tower. Put in few words, 
 worth every penny it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  It took me a little over 14 hours to go through Dead Space story on medium settings and overall 
 - it was a great ride.
  You play as Isaac Thomas, engineer specialist. You and your crew are to respond and investigate 
 the USG Ishimura space mining ship since there was no contact with the crew for some time.
  
  Once you arrive, of course, things are not as them seem.
  Prior to playing the game, I'd 
 also advice everyone to watch the animated movie comic parts (Six in total) that are available 
 for free through various Internet websites or you can download them for free on PSN. 
  
  They will serve as a good introduction to the game plot and story and will give you a good knowledge 
 of game set up.
  
  Dead Space is definitely not a game for young ones, it's very gory, brutal and at times it will 
 give you a good moment of scare.
  The maturity level here is definitely what developers aimed for and they certainly achieved it. 
 
  Dismembered dead bodies are all over the place, blood is constantly enchanced all the time and 
 at some point you will certainly stop and ask yourself: "What the hell happened here!"
  
  Anyone who played DOOM 3 will be right at home here, in fact Dead Space is one of most goriest 
 game I had played. You can personally "dismember" any corpse numerous times, even the enemies while 
 they still charge at you. 
  
  Blood written marks show the insanity that Ishimura crew had to go with. 
  While the story will 
 keep you interested until the end, the game definitely set-up itself for a sequel. After you finish 
 the game you will unlock new armor suit with additional bonuses and it's encouraged to play it 
 again since you won't be able to have all the weapons or all the upgrades on your first playthrough, 
 nor will you be able to get some of the thropies since it requires aditional play.
  
  This isn't a bad thing since the game is very well done with only occasional frame drops that do 
 not take away the experience. Dead Space is one of the best looking games this generation, there 
 is no Hard-Drive installation and the game runs very nice. 
  
  I was particularly impressed by lighting and shadows. There aren't any major amount of new enemies 
 but the game does mix them up well while introducing few others as you move on with 12 chapters 
 story.
  Each chapter should take you about an hour on first play.
  At any time you get lost and not sure where to go, simply hitting R3 will point you into right 
 direction. This is going to become an essential tool of use through the game, the only quirk it 
 might give you is when you're in Zero Gravity where you will get more confused.
  There are few puzzles to solve and they aren't very hard but welcome. 
  
  The gameplay will 
 remind you of Resident Evil controls but the game itself borrows few good elements from other games 
 and it does a great job of doing so.
  
  In conclusion, the game is very well done and anyone looking for sci-fi horror shooter should not 
 pass on Dead Space experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed every last minute of this game, wished it never ended though!!!
  It took me a few days to complete it on and off, but I know for sure I'll be completing it again 
 on hard and then I'll have a go at impossible mode (which you open up after completing the game)
 
  At first the game was very scary, but as soon as you get used to it, it's an easy enough game 
 to watch and play. Not recommended for kids thow lol. A few people have said that you have to be 
 sick in the head to play the game. But it really isn't like that. Once you get used to it, it's 
 completely fantastic and perfect timing too.. ready for halloween :-)
  I must admit, I was under the impression that without multi-player- It's a mistake... But after 
 playing this game, who needs it???!!!
  An all round fantastic game and recommended to everyone! Roll on Gears of War (360)
  P. S Can't 
 wait for 007 and Little Big Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  After a long wait finally got my hands on the game.
  This game is a candidate to being one of the classics of the genre. 
  The atmosphere created 
 makes you feel vulnerable and weak. 
  With the absence of other big name games of the genre Dead Space really comes out of nowhere and 
 gives a good slap on the face saying "This is the way you do it" The gameplay is fluid, no pauses 
 in inventory screens or maps. A good selection of weapons/tools. An upgrade system that makes you 
 wanna spend all your credits. But the peak reached with this game is the sound effects. You can 
 see yourself turning around and looking back saying "damn! where is this thing and where will he 
 jump on me?" A cold shiver running down the spine every corner you turn. And if a game can make 
 you feel lie this, it deserves to be a classic. As a lover of the genre I have loved the experience 
 of playing this game. And I wouldn't be out of line by saying, the throne of the genre may change 
 after this. A must buy for the lovers of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  There was not a lot of hype leading up to this game, and I don't even remember what compelled me 
 to buy it. I was intrigued by the "strategic dismemberment" and the different styles of weapons. 
 Well suffice it to say, I'm glad I got this game.
  
  Dead Space plays a lot like RE4, over the shoulder third person view, and it works well. Sometimes 
 it's a little hard to see what's behind you, or where you are aiming, but it's a very minor problem 
 and no detriment to gameplay.
  
  The game is just gorgeous. I think the first time I stood on the bridge staring down at the planet, 
 or when I stood looking down through the centrifuge, I paused for a moment just to stare. The halls 
 are suitably gore filled and seem to take on a life of their own. The enemy design is spectacular, 
 and there's a high quantity of different types of enemies to dismember.
  
  The audio is top notch. The voice acting is fairly good, and the sound is just plain spooky. I 
 can't count the number of times I heard a rustling sound in the room I was in and spun around looking 
 for some souless beast trying to impale me. Voices whisper to you as you run through the halls, 
 and the sound (or lack thereof) in a vacuum is frickin sweet.
  
  The "strategic dismemberment" option that so intrigued me was excellent. There is something deeply 
 satisfying about taking a plasma cutter to the legs of a soulless beast about to rip my head off. 
 Enemy deaths (and your own if you are unlucky enough to die) are gruesome spectacles of blood and 
 body parts. Excellent! (Note: do not let children of unsuitable maturity play this game)
  
  The mini games, such as Zero G basketball, the shooting range, and even the asteroid destroying 
 challenge are hard, but not impossible. The Zero G battles and runs through open space are added 
 additions and break up the monotony a little.
  
  The story is pretty straightforward, minus the whole backstory between your main C and the girl 
 in the video, that was never explained. Each mission and most story elements are suitably explained 
 through the use of audio, video, and text logs, and it works really well. The game was definitely 
 left open for future sequels.
  
  My biggest complaint about the game stems from the fact that you return to the same levels throughout 
 the game. Granted, different paths are available, but after awhile you wanted something new. And 
 sometimes it grew a little boring in areas where there just weren't enough enemies. But those complaints 
 really don't hurt a game that, at its core, is one of the best games out there. I recommend it 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patatopan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, Dead Space is a sci-fi survival horror game set in space, in which that should already say 
 a lot. You play as a repairman, literally a repairman, who volunteers with a group of people to 
 go check out a desolate mining ship called the Ishimura to see exactly what's been going on since 
 they no one has heard from it in a long time. Turns out, everyone is dead or has been turned into 
 these mutant space zombie things called necromorph. All hell breaks loose immediately the moment 
 you arrive. The game takes off from there. 
  
  I just have to say that there is a lot of hype and good reviews and such for this game, but to 
 me, it's just a regular solid game. I couldn't really put it in any other way other than it's just 
 a common game. It's not unbelievably good nor is it bad. To describe the feeling that I got from 
 it is that I just wanted to beat it; that's all. Horror survival, or just plain horror, games are 
 probably my most favorite games of all. Some of my favorites are Doom 3, Resident Evil, FEAR, Infection, 
 Fatal Frame, and probably any other classic horror games out there that plays sort of like Dead 
 Space. Dead Space, to me, is just one with the rest, nothing too special to really stand out. Let 
 me go ahead and explain why.
  
  First off, this game has a great design. The graphics and design is probably where most of its 
 strengths are. The levels are eerie, the monsters are weird looking and neatly animated, and the 
 graphics are beautiful. The textures are super detailed so you'll spend a lot of time just staring 
 into the crevices in the walls and floors admiring just how detailed they are. I wish I had a nice 
 big HDTV just so I could just indulge myself in the beauty of the graphics. One little complaint 
 I have about the graphics, though, is how the shadows are real jagged along the edges, sort of 
 like some of the dynamic shadowing spots in Halo 2. The shadowing are also not as complex and detailed 
 as they should be for a game that is half way covered in darkness in which the only light that 
 penetrates it are studio type halogen lights. 
  
  The monsters, like I said, are creepy and weird and all, but there needs to be more variety in 
 them. For a type of virus, or whatever it was that caused everything, that can turn someone into 
 anything it wants to, it has a very limited imagination. You have basic enemy types that have blades 
 for arms and just come running at you all the time, then you have the more advanced type that are 
 small and have tentacles that launch little rocket things at you and even smaller ones that come 
 in little microscopic hordes, too small to even see at most times. The overall design of the monsters 
 is that they all have blades and tentacles all over them that dance around like they're in a samba 
 party or something. It gets a bit repetitive. Especially when the basic type of enemies are the 
 only type that attack you 90% of the time. Also, they don't show up a lot. There's these long intervals 
 of time between encounters where it feels like everything is alright when it shouldn't be. Very 
 rarely do you have those type of encounters where you battle against huge relentless hordes of 
 them, which is very fun when it happens, but it should happen much more often. One thing that they 
 got right with the enemies is that they are scary. You don't want to fight these things, or even 
 just look at them. You're almost glad that they don't show up that often.
  
  The game's controls are pretty good, but I keep getting this itch as it should be first person 
 other than over the shoulder third person. The over the shoulder view feels like it should be only 
 used for visceral, actiony war games in which the view makes them all the more intense, but it 
 doesn't work so well in this game. Where it does work, though, is that you can feel the atmosphere 
 even more from seeing your character slowly inch through the dark and ominous hallways. A little 
 thing that annoyed me about the controls is that when you are aiming, the analog controlling the 
 movement suddenly gets a lot more sensitive and you'll be trying to aim at something when suddenly 
 you start walking forward.
  
  Scaring you is something the game is good at. Not so much as the make you jump out of your seat 
 type of scare, in which I was disappointed that it didn't happen very often, but to just send these 
 cold chills down your back from the level of creepiness. There was this one part where if you stand 
 still and listen closely, you can hear someone way in the back ground singing twinkle twinkle little 
 star or some sort of nursery rhyme. It's like what the hell!!! As scary and freaky as it is on 
 my crappy standard television, I can only imagine how much more immersed it gets with an HDTV blasting 
 all around with 7.1 surround sound. Its a nightmare on screen. 
  
  Now the game is good, but it has its flaws. One thing is that the weapon variety is a bit unnecessary. 
 All you have to do is focus on upgrading the plasma cutter into this unstoppable war machine so 
 that you won't need to get any other gun. The Store system is also a bit unnecessary since a lot 
 of the items I needed I just found laying around or I got from what the enemies dropped. The game's 
 plot is uninteresting since you don't really control what is going on, you just follow what you 
 are told. I get the feeling of being unimmersed into the plot because usually when there is a scene 
 where you physically see a character, there is some sort of barrier like a glass wall or a door 
 or something in between you and the character. It also feels real unimmersed because the protagonist 
 does that silent hero type thing like Gordon Freeman. There are some situations in which he just 
 has to talk, but he just stands there like a vegetable. The only sort of emotion the protagonist 
 shows in the whole game is near the end when he facepalms after hearing some rather bad news in 
 which I don't want to spoil. The plot itself is boring and unimmersive because like I said, you're 
 just told to do something in which you go and do and then told to do something else after doing 
 that thing. The only huge plot twists that happen is near the end of the game, and they are some 
 heartfelt twists, so for a third of the game is just a long, scary pony ride if that makes any 
 sort of sense. One major and final grievance I have about this game is that it is just overall 
 boring. My motivation the whole time was to just get through the game to see how everything ends 
 up. The atmosphere and scary level of the game is good, but its nothing to make you really care 
 about anything other than whats trying to kill you next, so you have no real motivation to keep 
 moving on. This gives it no real replay value other than to just start it on another difficulty 
 or play it a little more differently than before. 
  
  The game is good, but in my opinion, it is not as good as people say. I tend to agree with a lot 
 of reviews, but I can't really seem to grasp how amazes so many people. Actually, I can somewhat, 
 but it was a totally different experience for me. So I would recommend renting this game because 
 you're probably not going to play much often after the first play through. And that's that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The survival-horror genre is back and better than ever with a new IP from EA called Dead Space. 
 In Dead Space, you play a character named Issac Clarke who is an engineer aboard the USG Kellion. 
 The Kellion is called on to find and repair a mining ship called the USG Ishimura. It just so happens 
 that Issac's girlfriend/wife (the game never specifies) named Nicole is also onboard of the USG 
 Ishimura. Unfortunately for you, things start going wrong right from the get go. As you dock with 
 the Ishimura, something hits your ship disabling on of the many autopiloting assist systems causing 
 you to basically crash land onto the Ishimura. As you venture into the Ishimura, you notice a lack 
 of personnel and soon as you begin to investigate what went wrong with the Ishimura, you encounter 
 your first necromorph. I'm not one to give away a game's entire story in a review as most people 
 who read reviews have not purchased the game yet. But I will say that the story of this game is 
 wonderful and packs a few expected as well as unexpected twists.
  
  As far as gameplay and controls are concerned, EA did a great job of integrating a nice over the 
 shoulder 3rd person setup with no HUD. Your ammo is displayed from your weapon and your health 
 and stasis energy is show on your suit. Even in airless environments, your oxygen time is also 
 displayed on your suit so that nothing will invade your field of vision as far as HUD stuff goes. 
 There are only 7 weapons in the game (plasma cutter, line gun, pulse rifle, ripper, contact beam, 
 force gun, and the flamethrower) though they all are upgradable and have their definite pros and 
 cons. I'm quite partial to the line gun myself. Everything that you obtain in the game is upgradable 
 with items called power nodes that are found throughout the game and can be bought in the game's 
 store for 10,000 credits. As you may have noticed from the names of the weapons; they are not typical 
 by any means. This is because the quickest way to kill a necromorph is to dismember it, and yes, 
 this does lead to a very gory game. There are many different environments within the ship; most 
 notable are the zero-G and airless rooms (sometimes they are both) . The zero-G rooms have you navigate 
 with gravity boots, but you can also travel from wall to wall doing what they call a zero-G jump. 
 There is a mini game in the later Chapters in the game called zero-G basketball where you utilize 
 this move many times. The airless rooms are super creepy as you can't hear anything but yourself 
 (or if something hits you) because there is no sound where there is no air. Necromorphs tend to 
 sneak up on you because of this and don't bother trying your flamethrower because where there is 
 no air, there is no fire. 
  
  As far as graphics go, though the game's highest display capabilities are only 720p, the game is 
 a graphical gem. The character models, many kinds of necromorphs, the weapon effects, the environments 
 are all gorgeous. There's nothing quite like watching a dead necromorph floating around in a zero-G 
 room with blood spilling out and floating with it. Sound Oh, what to say about the sounds. I would 
 like to shake the hands of every single person that had anything to do with making sounds in this 
 game. The ambient noises, the sounds of the necromorphs crawling through the air vents, the creepy 
 random background noises; it is all just wonderfully done! There is one point in the game where 
 you walk into a large living quarters where several of the crew of Ishimura lay dead all over. 
 The room is very dark, and in the background you hear a faint and creepy iteration of twinkle twinkle 
 little star and it freaks you out.
  
  Overall, the game is great. There is rarely a point in the game where the developers don't try 
 to scare you (and more times than not, they are quite successful) . They even throw a cheap one 
 in on the ending sequence. The story is great and it is a blast to play, though sometimes you will 
 not want to play because of what may come next. But isn't that what the survival-horror genre is 
 all about? I wish the game were a little bit longer personally but don't take that as me saying 
 it's a short game. It's just so good that you will be kind of bummed when it's over. The only real 
 replay value the game has going for it is for trophies/achievements (that's right PS3 owners, it 
 actually has trophies) . Though it does let you continue a re-playthrough of the game where you 
 get to keep everything that you attained in your first playthrough as well as the unlocking of 
 a new suit. But that's ok because EA has already announced a sequel (which this game begs for once 
 completed) and if that's not enough to get your fix, there is an animated movie prequel out on 
 DVD and blu-ray called Dead Space: Downfall which tells the events which take place before the 
 Kellion arrives on the Ishimura. 
  In the end, I give Dead Space a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Note: This review is my review and is also on http://www. gamersusa. blogspot. com because that is 
 my website. I did not steal this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sub-raid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  First of all the game rocks more than i expected and perfect. This game actually reminds me of 
 my second best game bioshock. When I am playing I really feel like I am playing bioshock and like 
 i am inside the game, the game is unbelievable.
  
  The gameplay: it's really cool how u can crush you're enemies with you're feet, it's new and it 
 makes the game fun how u can see there blood covering the floor. There is telekinetic well that's 
 pretty cool too it's very useful if u can't reach something or u don't have ammo, u just use you're 
 power to take bombs and throw them on the enemies. There is another new idea in the game that is 
 when there is no gravity anymore (zero gravity) , u can u then the thing when you can jump from 
 a wall to another. Don't forget the oxygen thing it makes the game fun too. let talk a little bit 
 about the weapons and the aiming, the weapons are pretty special they are different then the usual 
 weapons u know a gun and shotgun and those lame weapons, but in dead space new kinds of weapons. 
 The aiming is special too it's unique, never seen anything like it in any game, it kills theNecromorphs 
 faster, when they show there tentacles or i something u cut them easily with this aiming. The is 
 a lot of stuff in the gameplay to talk about but I think that is it so final thing about the gameplay, 
 i don't know if u have noticed that there no health, no time , no oxygen , no ammo... on the screen 
 it's all on Isaac's body or weapons, and that's better of course not to see al these stuff on the 
 screen . And liked the idea of suites, that u can upgrade it in the game and more than that u can 
 download the ps3 or 360 suit and the red one too (that is not free) .
  
  Graphics: uhhh we cannot talk a lot about graphics there is nothing to talk about its very good 
 well perfect there is no problem with it.
  
  Story: The story is brilliant. u enter a space ship u are not expecting monsters or weird stuff 
 then suddenly u see ure self with monsters and ure trying to find ure way out. And like u all know 
 there an animated movie, Dead Space: Downfall so dead space have a cool story.
  
  Sounds: the sounds are so amazing, they make the game scarier and makes ure heart beat faster.
 
  
  And there is one last thing, u can't change the difficulty when u finish the game and that bother 
 so choose the right difficulty before u regret it.
  
  That is everything about dead space it's more than I expected and deserves 9.5 or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This is the new Bio Shock, it's the game that nobody saw coming, this is the new Resident Evil 
 and it's the true leader so far in the "survival horror" category. (Next Gen)
  
  Graphics are awesome, the texture looks great, in-game texts are easy to read, lighting effect 
 really gives you a realistic sense to the game. You really feel aboard the USG Ishimura
  
  Animations are fluid and the way the game is presented is very original, no cut scenes, you get 
 right into the game and stick with it.. Very immersive. And this game is just plain deadly fun, 
 the most important factor of all.
  
  There is already 2 Downloadable suits on the PSN and we all hope more DLC is coming our way, great 
 way to start a wonderfull franchise in my oppinion, right now the crown for Sci-Fi/Horror-survival 
 game is easily attributed to Dead Space.
  
  This is worth a 10/10 in my book! A must buy for Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACrazedHobbit
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Upto now Capcom has been known as the King publisher when it came to survival horror with the iconic 
 "Resident Evil" franchise.
  Other games have come to try and challenge (Alone in the Dark, F. E. A. R, Silent Hill. to name a few) . 
 Even though some titles where great games all failed to really challenge the series.
  So now it is the giant publisher that is EA turn to throw it's two cents worth in with a little 
 title called "Dead Space".
  
  The marketing plan for this game has to be commended, a clever mini comic strip have been shown 
 on the PSN Network and Xbox live also a animated DVD has been released "Dead Space-Downfall" which 
 gives you a rich backstory before you play the game.
  
  So the game begins you play an engineer called Issac Clarke named after the two great sc-fi writers 
 Arthur c clarke and Issac Asimov) . You have been sent to try and get communications up and running 
 when a mining ship called the "U. S. G Ishimura" has not reported for a lengthy period of time.
 
  Issac has his own agenda for going to the Ishimura which will be revealed in the game.
  Upon arrival Issac finds the problem to the non communication it's down to the fact that all the 
 crew have been turned into hidieous cretures known as Necromorphs.
  
  So you mission begins to try to restore power to the Ishimura as well as collect log's along the 
 way. There are 3 types of log (Audio, Video and Text) all giving you more backstory to what happened 
 on the Ishimura and also gives tips on how to progress through the game, all the time trying to 
 stay alive from the attacks from the Necromorphs.
  
  Now these Necromorphs will not go down easily, you shoot it's head off it will still come at you, 
 so forget the Zombie trick this just won't work!
  What we have instead is Strategic Dismemberment, which means only shooting there body parts off 
 will completly stop them (ie. legs then arms finally head, any order just make sure the body is 
 in many pieces) .
  
  This is made more fun when your suit is given 2 extra abilities (which you get very early on in 
 the game) .
  These are "Stasis" and "Telekenisis", now using Stasis to freeze a Necromorph then blow it to bits 
 watching the body bits and blood fly in slow motion is a visual delight, but even though there 
 are many visual delights (walking on the outside of the Ishimura has to given a mention) the main 
 highlight is in the Zero G sections.
  The way the body parts, bloody and items act are highly realistic and the devlopment have to be 
 applauded for achiving this as for the first time you witness this you do find yourself just staring 
 at it all in marvel.
  
  The weapons in this game all come in the form of mining tools (space age) but give a cool twist 
 and brings a nice change to the normal standard gun layout.
  You find stores slotted around the ship where you can purchase, ammo, weapons and upgrade your suit (which 
 gives you more inventory slots, tougher armour etc) .
  Also you will find workbenches this is where you can uprade your weapons and strengthen your suit (give 
 you more oxygen for example) .
  
  Oxygen will be required at certrain points in the game and this is where the fantastic audio of 
 the game comes in.
  The audio is great  and splat is used to startling and nerving 
 effect here, but the highlight of the audio is when you are outside of the ship in the envelope 
 of space. The breathing of Issac hisses out of the speakers, then suddenly you get attacked firing 
 your weapon gives you a deluded sound of the weapon and is highly effective and gives it that little 
 bit of wow factor again.
  
  The contorl system is very slick all weapons can be chosen with the touch of a D-pad, your Inventory, mission 
 objectives, maps are shown as a holographic image infront of Issac. your helath bar can be seen 
 as it is a part of your suit and weapons let you know how much ammo by having a small holographic 
 image above each weapon when raised. This means no looking at corners for info on health and ammo, 
 which means no distractions from the game. If you are getting attacked whilst look at your map 
 just raise your weapon and the holographic image disappears.
  
  This is a fantastic game, scary, bold, beautiful, exciting, immersive all rolled into one neat package.
 
  Does it beat the mighty Capcom horror franchise, some ways yes and some ways no.
  One thing for sure this is the best horror survival game on next generation consoles so far.
 
  Dead Space has raised the bar, Resident Evil 5 it's down to you to reclaim the crown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlightBenefits
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  A game I was really looking forward too and it does not disappoint. I would get this before Far 
 Cry 2. the levels are just the right length with plenty of save points and upgrading your weapon 
 of choice to dismember the roving necros provides a nice rpg element. The Zero-G environments are 
 a nice change of pace and really add to the whole space feeling. I actually caught myself holding 
 my breath a couple of times. Collecting the audio and video logs is apparently a part of gaming 
 that is not going away anytime soon and you'll do a lot of that here. dismembering the Necromorphs 
 never gets old and actually becomes very addictive, i find myself wanting to dismember my enemies 
 in COD4 now. This game is certainly worth the money but it is rather short in terms of gameplay 
 as there is no multiplayer and you'll probably only want to play through 2-3 times. After you beat 
 the game once you can start over in a game plus style with all your gear intact and a whole lot 
 of credits and nodes to jack all your equipment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagethumper
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll put this short and sweet. If you loved Bioshock, then you'll be a fan of Dead Space. Very 
 similar style of game. The game puts you in an unfamiliar environment filled with mutated dead 
 people. Think of the old Resident Evil's where creatures came crashing out of nowhere and scared 
 the crap out of you. This game thrives on making you wonder" what was that?" whenever you hear 
 something. The presentation is excellent, from the graphics and sound, to the way your menus pop 
 up. Great fun, I'm on level 10 out of 12 and I'm not bored yet. That's saying a lot, cause I still 
 haven't finished MGS4, and we all know how good that game is. I would recommend upgrading your 
 suit to allow for more HP slots, then upgrade your basic cutter. You could conceivably beat the 
 game with just the cutter. Also, download the Obsidian suit from the PS store for free, it looks 
 prett sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an incredibly frightening masterpiece by EA. Usually most EA games tend to be a waste 
 of time because they just re-make all their old stuff with a tiny extra and make us pay full price, 
 but now they've made something new and it blew my mind. 
  Dead Space is a shooter with a new dimension: instead of just shooting the enemies in the head, 
 you have to dismember them first. There is no HUD in DS, but there are other things which serve 
 as the HUD. The tube glowing tube in your back is your health bar; when you prime your gun with 
 the L1 button a hologram shows the number of bullets left in the current clip; finally your O2 
 stat shows up above the health bar. Aside from the start menu which pauses the game, all other 
 menus like the RIG menu the BENCH and store, keep the game running keeping you in suspense whether 
 the enemy is going to pop out and maul you.
  The weapons are very satisfying to fire, all of which you can modify at a BENCH. Also if you complete 
 the game with only the plasma cutter, you get a gold trophy. The armour can be modified at the 
 stores if you have the correct schematic. Also if you hurry now you can download a limited edition 
 suit coloured like the PS3 (Obsidian) for free, put it off and may have to pay.
  The crystal clear graphics coupled with the foreboding BGM create the most scary setting to play; 
 thank god I haven't played it at night yet!
  Anyway: this game is a must buy. Hope EA don't wreck it with a crummy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is quite possibly one of the best Survival horrors I've played. A big surprise coming 
 from the dark hole known as Electronic Arts.
  
  
  Premise:
  The premise and main stay story of the game is that you're Isaac Clarke, a space aged engineer, 
 that works for the CEC; and got a distress message from your Ex-GF Nicole. It's never fully disclosed 
 but apparently Nicole did something to hurt Isaac, and he still loves her.
  
  From the start, the setting itself is dark and eerie, but never SO DARK that you have rely on your 
 flashlight; which is good, because there are times where you HAVE to run. 
  
  Settings/Graphics:
  The overall graphical presentation of the game is astounding, great lighting, 
 good detailing; everything from bloodstains on the walls, to chunks of your enemies floating around 
 in Zero-G areas. The biggest part of the game takes place on the Ishimura, a "planet" cracking 
 ship; that sent out a distress signal. Being in the future, you get the normal mix, of holographs, 
 odd space aged automatic doors, and even Zero-G basketball courts.
  As you progress through the game there are parts of the ship showing damage from the craziness 
 that occurred before you arrived, so some areas are dimly lit; some covered with blood; and others 
 have writing all over the walls; all of which are presented with great detail.
  
  Story/Gameplay:
  Being a survival horror the game is third person through and through; however 
 it leans more towards Isaac's shoulder and not just on Isaac himself; which gives the game a better 
 feel; and definitely a better field of vision. The gun's vary nicely; some designed specifically 
 for cutting, and others... well I won't ruin that. The gun runs smoothly, though sometimes the missions 
 get a little mundane and obvious. Just when you're about to do something, you get a message saying 
 that something went wrong and you have to go to the opposite side of the ship. The story sort've 
 gets explained as you're progressing, but it's very limited; if you don't check out the extras 
 and websites about the game, you'll be completely in the dark; there's talks of religions and marks 
 and all this nonsense... eh.
  
  Sound:
  The game has excellent sound; and goes as far as dulling out all sounds when you entire a vacuum! 
 I noticed near the end of the game there were a few glitches, but nothing MAJOR.
  
  Overall the game is great, and a must have for all ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimchris1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game cause i thought it would be a survival-horror game but it is not.
  Many people compare this to the Resident evil or silent hill series which is a sacrilege.
  The 
 main characteristic of such games is the feeling of being alone and underpowered. In this particular 
 game there is someone talking to your head all the time go there fix this shoot the asteroids etc 
 so there goes the being alone element. Having super powers like telekinesis and the ability to slow 
 time erases the underpowered element altogether.
  how scary can a monster be that after you stomp on it like a cockroach it leaves money and ammo 
 for you to pick up?
  So if you are after a survival horror game this is definitely not it but if you are after a sci-fi 
 shooter with great graphics decent sound and a variety of weapons to keep you trigger happy you 
 should check this out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: james97015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a great instant classic. I went into this game not expecting to be scared at all, 
 but as the game unfolded in the first 10-15 min. of play, I had already jumped twice and pissed 
 myself a little. That set the mood for a great game with great "special effects". These guys really 
 did their homework. From the first time you go zero-G to the vacuum environments to the "creatures" 
 them selfs, this game has quality written all over it. The weapons were a little weak, but what 
 do you expect from a guy with an engineering degree with a minor in kicking @$$. The weapons you 
 initially got were the best and the ability to upgrade is good, but could have been a bit more 
 interactive. The store and workbench idea of buying and upgrading weapons is good, but at times 
 I was stuck with one and not the other, making it a bit frustrating when about to go down a creepy 
 corridor. It was a great experience that I do not mind to repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Lights flicker. Things are crawling through the vent above. Blood splattered on the walls. You 
 are walking knee deep in dead bodies. Suddenly, something runs down the hall in front of you. You 
 get closer to investigate. And before you konw it, there is another behind you, wrestling with you, 
 attempting to eat you alive.
  
  There are many scenes like this throughout the course of DS. There is no other way to discribe 
 it other than saying, this game is legendary. It raised the bar for survival horror. Any companies 
 that want to take a jab at this genre will have quite a hard time beating this game out. The sound 
 effects are amazing. The graphics are good aside from a few pixelated affects. The difficulty is 
 just right, and the scare tactics are amazing. This game will have you on the edge of your seat 
 throughout several hours of gameplay. The replay value of this game is even good, as once you beat 
 it, you recieve cash, power nodes and a new suit. You can then restart form lvl 1 and take another 
 jab at the game. Or you can restart the entire game on a harder difficulty, however you wont recieve 
 your upgrades you worked so hard for the first time through. 
  
  There is not many bad things to say about DS, if any at all. Towards the end of the game, you do 
 become slightly immune to the scare tactics, having been through them all already. And there arn't 
 very many bosses, the actuall fights arn't that worth wild anyway. I would rather be running down 
 a dark hallway then be in a boss fight. Overall this game definetily deserves a 9.5 / 10 by my 
 standards.
  
  **spoiler below, dont read if you dont want to know about the ending!!!**
  The game was left open for a sequel, which made me plenty happy. However, i was very disappointed 
 that towards the end, you view a video transmission of a doctor you were following throughout the 
 game. The doctor is proclaiming that the church is right, and he is going to make the transfermation 
 to heaven or some sort of ramblings like that. He kneels down and an alien, that you see through 
 other parts of the game turn dead bodies into these crazed aliens, is shown flying over his head 
 and it begins to "turn him". However you never see what becomes of the good doctor. I was expecting 
 him to be the final boss, but he wasn't. Another thing i was disappointed with was the ending. 
 Although it was erie, and left it wide open, its kinda hard to tell just what it is in the ship. 
 To me it looked like the girl Issac was in love with. Except she looked alienish. So you're kinda 
 left with the question of was it her? Are we to assume Issac is dead? Its obvious the aliens are 
 still alive and kickin', but these other questions just add to the anticipation of a part 2. I 
 just think they could have ended it a little differently, worked more on the boss fights or simply 
 take them out completely because aside from 1 boss, they were pretty pointless battles. There was 
 no point to the boss fight aside from it being there and wanting to kill you. 
  
  
  Aside from these minor things, i think this was an amazing game that every Survival Horror Gamer 
 Must Play! 9.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a Horror Third-Person shooter. The game takes place in a space ship that later gets 
 taken over by these horrifying aliens. So while on board you will jump and get creeped out like 
 a long creepy hall that seems calm and quiet and then an alien just comes out of nowhere, so unless 
 your not scared of ANYTHING and I mean ANYTHING, you will get scared! The game has smooth gameplay 
 and you get use to the controls pretty fast, the graphics are just stunning, one of the best in-game 
 graphics I've seen. The character models look great and the enemy designs are pretty interesting. 
 A fairly ok length game, for me it took around 10-20 hours since you can get lost or cant seem 
 to solve a puzzle. One of the most fun and scariest games I've ever played.
  So while your playing Dead Space alone at midnight with all the lights turned off, the volume up, 
 remember, Theres NO help coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapezanidis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  As engineer Isaac Clark is dispatched by the company CEC to go onboard and to investigate and repair 
 a total communications black out on a USG mining ship, the Ishimura, with a standard based security 
 team. 
  
  As Isaac and his team step foot on the USG Ishimura they soon discover something has terribly happened 
 to the all the crew. Isaac Clark then gets separated from the rest of his team and the true horror 
 experience begins. 
  
  As you progress thorough the story you slowly find out the events of what took place on the ship 
 before you arrived. With an arsenal of tools and weapons at your disposal you fight the hordes 
 of Aliens in an intense blood dripping gory way cutting them from limb to limb to fight for your 
 survival. 
  
  You can obtain various points to purchase equipment, weapons and upgrades to help fight these horrific 
 monstrosity's, with a never ending number of jump scares and wired noises surrounding you in this 
 very horrific and disturbing yet intelligently designed atmosphere these game will have you spooked 
 and alert at all times wondering what will be around the next corner or corridor or what is coming 
 from above. With 12 chapters of thrilling action, shooting, melee combat, as well as puzzle solving 
 this game will leave you jaw broken and begging for more of this intense disturbing Sci-Fi thriller 
 video game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is being called a "survival" horror game by the game's developer, EA Redwood Shores 
 (The Simpsons Game) . Dino Crisis, Resident Evil, Silent Hill 2. Examples of survival horror at 
 its finest. There is nothing like being given only a handful of bullets and a seemingly unstoppable 
 enemy. That's what makes these games "survival" horror games. Now, western developers always throw 
 you in with hundreds of pushover enemies, and an RPG with unlimited ammo. Yes, there is a big difference 
 between old school horror games and the new breed of action games with a horror theme thrown in. 
 After spending sme time with Dead Space, I'm shocked at how close Dead Space resembles those old 
 school classics. It is a terrifying experience that you won't want to put down.
  
  Dead Space follows the story of a small crew dispatched to fix the communications dish on the USG 
 Ishimura, a mining vessel currently drilling a tiny planet. Upon arrival via a fairly hectic crash 
 sequence (which in turn destroys your way off of the godforsaken ship) , the several of you realize 
 that something horrific has occured here. You play as Isaac Clarke, the engineer, the one designated 
 to fix the communications dish. However, once you've been separated from the group, it quickly 
 turns into a fight for survival. Staying in touch with the remainder of your crew, your new mission 
 is to get the hell off the ship, while discovering what the hell happened to the ship altogether.
 
  
  The pacing of the story is rather weak. The game starts off extremely fast paced, with all of these 
 terrifying things happening around you, but the middle part of the game involves minimal story 
 advancement. Luckily, when the story comes back to form, you'll appreciate it much more, and the 
 game ends with a bang.
  
  The acting is fairly hit or miss. Redwood Shores took the Gordon Freeman approach for their protagonist, 
 as he does have a face that you see about twice through the game, but you'd be hard pressed to 
 hear him speak. A few of the other characters in the game have fantastic voice acting, but the 
 animations they follow through with are pretty stiff. The overall story is an interesting one, 
 one that will have you on the edge of your seat. It's terrifying, it's creepy, and it's deep. It's 
 just the way that it's presented that holds it back.
  
  Now Dead Space can be called a third person shooter, but if that's all it was, it would be a poor 
 game. The shooting in Dead Space isn't bad by any means, but it doesn't have any flow to it. It 
 feels very clunky. The weapons that you have control of as Isaac aren't exactly guns. This is in 
 the future, in space, on a mining vessel. That means the weapons you find or purchase throughout 
 the game are highly unconventional. There's such weapons like saws, or plasma shooters, and yes, 
 even a flamethrower. The guns all have alternate fire methods, as well. None of them are in particular 
 great, but they get the job done when you need to kill something.
  
  In order to efficiently kill an enemy, you need to cut off their limbs. Simply aiming at their 
 chest and blasting away won't do much damage to them. It's a different approach to the shooter 
 genre, and it's appreciated. The shooting action in Dead Space is by no means bad. It's different, 
 it's unique, and it's cool. It just feels a little bit bare boned. None of the weapons are fun 
 to use, and the action can get very repetitive. The inability to change shoulders when aiming is 
 a shame. Because of Isaac's fatass helmet, you can't see to your left when aiming, creating a blind 
 spot. This seems like a bad design choice. With games like Uncharted and Rainbow Six Vegas 2, both 
 with the ability to aim using both sides, no TPS should be without some sort of swtich system.
 
  
  The fact that this resembles old school horror games, means that there are a lot of fetch quests. 
 It starts off annoying, having to go here and get these, so you can go there and get this. It doesn't 
 stop being annoying, but if it weren't for these sections, the game would take place in the same 
 room.
  
  The exploration and puzzles make up for the lackluster action. Some of the puzzles involve you 
 using stasis, which allows you to slow down an object. This can be used to slow down your enemies 
 as well, making them easier to kill, or allowing you to sneak by them. There's also kinesis, which 
 basically is the force grip in Star Wars: TFU. It's ripped right out of its books. It works like 
 you'd think, just not on live enemies.
  
  Because this is a game set in space, it wouldn't be complete without zero gravity sections. Isaac's 
 grav boots allow you to cling to any surface, so you can be on the ceiling blasting away at arms 
 and legs. These are some of the more difficult sections in the game, because your sense of awareness 
 is dampened when you don't know whether you're upside down or right side up.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Space is a bit of a mixed bag. using kinesis is a blast, and games with zero 
 gravity are always fun, but the slopped together shooting mechanics don't leave much of an impression 
 on you. Despite its shortcomings, it's still a pretty fun game, it's just that anybody expecting 
 a run n gun space fest will be disappointed.
  
  This game scares me half to death. Everytime I walked down a corridor, I'd expect something to 
 jump out at me. Although this only happens about 3 times throughout the game, I still expected 
 it. That's a good sign of an immersively scary world. The enemy designs are all hideous, and you 
 won't want to fight them. You will want to run. Simply the act of fighting them is somewhat terrifying. 
 The aura of the ship and the atmosphere are all noteworthy. This is the first true horror game 
 on the Ps3 or Xbox 360. It's about 4 times as creepy as F. E. A. R. There's something to be said about 
 finding an audio recording of the Ishimura's crew being ripped to shreds. It's just naturally terrifying.
 
  
  The fact that there is no HUD keeps you immersed in the experience. Your health bar is represented 
 by a neon tube built into Isaac's suit. All inventory menus, maps, and objectives lists are all 
 represented in front of Isaac as a hologram. Going into your small inventory and picking out an 
 air can doesn't pause the game, keeping you looking over your shoulder for bad news. It's great, 
 and puts you in the game world. As more and more games start to do this, it's noteworthy to remember 
 that Dead Space is the game that started this phenomenon. In 15 years, we'll be saying that. At 
 least I will be.
  
  There are light RPG elements to upgrading your suit and equipment. Throughout the ship you'll find 
 power nodes, which can be used to unlock doors, but are mainly used as upgrade powerups. Much like 
 the spere grid in Final Fantasy X, or the upgrade chart in Ratchet and Clank Future, the upgrade 
 system in Dead Space is set up like a branching chart. You can upgrade everything form weapons 
 accuracy, to your maximum health. Each node is one spot to move on the chart. This is so deep, 
 that it literally requires 3 or 4 playthroughs to max out all of your stuff.
  
  Dead Space is the type of game you'll hate to play. Not because it is a bad game, it's the opposite 
 of that. You'll hate to play it because you'll be so terrified. This is actually a scary game with 
 a complex story, tons of gore, and lots of creepy aura. You won't recognize this at first, but 
 when you find yourself running away from enemies, having trouble sleeping, or practically crapping 
 yourself, you'll know that Dead Space is a special game. Nobody can help you now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a highly ambitious, innovative Survival-Horror game set in space. Initially, it seems 
 very cliched, but the story gets more and more intriguing as it goes along. You're Isaac Clarke, 
 an engineer sent on a mission to repair and investigate the lack of communications coming from 
 the USG Ishimura, a gigantic Mining Ship that has recently "cracked" planet Aegis 7, and apparently 
 discovered a strange artifact known as the "Marker". You soon realize that not all is right on 
 the Ishimura. Most of the crew are dead, and there are deadly alien-like creatures on board known 
 colloquially as Necromorphs. These Necromorphs are reanimated from human tissue by some ugly flying 
 pale alien things with giant suckers. You'll see...
  
  As for the plot development, most of the interesting parts of the game are told in the backstory. 
 Something that you have to find out for yourself through Bioshock-inspired audio and text logs 
 of the crew before their deaths. This gives a nice lonely element to the game. No one else is on 
 the ship except your two other surviving crew-men (who were also sent to repair this ship) Kendra 
 and Gen. Hammond. For the majority of the game, though, you are completely alone.
  
  The visual and audio design of this game are spectacular, reminiscent of how well Bioshock's environment 
 was crafted, but this time in space. The set design is distinctive, disturbing, and the walls are 
 sprawling with grafitti in strange alien languages. The audio work is brilliant, with crackling 
 walls, disturbing radio-like ambiance, and an all around chilling musical score. Sometimes you'll 
 even hear whispers while you stand still, turning around only to see nothing there.
  
  The gameplay is equally brilliant, and an amalgam of the best of adventure/shooters. Similar to 
 RE4 in the way you explore and fight, DS is entirely 3rd person. Similarly to RE4, you collect 
 items on the map and can access them through a menu, but still spend the most of your time in real-time. 
 The menu screen is just brilliant. DS removes the traditional HUD, and replaces it with a health 
 meter on Isaac's back, and also a Statis (think energy) meter as well. The menu screen is a virtual 
 projection from his visor directly in front of him. Whatever you select while browsing, Isaac's 
 head moves to that location. It makes the game all that more immersive since it never once breaks 
 from the action (it doesn't pause the action while in the menu screen) . The lack of the HUD makes 
 this game even more distubing.
  
  Of course, the most important aspect of the game is how fun it is to play. And the answer is: alot. 
 It's very freaky sometimes, and you're heart will literally race at certain encounters. The Necromorphs 
 come in all shapes and sizes, initially looking pretty humanoid to eventually becoming an insanely 
 disturbing combination of body parts. You're weapons perform excellently. There are about six in 
 all, but you can only hold four at a time. Each weapon has a alternate fire mode, which actually 
 could be considered another weapon in itself. The most basic of theses is the plasma cutter, shooting 
 a straight line of plasma vertically or horizontally (you pick) . The most efficient method of dispatching 
 Necromorphs is not shooting them in the head, but dismembering them. That is to say, take off their 
 limbs. With their heads gone, they just can't see, but will still surely flail insanely about hitting 
 you. The weapons are all fitted for dismemberment, too. With the plasma cutter perfect for cutting 
 off limbs, the ripper (read: sawblade) great for a quick decapitation and leg amputation, the force 
 gun (read: shotgun) nice for quick, spontaneous, dismemberment, and much, much more. The gore and 
 satisfaction you get from perfectly shooting off the arms and legs of a Necromorph and watching 
 him squirm there is unbeatable.
  
  Besides the standard weapons, Isaac also has the ability to Stasis (read: Freeze) his enemies (and 
 machinery, fit for some puzzles) in place while he surgically removes their appendages. Also, Isaac 
 has the ability to pick up objects and hurl them at his opponents via Kinesis. So grab an exploding 
 canister or severed limb-claw and chuck it at the nearest Necromorph.
  
  The list goes on and on at the innovations present here. This is a survival horror game unlike 
 any I've played before. It constantly surprises you with new additions of baddies, and constantly 
 creeps you the hell out with strange audio logs, plenty of jump-out scares, and just freaky **** 
 Oh, and theres a whole cultish backstory going on, too. The story really pans out to a nice un-cliched, 
 interesting Half-Life-esque tale. You know, don't tell the player TOO much but tell him just enough 
 so his mouth is watering for the next installment.
  
  All in all, Dead Space is a great start to (hopefully) a full-fledged series (god I hope) , because 
 it has alot of beautiful potential here. My only gripe is that sometimes the voice acting wasn't 
 as good as the game deserved (the dialogue was brilliant, tho) , and the 'interactive scenes' were 
 sometimes clumsy. Polish the story's "real-time" presentation up (the logs and backstory were perfectly 
 fine) , and EA Redwood has a killer series going for them.
  
  This game is seriously one of the best games I've played since Bioshock a year ago. With a little 
 more polish, this could (and should) be the next big series. Its too bad not many will play at 
 as it was released in a sea of hotly anticipated titles.
  
  Give this game a chance: it'll surprise you (read: scare the hell out of you) , and really make 
 you think (why hasn't a game like this been made before...?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethSOMT
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to say that this game has been at the top of my list for quite a while. More 
 than anything, I wanted to be great, both with action and horror. But knowing EA, anything could 
 have happened. None the less, I am happy to say that Dead Space delivered, in more ways than one!
 
  
  
  - Graphics- The most stunning achievements of the game can be in its graphics. The texture are 
 simply amazing and the lighting could not have been better. These types of graphics combined with 
 a complete lack of HUD make the environment of the game honestly terrifying. 
  
  - Story- The story in Dead Space is extremely exciting and compelling. With all sorts of twists 
 and turns, Issac can never really know who to trust while on the USS Ishimura (or who is going 
 to die next) . Even in the midst of creepy chapters, you will still want to move on to find out 
 what "the crazy unis'" are up to next.
  
  - Sound- By far the greatest thing in Dead Space is its sound effects and musical score. Every 
 shot fired sounds amazing and the music will make you tremble every second it plays. There is really 
 know why to describe how great it sounds until you hear it. Seriously.
  
  - Gameplay- Dead Space is terrific in terms of its gameplay mechanics. Severing limbs is highly 
 encouraged in comparison to the typical "unload lead till they drop" strategy (especially because 
 you are firing plasma) . Escaping from the grapples of lurkers and slashers can be annoying, but 
 has its moments. The gameplay never seem to get overly repetitive and always holds its fun-factor. 
 The game also features various sorts of puzzles, that require Issac to use Kinesis or stasis to 
 complete. This allows for a very good balance with in Dead Space to make it a great game.
  
  -Replay- Playstation Trophies make Dead Space a star in Sony gamer eyes. In addition, additional 
 difficulties and spare logs will keep die-hards satisfied for the time being.
  
  Consensus:
  
  Dead Space is a simply stunning game that has set the bar for next-gen survival 
 horror games.
  
  
  *Bonus*
  
  RE4 vs. Dead Space
  
  Ever since I got Dead Space, all I have heard is, "Well, is it as good as Resident Evil 4?"
  
 
  Now it i really hard to compare the two games. Naturally, Dead Space has superior musical score 
 and graphical capabilities. By that nature, I would call Dead Space alot more terrifying than RE4. 
 I also think that the dank, closed in space ship is creepier than the variety of environments in 
 RE4. However, as good as the Dead Space story is, RE4 made a truly great story that added to its 
 fame. I also enjoyed the movie sequences in RE4, which never left you able to put down your controller 
 and relax. Dead Space accounts for this with its complete lack of all-out movie sequences, which 
 are entirely communicated through holograms as you play. I found Dead Space very innovative in 
 that sense and was very impressed. Finally, in terms of gameplay, both are essentially equal. The 
 third-person gun mechanics in Dead Space are outstanding, but the close-quarters combats of RE4 
 are extremely good in contrast. All in all, if you liked RE4, Dead Space is a definite.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I am certain that each of us at some point have played Resident Evil or Eternal Darkness. Well, 
 with the release of the next gen consoles I have to say that Dead Space certainly wastes no time 
 adding a little spice to anyone's night.
  
  In Dead Space, you take on the part of a Engineer (yes, I said engineer) who is tasked with fixing 
 a no responsive ship. Little does the Engineer know, that all hell has broken lose on a spaceship 
 that is said to be mining (or is it????) .
  
  Dead Space provides a great story, graphics and a very competitive surround sound (can we say... freaky?)
 
  
  Aside from the techno aspect of the game, the challenges in this game are also great. If you ever 
 wanted to take advantage of next gen technology in a horrific way, Dead Space is the way to go.
 
  
  Bottom line, I gave Dead Space a 9 out of 10 for graphics, sound and story. Enjoy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Dark Creepy Space age scene with creatures jumping out from everywhere. If you dont know then ask 
 someone & get a copy. This game puts Star Trek with Captain Kirk, Deep Space 9, Voyager, Stargate 
 and any other Space Odysey out of business. 3-D Holorams to die for, weapons you upgrade according 
 to your gifted insite and skills. What more could a Futuristic Shooter ask for in a game. Oh yeah, 
 a woman waiting for you to come save her. As you can tell I've been around for awhile with the 
 video game scene & television (Star Trek) . I really liked the concept of downloading Schematics 
 to get new items into the Store. My son couldnt comprehend it. He thought it wast realistic but 
 it is (The Jetson's) . Cant wait to finish the game to see how it ends. Hopefully there will be 
 a part 2 to this new saga. Game is really intense in the dark and also with the television set 
 dark. My son said he couldnt see the logo when he raised the brightness. I changed it for him on 
 my television and saw a big difference. It was no longer hard to see but that is part of the journey 
 I told him. So I put my television back and told him to deal with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  There aren't as many Si-Fi Horror games as there are Si-Fi Horror movies, and most of them were 
 bad, but finally the genre has a true masterpiece. Dead Space isn't only the best Si-Fi Horror 
 game, it's also the best straight up Horror game since RE4.
  
  You play Isaac Clarke, an engineer thats sent (with his team) to a large Mining facility in space, 
 a ship capable of cracking planets in two in order to mine the valuables deep inside, to repair 
 the ships malfunctioning communications array. Once you get there however, it's obvious there is 
 more wrong. Your almost immediately separated from your team and much find a way to get off the 
 ship, and find as many survivors as possible. 
  
  If you've played RE4, you'll probably feel right at home with Dead Space, as it works much the 
 same way, the only real difference is the way the inventory works and the fact that you don't have 
 to use a clumsy knife for melee attacks.
  
  Also unlike RE4 is the HUD, mainly, that there is none, all the information that would normally 
 be in the HUD is cleverly stuck into the actual game world, your health is shown on a meter on 
 the spine of your suit, your Oxygen is displayed next to your health (but only noticeable when your 
 in a vacuum, when you need it) . Need to figure out how much ammo you got? Check your weapons readout 
 when you aim the gun. And when you open up the inventory, or the map or objectives, it doesnt pause 
 the game, so you will have to be careful when opening it up. luckily, there's a hot key for the 
 health items so you don't die while looking through your inventory as much. The lack of a HUD helps 
 to immerse you into the game, and it works well.
  
  Most of the weapons in the game aren't your traditional weapons, in fact, only 1 or 2 guns in the 
 game are actual guns, the rest are tools used for mining and similar things. If you run out of 
 money you can buy some at the store, but if you run out during a fight, you'll need to use your 
 trusty boot, yes, Isaac has a boot stomping attack similar to gears of war (when you take out an 
 injured guy that cant move) however, it's effectiveness lessens the farther in the game you go, 
 early on you could straight up stomp enemy's to death with the boot stomping alone, but late in 
 the game you'll have to weaken them a great deal before the stomping becomes effective.
  
  The enemy's in the game are the real stars however, as every single one of them is terrifying and 
 creepy, from the super fast ones that looks like their having a seizure to the mutated baby's the 
 climb walls and shoot projectiles, they're all crazy evil scary things that you'll love killing 
 from beginning to end.
  
  The games bosses are great as well, while there are only about 3 or 4, each one is memorable and 
 fun to fight. It's no God of War when it comes to bosses, but it comes close.
  
  The story isn't going to blow you're mind with it's originality, but it's fun and in the end you'll 
 find yourself getting into it, and when the plot twists come around, you might find yourself feeling 
 fro the characters.
  
  It's obvious that this game was heavily influenced by Si-Fi horror movies like "The Thing" and 
 the Alien franchise and fans of those movies will be please with all the similarity's.
  
  It's not all great though, there's a fair amount of backtracking in the game, but it didn't seem 
 quite as annoying as in Metroid Prime 2. I had a tough time reading text logs, because the text 
 is a little on the small side. and doing thing like turning on engines and things like that are 
 a bit mundane for some people (i didn't mind, but overall Dead Space is one of the most memorable 
 horror games in recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikylopez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game, intensive and good graphics. One of the best game played. One of the best games 
 player. The maps are easy to follow and the story is perfect for a good movie. Lazer guns have 
 good graphics.
  
  In particular it is set in a distant solar system where the USG Ishimura has lost contact with 
 Earth so it is the job of the protagonist, Isaak Clarke, and his team to repair the ship. However 
 once on board the team realizes something horrible has happened and that they must survive while 
 completing their mission.
  In particular it is set in a distant solar system where the USG Ishimura has lost contact with 
 Earth so it is the job of the protagonist, Isaak Clarke, and his team to repair the ship. However 
 once on board the team realizes something horrible has happened and that they must survive while 
 completing their mission.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space, is the best survival horror games I've every played, and the most immersed I had gotten 
 into a game in a very long time. When Isaac was told that Nicole was dead the whole time, I felt 
 bad for him, and when the ending hit... god, I wanna know what happened to him.
  
  The graphics for Dead Space are spectacular, but that's not unexpected for an EA game in my opinion. 
 While the game mostly uses jump scares rather than doing something that will make you want to turn 
 it off, Dead Space had me jumping at shadows for the past week.
  The game's atmosphere, sound, lighting and all is really it's strongest point, and it is amazing. 
 Dead Space's soundtrack is absolutely terrific, forcing you to learn that you cannot trust your 
 senses. They get the music going faster at times for no reason, other than to throw you off. At 
 every corner I watch for shadows or listen for necromorphs so I don't go in unprepared.
  The controls for Dead Space, while very different compared to the standards of square being reload, 
 X to jump, etc., they work perfectly, and are easy to learn. This only makes the great gameplay 
 even more fun. After you face your first few necromorphs, you will make sure to shoot every vent 
 to make sure there is nothing there, and that just shows how good of a game this is in it's genre, 
 and makes it even more fun.
  
  Dead Space is a great game, and while the backstory (The comics and upcoming movie) aren't necessary 
 to learn what happened (the audio + text logs do a good job) they certainly will help you get immersed 
 into the Dead Space universe. If you have the money and are looking for a new game, go pick up 
 Dead Space now, and if you have a home theater system with surround sound, oh boy are you in for 
 a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSTEELZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game would recommend for anybody on any system. Superb game snuck out same time as bioshock, 
 so I purchased both. Played some bioshock, but it's too time consuming at the moment so now doing 
 a chapter or so of Dead space till I beat it then back to bioshock!! Both games are must own for 
 the ps3! Haven't had a great horror survival game that really scared the crap out of me since Resident 
 Evil 2 with the main bad dude chasing you through the game busting through random walls. The sounds 
 here do the same thing, mess with your head, very creepy sounds like metal falling or things banging 
 around in ventilation shafts. The graphics with shadows and lighting are superb. Things hanging 
 will give off shadows and if the object is moving and lighting around, it all adds to the elements 
 of fear with the shadows moving around you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OLDSNAKE1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  I have to tell i have never played a game, where the AI come at you so fast, and this game keeps 
 you on your toes all the way through. Great sound, visuals, boss fights, weapons, and strategic 
 dismeberment and is really cool. unlike in games like Resident evilalaways aim for the head, but 
 in this game you have to take them apart piece by piece. THe only real way to play this game is 
 in pitch black and on the hardest setting thats what i did. The first time i played it. The only 
 problem I have with this game is the replay value, the should of had some type of co-op, like survival 
 or play story mode co-op just have alot more enemies. Besides that Dead Space is a true contender 
 for game of the year. Also one more thing if you guys do make a part 2 which i know you will make 
 it co_op and harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  This game not suitable for people with weak heart, im serious its so scary that sometimes i hesitate 
 to play the game because im too scared, if i play this game many times i will still jump in my 
 place even if i knew what is coming for me.
  
  EA did a great job in this one every thing and every aspect is unique, you will feel that you are 
 really in the future when you open you menu to check your weapons or mission objection, i love the 
 how they designed the game ,now matter what task you are going to do you will not get confused 
 or lose your way in that big ship.
  
  lets start with the bad things in this game, for me its almost perfect , but the only thing i dont 
 like about is sometimes you dont have enough ammo and sometime you cant carry any cause your inventory 
 is full and you dont have any space to add more , also in some places its too dark and you cant 
 control your flash light so you can use it anytime, other than that the game is great .the game-play 
 is amazing i love how you cut down the limps and the cut scene's ,the control is fine and you will 
 need more time to get used to playing at zero gravity.
  graphic are so outstanding and clear, and yea this game is long enough to scare you even if you 
 are playing in the day light 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspark809
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  If you like Re4 (resident evil 4) , you will like this game. This game have same shoulder angle point 
 of view as Re4 except one difference. In Deadspace, you can actually aim and move left and right, 
 to back and front. So I would say this is improve version of RE4 when it comes down to combat system. 
 Also this game reminds me, doom (places kinda dark and you just have to keep looking for the monster 
 to kill) . Graphics are very detail when it comes down to chopping down there arms, heads, legs, 
 and body (you will see a lot of blood just keep pumping all over the place) . The music are pretty 
 creepy as well. Everything turn out really good on this game except one thing, Background. I guess 
 this is the flaw of this game. Bckgrounds are basically inside the spaceship so places mostly looks 
 same and feels same. If it wasn't background I probably give 9.5.
  
  I wasn't expect much out of this game. I was jus waiting on Fallout 3 and jus didn't had any game 
 to play. I was jus playing Metalgear 4 again until I saw the review on gamespot. After I seeing 
 the review, I was debating for over 3 days to get the game or not. But then come to think of it, 
 I think I made right choice. 
  If you have enough allowance for another games except you are eagerly waiting on, give it shot!!!!! (Or 
 least rent it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I have played a great deal of Survival Horror games. I have played 
 Silent Hill, Resident Evil, Fatal Frame, The Suffering, Eternal Darkness, Siren: Bloodcurse, not 
 to mention a few others that do fall into the genre to some degree. Now that you know that, you 
 should understand the gravity of me telling you that Dead Space is without a doubt one of the greatest 
 (if not THE greatest) survival horror games of all time. It blends the jump scares of Resident 
 Evil with the atmosphere of Silent Hill perfectly, with plenty of inovation to make it spectacular.
 
  
  The story takes a bit of time to get momentum, but once you get to the meat of it, you will enjoy 
 following along. Basically, you have boarded the Ishimura, in an attempt to discover why you have 
 lost communication with the members on board. When you arrive, you find pretty much everything 
 in ruins and strange monsters called Necromorphs stalking all over the damn place. Guess what, 
 things go to hell, you are left alone, and you must fight for your life with mining tools. Not 
 quite as creepy sounding as having to defend yourself from ghosts with a camera, but it's definately 
 a great start.
  
  Now the premise of shooting aliens in space SHOULD sound cliche to you, but the game really delivers 
 on the idea. It's not as washed up as you might think, and you will enjoy battling all the different 
 types of necromorphs while moving around the ships completing tasks. There is a pretty serious 
 amount of backtracking in the game, but it all makes perfect sense with the story, so it doesn't 
 seem annoying or a cheap ploy by the developers to increase play time.
  
  Let's get on to the combat. This is what makes Dead Space so amazing. You will use mining tools 
 to take down these hostile aliens, and trust me, it's fun. You have to strategically dismember 
 aliens to do more damage, or you will blow all of your ammo. Really though, I don't understand 
 how a Pulse Rifle, or a Flamethrower are viable mining tools, but whatever, they are great for 
 taking down aliens. This game is great at making you feel outnumbered and overwhelmed without being 
 overly frustrating. Every combat scenario allows for a great deal of manuevering, and even if things 
 don't go your way, you can still salvage the situation without really feeling the need to reload 
 an old save just to do better. 
  
  The graphics and sound in Dead Space are superb. Enemies are grotesque, and the shriek of oncoming 
 foes will make your blood run cold. I have experience zero - yes that's right, ZERO - graphical 
 glitches in this game, which is REALLY nice because the immersion in the game is superb. 
  
  Overall, Dead Space has set a new standard for survival horror. It is no longer acceptable 
 for a game to lean either towards atmosphere or jump scares when you can have both. If you are 
 a fan of this genre, and you DON'T get this game, then you deserve to be killed by a necromorph, 
 plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I usually never review games but I had to make an exception with this one. This is not really 
 a review but just a few comments on this title.
  
  Basically I could review this game in two simple words: BUY IT... I saw a few gameplay movies on 
 Gamespot and thought, hmmm not bad but seems to have a very slow pacing, I'll probably skip buying 
 this one. But after reading Gamespot's review, I thought what the heck, this should keep me busy 
 until Fallout 3 gets here... Boy am I happy I bought it. It's almost like a Resident Evil in space 
 but incredibly immersive, I wouldn't even play this game in the dark. :) The controls, gameplay, 
 graphics and sound are really awesome. I'm hooked up to a 5.1 surround sound system and the background 
 sounds are really creepy. Anyways, I'm only at the second chapter and so far I'm really hooked. 
 So that's it, if you can, pick this one up... BTW, those babies scare the $%^& out of me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, first person shooters are a dime a dozen, with few that actually stand out. It goes without 
 saying that a game like Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare set the bar pretty high, and it's only typical 
 for developers to try to follow in its footsteps. Many games have come and gone since last winter 
 but it wasn't until this game have I experienced another well polished first person shooter. 
 
  
  Gameplay: two words: spot on. The controls fit perfectly into the style of fast acting, strategic 
 shooting. The idea of having to dismember the limbs of your enemy is perfectly realistic, something 
 I've been hoping for in the future of shooters. This strategic shooting then changes the game from 
 being a quick twitch shooting game to a game where you need to use all your tools to destroy your 
 enemies. While other shooters reward you for aiming quickly at the torso and unloading round after 
 round into the enemy, Dead Space rewards you for analyzing your enemy and attacking their weak 
 points while using tools such as Stasis (energy blast that slows down objects) . The pacing is also 
 great with save points, benches (upgrade location) , and stores perfectly placed to build anticipation 
 of reaching the next check point. 
  
  Graphically, this game reminds me of Doom 3 when it first arrived on the market with impressive 
 lighting effects, giving a suspenseful experience with every turn around the corner. The details 
 in the environment are plentiful from the gritty texture of blood stained floors to the sheen of 
 the aluminum blast doors in the ship's corridors. All in all, it's a graphically impressive game. 
 
  
  There's not much else to say. If you like games with high production values, detailed graphics, 
 tight and responsive controls, engaging story, and like to have a scare fest every now and then, 
 this game's for you. Just haven't seen many games out there recently with this much polish and 
 careful development. 
  
  As for the score, if Dead Space had added multiplayer, I would've given it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlsmikey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  I didn't have very high expectations for this game, but once I started playing it I was totally 
 blown away. 
  
  Graphics are very impressive especially under low light conditions. The developers spent a lot 
 of time with the shadows and lighting in addition to dust and small particles flying around in 
 the air. It really adds to the overall feel and creepiness of the game.
  
  Controls are very good as well. Possibly too many commands, but you end up using the most useful 
 ones. I was initially worried that I would have to constantly look at a map, but they included 
 a "beacon" feature that briefly lights a line on the floor to show you the direction you need to 
 go. This is easily the best feature of the controls
  
  What really shines in this game is the sound though. If you crank it up, the opening scene of this 
 game is absolutely terrifying. The guns sound great, the hallways creak, doors open and slam shut. 
 The sounds is what makes this an immersive experience.
  
  If I have any gripes, its that the story is a bit predictable and repetitive. You've seen most 
 of this before in a variety of movies so there's not much new here. Fortunately, there's enough 
 in the game to keep you occupied and looking ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastwick3188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game is what everyone expects from an horror game not mentioning the astonishing visuals and 
 all the fun you can have when playing it. Its just a new and different way of reinventing horror. 
 The only thing that bothers me a little bit but does not deteriorates the game is the close combat; 
 it can become a little bit frustrating. Sound effects are amazing, I don't know if is only me but 
 I realize that the background sound speeds up giving a sense of someone trying to get away from 
 the death when the character starts running. This game is full of surprises waiting for you to 
 discover and can easily be a tough contender for game of the year. This is the type of game where 
 the developer focuses on giving the player something to remember. So people around the globe, if 
 you are looking for a fun and scary game that will take your breath away don't look no more THIS 
 IS IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeabagChampion
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  After have picking up some survival type games from Game Stop and playing them one right after 
 another, all of the survival games end up feeling the same. I took a two week vacation from work 
 and my trip to Europe was cancelled. Upon recieving my refund, I took on the cash and got myself 
 about 5 games. Talk about killing time. Once I took on the challenge to play all of the 5 games 
 and try to complete them before my two weeks was up, I came across Dead Space.
  From the opening clip to the close of the game, the story will have you on the edge of your seat. 
 Everything you find is vital to the information and game play that you will experience. Every hint 
 and tip that you get are synxed into the game as well. The sound alone will take you all paranoid 
 and thats not to even mention the graphics.
  The fact that this game does not have an overhead HUD is awesome. Every type of information that 
 you need about the characters statues is right on the back of his suit. Its easy to pick up and 
 learn, and after this game, you'll want to wonder why is it that none of the other games came out 
 with such a sweet idea. The combat system and fights are intense. After playing the game once, 
 you will know what fight to pick and what fights to flee from. The dismembering of enemies is important 
 in this game. This is not like Resident Evil where all of the enemies weakness is in the head. 
 you actually have to take the time to look closely at the enemies and target them in different 
 sequence. 
  And like I said. After taking two weeks to play survival horror games, this is clearly the best 
 yet on this fall. This game clearly gets a 10 rate on my count. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander48
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  LETS SEE JUST GOT THIS GAME ON SATURDAY .AND THE FIRST DAY I PLAYED IT. I WAS ON THE EDGE OF MY 
 SEAT SHAKING AND AT ONE 
  POINT I WAS SO SCARED THAT I YELLED ! ! SERIOUSLY 
  GO GET THIS GAME .TO BE HONEST I THINK ITS BETTER 
  THAN GTA 4 I REALLY DO WAY MORE FUN . GO 
 BUY THIS GAME IF YOU ALREADY 
  HAVENT . 
  
  GRAPHICS:10
  the graphics for DEAD SPACE don't stop looking good from the moment you get out of that ship till 
 the credits you'll be liking these graphics a lot !
  SOUND:10
  you'll find yourself shaking at times from the sounds you'll hear .
  CONTROLS:10
  you wont 
 even feel like you have a control in your hand ,the controls are perfect.
  ENTERTAINMENT:10
  very entertaining you find killing and dismembering necromorphs a load of fun 
 in my opinion.
  REPLAY VALUE :HIGH 
  YOULL BE POPPING THIS GAMES 5 YEARS FROM NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I waited for Deadspace for quite a while. It looked very promising and I couldn't wait for it to 
 come out. Now that I have played it, I am glad I waited.
  Deadspace is like a mix of Resident and Alien. The setting onboard the freighter gives you a true 
 sense of being alone. It can get dark at times but it isn't as bad as Doom3 was. The primary weapon 
 has a light on it. Thank you for doing this! The only bad thing about that weapon for some people 
 is that you only have a certain amount of ammo for it. Which is not that big of a deal, but could 
 be for someone that has trouble aiming or using the joysticks. The last cool feature is that you 
 can turn the gun to shoot horizontal or vertical, depending on which limbs you want to take off 
 or which enemy you encounter.
  The sound and graphics are both very impressive and the zero g parts of the game are in my opinion 
 the best parts of the game. This was simulated very well and gives you the feel of actually being 
 in space.
  The game uses a no-hud feature. Which flows good in the gameplay. But you can still pop-up the inventory 
 screen like any other game.
  Deadspace is a great survival horror game if you are into that genre or like the Alien trilogy 
 of movies. From the atmosphere to the gameplay you can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Dead Space has been one of the few games in a long while that has given me a scare while playing, 
 and that's what makes it great. This game developed by Redwood Studios has the right mix of action, 
 horror, and puzzles to keep a player going in this game.
  
  This game puts you into the part of Issac Clark, an engineer sent to fix a possible problem on 
 the USG Ishimura, the first "Planet Cracker" (a ship that mines planets) , him along with a few 
 others safely crash land, to find the ship completely deserted, and signs of a possible evacuation. 
 Anyway, things go wrong quickly and your forced to run for your life. That is... until you find 
 a gun. From then on, your going throughout the ship, fixing all the problems that plague the ship, 
 while trying to find a way off the ship and exterminating the Necromorph virus. The story is helped 
 by the text, audio and video files you find throughout the game. Overall the story is great with 
 a few good twists that would surprise you.
  
  The gameplay is similar to that of RE4. It has the over the shoulder camera, when aiming, but you 
 can maneuver the camera when your not aiming, although I wouldn't recommend it. One great feature 
 this game has for a survival horror is live action inventory screen/map screen, which takes it's 
 form as a hologram. This makes it more difficult to heal yourself while in a battle, and gives 
 the game a new form of strategy. There is no hud, which is good, instead, your health bar takes 
 form as a meter on your spine, and you have your stasis meter on your back as well. Your ammo for 
 the weapon in hand will show when the weapon is in the ready state as another hologram. Weapons 
 are on a quick switch method using the D-Pad, which makes things very easy for on the fly changing. 
 You also gain the ability to slow enemies with Stasis, which is also used for certain puzzles and 
 Kinesis which would be used for puzzles or to grab the random item or explosive canister.
  
  There are a few boss battles in the game, but to tell the truth, they are a little disappointing. 
 But they are still fun no matter what. There are also stores found across each chapter, where you 
 can buy your weapons, ammo, health and other weapons. You buy stuff using credits, which can be 
 found through out the decks, on enemies or you can sell different things you find. Note, this is 
 also in real time.
  
  One feature that is great in this game is the upgrade system. You are able to upgrade your weapons, 
 rig, and your modules (kinesis and stasis) . Weapon upgrades usually differ based on weapon, suit 
 upgrades change amount of health and air available, and the module upgrades, for stasis, duration 
 and amount of energy, and kinesis upgrades distance. To upgrade you need to find a bench and you 
 need power nodes. Power nodes can be either bought or found.
  
  The graphics of this game is top notch. The level design is great and the details are very well 
 done. Some places really give you a really creepy feeling. For example, you come upon a room filled 
 with dead bodies and in the background you can hear a very eerie version of "Twinkle, Twinkle, 
 Little Star". It really sets the creepy atmosphere. The creature designs are very well done, and 
 the dismemberment's are programmed well. The sound is well matched with every environment.
  
  Pros: Dismemberment system is great, creepy atmosphere done right, live inventory system adds 
 to strategy
  
  Cons: Boss battles a little disappointing, kinesis could have been a bit more explored.
  
  
 Gameplay: 9.3
  Graphics: 9.5
  Story: 8.7
  Fun: 9.0
  Overall: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrrchef
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I have since changed my opinion of this game!!! It takes a while to get used to this game, but 
 once you do, I have to admit, it consumes you!!! Disregard everything I said before, I'm now addicted!!!! 
 This game rocks!!! I now feel stupid for what I wrote below:
  
  I read all of the hype around this game, and looked at all the reviews, but once I got into this 
 game I realized that it is just another run around shooter, but in a space environment. same old 
 same old. Yes, it looks great, but somehow it just seems like a modern revamp of DOOM. Nothing 
 spectacular, and now I wish I rented this before shelling out 60 bucks! I just don't understand 
 all the hype this game is getting. I should have held out for Resistance 2. Rent this game first. 
 Granted, I haven't played through this game yet, but the storyline so far doesn't suck you in like 
 other games in this genre. Maybe I will see better things as I progress further into it, but as 
 of now, ...... ah not blown away by this like most people. Also, I'm not sold on he over the shoulder 
 no-hud concept. Makes reading map/inventory difficult/confusing. I get what they were trying to 
 do, but in my opinion, it just doesn't work most of the time. In summary, it's cool, but not the 
 end-all be-all of games out there. Could have been much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boozessed
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The upgrading of your character is sweet. The monsters look amazingly scary. Really fleshy. The 
 first game I have played where the graphics are actually visible on the monsters. It is supper 
 clear that the monsters have bones and skin. It is sick and scary as "A-ch". A really fun game 
 if you love the doom series. The guns are sweet though the first time through you will not have 
 time you use and upgrade them all. The upgrades are very effective as it truly makes each gun more 
 decimating. The lighting effects and audio is amazing as everyone is agreeing on. I wish you could 
 spend more time outside the ship. I suppose that is why it is so good. As the old doom series showed. 
 It is such a treat when you get to go outside the ship or walk into a vase room with windows. The 
 game finishes strong with the story being strong enough for this type of game... ie. compared to 
 doom. The action and monsters escalate until the James Cameron style over the top ending. A game 
 well worth enjoying and you will play it through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noupa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game great voice acting a little off here and there but you'd need to be Siskel or Ebert 
 ahem to care. The action is very cool especially upon realizing that you can cut chunks off of 
 your foes. The scares and often unexpected but here and there the music builds just before a bady 
 rears its ugly headicle. By the way the music is great but not a soundtrack I'll be playing over 
 video clips of Final Fantasy 7 Advent Children (or whatever lol) . The weapons are pretty cool, 
 definitely not your standard ak47's with all sorts of torches flame throwers and so that you can 
 customize. The story so far is pretty cool trying to get around the ship to figure out whats the 
 deal with all these mad buggers busting around. The only thing I'm worried about is the replay 
 value.
  
  
  I'm not currently finished with the game because it's dark in my house right now and I'm all alone 
 and there's nobody for miles so sue me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a scary game. The lighting, sound, and pacing blend perfectly together to create 
 an experience unlike any other, even when it's clear that EA has aped a few of the design mechanics. 
 The control scheme, for example, shares a number of elements with Capcom's RE4, while the audio 
 logs and ruined environment reek of Bioshock. The genius of Dead Space comes when players realize 
 that the game has come together to be so much more than the sum of its parts.
  
  Let's get this out of the way as soon as possible: The sound work in Dead Space is absolutely ingenious. 
 Usually I wait until the end of the review to briefly mention the audio portion of a game, but 
 Dead Space deserves so much more than that. During my 11 years of gaming, never have I heard such 
 mastery of audio. Everything from the strained grinding of the Ishimura's engines to the dull thud 
 of Issac's boots against the floor adds significantly to the foreboding atmosphere that permeates 
 every second of gameplay. These effects are made even more impressive when one realizes that in 
 a video game, every single sound must be created from scratch. That grinding noise of the engines 
 isn't actually a single engine at all; it was recorded under a bridge during heavy traffic, but 
 it really does sound terrifying. The voice acting in Dead Space is also very solid. However, if 
 I have one complaint about the audio, it is that your fellow crew simply does not sound as panicked 
 as someone in the Ishimura probably should. They're scared, make no mistake, but I bet most people 
 would be crapping their pants in terror. 
  
  Now that I've given the audio portion due priase, let's examine the gameplay. As I mentioned before, 
 Dead Space plays similarly to Resident Evil 4 on the PS2/GC, but with a few significant enhancements. 
 For one thing, it is possible to shoot and move at the same time in Dead Space, and this addition 
 does nothing to compromise the feeling of horror. Another big addition to the RE4 control scheme 
 is a health pack button which will heal Issac as long as he has a health pack in his inventory. 
 This saves the player from having to dive into a pause screen every time he/she needs to heal and 
 increases the sense of immersion. In fact, everything about the gameplay of Dead Space has been 
 molded to be more immersive. Both the map screen and the inventory screen are displayed in real 
 time, meaning that Issac can be attacked while fishing around for items, although this happens 
 rarely, if ever. The biggest flaw with the gameplay lies in the game's difficulty, or lack thereof. 
 I have been playing Dead Space for around 7 hours and have yet to die on the Normal difficulty 
 setting. The relative ease with which many of the battles can be completed usually does nothing 
 to diminish the horror, though. I have experienced several near-death instances during which only 
 an appropriately timed health pack saved me from the void. It's easy to forget about the simple 
 difficulty when there are five disgustingly warped creatures breathing down your neck.
  
  Dead Space's graphical presentation is very strong, almost matching the sound. It is easily one 
 of the best looking multiplatform games. Shadows play off the walls in eerie ways, making players 
 think that danger lurks in areas of relative safety. Flickering lights play tricks on player's 
 minds. Each area of this ship has a unique look while still retaining similarities with the other 
 areas. A theme of gothic, ribbed architecture pulls each of the disparate artistic elements together 
 into a cohesive whole. Seeing these often majestic environments stained with the gore of brutalized 
 civilians adds that much more to the creepy atmosphere. Also, again like Bioshock, Dead Space's 
 art designers have made it clear that people once lived peacefully in the Ishimura by adding warning 
 signs, functioning tram signs, billboards, stores, and even basketball courts. This makes the environments 
 look all the more striking. Despite many similarities to Bioshock and RE4, Dead Space manages to 
 establish itself as a wholly unique franchise largely because of the art and sound direction. Everything 
 is rendered admirably, making Dead Space the graphical equal of almost any multiplatform game this 
 generation. There are, however, two faults with the graphical presentation of Dead Space, one glaring 
 and one not so obvious. The not-so-obvious fault is Issac's shadow. While every other shadow is 
 beautifully done, Issac's own shadow, while rarely seen, is horribly pixelated. The most glaring 
 flaw with the graphical presentation, though, is how small the text of the abandoned diaries appears, 
 especially on SDTVs. I played through part of the game at a friend's house on his SDTV, and the 
 text was painfully small. I have pretty good eyesight and could still read it, but my friend could 
 barely make anything out.
  
  Dead Space sports an intriguing story that is told in even more intriguing ways. While much of 
 the back story is told through abandoned diaries, once again like in Bioshock, the rest of the 
 narrative is relayed through holographic projections of your fellow mechanics that hover in midair 
 about a foot in front of Issac's face. This is a really cool effect that allows players to always 
 stay in control.
  
  Dead Space is a masterpiece of horror gaming, and it is all the more shocking that such an excellent 
 and ultimately original game came out of EA. If EA were to put this much effort into all or even 
 most of their releases, they would quickly transform from the bane of hardcore gamers to their 
 savior.
  
  Graphics: 9.75/10: Absolutely stunning, other than the pixelated shadow of its lead character and 
 the wretchedly small text.
  Sound: 10/10: As good as, no, better than the MGS4 sound track, which makes Dead Space the best 
 sounding game of all time. It simply has to be heard; thankfully this game is nice and loud.
  Gameplay: 9/10: Rock solid, but I can't help but feel that a lot of Dead Space was culled from 
 RE4 and Bioshock.
  Entertainment: 9.5/10: Despite being horrified, players will not put the controller down for hours, 
 and will be thoroughly shaken when they finally do.
  
  To all PS3 owners who do not have a 360 or gaming PC on hand and who enjoy Dead Space: I highly 
 reccomend that you also buy Bioshock, which releases this October on PS3. Both Dead Space and Bioshock 
 are masterpieces, and both share similar themes. These games simply must be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a game I have been waiting months for. A game that reminded me of the beloved Resident 
 Evil series. This game runs just like Resident Evil 4's gameplay style, which was one of my favorite 
 action-horror games. Dead Space is very similar to Resident Evil 4 with a similar camera, a similar 
 buy and sell system, and a similar health system, but Dead Space beats Resident Evil in terms of 
 survival and horror, which Resident Evil 4 lacked. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- This game is a great survival game with somewhat limited ammo, many deadly enemies, 
 and darker areas where it is hard to see. This game is a great horror, with many enemies popping 
 out of nowhere, tons of blood and gore which puts the Resident Evil series to shame, and violence 
 galore. This game reminds me of an upgraded Resident Evil 4, with a similar camera and similar 
 shooting system that a grew to love. There are many interesting types of Necromorphs as well as 
 weapons. Killing necromorphs is a lot more difficult and dangerous than the ganados, which even 
 in large groups possessed little threat. The enemies in this game have pretty good AI and respond 
 well to being injured, making them more agressive and harder when being injured. It is amazing 
 how violent and brutal this game is with blood everywhere and limbs flying all over the place, 
 which contains the horror Resdient Evil 4 lacked. Enemies unexpectingly pop up and come alive. 
 Although ammo sometimes may be abundant, even on the hardest difficulty, you will eventully burn, 
 but with the ability to buy ammo, ammo shouldn't be a major rarity. The store is easy to access 
 and simple to use, as well as offer a safe, which Resident Evil 4 should have had. The upgrade 
 system is a lot better than Resident Evil's and every gun can't be fully upgraded on the first 
 playthrough, unlike RE4. Although some things in Dead Space were annoying. Most of the objectives 
 were too simple and unthoughtful, like pretty much reach this point press a button and repeat. 
 Also, the melee is a litttle underdeveloped and messy. I would have liked to see more weapons, 
 with only 7 different guns appearing in this game, compared to Resident Evil 4's 15+, even though 
 these seven guns are really fun to use and ungeneric with secondary fire modes as well. The game 
 has pretty good story though, and also an ungeneric one. Hopefully Resident Evil 5 can take a few 
 ideas from Dead Space and make it into their game. I like how the game is always tense, and the 
 menu is does not pause the game and inventory is limited. Also, the suits you can upgrade too in 
 this game are some of the coolest armors I have ever seen in a game before. 
  
  Graphics 10/10- These graphics are trully amazing and one of the best on PS3. The environments 
 are simply beatiful and well-thought as well as the enemy and character designs. The dark and creepy 
 areas really add a lot to this game and everything is greatly detailed. Although maybe not as good 
 as MGS4, Dead Space still does hold up. This game is all about lighting which they did perfectly. 
 The lighting is super realistic and well done. Also, blood can stain your costume if you kill a 
 lot of enemies up close, making this one of the mose realistic survival and horror games I have 
 ever played. 
  
  Sound 9/10- Simply amazing sound affects and necromorph grunts, this game has lots of neat sound 
 effects. The music is tense and goes well with this game and you can even sometimes hear necromorphs 
 in a room without actually seeing them. This really creates a creepy mood and sets up the horror 
 in this game well. Voice acting is good, but nothing great. 
  
  Value 8/10- This game surely has good replay with carrying over items from the last playthrouh 
 in a similar fashion as Resident Evil 4 and upgrading them to full. Not only this but there are 
 always notes and audio clips you can collect that you missed from the last playthrough as well 
 as a few more trophies such as beat the game on impossible mode, which should provide a challenge, 
 and beat the game only using the plasma cutter. However, this game doesn't have as great replay 
 as Resident Evil 4 because the objectives do tend to get repetitive, there is a bit of unneccesary 
 backtracking, and the game can probably be beaten at around 10 hours the first playthrough. Also, 
 levels seem unevenly divided, like some levels are as short as fifteen minutes, while some can 
 take up to an hour. To achieve better replay, more weapons could have been added and more interesting 
 objectives. It wouldn't hurt to add a few more necromorphs as well, since some levels lack a sufficient 
 number of necromorphs. Overall, the minor drawbacks are forgivable considering the great old school 
 survival elements this game offers, and the replay this game offers pretty good replay and should 
 last until Resident Evil 5.
  
  Tilt 9/10- This game is the best survival-horror to date on PS3 and hopefully can hold that title 
 until another great game replaces it. It brings forth some amazing survival-horror/action gameplay 
 elements and has some amazing environments and sound effects. Although objectives are repetitive 
 and the game is on a shorter side, the upgrade system and trophies should make this game last a 
 few months until Resident Evil 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  While some might argue that this game is a rip-off from Doom, I assure you it's nothing like that. 
 In fact, I don't think Doom comes even close to the Dead Space. Don't get me wrong - Doom is an 
 excellent game, but it didn't feel so suspenseful and scary.
  
  First of all, the PS3 version of the Dead Space is the perfect example that PS3 is not much worse 
 than the 360 is, and that when developers actually know what they're doing - you can get excellent 
 image quality and frame rate from the multiplatform games on PS3. Technically, Dead Space is perfect 
 on the PS3. It's one of the few multiplatform titles that looks absolutely fantastic on the PS3 
 and has absolutely no weak spots against its 360 counterpart.
  
  Now, to the game itself. I liked pretty much everything about the game: controls, graphics, sound, 
 suspense and the story. Although, I must admit, the fact that you can get a pretty much maxed-out 
 suit from the get-go spoils the game a little bit, as the game play becomes more of a "slice and 
 dice" kind of thing rather than survival.
  
  While the Necromorphs look fantastic, I didn't think they look all that horrible, but then again 
 - I'm probably already spoiled by all the other games, so seeing these things does not have the 
 same effect on me as it might on someone who's had less exposure to sci-fi horror. Perhaps if the 
 necromorphs were looking a bit more human-like they could be scarrier: even to me seeing deformed 
 human body is harder than seeing something that does not resemble humans much at all.
  
  Also, I agree with others, who are saying that this game is best played with lights out: it really 
 improves the immersion a lot!
  
  Anyway, I think the game is great and is absolutely a "must have" thing. And - woo-haa!!! - it 
 supports Trophies! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Setting: 
  Takes place in the distant future where Earth has exhausted all its natural resources and has resorted 
 to the harvesting of entire planets for resources using a process called planet cracking. In particular 
 it is set in a distant solar system where the USG Ishimura has lost contact with Earth so it is 
 the job of the protagonist, Isaak Clarke, and his team to repair the ship. However once on board 
 the team realizes something horrible has happened and that they must survive while completing their 
 mission.
  
  Story: 
  Not exactly what you would call original, yet this isn't a bad thing. Its takes elements from many 
 movies in the horror genre and a few original elements to bring together an elaborate plot that 
 would make the horror genre proud. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Great gameplay. A nice variety of weapons to choose from each of which is fully upgradeable. The 
 in-game hud is attached to Isaak's suit. This means that when you are acessing your inventory or 
 looking at you objectives an enemy can sneak up on you and attack. Dismembering your enemies causes 
 more damage than shooting the body. So if you cut off a leg and an arm the enemy might die in two 
 shots but if you shoot for the body it can take up to 5 shots.
  
  Graphics:
  Typical graphics for the PS3. They don't really impress you much more than your average game on 
 the system but they aren't bad by any means.
  
  Overall:
  Dead Space is a very good game and is worth the money spent. However it lacks those certain elements 
 that make it stand out from other games and make you say "wow that was one of the best games I 
 have ever played". 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  
  GRAPHICS - Top notch, lightning is outstanding, it really feels like that you are inside the doomed 
 ship Ishimura. 
  
  Sounds - Scared the hell out of me and my wife. EA did a good job in mixing the sound effects. 
 you can here someone whispering, cans rolling, and the eerie sound of the stillness and emptiness 
 of space. 
  
  Gamplay - innovative and very impressive. Ive played many games, but most of them are just a repetition 
 of previous titles with just beefed up graphics. Dead Space, is new to gaming and the survival 
 horror genre. The way you play in different environments of space is something new, I love the 
 "zero gravity" environments, really new to the gaming world.
  
  Overall - The best ps3 game out there period. Much more better than overhyped franchise titles 
 (I wouldnt say the names because gamespot might delete this review) . As for game of the year, this 
 will be a hard to beat competitor, yet so far, not even one game in 2008.. comes close. Maybe Bioshock? 
 We'll see......
  
  Buy this now! Not so many games come out like this in years (the last time I played a "fresh" creative 
 game was GTAIII in PS2)
  
  
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was 
 skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  I was skeptical at once, because this game is from EA.. my.. my... my.... EA is back on top!
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  like playing a scary movie. game play is good. the sound fits perfect. the best game i've played 
 after mgs 4. the fact that you can't get lost is cool. the heads up display should be used by more 
 games. i hope that this is just the first game in a line of 3. when i got this game i was thinking 
 that it would hold me over untill fallout 3 comes out. i'm glad that i did not pass on it. many 
 people might think that it is just resident evil in space, this game can stand onit's own. it does 
 not feel like a rip off of resident evil. unlike heavenly sword which was a rip off of god of war. 
 lets hope that we get to play the next game befor this time next year. maybe as the back story 
 now that would be nice. i think that is what a good game does make you wat to play it again and 
 think about different ways to play it. we as gamers need more new games that live up to the hype. 
 or we'll be playing halo 100 in afew years. any way this game was a nice surpise lets hope that 
 next game does not drop the ball or limb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superfunk2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Haven't finished it yet, but so far there's no aspect of the game that is a let down. The audio 
 is one key factor in setting the mood for the game. Needless to say, it's very well executed. The 
 graphics are stunning and controls are very easy t get used to. There's some back tracking to the 
 story which is a bit of a pain at times, but it doesn't ruin the experience. Downloading the Obsidian 
 suit will make things a bit easier right off the bat, but once you upgrade you can't go back. So, 
 if you want the full experience I'd suggest you finish it the first time around without the downloadable 
 upgrade. This is definitely a must own even if you're a casual gamer or new to the genre.
  
  
  Graphics:10
  
  Some of th emost stunning environments, espcially when trecking outside. 
 
  
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Honestly the audio makes this game; from the crawlers in the vents to the muffled screams in space.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Definitely spot on with the controls. If you can forgive a few camera angle glitches, then there's 
 not much to complain about.
  
  
  Value: 9
  
  
  You'll definitely have to revisit this game in order to get all the upgrades.
  
  Overall: 9.5
 
  
  Back tracking makes the game feel a bit constrained and the zero G levels can be disorienting at 
 times. Other than that, this is a must play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I just need to clarify that I am a huge science fiction fan. My very first sci-fi 
 movie was actually Alien, and I saw it when I was a kid... needless to say I had nightmares for 
 months from that movie. So having said that, I would say it is very rare to play a game that can 
 grip you in that new sense of fear unlike anything you have experienced before... and no I'm not 
 exaggerating. 
  
  Although the terrifying aspect of this game is par-none.. I will also say that this was the most 
 fun I have had playing a single player campaign for quite some time. I will get into the innovation 
 aspects of it in the review, but just keep in mind that even though some aspects of this game may 
 remind you of previous titles, I really never felt like I had played anything like it before.
 
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Ooooh yeeeaa. This game is dead sexy on the graphical level. My biggest love for it... is the fact.. 
 that FINALLY.. we have a great 1080p supported game!! Believe me, at this level of resolution every 
 detail of the corridors or space debris is simply stunning. Though I was completely taken by suprize 
 because normally.. EA does not spend the time to make quality games like this. 
  
  Everything about the animations.. lighting.. and atmospheric conditions will really convince you 
 that you just might be behind Issac every step of the game.
  
  Oh damn.. lighting! I don't know if any of you have ever been creeped out by this. But I remember 
 when watching Alien the freakiest thing about it was the strobe effect all about the ship and how 
 you really couldn't see that well. The music would climax and would pan the camera over to the 
 lurking Alien around the corner... well this game has MANY different strobe effects, and is not 
 lenient in the least about letting you see where these brutal monsters are.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Yes I said it.. the sound gets a perfect rating.. normally I would always be pretty harsh on 
 this aspect. However, this time around the game had me cowering in a ball smack dab in the middle 
 of my surround sound. Every shriek.. mechanical whir.. breath.. cry of pain.. or metal pipe clanking 
 on the ground after something unknown knocks it over is so accurate.
  
  Music is also quite epic and really helps the atmosphere.
  
  Though my biggest love for the 
 sound is how realistic the vacuum sound effects were.. for those that are sci-fi nerds. You know 
 that there is practically no sound in space... yeap. This game delivers.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Oddly this was my lowest score. Not to say the controls weren't good, but the biggest negative 
 was the camera. The third person view actually can leave you pretty vulnerable in tight spaces.. 
 especially when you're swarmed. Then at times it can get aggravating when you can't see what is 
 even swiping at you. Though I suppose it does add a certain element of helplessness at times. 
 
  
  Everything else is pretty fluid.. I especially love the fact that it's nearly impossible to get 
 lost with the help of your handy blue line. This thing points you in the right direction if you 
 get stumped, but isn't an ugly arrow thing on your screen.
  
  Oh and the strategic dismemberment?? niiiice
  
  Value: 9
  
  Even though I love nearly everything 
 about this game, I do realize it's not for everyone. ESPECIALLY KIDS.. seriously I hate the fact 
 that parents buy their kids games like these... 
  
  But.. it is definately worth your 60 dollars if you are looking for a great sci-fi horror. 
  
 
  Overall: 9.5
  
  I would love to give this game a perfect rating, but sadly it isn't. You really just have to love 
 it for what it is. Though I'm quite partial to the zero-g fighting..
  
  Pick it up.. is my recommendation
  
  -TiX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmrfud
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Wow I love survival Horror! This game still scares the pants of me.
  
  This is one of those games you play and you'll say I only play it for a little while but several 
 hours later you're still going. 
  
  I think one of the hardest things I had to get used to was the controls, once I could remember 
 what buttons did what I was a lot more comfortable. Sometime I find myself yelling at the screen 
 and saying "How could someone survive that?" but you do. The Zero gravity is new for sure, its 
 hard to know where to jump to but the automatic direction makes that a little better. Some of those 
 big nasty guys are an easy kill with the rail gun but the one you can't kill is a pain. 
  
  The selective dismember is very gory, especially when some of the non killable dudes dismembers 
 you one limb at a time. I will be honest and say I have troubles with these types of games that 
 why I am playing the easy mode and still find it hard.
  
  The weapons are cool, the motion one (Like the Force) is very cool like I said a lot in this game. 
 They did a great job of scaring you and I hope everyone likes it as much as I do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS-PIMP
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I haven't played a game like this for a long time. It's like resident evil series but 
 in space and a lot less talking. lol. Not says thats bad but yes. Im currently playing this on 
 the PS3 - hard. Im on chapter 12 and stuck. lol. thats what i like about this game. You cant just 
 sit and beat it. It will take you some time. the Story and graphics and the cinematic's are so 
 **** badass and scary. Honestly, buy this game. You'll be glad you did .!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsgreat
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is beautifully rendered. Although in a horror game most people consider 
 "beautiful" as how much blood and gore is splattered on the walls, this game actually has it's 
 beautiful moments. Looking out a window on the spaceship Ishimura and seeing meteors and the planet 
 Aegis 7 float by can be haunting, but images like that only lull you into a false sense of security 
 so the game can throw about a hundred necromorphs at you at once.
  
  That's really where the best aspect of Dead Space is, simply, the gameplay. The gameplay can be 
 extremely satisfying, although cumbersome at times, and provide a challenge to even the most experienced 
 Resident Evil fans. The only reason I rated this game as hard is because of the fights. I don't 
 even know how many times I was decapitated on my first play through...
  
  Dead Space does suffer from some minor nuisances, though. The overall story is great, (except the 
 closure-less ending in my opinion) but the specific reasons why you're going from point A to point 
 B can be rather mundane. I'm sure you've heard that from other reviews, and in their defense they're 
 all things that one would expect to do if trying to escape from a monster-infested spaceship.
 
  
  Also, and I'm nitpicking here, but the text in the text documents are way too small. You really 
 have to sit up close and squint just to see some of the words. Plus, the fact that some documents 
 are voice recordings makes you wonder even more why the super-small text is even there.
  
  A run-down of all the main points are: great story, graphics and gameplay, but they could have 
 made some of the tasks you had to accomplish more interesting (they should have did more with zero-G) . 
 Sound design is great, although in real life there's no sound in a vacuum (but they do tone the 
 volume down) . Inventory is old fashioned except that it's in real-time, which doesn't mean much 
 because every item function can be carried out with a button press. Lastly, there's not enough 
 exploration for my taste, but it is impossible to get lost. Overall, it's a good buy for horror, 
 sci-fi or action fans and if it means anything, I enjoyed it thoroughly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny-lamb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is very unique, very good, and very well put together, i haven't played a game like this 
 in a long time. This is one of those games that really make you crap yourself, it has a great mixture 
 of Horror and Action, one of the bad things about it though is that that scary music will start 
 to play when you see a enemy, but sometimes enemy will can run right up beside you and is eating 
 your face before the sound or music will turn on. Dead space looks amazing, Plays amazing, and 
 is pretty challenging, i'm really glad that the Melee attacks actually work, I've played many games 
 that when you hit the melee button you will hit them but the enemy wont even flinch. the melee 
 button has saved me from getting rapped in the corner of a room by 10-30 enemy's, speaking of getting 
 rapped, the game does have a small problem of difficulty, it seems like enemy's will range from 
 complete retards to the elite of the elite, and that's only on medium. the Addition of the store 
 helps too, there are to many games that have you back tracking and looking in every corner of a 
 room to try and find those extra 4 bullets.
  
  Over all this game is Superb it is one of those games that make you want to get scared, it is a 
 must buy offering at the least 25 hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentSxht
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a decent title that's definitely worth a look at by survival horror or action fans. 
 Survival horror has been strikingly absent for next gen consoles which is possibly why this title 
 is receiving so much buzz. I have relatively enjoyed my time with this game but can't help but 
 feel it is benefiting from over hyped gamers. The presentation is definitely it's strongest suit 
 as the majority of the actual quest is surprisingly bland. This is helped greatly however by quality 
 and varied environments. I really would have appreciated more puzzles as the few sprinkled throughout 
 are so refreshing as the rest of your time is playing fetch for items or levers. Actually it's 
 rather insulting how much this game coddles you along with blatant markers on your map and other 
 devices. Remove the training wheels or at least make them optional! The suit and weapon upgrades 
 are a nice offer, however like the audio and video logs it is just borrowed material. My largest 
 complainant however is the lack of fright. This game is not terrifying in the least which is made 
 worse by the fact they imply cheap tactics in the first place. Horror is present, scares are not. 
 At all. It's almost feels like this game was supposed to be another crap bargain game but rose 
 to the occasion to avoid resting in that caliber. Dead Space at the end of the day feels like an 
 enthusiastic attempt that under scrutiny may birth a decent franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a Sci-Fi/third person shooter with great gameplay, intuitive controls, stunning graphics, 
 awesome sound effects and an immersive story! What little time I've spent playing Dead Space (around 
 4 hours) , it appears as though this game is nothing short of amazing! The enemies in Dead Space 
 are tough and in order to be taken down, you must use what's known as "strategic dismemberment". 
 This means that you must shoot your enemies limbs off before they will die. This adds an extra 
 challenge to the game because "aiming for the head" really doesn't apply in this game. Another 
 way to kill enemies is by using a melee feature that allows you to hit them with your weapon. Doing 
 this gives you enough time to back enemies away if there are several in your immediate area. You 
 can also finish off your foes by stomping on them while they're down. This assures that they are 
 dead and is something you'll probably find yourself doing quite often while in combat. With that 
 said, now it's time for a breakdown of several elements of the game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - The only knock on the gameplay is the fact that at times during combat, you'll 
 find yourself dealing with multiple enemies right in front of you. It's sometimes difficult to 
 to handle and you may find yourself in a bit of trouble when you first encounter multiple enemies. 
 However, this isn't really a big deal. With practice, you'll be able to take down several enemies 
 with ease. I've already managed to get the hang of combat, and it's really not difficult to master. 
 As for other aspects of the gameplay, it's all flawless. With the exception of some minor things, 
 Dead Space's gameplay is something that you will want to experience.
  
  Story 10/10 - The story in Dead Space is very immersive, and very well done. So far, each element 
 of the plot is well developed. The dialogue of each character is written very well, and the voice 
 acting was also done exceptionally well. When a game can do all of the aforementioned things well, 
 as they're done in Dead Space, you can't get anything but a great storyline. 
  
  Controls 9.5/10 - Dead Space's controls aren't the easiest controls to learn, but with time, you 
 will get the hang of them and come to realize that they are very good. Your character is incredibly 
 easy to maneuver and the weapons are very easy to use thanks to the control layout. Overall, they 
 aren't perfect, but are very good and aren't really difficult to master.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10 - The visuals in Dead Space are amazing. If you have a 1080p television you'll 
 see that they really are great. The character models are lifelike and the environments are highly 
 detailed. While nothing that will make you say wow. Dead Space's graphics are still very good.
 
  
  Sound 10/10 - The sound effects are nothing short of incredible! If you have surround sound, you 
 will feel even more immersed in the game. Every single aspect of the sounds in this game are good 
 and are one of the best parts of Dead Space.
  
  Overall 9.5/10 Dead Space an excellent game with some incredible graphics, fun gameplay, a great 
 story, as well as being very addicting. If you have not bought the game yet and were planning on 
 it, once you do buy it and get home to play it, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: progamer-Andrew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game have amazing graphics and a really good gameplay, the story is very nice and you get 
 into it in a short time, if you're searching for a stress, freak and completely action game, this 
 is the perfect game for you. The battle in zero-G are amazing because you never know where are 
 the danger, the creatures can comes from everywhere and you freak every 10 seconds. Wathever, this 
 game is amazing for the ones who are ready to FREEEEEAAAAAK out!!! you need to buy this game because 
 its one of the bests. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, GO BUY IT!!! kkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk 
 kkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkoooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooooo oooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo 
 oooooooooooooiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiiiiiiiiiikkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkoooooooooo 
 oooooooooooooooo oooooooooooooo oooooooooooooooo oooooooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooi iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baby1995
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok stop reading this review right now.... no really just leave everything on in the house and go 
 drive/walk/run/swim if you have to, to the nearest store that has this in stock and BUY it. One 
 of the coolest games i've ever played (and i've played my fair share) . Some amazing new approaches 
 to a games typical HUD style on-screen gauges. I love the idea of putting the displays on Isaac's 
 armour suit! What a simple concept but totally draws you into the game deeper. One of the most 
 graphically awesome releases ever. There are moments that gross you out, and moments that you stop 
 and just have to checkout the surroundings for the great detail in the environment. The first time 
 you step out into space in Chapter 2 is quite a thrill. The soundtrack is absolutely perfect and 
 will freak the sh*t out of you if you have a proper Dolby Digital setup. I've never had goosebumps 
 this much ever playing a game. This should be Game of the Year..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was never on my game radar this past year. It was an impulse purchase that was backed 
 up by some good online reviews.
  
  I have always been a fan of the survival horror genre and I often find that with these types of 
 games you are more likely to play a miss rather then a hit. Dead Space is probably the best example 
 of what this genre can do since Resident Evil 4.
  
  The game takes a risk right from the get go as they throw us into space and then strands us on 
 a remote mining vessel. Surprisingly you never truly feel confined in this setting and all of the 
 ships locations quite unique and different. The game requires some back tracking here and there, 
 but it is brief and never feels like a truly menial task. 
  
  I always appreciate when survival horror games that are shooters are not in the first person perspective. 
 Being able to see your character and most of the area around you creates a great sense of false 
 security. The over the shoulder shooting style (which was also in RE4) creates a very good camera 
 pivot that is relatively easy to control.
  
  There isn't a large variety of mutant alien human zombies. It was nice to see that these few types 
 of enemies weren't thrown into the mix all at once and were gradually introduced to maintain the 
 games difficulty. Every boss and enemy is unique to itself and though it is possible to hack and 
 slash through the game the strategic dismemberment tactic works quite well even when you are in 
 close proximity with an aggressor. 
  
  The game is only made better by very strong voice acting performances and outstanding visuals. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space... 
  Where do I begin, well IT'S FREAKY!!! That's a good start, the graphics of this game in HD is amazing. I 
 turned this game on at like 10 o'clock (the mall closes at 930 and the ride home) and I didn't stop 
 playing untill it was morning, im at chapter 4 right now and i've had PLENTY of WTF! moments. Now 
 in my opinion if you buy a game that looks this good and is supposed to be scary and you don't 
 have a WTF!! moment... THEN RETURN IT. In that section it has A LOT of those even at the beginning 
 when you activate the tran computer thing as soon as the doors of the elevator START OPENING UP 
 you see this thing running at you. MAN I think this game is DEFINITLY WORTH $60 bucks, if you don't 
 think it is thats fine BUT YOU HAVE TO AT LEAST RENT IT. Well back to graphics it's amazing, SOUND 
 don't even get me started OMG!!! THE SOUND SETS the game up. I have surround sound and this is WHY 
 I jump so much when you hear the cans being droped behind you LITERALLY and you turn around and 
 when you look at the screen the monster is JUST ABOUT TO ATTACK, YEAH this is a freaky game so far 
 the story just has me WANTING TO KNOW MORE so as the story goes il update when I beat it but as 
 of right now IT'S definitly arousing (NOT THE OTHER TYPE YOU SICK F**K) anyways what im trying to 
 get it IS THAT THIS GAME IS A MUST for horror fans.
  
  
  UPDATE!!!!
  Well i beat the game i gotta say the final boss was EXTREMLY EASY... the story is good i liked it 
 it was defenetly NOT what i expected BUT it was good enough that its keeping playing. there is a 
 trophy that it requires you to ONLY use the plasma cutter... well THATS the ONLY gun you need a 
 word of advise is IF YOUR TRYING this then ONLY have the plasma cutter in your inventory NO OTHER 
 GUNS ON U AT ALL if you do this the game will ONLY give you ammo for the cutter and if you use 
 it right then it should only take 2 to 3 shots MAX for every monster exept for the guardians (the 
 pregnant things on the wall) for them you need to cut like 6 tentacles but for the most part youl 
 need only 3 well placed shots (so u save the ammo dont wanna have ONLY 1 gun and NO AMMO thats 
 a BAD CENARRIO) anyways enought with the tips its very good my HDTV has the auto black so when 
 its supposed to be black IT GETS BLACK there are areas that u cant see SH*T only where u point 
 your gun so ALWAYS WALK WITH THE GUN OUT! this game is great addition to my collection i just bought 
 another and havent opened it up and im trying to get it signed by ANY of the developers at EA so 
 i can sell it on ebay 30years from now hey its the FIRST EA HORROR game AND its gonna be signed 
 so HOPEFULLY its worth anything if not screw it at least i had it hahaha. im currently trying to 
 beat the imposible mode so if anyone beat it let me know whats diferent other then LESS BULETTS 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and I am addicted and scared crapless as it is!!! This game make Bioshock 
 look like it had never existed! I just had to write a review for this to tell what an outstanding 
 game this is. It feels like Gears of War/Silent Hill, but has the story of Bioshock, Metroid Prime 
 and the Aliens movies. I can't say how freaking sweet this game is!!! It may feel a bit nerdy at 
 first but it is the coolest/scariest game I've ever played in my life!!! It is hard here and there, 
 but that doesn't mean it is a let down. To be honest I thought this game would've gotten released 
 next year sometime early, but apparently not! This game is sooo sweet!!! I don't think any horror 
 game can beat this game for now!!! It's definately an excellent game and addition for the PS3 and 
 it's ever-growing library!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauronswrath
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I sincerely believe this game is one of the best space-horror games ever made. It's long, but not 
 too long. Hard at times, but not so much that it detracts from the game fun. EA hit a bloody, gory 
 grand slam with this game. Superb graphics, a great story, and finally a game with trophies. Do 
 not rent this game, buy it! I thought for sure this would be another brainless shooter that would 
 bore me after 10 hours of gameplay. Because the game is so big, you find that playing it through 
 once is just not enough to truly grasp it. Besides, you get loads of goodies for the second time 
 around. I played the game once through on the easy level and found that your best option is to 
 jack up the cutter with power nodes and forget the other weapons. Besides, you'll have plenty of 
 money and power nodes on your second try through on normal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truenextgen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Wont make this long. 
  First of I hate EA as of the last 5 years or so. It just seems after Sony had helped EA establish 
 a dynasty for many years. EAs pay back was a kick in the face. 
  
  That being said, Dead Space comes into a vary highly anticipated season for games. And jumps in 
 as one of the best so far. I would not say it changed the horror gander. Or its as ground moving 
 as RE1 was for horror decades back. Buts its pretty darn good. For one, the game runs well. That 
 says something for a EA game. Two, its not just a plain FPS. Its a 3rd person shooter. And the 
 weapons "and little gadgets" give it far more depth then a Doom or Black. Plus "although a corridor 
 shooter for the most part." It gives you nice areas. Every turn "when not backtracking" gives a 
 new feel to the atmosphere. Or at least as much as it can, for where your at. It almost makes me 
 think, we need to get more corridor shooter's again. 
  
  The story is pretty cool. The scare level is pretty high "on the jump level." And it plays "some," 
 off the psychological level as well. But mostly its a jump out of your seat "Bamm" scare thing. 
 And it does it pretty well. 
  
  The other things it does well are the small things. Like balancing out your inventory. This does 
 not sound like much. But you sit at the store. And have to mix and math on what you should buy, 
 or what you should take with you, or keep locked away for now. It was a cool thing in the RE series, 
 "wondering what gun ammo you should save, what you should use." And these little things adds more 
 to the game then one would think. And the suit, ammo, and gadget upgrades, add alot also.
  
  Another thing I noticed to, Is this game seems to do lighting old school. Unlike so many games 
 that "for some odd reason" ant to try 5 billion lighting effects." And thus slowing up the processing. 
 This game. "A game in which light is important," Seems to go back to good old fashion video game 
 lighting. And it works great. And is placed only where it should be. You wont see light coming 
 from 500 billion angles, and killing the over look, performance, and feel. It looks cool, and performs 
 good. 
  
  Fact is the game is impressive. And its fun. Theirs a few areas it maybe could of done this or 
 that. But maybe because it did not try, it ended up being vary good as is. I think anyone who gives 
 it a try, will be pleasantly surprised. If EA can get 80% of their games to be like this, and run 
 like this. They may still be around in 5 years :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BleachrcreachR
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I thought it would be like doom but it loses that claustrophobic 
 feel.. which I hated. This game excels in all areas of game play and visuals. It really does give 
 gears a run for it's money on graphics. Got it on the ps3 just because of no online and I am happy 
 I did the ps3 does a good job on sound and picture. This game was not a game I was even going to 
 get with everything coming out in the fall but it really could be in for GOTY... no joke. Go out 
 and purchase this game and don't forget to download the extra suit only available the first 2 weeks 
 of release. Make sure you turn the lights out and turn the surround sound up and enjoy the creepy 
 ambiance during this Halloween season. I am glad I added this game to my library and look forward 
 to getting scared again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstormerwill05
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is just a wow right from the start . The atmosphere is so alive and ready to be explored 
 . The lighting and lack there of is perfect for the game . As you begin you never know what awaits 
 at every crossroads . The story is very easy to adapt to and catch on to . The jumping aspects 
 and clever hud displays on the character are amazing. EA hit this one out the ball bark and I could 
 really see a them taking this on as a deff. franchise . This game is a deff. buy or rent now buy 
 later like I did . I hope all enjoy as much as I have so far . The weapons on here to me are orginal 
 and very well rounded for the game . I think also the health style and various store points add 
 some great choice making to what to carry or not carry . The various suits I have not seen much 
 of a plus using them but they do look good . As far as the soundtrack , it is the perfect blend 
 of dark and heart thumping horror music . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Twinkle twinkle little star, how i wonder what you are... Up above the world so high, DEAD SPACE 
 ROCKS who can deny? Hopefully no one... Anyways this game is AMAZING from the floor up! Why? Well 
 check out the review!
  
  ----------------------
  Good:
  ~The graphics are absolutely stunning, as soon as you start the game your greeted by a marvelous 
 view of space and every centimeter of design inside the ship.
  
  ~The controls are easy to get use to and fun to use
  
  ~This game is actually SCARY! Which 
 is a pretty good thing
  
  ~The "monsters" in this game are all quite terrifying, and each have their own "combat style", 
 these are probably the MOST terrifying I have seen in any title.
  
  ~Speaking of combat, the combat system is also awesome, especially the MANY death scenes there 
 are in the game
  
  ~The games length is fairly long, on my first run it took me 15 hours to complete on Medium.
 
  
  ~Speaking of game play, this game has one of the deepest and best stories i have ever played, especially 
 for a survival horror... no cliffhangers, no gaps, no confusion without getting an answer soon, 
 and no BS!
  
  ~The sound and voice acting are also another amazing feature to the game, when watching videos 
 on your projector the characters mouths sync pretty much perfectly with what is being said, the 
 necromorphs (infected/monsters) Sound amazing as well
  
  ~The trophies involve skill and patience, but are fairly easy to get in the firs run, the harder 
 ones add extra replay value to the game
  
  --------------------
  Bad:
  ~There really isn't anything bad about this game at all other than the fact that replay value ceases 
 to exist.... even when wanting a trophy you missed... 
  
  
  Other than that this is a must buy for anyone looking for a thrill or Survival Horror that will 
 last them some time and give you a few scares 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiner000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  While game's in the 'horror' genre have been hit and miss, this one is dead on. From the first 
 moments figuring out your in game displays and menus, you'll just be amazed by the look of this 
 game. The graphics are great, While I can't say it's the absolute best looking game ever, you'll 
 never once be disappointed in the graphics, and you'll quite often say, wow that's neat.
  
  You'll truely feel suspense around almost every corner, and you can pretty much expect that they'll 
 appear behind you when least expected. The Zero-G environments are fun, and while the story won't 
 be an oscar winner, it's enough to get the game moving from one cool part to another. 
  
  This game came out of nowhere and in a part of there year where there will be ton's of great games 
 coming out, i'm glad i decided not to pass on this, in fact i wouldn't have forgiven myself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  If you're in the future, and you work on a spaceship, and you get a call telling you to go and 
 check out some remote colony because contact has mysteriously been lost, do yourself a favour and 
 call in sick that day. Skive for your life. The only reason space colonies, and the drifting spacecraft 
 spookily orbiting above them, stop communicating is because they've been overrun by bloodthirsty 
 monsters. This is scientific fact.
  
  Needless to say, things don't start well. The Kellion shuttle crashes, and the investigators are 
 attacked by fleshy shambling things as soon as they enter the Ishimura. Isaac is separated from 
 the two other survivors - computer technician Kendra Daniels and gruff military man Sgt. Zach Hammond 
 - and must make his way through the bowels of the ruined vessel to organise an escape plan.
  
  Control is instantly intuitive, but then it should be, since the game has basically stolen 
 the meat of the control scheme from Resident Evil 4. There's no jumping, climbing or crouching, 
 with environmental interactions carried out by following button prompts in the appropriate place. 
 You can move and open doors while aiming, while the d-pad offers quick access to your four weapon 
 slots. Health packs can be stockpiled and used with a hot button. Isaac picks up a couple of augmented 
 abilities along the way - Stasis, which slows down objects and enemies, and Kinesis, which allows 
 him to grab or drag objects from afar. These are sensibly activated by the face buttons modified 
 by the aiming button, as is reloading, so all your combat options are instantly accessible whenever 
 you have your gun raised. There's never any fumbling around trying to do two things at once in 
 the thick of the action.
  
  Combat itself is immensely satisfying. Remember the satisfaction you felt in Resident Evil when 
 you first exploded a zombie's head? Dead Space takes that concept to its logical extreme, with 
 a play model that not only allows but actively encourages you to shoot your enemies to pieces, 
 one bloody limb at a time. The alien monsters - or necromorphs as they're called - reanimate dead 
 human tissue, ya see, and repurpose it into grisly new forms. This means that headshots or a volley 
 of hits to the torso won't do the job.
  
  You need to shoot legs off to slow them down, blast away their arms and pincers, sever their heads 
 until there's nothing left but old meat. Combine this with the Stasis power, so you can methodically 
 dissect monsters as they slowly lunge towards you, and you've got a gimmick that remains fun even 
 after eleven hours of gameplay (the time on the clock at the end of my first run, by the way) . 
 Battles in zero gravity are even more amusing, as defeated enemies drift gruesomely upwards, spraying 
 gore and body parts as they go.
  
  Each comes with an alternate fire mode, some of which aren't really explained all that well, but 
 since almost every enemy simply races towards you, drooling and snarling, the times when you really 
 need to choose the best tool for the job are minimal at best. The very first weapon you get - the 
 plasma cutter - is as effective at the end of the game as it was at the start, even without many 
 upgrades. As such, the threat of the monsters never really has the power to terrify. Provided you're 
 reasonably frugal with the ammo, you're always capable of dismembering anything that comes your 
 way.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:29 pm PT
Review:  "Deep Space" is a horror masterpiece just like "Resident Evil 4" and "Gears of War". It plays just 
 like a third-person "Doom 3", but with less run 'n gun and more survival horror. The jump out moments 
 happen when you least expect and the visuals are too die for. Unfortunately, slowdown occurs when 
 the action gets frantic. Still, this is a visual treat for those who love great graphics tacked 
 onto a great story. In fact, "Dead Space" is a great game.
  
  The game's main inspiration is obviously "Alien", but "Event Horizon" and "The Thing" are also 
 referenced throughout. And if you loved "Resident Evil 4"s gunplay and upgrade system, than "Dead 
 Space" will thrill you from the absolute beginning. This is a state-of-the-art action-horror outing 
 with plenty of thrills and lots of gore. There hasnt't been this much bloodletting since "Gears 
 of War" and since the PS3 doesn't have a "Gears of War" like game, than fans will just have to 
 settle for this and the upcoming "Resistance 2: United We Fall". 
  
  Wait to go EA for releasing such a top-notch horror splatter title. This is more in the lines of 
 a product from Tecmo or Microsoft Studios. It's a great first entry to a classic franchise. Those 
 who were turned off by EA's previous 2008 offerings such as "Army of Two" and "Mercenaries 2" will 
 be pleased with such a polished in your face shooter. It's worth the retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: core_N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Audio: 
  Dead Space is aurally disturbing and pleasing at the same time. The atmospheric sounds, menus, 
 and even the map movement sounds will lure you into another realm. This title has a boosted sound 
 quality that I literally love. The quality of EVERY SOUND and the music are VERY HIGH. They did 
 this game the right way as far as the ears go.
  
  Visual:
  Dead Space has been perfected visually. It is a beautifully grotesque and grotty. It feels futuristic 
 and at the same time real. It produces visual beauty, yet feels as though you are really exploring 
 the Ishimura. My jaw dropped when I saw the Revolutionary Menu System. It looks 3D and that is 
 just the beginning. I wont spoil the surprises in-store, but you won't be disappointed. ;-) 
  
  Package:
  The whole game will make you want to scream. Literally!!! It has been a fair time 
 since I caught myself saying "Holy F*#king S#^t!!!" to a game. This game is disturbing, but the 
 sinister type of evil that keeps you enthralled. It will lull you into a sense of comfort, then 
 run your senses mach 4 into a brick-wall and back. I have enjoyed every moment of its playtime. 
 I suggest that you give it a chance too.
  
  PLATFORM:
  PS3 - Definitely the preferred method of dosage. The 360 version is excellent for its system, but 
 holds no comparison to the visual and auditory spectacle that the PS3 platform produces. Normally, 
 I don't see too much difference between games, because developers are making the games for multi-platforms. 
 However, this is a title that is definitely developed for each system respectively. I compared 
 both on the same TV and Sound Systems, but overall, the PS3 pleased my eyes with an almost realistic 
 visual quality. It is amazing the detail differences that you see when using the PS3 system. Pick-up 
 this version if you have both systems. Lastly, BOTH SYSTEMS HAVE THEIR AWARD SYSTEMS.
  XB360: Achievements 
  PS3: TROPHIES 
  Both: Equal amount of time and effort needed for the 
 complete award set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethereal_ShoKai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  From the get-go Dead Space is immersive and draws you in with its amazing graphics and sound system, 
 putting you right where you should be, in the seat of Issac Clarke. 
  
  The mood fits right into those cold-sweat situations where the fear is controlled just right to 
 make you fear that next corner down the hall, but not enough make it seem unreal or cheap/too intense 
 in any sense.
  
  The concept of a no HUD just makes it better, since in reality you wouldn't see a glowing box above 
 your head telling you how much stuff you had left until you died. 
  
  Combat is fun and revolutionary, it defeats any horror game I've played before (just my opinion) 
 and the concept of strategic dismemberment strays from the usual  
 making you actually think about your limited ammo and how best to kill your enemy with optimal 
 swiftness and brutality. 
  
  The fear grips and will make your controller MELT in your hands, and trust me, you WILL jump and 
 you WILL sink about 6 inches into the back of your couch. 
  
  Enemies are varied and smart tactics to take out each of them makes you keep switching your battle 
 tactics to increase replayability and stops the game from getting repetitive. 
  
  The zero-G... my god the zero-G. Its, how can I put this in to terms thats not eh..., it is EPIC. 
 There I said it, happy? The sound system filling to nothing but your ragged breaths and your heartbeat, 
 the freedom to jump to any angle and reasses any situation, and the intensity of fighting your 
 enemies of whom can fly out of figgin-NOWHERE just makes my jaw drop, then break off, and do about 
 three cart-wheels on the floor (WHOO!) . 
  
  The storyline is no small deal either, it's filled with drama and conflicting paths of characters 
 that weaves itself far back then you can imagine when you first turn it on. The chilling audio 
 files and disturbing video files puts the game on a whole new level of realism and disturbia as 
 it draws you in through every scream, every cry of help, and the pleading eyes of the crew who 
 believed they might... just might make it out, who sadly didn't. This beats a horror movie anyday.
 
  
  The things you fight, the Necromorphs can fill you with fear, yes they can fill you with fear even 
 in the form of a baby. Yes there are mutated, screaming babys that will attack you on the slight 
 notion they juuuust might be able to tear your face off, and yes you will be able to rip them off 
 and punt-kick thier little mutated hides on a trip to your mighty steel booted foot. What really 
 puts them into the  is not only because of their viscious 
 appendeges, but their remaining signs of humanity. Twisted ribs, warped yet recognizable faces, 
 human hands reaching out for help that have been mangled onto the wrong side of the human anatomy 
 gives a sense of remorse and thought. "These things were once HUMAN" 
  
  Now here's a thought, there were 1000 crew members on the ship... and now they're all dead... or 
 mutated... or crazy, now there is just you on this ship going against the things that killed the 
 1000 members of the crew, the crew-turned-necromorph by the things that killed them, aaaaaand other 
 unspeakable horrors you don't know about in the biggest ship in its class (IT'S DUMONGOUS I assure 
 you) . Yeah paints a pretty good picture. 
  
  Anyway I won't spoil any of the "OHhhh... MYyy... G. GODd..." moments for you, but I recommend you 
 DEFINATELY get this game if you like a gripping story, a fun game mechanic, lots of shooting and 
 pieces of whatever it is flying everywhere, and a fresh experiance of melted into your seat horror, 
 then I suggest you get Dead Space for 360, PS3, or PC. 
  
  Good luck... you're gonna need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afro_Samurai
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I manage to get a fair way throught the game since I bought it. I must admit that I was a little 
 thrown off by the controls at first, but after the first 30 min. or so, you barely even notice 
 that you've already mastered the controls ! That's because you are too busy looking AND LISTENING 
 for any sign of monsters. That's right folks. Monsters don't just run at you screaming like they 
 usually do. Some just sit in a corner and jump on ya as soon as you pass by ! Scared the crap outta 
 me last night ! Graphics are very good. As you progress further and further, bits and pieces of 
 the story unfold. Basically, survival depends on you progressing further. And, it's not like horror 
 games before. I mean, you can't just go running about and not expect to run into a few zombies 
 here and there. You forced to progress slowly otherwise a zombie jumps back up from the dead and 
 kills ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevebord
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  A totally immersive gaming experience. From the moment you encounter your first necromorph you 
 realize this is not you run of the mill shooter. The visuals and soundtrack are stunning to say 
 the least. This game really will startle you with its soundtrack, especially if enjoyed through 
 a 5:1 surround sound system. If your quick you can download a free suit upgrade from either PSN 
 or XBL it offers a cool look and upgrades your armor without paying for an upgrade at the in game 
 store. Speaking of Upgrades the first thing you should do is upgrade the damage that your weapons 
 can deliver. This will come in handy as you start having large scale battles with multiple necromorphs. 
 There is a lot of backtracking through areas much like the Resident Evil titles so remember your 
 paths or you will be running around in circles from time to time. The map is not the greatest I 
 have ever used and can be slightly frustrating but it gets its job done. The map system is the 
 weakest link in the game in my humble opinion. This game is a must play for all fans of survival 
 horror/shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancewell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  After checking out many of the games that are coming out this fall, I somehow overlooked Dead Space. 
 I read a short paragraph about it on a PS3 forum and I did not see myself being so interested in 
 this game later on. At that time, I was sure Dead Space would not be on my Fall To Buy List. 
 
  
  Lo and behold, after watching some videos of Dead Space on a boring Tuesday, I knew I would buy 
 this game. Now, let's get on with the review.
  
  The first thing to talk about is the lack of a HUD. Health would be displayed by the back of the 
 Rig and ammo would be displayed on the weapon itself. I found this to be quite awesome and it made 
 the game much more immersing. 
  
  When people said Dead Space was survival horror, they were only partly right. This is nothing like 
 Resident Evil 1, but it delivers. The feeling that a necromorph will pop behind you and skewer 
 you is always present. The game really keeps this feeling up with the occasional blackouts and 
 sounds of the necromorphs. For example, I was walking towards the door of a corridor when I heard 
 the quick footsteps of something. I was pretty sure some damn alien would be rushing at me; I quickly 
 spun around. I looked everywhere, but there was no necromorph. 
  
  There are some "BOO!" moments present in the game. I remember walking Isaac through a hallway with 
 a pile of flesh in the middle. I thought it was just another dead human, so I didn't pay attention. 
 Lo and behold, that pile of flesh rose up and screeched at me when I got closer. Of course, after 
 that I made sure to test each lying pile of flesh to make sure it was dead. I was amazed at how 
 these aliens could play dead; AI pretending to be dead to ambush you was a first for me. Usually 
 it's me pretending to be dead to catch AI enemy off guard.
  
  The strategic dismemberment system makes up the survival part. Ammo does not come easy, so every 
 shot counts. You really have to be precise in order to slice off the limbs or else you'll just 
 be wasting ammo either shooting into the air or into the necromorph's body. This added a thrill 
 to fighting each necromorph; even more so when there's more than one necromorph rushing at you 
 to eat your face.
  
  This game is a must get if you enjoyed RE4 at all. To put it in simple terms, Dead Space is RE4 
 but with aliens, less ammo, more scares, and awesomer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinx3r
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  An overall solid game! Usually you get these high expectations of major titles, and they end up 
 being a let down.. Not this time. Dead Space delivers to fans of the scifi/shooter series, and 
 doesn't charge a delivery fee  :) Great complexity of mechanics that are easy to control. It strays 
 away from your standard weapons you would expect and adds a twist to the ingenuity of your arsenal. 
 Has the eerie-ness of a Silent Hill, (what's around that corner?) mixed with a tactical futuristic 
 Resistance Fall of Man. The kinesis and stasis are great additions to your killing spree and a 
 great way to outdo and counter your enemies. I am only on level 3 thus far, and already early on 
 I can't wait to see what else they are going to surprise me with. I am also liking the objective 
 tracker they offer. It allows for you to go back and search for hidden items, and easily find your 
 way back to your current objective, without getting disoriented on where the hell you are. Great 
 game.. I suggest you invest in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake_Plisken88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Graphics: the visuals are great, not the best graphics seen to date but the art style was good 
 and it presented the dark, scary tone well. It reminds me of Bio Shock. 
  
  Sound: amazing sounds can be heard, from the plasma rounds being fired to the screams and scary 
 noises coming from the other rooms and walls, at times when I heard them I was scared to continue, 
 which is a great feeling in this type of game. 
  
  Presentation: the no HUD at first might throw you off, but you get used to it and wonder why we 
 need them in games blocking are view, the menu interface, map items etc is done amazingly well. 
 The environments and overall feeling of the game is perfect for providing scares from time to time, 
 it really immerses you in the game. 
  
  Story: from what I seen so far it's good, it's one of those stories where you know nothing at the 
 beginning (quick intro, not much back story) but little by little, it unravels into a spic story. 
 
  
  Game play: at first I thought the moment was a bit clunky, but you get used to it, the melee attacks 
 could have been better, the aiming is great though and watching limb fly off is great :) .
  
  Conclusion: a game that for me at least came out of nowhere, I was not expecting or even following 
 this game at all, with all the great titles coming out this year, good game can get lost but this 
 one shines and it will go down as one of the better games this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  It came to a tough choice for me. Silent Hill: Homecoming, or Dead Space.
  
  Hmm, indeed. 
  
  On the one hand I have been a Silent Hill fan since the beginning of the series. 
 Totally immersed into the realism of that town of spooks and demons. But for me, Silent Hill Peaked 
 at 2. And in my humble opinion has been on the decline since. 3 was a fine game, but didn't really 
 hold me as closely to the bosom of that tragic town as the second did. And 'The Room' pretty much 
 locked me away from it and ... well I'll just say I was nonplussed. 
  
  Homecoming seems to be another long sweep of a scythe that is just hoping to reap more money for 
 an IP that's running out of steam. Which is okay, I'm sure it's a fine game. Knowing me, I'm likely 
 to go out and pick it up at some point, anyway. I'm just afraid of being disappointed. And I'm 
 afraid, just based on what I've read and seen, that Homecoming will be... a bit 'canned'.
  
  That said, I plucked Dead Space up, Made my purchased and headed home.
  
  I haven't regretted 
 my decision at all.
  
  Dead Space is an immersive, atmospheric, and wholly gratifying horror game. You can tell a lot 
 of love and care went into its creation. 
  
  I mean, let's face facts here. It's really hard to scare anyone that's been a fan of horror games 
 in the last handful of years. We've been jolted by sound hits, and flashing lights, grotesque enemies 
 and psychological thrills for quite a few games. Any fan of the genre can probably attest to more 
 yawns than bug-eyed thrill, lately.
  
  Dead Space brought me back to that thrill. For the first time in a while, I was pounding on the 
 X button in a frantic attempt to get that THING off me. Turning to blast at it, while another gruesome 
 necromorph wailed at me only a baby's whisper away.
  
  It's an engaging experience.
  
  The only flaw I can see with the game is that it really doesn't have much replay value, aside from 
 getting all the trophies. And that problem stems from what makes it so great. The pacing. They 
 paced the game really well for a one-time play through. But once you've seen it, you've seen it.
 
  
  But you can't really blame them. It's just that I've been desensitized, I suppose.
  
  I give it a 9. 
  
  It Looks Great. The Sound is Great. The Story is Great.
  Just... Maybe 
 one or two plays and you're pretty much done. But I think it's well worth that first experience.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruceJuice_89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  EA has managed to put out a substantial quantity of sub-par games, but as I stated, don't assume 
 that Dead Space will follow that trend. This is a fantastic game and EA should be congratulated 
 for producing this fantastic piece of work.
  
  Dead Space is an incredibly immersive game that will suck you right into the story and action.
 
  
  Graphics/Visuals: 9.5
  The visuals of Dead Space are absolutely fantastic. I would often be caught just looking around 
 at the beautiful interiors and the jaw-dropping space exteriors. Only after a Necromorph was in 
 my face knocking Isaac to the ground would I come back to reality. The scene that comes to mind 
 when I think of the Dead Space visuals is early in Chapter 4, when Isaac enters the bridge area 
 for the first time. Looking out the windows and seeing hundreds of asteroids flying by blew my 
 mind.
  
  A very unique part of Dead Space's visuals is the complete lack of a HUD. All that the player needs 
 to know is integrated right into Isaac's Rig (body armor) . Also, any visual communications or menus 
 (such as the shop's) appear in front of Isaac as holograms. I found that these touches helped make 
 the game just that much more immersive.
  
  The research that the development team put into their environments must have been incredible, as 
 everything moves, behaves, and looks exactly as I expect it would. For example, I must have spent 
 a couple minutes just bumping into junk and bodies that were floating in space just to watch how 
 they would move. Furthermore, the level of detail in those environments is quite extensive. It 
 seemed that the team was going for a sort of Gothic style, and they caught that essence very well.
 
  
  Character design was also very well done. I loved the look of Isaac and his Rig. The Necromorphs 
 were well done as well, it was clear that the development team put effort into making clear that 
 it was a human body, simply terribly twisted. These are fantastic graphics that immerse the player 
 into the Dead Space universe.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  I was extremely pleased with the quality of the sound effects. Everything from Isaac breathing 
 heavily in his helmet to screeching Necromorphs pleased me greatly. The only reason this category 
 is dropped to 9.0 is that the voice acting isn't up to the standard of the rest of the sound.
 
  
  It was very disturbing to be walking through a corridor, hearing only the click of my boots, when 
 I would start to hear the rustle and screech of a Necromorph. I would quickly look around and see 
 nothing before continuing on my way, hoping that some creepy devil didn't drop from the ceiling 
 right onto me. I liked it, it was unsettling and immersive. In fact, those are my key words for 
 the sounds of Dead Space: unsettling and immersive.
  
  The scenes in which Isaac is walking through the vacuum of space have some of the coolest sound 
 I have heard. We all know that sound can't travel in space, but this is how it would sound if it 
 did. The guns "echo" and sound muffled while Isaac's and the Necromorph's yelps are blurry. It's 
 difficult to describe, it must be heard to be understood.
  
  The music must have been pretty good, as I don't remember it at all. I was never pulled back into 
 reality by the music, it simply led me along, keeping me immersed at all times.
  
  Like I stated earlier, the voice acting is what drops my sound rating a little. Not that it's bad, 
 far from it, but it is no Legacy of Kain in that department. Overall, however, the sound matches 
 the visuals perfectly and keeps the player lost in Dead Space.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0
  I know, it's dangerous to give a 10.0, but I genuinely believe that this game deserves it. The 
 story is well told, the mechanics all work very well, and the game does what it set out to do: 
 give a few scares.
  
  The story is very strong. I personally haven't read any of the comic book prequels, but if those 
 stories are as well done as the game's story, I will be all over them. Right from the start, the 
 player is pulled in as Isaac is watching a video message from a woman... who is this woman? His 
 wife? A sister, perhaps? That was what started it all for me, who is she, and why is she so upset? 
 From there it just gets better as Isaac begins to unravel what happened upon the Ishimura while 
 trying to simultaneously escape and send out a distress beacon.
  
  The game's mechanics are beautifully done. Going into it, I was expecting a Resident Evil-style 
 control scheme: very rigid and tank-like. I was pleasantly surprised when the controls were fluid. 
 I could move like a human and never had any trouble operating any of my "mining tools" or gadgets. 
 The combat system of "strategic dismemberment" works beautifully. With each new enemy I had to 
 figure out the best way to cut them apart, or else I might get into more trouble than if I just 
 left them alone! That had been another area that I was wary of before playing, I thought that it 
 might be clunky or cheesy, but I was wrong. The shooting and dismemberment was very clean and I 
 feel that it was very smooth and not at all cheesy. Although gory, the gore wasn't there for gore's 
 sake. It all served a purpose and had been deliberately done.
  
  Finally, I'll admit. I may be an adult, but I still jumped several times while playing this game. 
 Who wouldn't after be covered in a swarm of little spider things, or being pulled into a small 
 hole by a huge tentacle. I'm no stranger to horror games. I've played titles such as Resident Evil 
 and Silent Hill, and yet Dead Space still managed to keep me on the edge of my seat, worrying that 
 I might be jumped from behind by some spiky beast. I feel like this is how survival-horror should 
 be done. Short on life, short on ammo, short on chance of survival.
  
  Time/Replay Value: 9.0
  I haven't actually even completed my first playthrough yet, but I know 
 that I'll be coming back to try on a harder difficulty and with my spiffy Obsidian Rig. Although 
 it might run dry after a second or third playthrough, I still feel that it is definitely worth 
 the sixty dollars. Being a game that supports trophies is definitely a plus in replayability, as 
 players may have to come back several times to unlock all of them.
  
  Summary:
  Dead Space is a fantastic game. The graphics and sound help to pull the players in and the wonderful 
 story keeps them there. The controls are smooth and it is definitely a little scary. This is a 
 game that I would recommend to everyone, especially if you like games such as Resident Evil 4 or 
 Bioshock.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics/Visuals: 9.5
  Sound: 9.0
  Gameplay: 10.0
  Time/Replay Value: 9.0
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  As the title states. I really haven't been scared from a game since Resident Evil 2 on the Playstation. 
 But anyway about the game. This is finally a REAL survivor horror game.
  
  Not sure if anyone has read the comics that lead up to the game. But if you do like this game, 
 I'd recommend checking them out. To get a nice back story of whats happen. The game itself does 
 a great job of telling you what has happened. With; Video Logs , Voice Logs and Written Logs.
 
  
  When you first start playing. I think the first thing you notice is how beautiful the game looks. 
 Easily one of the best looking game to date. Finally when you get to move , theres no HUD (Heads 
 up Display) . Like you would normally see in FPS/3rd Person shooters. Everything is shown on your 
 character Isaac Clarke. Your life is shown on his Spine. And the Ammo counter, is shown when your 
 aiming. I personally like this. Stasis Meter is also on your back. It really adds to the game. And 
 it makes if feel more like your in the game rather then outside and playing the character. Even 
 when you click to your inventory menu/mission its all displayed in front of you. There is no pause 
 when you do it. So don't go "Whats my mission again?" and look when your being attacked.
  
  For the combat, it plays almost like your typical shooter. Cept in this game you want to try and 
 dismember the guys rather then just shoot them in the chest. By blowing off limbs, head , etc. 
 You do more damage. Adds a nice twist and tactic to the game. So remember that, so you don't dump 
 rounds upon rounds into the monsters. Probably the best feature oddly enough is the sound effects. 
 From Isaac's voice being muffled since he has a mask on. His grunts are the same as well when your 
 hit you get that masked grunt. Whats even cooler is being out in space. But I'll stop there, you 
 really have to play the game to appreciate the sound effects.
  
  Overall I love what EA has done with this game. I know they've made some crap. But this game is 
 one of their best made. So if you like Survival Horror/Action/Adventure then this game is great 
 for you. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok where do i start, first of all the graphics are horrible and the voice acting is really really 
 bad. So to all you people thinking of buying this game.... Go and get it right now!!!! ok ok i was 
 lying in first paragraph but now that i got your attention let me tell you why you should buy this 
 game... simply because we need to support companies that put out quality products like this. Seriously 
 the graphics are sick (right up there with mgs4) not only does the game look beautiful but it handles 
 like a charm. And personally after having a hard time with silent hill with its no invert camera 
 this is just what the doctor ordered. Im not gonna write any detalis about the game ill let you 
 guys discover it for yourselves but make no mistake if you have a hi-def T. V you must go get this 
 game right now its crazy. ( I own both ps3 and a 360 and at the risk of pissing off the 360 fanboys, 
 get it on ps3. The suit you can download for ps3 pawns the 360's) Dead Space = 2008 game of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadworlDsurfer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of the best survival/horror games in a long time. The revolutionary "no hud" 
 and no pause game play make the player feel that much more immersed in the game. Work benches that 
 can be used to modify weapons and your suit are a welcome add in to the game and add a level of 
 customization similar to the KOTOR series. In some more open leveled games such as Dead Space and 
 Bioshock it can be disorienting so the addition of a "breadcrumb trail" ie. Fable 2 makes finding 
 your next objective relatively stress free. Before i played Dead Space i feared that it like many 
 other games would not live up to its reputation. After the opening cut scene ended however all 
 of my doubts were forgotten and the action took-off. All in all this game feels much longer than 
 the recent Silent Hill Homecoming and is absolutely worth picking up for any fans of the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelly-93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Ignore my time spent playing part... i didn't beat the game yet. I just wanted to write this review 
 because i wanted everyone to know how the game is. So lets start.
  
  Gameplay: Like I said very unique. Its not really your regular shooter. It has a Gears of War feeling 
 to it, how you can massacre the body even when the body is down and dead. The enemies can knock 
 you down or start ripping you apart and the camera changes its position... sort of what Gears of 
 War 2 will be bringing. The weapons are also unique. You can move stuff around with some guns. I 
 loved how your life gauge is actually on your body. There is nothing additional on the screen. 
 Everything feels alive, as holograms pop up when you select guns. Gravity jumps are fun... but can 
 get a bit tedious. You loose your stance and forget where things are since its upside down. You 
 have a think a bit. But I am not that far into the game maybe I will get used to it. 
  
  Graphics are great so far. No glitches or technical difficulties so far...
  
  And GOD, does 
 the story feel organic.. At first I thought it was all run and gun. Like most games like that have 
 no story or a bad one. This one however is different. It feels organic. As if people actually lived 
 here. You can see stores, advertisements etc..
  
  As upto this point in the game, I highly recommend it. There are some great ideas in this game 
 and its well executed. 
  
  The game will get better I hope as it gets deeper. I am not so far into the game yet... I started 
 about 6 hours or so. I will edit this review when I am finished with the game...
  
  I hope I helped you make a decision for those of you who are having second thoughts. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
