-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Def Jam: Icon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/defjam3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strong, uncensored soundtrack.
 Often-humorous story mode that stays true to its characters.
 Great-looking character models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay isn't very deep.
 Feels too slow.
 Lacking any sort of chain-snatching mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 6.8, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,065 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Chicago
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Def Jam: Icon plays well enough, but it really shines thanks to its crazy story and healthy roster. 
 

  Hip-hop has always been a competitive form of music. Going back to the '70s and '80s, with such 
 crews as Cold Crush or Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, a big part of rapping has always 
 been about telling the world how great you are, especially if it comes at the expense of a rival 
 emcee. EA and hip-hop record label Def Jam teamed up a few years back to make hip-hop-themed fighting 
 games, which made sense at the time. But the first two games took the nuts and bolts of a wrestling 
 game, put it on the street instead of in the ring, and threw in a whole bunch of rappers. Unless 
 you count Macho Man Randy Savage's 2003 rap album as a success, rap and wrestling just don't mix, 
 even though the previous Def Jam games somehow managed to be pretty cool in spite of that. But 
 EA also seems to have come to this conclusion because as the third game in the Def Jam series, 
 Def Jam: Icon, trades in the wrestling for a unique fighting style, coming up with an even more 
 ridiculous and fun story mode. All around, it's a good, if somewhat simple, time.  

          The roster is mostly focused on rappers who are making an impact today, though a few older 
 guys might have been interesting.     

  The game's roster of licensed rappers is deep and varied, representing the coasts and everywhere 
 in between. The game includes Big Boi, Bun B, E-40, The Game, Ghostface Killah, Jim Jones, Lil 
 Jon, Ludacris, Method Man, Mike Jones, Paul Wall, Redman, Sean Paul, Sticky Fingaz, T. I., and Young 
 Jeezy, among others. A few nonrappers make appearances as characters in the story mode, including 
 actor Anthony Anderson, who's great as the seemingly evil record exec, Troy Dollar. Def Jam/Warner 
 Music Group exec Kevin Liles also plays a character in the story, and there's a pretty good cameo 
 from another hip-hop mogul as well. While there's plenty of people in the game, you'll probably 
 come up with more than a few omissions if you think about it for very long. For example, such acts 
 as LL Cool J and Run-DMC are still synonymous with the label's origins, but you won't find them 
 here. These days, the label is better known for its president and CEO, Jay-Z, who's also missing 
 in action. On top of that, there have been plenty of often-controversial wars in hip-hop over the 
 years, and it's unfortunate that you can't re-create some of those rivalries here. Seeing Jay-Z 
 and Nas, The Game and 50 Cent, or even Dr. Dre and Dee Barnes beat the heck out of each other at 
 a gas station would have been worth the price of admission on its own. The game has a passable 
 create-a-character mode that works just like every other EA game these days, which includes all 
 the weird sliders you can use to make your characters have awful-looking foreheads and jaw shapes. 

  The atmosphere and over-the-top story mode is the best part about Def Jam: Icon. Called "build 
 a label," this mode opens with your created character as a nobody. You defend Carver, a hotshot 
 record exec and are quickly welcomed into the fold for, you know, keeping it real. From there, 
 you rise up to become an A&amp; R man, which in game terms means that you beat people up so that 
 other people will sign to your label. You interact with characters via e-mail, which is often read 
 aloud by the involved characters. As you sign artists, you'll use your income to set release budgets 
 for their songs, which is an investment that can earn you even more money. Along the way, you'll 
 get stuck with plenty of bills, including Mike Jones' phone bill, The Game's paternity tests, and 
 Ghostface Killah dropping off of his tour so that he can go make "a video game with gorillas and 
 ninjas and s***." You can opt out of making these payments, but that's no way to keep your artists 
 happy.  

  As you rake in more money and purchase fly-looking clothes, you'll start to attract women, who 
 also suck money out of you to stay happy. There are also plenty of twists and turns. For example, 
 as the money coming in increases, things get very serious, very quickly; complete with dirty cops 
 who love to plant evidence, rival record execs who want to steal your artists, and scandalous women. 
 Things escalate so much that it becomes completely comical, almost like a so-bad-it's-good hood 
 movie. All that's missing is Master P and a truckload of stolen cell phones. But even though it's 
 all sort of silly, it still manages to feel authentic. If anything, the "white cop keeping you 
 down" tale wraps up a little too abruptly.  

          Each level has spots that you don't want to be standing in for too long.     

  It's 
 got a rock-solid premise and a surprisingly compelling story. Unfortunately, the part where you 
 have to actually fight is where Def Jam: Icon kind of breaks down. Overall, the switch from wrestling 
 to fighting is an improvement, and Def Jam: Icon is unlike any traditional fighting game. The game 
 was developed by the same team that handled Fight Night Round 3, and it shows. The fighting is 
 methodical, to the point of feeling sluggish in spots. It's very focused on fooling your opponent 
 by mixing up your high and low attacks, which can be stopped by blocks or counters, which can be 
 stopped by grabs and throws, which can be stopped by those same high and low attacks. So there's 
 balance to the basics of the fighting system, which are roughly the same regardless of which character 
 you choose, even though differences in fighting styles mean that some characters are somewhat better 
 at one aspect of combat than others. There's a second layer to the game that's a bit more stylish. 
 The right analog stick is used for grabs and for your strongest strikes. As in Fight Night, making 
 circular or tapping motions on the stick will unleash harder attacks, and you can go high or low 
 with these too. What's more, if you taunt before unleashing those attacks, your attack will land 
 even harder, often knocking down your opponent in the process.  

  Keeping your opponent down is key because you want to make sure your song is playing. Yes, the 
 music in Def Jam: Icon also plays a role in the fighting. Before each fight, you select which song 
 you want to have as "your" song. At any point during the fight, you can hold down L2, then rotate 
 the two analog sticks to switch songs. Your character reacts to this motion by making turntable 
 motions in thin air. If you're fighting while your song is playing, you'll get a damage bonus, 
 so it's handy. You can counter song-switch attempts by hitting L2 while the other player is spinning, 
 which makes you stomp the ground, knocking your foe down. The other turntable move rewinds the 
 current song back to the beginning and causes the entire background to explode. OK, perhaps that 
 requires a bit more explanation.     

   

  Every stage pulsates in time with the music, and everything in the level sort of explodes on its 
 own. This usually occurs after every four bars of music, though some songs explode more or less 
 frequently. Each level has a number of dangerous spots that you don't want to be standing in when 
 this happens. A constantly burning-out car swings out to the side, hitting anyone standing in the 
 way. In the club, pole dancers whip around the pole, kicking anyone that's too close. Speakers 
 shoot out bass waves that send people flying. A helicopter whips around in the air and nails unsuspecting 
 rappers with its tail. Camera equipment swings around, lights fall out of the rafters of a club, 
 gas pumps explode... it's crazy. Because you can do a turntable move to force an explosion, a big 
 part of the game is knocking or throwing your opponent into a danger zone, then scratching the 
 song back to make everything pop, which deals a good amount of damage and sends your enemy flying 
 across the level.  

          About the only part of this game that doesn't feel authentic is the general lack of guns, 
 but they'll show up, too.     

  The Xbox 360 version of the game lets you import your own music, but imported songs don't seem 
 to work quite as well as the songs on the soundtrack. It feels like the game is trying to detect 
 the beats of your music and time the explosions accordingly, but it doesn't do a very good job 
 of it. Also, to do it, you'll have to rip music to your Xbox 360's hard drive and put it in a playlist 
 named "Def Jam Icon." This isn't all that convenient. Also, the "my soundtrack" mode is the only 
 place you can do this, so you can't bring your music into the rest of the modes unless you override 
 the entire soundtrack from the guide menu, which prevents the pulsating backgrounds from working 
 properly. The PS3 version lacks this feature, but because it wasn't implemented all that well on 
 the 360, you aren't missing that much, which is unfortunate because it's a really neat idea.  

 
  All in all, the fighting system is unlike anything you'd expect to see in a fighting game. Even 
 though it feels balanced and, on paper, looks sort of complicated, it ends up feeling a bit too 
 simple in the end. Every single move is a guessing game, and you rarely get a free second hit or 
 any kind of real combo opportunity. All that guessing can get a bit tedious. Additionally, the 
 computer-controlled fighters are quick to grab you the second you block and seem almost inhuman 
 when it comes to blocking your attacks. But they've got a weakness that's just shy of being a full-fledged 
 exploit. If you back away a few steps, you can usually taunt your way up to them and tap down on 
 the right analog stick twice, which unleashes a straight, low attack. The CPU player usually won't 
 block this attack, and the taunts ensure that you'll knock your opponents down if you make the 
 hit, giving you time to back off and set up for another one. In a lot of cases, you can ride this 
 tactic for the entire fight, but it isn't 100 percent effective, especially on the harder difficulty 
 setting.  

  The solution to dealing with the spotty AI is, as always, playing with another person. Def Jam: 
 Icon has a local versus mode, as well as online multiplayer. The online works as you'd expect, 
 with ranked and unranked games. The game has a series of text-based taunts that are sent to your 
 opponent, depending on what happens. For example, if a player disconnects on you, there's a specific 
 quitter taunt. You can customize these taunts, though the game blocks you from using profanity 
 in your taunts. Considering how uncensored and full of cursing the rest of the game is, that's 
 sort of lame. And sure enough, the message that pops up when you try to swear says, "We know it's 
 lame." Great. Good to know that everyone is on board with its lameness. The online game isn't quite 
 as responsive as the offline is, which can make blocking a flurry of attacks a bit problematic, 
 but since the other player is also saddled with the same lag issues, it doesn't seem to give one 
 player an advantage. The PlayStation 3 version of the game doesn't have voice chat, leaving you 
 with no way to bust freestyles or generally curse up a storm while fighting. Maybe that's for the 
 best.  

  Most of the game's cursing comes from the music itself. There's a lot of fantastic, uncensored 
 music on the Def Jam: Icon soundtrack, including songs from almost every one of the rappers in 
 the game. There are also a few other classics, such as "Ante Up" by M. O. P. and "Hate Me Now" by 
 Nas. But there's one really weird case of censoring in E-40's "Tell Me When To Go." The word "Hebrews" 
 is chopped out of the line "imagine all the Hebrews goin' dumb/dancing on top of chariots and turning 
 tight ones." Perhaps this is not the preferred nomenclature these days, but it's hardly worth cutting 
 out in this context, particularly when you take into account the sheer number of times that the 
 infamous "n word" turns up, which creates a very creepy double standard. The rest of the audio 
 is really great, with plenty of flavor-filled quotes from the rappers themselves during fights 
 and taunts. The game really manages to capture the larger-than-life stage personas of the rappers. 
 Hearing E-40 scream "bitch" in his own special way in a video game might be reason enough to buy 
 it. It definitely earns its M rating for lyrics alone, with all of the cursing, misogyny, and needless 
 glorification of marijuana you'd expect to hear.  

          Each rapper has a good number of spoken taunts and quotes that bring life to the game. 
     

  The graphics back up the audio quite well. The rappers look a lot like their real-life counterparts, 
 and they get beat up nicely as the fights progress. The game's slow pace leaves plenty of room 
 for good, smooth animation, though some of the transitions that hook the animations together still 
 look a little off at times. Also, the animation for different characters is dependent on their 
 fighting style. So everyone that fights in the "ghetto blaster" fighting style moves the same, 
 and so on. That means you'll get a little tired of the movement fast. Characters even share taunt 
 animations. The backgrounds also look really awesome, and the colors of the level change slightly 
 depending on which song is playing. The effect of the backgrounds moving and pulsing in time with 
 the music is very cool, which overall makes it a great-looking game.  

  The pace and style of the combat in Def Jam: Icon clearly shows that it came from the guys and 
 girls who worked on Fight Night Round 3. Yes, this is technically a 3D fighting game, but you wouldn't 
 call it competition for the Virtua Fighters and the Tekkens of the world. The lack of a real combo 
 system and its heavy emphasis on move/countermove gameplay make the game more suited for players 
 who like fighting, but can't be bothered to learn any special moves. But that's not to say it has 
 no depth at all. On that note, it's likely to appeal to players who liked Fight Night Round 3 as 
 well. But there's much more to Def Jam: Icon than its gameplay. The way it handles the rappers 
 and the way its story mode plays out make it a must for hip-hop fans... unless you're still waiting 
 for some sort of Lupe Fiasco/Common backpacking simulator.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  def jam icon is basically a game where its just famous rappers beating the crap out of each other. 
 the game begins in some city new york or something and your manger or fight manger gets shot out 
 of no where and your taken two years back in the past when you meet him. before that you beat up 
 some guy whose name i do not remeber and why he fought him i also dont remeber at a club and he 
 see's you fight him and he sponsers you to fight people for other people and on the way people 
 join the group and you will sometimes play as them. 
  
  the controls in the game are almost impossibl to master because there sometimes frustrating and 
 can piss you of alot like to grab someone you have to push up on the right anolog stick and half 
 the time youll just miss it because your not close enough to the guy or hell grab you back. The 
 Ai characters or the person you battling will alos piss you off because once he keeps hitting you 
 theres no way to get off unless you walk away. the movement in the game is kinda of stupid because 
 you move at snails pace when getting up unless you press x to do a hit combo though everthing is 
 slow in the game including the loading. Whats dissapointing is that you cant run because i think 
 one of these people would do a run in kick at someone to knock them down. The graphics in the game 
 are very good it makes it feel like a next gen consle and the soundtrack is also very good because 
 all the people you play in the game, they made those songs. people like redman and ludicrise. The 
 enviroment in the game is werid because the sound controls the enviroment and theres one control 
 where your doing air dj and when you finish it something happens like gassoline will blow up or 
 a car will hit you or your oppement.
  
  The Good
  Amazing graphics
  Good soundtrack
  Smart choice of charaters
  Neat enviroments
  
  The Bad
  Broken controls
  Ai gets annoying
 
  Snail pace
  Very long loading times
  
  Def jam icon could of have been a insanly great fighting game but it falls short of broken controls 
 and other stuff if your thinking about buying this game rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrcek_cro
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game is disappointing for me because its previous games. Def Jam: Fight for NY was best. This 
 is f******. Not same type of fighting game. Here is only one mode of fight:1 vs 1!!!!!!! Only thing 
 that is better is graphics. There is just a bit of cinematics whats bad. And what i hate at most 
 is this stupid dj controls, you can make eartquake WTF???!!! It's stupid maybe be good if it would 
 cost 30$ not 60$. And moves aren't fluid.
  
  This game is disappointing for me because its previous games. Def Jam: Fight for NY was best. This 
 is f******. Not same type of fighting game. Here is only one mode of fight:1 vs 1!!!!!!! Only thing 
 that is better is graphics. There is just a bit of cinematics whats bad. And what i hate at most 
 is this stupid dj controls, you can make eartquake WTF???!!! It's stupid maybe be good if it would 
 cost 30$ not 60$. And moves aren't fluid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redninja302
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  What happened to the the good def jam games that were fun?
  The controls on this game sucks, the game play sucks, the only thing that was good about it , was 
 the graphics. Waste of money and a Waste of time. Can we really call this a interactive fighting 
 game?
  
  Multi-player:
  
  It doesn't even have a free for all anymore, no 4 players, and no Co - op battles (2 vs 2) . I found 
 this revolting. The only thing that they had going was the versus , and the solo and they even 
 managed to screw that up because they don't even have as much characters to pick in the multi-player. 
 In other Fighting games they have at least 3 or more options in the multi-player category that 
 could get you interactive and addicted to the game.
  
  Comparison:
  
  The def jam fight for New York had a bunch of awesomeness packed in it such as the story, game 
 play , controls , people , techniques, knock- outs , and even the good multi-player options that 
 you could choose from. Def jam vendetta was also better then this junk , those are the only two 
 def jam games that live up to there maker, but this one was very disappointing in every way.
  
  Story: 
  Didn't really like the story as much as fight for NY or vendetta but , i got to 
 admit the story wasn't that bad. But still if they wanted to make a better story they probably 
 could.
  
  Difficulty :
  The difficulty on this game was hard because the people you play are slow and you have to make 
 sure to dodge the blows by diving around like a parana. There are areas that have hazard zones.
 
  You gotta watch out that the person doesn't throw you into a hazard area because u get smashed, 
 flinged , sonic boomed , And even crushed by a parliament building! well maybe not by a building 
 but being hit by a building would be pretty funny and amusing. If you get grappled theres like 
 a 88.8 % chance of not getting thrown and if you get grappled and thrown your best bet is that 
 the computer is trying to throw you into a hazard zone.
  
  Well thats my statement and conclusion on this game and my 1st review Ever! Hoped you guys liked 
 it and please don't buy this game. This is for your own good.
  
  Redninja302 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikoflishas
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  
  I was so excited when I knew this game was coming. I was amazed by the Def Jam Fight for New York, 
 I thought that this game was going to be great, just like its previous entry. 
  What a surprise! It completely sucks! Gameplay is absolutely boring. 
  Slow is the keyword, and 
 to make the game more boring you can't run. You'll get desperate when you try to punch the opponent 
 but you find out you are too far away to do that. And to make the game slower, the loading times 
 are long when you are choosing the fighter. The game is just stupid. The defense is cool yet a 
 little bit complicated. 
  But hey at least the story is cool, and graphics are nice. But you know a game is nothing if the 
 gameplay is bad, just like this. The customization of clothes is very interesting, I had fun customizing 
 my character to make look like a gangsta or cholo xD
  The game is not that easy, but you can beat it without changing your fighting style, that's another 
 thing, in Def Jam Fight for New York you needed to combine your fighting styles to make you a best 
 fighter, but in this game there's no neccessity. The roster is not that cool, there are rappers 
 like T. I. and Lil Jon that are great but there are very few rappers, the roster is small compared 
 to its antedeccesor. Finally, this game doesn't worth 20, not even 10 dollars, it's mediocre. If 
 you still want to have a fighting game related with rappers, buy Def Jam Fight for NY, it doesn't 
 matter that is older, believe me, is 10 times better than this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Yea the first two Def Jam games were great, lots of players, a great story mode, awesome combat, 
 tons of specials. This game, humm, not so much. It feels like your fighters are under water when 
 there fighting. SLOW movements, weak fighting, bad controls. This isnt fight night def jam ok, 
 it shouldnt have gone away from its roots. You fight with the sticks, which is cool on fight night, 
 but not so great for this game. Graphics are good, and sound track is even better, and being able 
 to do the turn table thing in the game is pretty cool aswell, you have to be quick at it tho, or 
 you will get rocked, but if thats all that this game has going for it, thats not alot. Its also 
 cool when the stages are interactive too, but that wont save this game, I would say to check it 
 out tho, but not for $60 thats for sure, rent this one you might regret it tho. Bring back the 
 old formula and this game would be a great fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Oh my......
  
  So enter Def Jam Icon and what do you get, pretty shiny graphics, but boring lackluster gameplay.
 
  
  Yes, it looks like more realistic fighting, but then again, the reason why all of us felt in love 
 with Def Jam Fight4NY and Vendetta was the over the top theatrics of the fighting moves... specially 
 the finishing moves. 
  On this game, all that bravado has been tooken out, and replaced by enviormental attacks?? and 
 you get this done by mimmicking the turntable scratchin' movement??? ok.... now how can something 
 like that, replace the FatJoe's punishing Backbreaker special move on DJF4NY?? come on!! who the 
 heck thought of this?!
  
  On regards to the story, everyone says it's good and all... well i say it's bogus. Man, if they 
 kept the same storyline or something that had relation with the past 2 games, THEN the story would 
 have been good. This stuff about doing your own label and having to fist fight to get someones 
 record deal.... it's just stupid dude! Helping Ludacris beat the crap of a papparazzi in the middle 
 of disco???? man whoever came up with this actually didn't play the last 2 games in which Luda 
 was all about karate chopping the heck out his enemies....3 years down the road and he cannot backdrop 
 a paparrazzi?? 
  
  The clothing and the bling is there... but in the end that was expected, nothing great about that.
 
  
  So in the end, the only coolness i could witness so far, was the graphics. Besides that, everything 
 else lacks. Win a fight, lose a fight, win money, don't win money... in the end you won't care.
 
  
  This game has put a little bit of dirt on the Def Jam series... hope they make a fourth one, so 
 they can clean the filth out of the bling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  how could a fighting game have been so much scrapped? i mean def jam fight for ny was so good what 
 happened between then and now? the concept had proved twice it was promising but then someone in 
 the game development of this game had a super good idea: why not add interactive stages it was 
 a good idea but in the middle of the process they must have forget everything about game making 
 101 because how could a game that requires you to pitch your opponent around and wait for the stage 
 to do all the work for you can even be considered fun? this is the worst excuse for a fighting 
 game i've ever played let's see just how bad this game really is...
  
  1st of all let's start by the obvious where has the characters unique fighting style went? i mean 
 every character now just has generic punches and kicks
  
  2nd where are the blazings of def jam fight for ny? oh yeah i've got it they been replaced by exploding 
 stereos and smashing helicopters... (do i even have to say how lame this is?)
  
  3rd no more four player madness no. But seeing how the gameplay has been completly moronised it's 
 actually a good thing cause i would never see four player all fighting at the same time in a game 
 that scrapped ...
  
  the only major point about this game is it's graphics and some of the rappers included i would 
 tell you storyiline but the game is so boring i never finished it and i never will... good characters 
 and graphics doesn't make a good game the gameplay does the work then graphics should come i mean 
 did we complain about the graphics in games like mario bros super smash starfox NO! because the 
 gameplay was so damn fun but in this game your gonna get your a** handed to you and still don't 
 care because it's so boring heck your gonna be winning and not even caring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Whats up world!
  
  let me just start with saying that im gonna review DEF JAM ICON in short... so dont expect 100% 
 details, ima keep it short & sweet ya know!
  
  1st off, i gave this game a 6. WHY? well, because the game FELT stripped/naked/cut short!!
  
 
  the different fighting styles were good, i liked the DJ Mixing they added to the fighting. the 
 environments/stages where really good also. the graphics in HD where superb, the music could have 
 been better but no biggy. the story is DEEP and keeps you wanting to play.
  
  making money or should i say, earning money is always fun, especially if you have alot of items 
 to available for purchase like ICON has. But about that, i did not like the fact that you couldn't 
 have more then ONE ring on at a time, i didn't like that you couldn't wear a watch on one hand 
 and a bracelet on the other hand at the same time, it was either on or the other and thats just 
 Losing Your Money!! I liked the fact that you could lever shirts and jackets etc. buying grills 
 and big chains is always fun :D
  
  but again, thats all you can buy, clothes and bling. at first i thought i could buy cars and cribs, 
 so that let me down. but enough about the little things.
  
  WHAT REALLY LET ME DOWN about this game was... NO SPECIAL FEATURES! With so much TALENT on the roster, 
 i was expecting some VIDEO FOOTAGE, behind the scenes, Music Videos, Outtakes, soundtrack to listen 
 to, etc.
  All you do in this game are the basic things you find in a STRIPPED-NAKED-SHORTEN game! online, 
 create a fighter, career and exhibition. NO ADDED BONUS!!
  
  so, this game is fun till you play through it ONCE... then after that 1st run you give it, im sure 
 you will put it down unless a buddy wants a go at it but, this game leaves you with that WHY DID 
 THEY PUT IT OUT with so little to do!!!!!
  
  overall: 6
  graphics: 9
  gameplay: 7
  difficulty: varies
  replay value: low
  soundtrack: 8
  added features/bonus: NONE 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwa02vkc
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is a huge disappointment in comparison to its predecessor Fight For NY in PS2. It 
 certainly didn't live up to my expectation. I was a fan after Def Jam NY. Still playing Def Jam 
 NY on my PS2 on a regular basis when I bought this Icon. Now, having spent about 3 hours on Icon, 
 Im no longer a fan. This game is a rip off,. Do not buy it. Don't make the mistake I did. It's 
 definitely not worth it. 
  
  In Icon, the characters dont move as gingerly as before, and the fighting mechanics are just stupid 
 and slow. I have never seen a fighting game where the fighters move and punch in such slowness. 
 and the stupid DJ scratching made the whole game ridiculous. Scratching a CD in the middle of a 
 fighting game ??? Maybe Def Jam producer was attempting some innovation in a fighting game, but 
 this CD scratching idea is completely wrong and off base. For a game series which had accomplished 
 so much in PS2, it's incomprehensible that this Icon is such a disaster. 
  
  The menu of the game is so simple, yet the titles of the menu are difficult to understand for a 
 non-american gamer. 'build a label' , 'throwing' ??? what is that ??? when you are browsing the 
 character roster to select your fighter, you will see a slowness when the character switch to another 
 character. this slowness in a next-gen console ??? if it is in PS2, it's understandable, but in 
 a next-gen console, incomprehensible. Common man.
  
  This game sucks. Rent it if you still want to try it out. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The game 
 sucks ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is one of the shallowest games I've played in years and is highly repetitive and boring.
 
  
  You get to create what your character looks like but you have to be male and you must be some shade 
 of black/mixed. This character then goes through the trials and tribulations of becoming a big-shot 
 music producer and you fight your way through all the confrontations in between.
  
  Sounds like it might make a good game but it's VERY linear and pretty much every decision you make 
 in the management half of the game has little or no effect on anything. How good would it be to 
 download your own tunes onto the PS3 and mix them into new tracks for the game? Tough, you can't.
 
  
  There are about 10 different environments to fight in but they all get rather tiresome after the 
 millionth battle and there are never any really cool moments when you interact with the crumbling 
 area. Def Jam Icon is all flash and no substance I'm afraid, I actually liked Def Jam Fight for 
 NY a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycool-22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The Def Jam series started from the ps2 and they were so good!
  They had more characters , better and fast gameplay , and much better story!
  
  Now that the 
 Def Jam came to ps3 , named Def Jam Icon IS very boring!
  I can't say , the story mode was good but very fast!
  The online was fantastic!
  When you play 
 with other players online , then you can chat with them!!
  But when you play this games many times you will say ''how boring''!
  In my opinion don't buy 
 this game.....
  There are better fighting games out there , like soulcalibur , tekken ,dragonball and 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brothagamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Vendetta was the dream game for someone who is into both hip hop and wrestling. I should 
 know, because I would fall under that description. The game featured some of my favorite emcees 
 putting it on 'em like some of my favorite wrestlers. The graphics were on point, the soundtrack 
 was bumping, the voice-overs came correct, and the gameplay (which is reminiscent of the classic 
 WCW and WWF games) was the high point.
  
  Def Jam Fight for NY was, in my opinion, one of the best fighting game that came out for the PS2. 
 The graphics were kicked up a notch from the first game, the soundtrack was expended, the voice-overs 
 once again came correct, and the gameplay was giving some much appreciated upgrades. With all of 
 these positives from the first two games, the third one must be slamming... uh, not!
  
  Def Jam Icon promised a very different experience from the two previous games. The wrestling element 
 has been taking out, the focus is more on the music. The graphics on this bad boy are hit and miss 
 at best. The character models are terrific, but the environments suck raw eggs. And honestly, the 
 interacted environments in Fight for NY felt more brutal than the suck ass hazards in Icon. The 
 soundtrack is not something that I would give high score to. Really, if you love or hate crunk 
 snap and hiphy, you'll love or hate the soundtrack. And I personally don't give a damn for uncensored 
 music in a game. The story is the only other high point besides the graphics; it's funny, it's 
 original, and it's really the only reason why you would buy this game. The gameplay is the biggest 
 disappointment; first of all, the series' gameplay didn't need an overhaul despite how bizarre 
 a hip hop-wrestling game sound. Second, if you're going to revamp the gameplay system, make it 
 faster than this garbage. Third, where the hell are the blazin' finishing move!?!?!?!??!
  
  In short, the only reason that this game is getting this high of a rating is because of the story, 
 voice-over work (which has always been on point) , and character models. But the most important 
 component to any game (gameplay) show so much of its ass, Def Jam Icon may be easy to consider 
 as a rental at best. Trust me, $30 or however much money this game is way too much for a game that 
 promised a bomb and delivered a dud.
  
  So much for this series, and it had so much promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 1
Date: May 30, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Hands down, my least favorite game. Not even worth renting.
  
  When I bought this game I had one thing in mind, an improved def jam, which after the 2nd installment 
 in the series didn't seem possible. A bigger roster? more fighting styles? better graphics? I didn't 
 even think twice before buying it.
  
  What was I thinking?
  
  The roster is about half the size of the last def jam game, and is riddled with stupid characters 
 that absolutely no one wants to play as.
  
  We lost Snoop Dogg, Xzibit, Busta Rhymes, etc and gained WHAT? 
  
  There are TWO good characters/rappers 
 in the game. Lil Jon, and the game, besides that we get pathetic, wannabe rappers that's careers 
 are about as short as the terrible build a label mode. E-40? Paul Wall? T. I.? WHO WANTS TO PLAY 
 AS THESE TOOLS?! 
  
  The fighting is sluggish, and about as deep as the first mortal kombat game. Blocks are next to 
 useless, the cpu AI is cheap and will simply throw you into an object, make it hit you, repeat 
 OVER and OVER again. You can do the same, but where's the fun in that? 
  
  I can't express how terrible this game is in words. I no longer have my copy, because after my 
 PS3 deleted all of my game save files, I was so furious at the thought of playing it again that 
 I broke the disc in half, and smashed the case. 
  
  No. I'm not kidding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdadragan
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Rap and fighting in the same game. That is differently cool. The soundtrack on the game is amazing, 
 it's all uncensored, which is the best way to listen the music. The characters look great, like 
 Lil Jon really looks like Lil Jon. They often-humorous story mode that stays true to its characters. 
 The game's roster of licensed rappers is deep and varied, representing the coasts and everywhere 
 in between. The game includes Big Boi, Bun B, E-40, The Game, Ghostface Killah, Jim Jones, Lil 
 Jon, Ludacris, Method Man, Mike Jones, Paul Wall, Redman, Sean Paul, Sticky Fingaz, T. I., and Young 
 Jeezy, among others. Plus the actual gameplay looks really neat with enough colors and gloss to 
 make you go "aw" when you play this game. The bad of the game is it really short. You really will 
 beat it with in 7 or less hours. Plus it feels really slow. I say it is more of a rent versus a 
 buy because it is sooooooo short. Not deep enough EA, do more work on you're games!
  
  Matt The Dragan here saying, "Play more video games! They good for you!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danish989
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  If you liked playing the last Def Jam games on the Ps2 (vendetta and fight for ny) you might have 
 been looking forward for this one, like I was. And if you liked playing the last Def Jam games 
 on the PS2 ... you are going to be disappointed like I was.
  
  The last Def Jam, Fight For NY had a unique fighting system. With move reversals, amazing grapples, 
 techniques that you needed a time span to learn, and some flashy things like finishers and rage 
 mode. This game has none, of that.
  
  Down Points:
  1. Controls are too lose. Mechanics just, don't have that feel that made fight for ny such a fun 
 game.
  2. No finishers. No other moves. The game seems like a low budget beat em up just made for itchy 
 fingers that just wanted to hit them repeatedly. 
  3. Character models look rushed. The game feels as if it just wanted to cash in on the whole Hip 
 Hop music scene. And it does, too.
  4. No custom soundtrack for the ps3 !!
  
  Good Points:
  1. Hip Hop fans? This game is for you.
  2. Like Beat em Ups? This game is for 
 you.
  3. Music Management system, a bit fun. Making money and dressing up your character, fun too.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Overall: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is the newest one in the series, but while it makes new and better moves it loses 
 some of the things that made the other games so addicting.
  
  Graphics: There the best in the series obviously from the jewelry, clothes, environments, etc. 
 Everything you could possibly want when it comes to the look of the game. Very stylish, in fact 
 the graphics are the strongest point of the game. Lighting effects are also on point along with 
 shading. The way the screen changes sometimes during songs can be annoying though. Creating your 
 character is improved also kudos to EA for allowing some much customization.
  
  Sound: Another strong point for Icon. The new uncensored soundtrack makes the whole game flow much 
 better. Makes it feel more gutter and gritty. Explosions and DJ scratches are nice. Taunts are 
 very well done it adds more life to the rappers makes it feel like your actually using them.
  
  Controls: This combined with the short story is the only weakness Icon has really. The controls 
 are completely revamped, sort of like Fight Night mixed with street brawling. Moves also execute 
 sluggish sometimes, especially strong attacks. If your playing online be ready to button mash like 
 crazy because of the lag.
  
  Almost forgot NO BLAZIN' MOVES ARE YOU SERIOUS!!!!!!!!! But if you can get past the problems you'll 
 find a good game thats better played with a friend than alone. This is a step in the right direction 
 though just bring back Blazin' Moves, add more rappers, tune up the controls, and fix the online 
 play and we'll have the game Icon should've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  WELL THE GAME DOES MAKE A REMARKABLE FIRST IMPRESSION BUT IT DOESN'T LAST FOR LONG.... THERE IS 
 NO ACTUAL GOOD CAREER MODE TO LOOK UPTO SO THAT IS A LITTLE BIT OF A FLAW.. CAUSE ALTHOUGH OVERALL 
 THE STORY IS GREAT!!!!! AND SOMETIMES KIND OF HUMAROUS BUT STILL THERE SHOULD BE SOMETHING MORE 
 THAN JUST FIGHTING IN IT... NOW I KNOW THIS IS A ACTION FIGHTING GAME BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN U CAN 
 ADD EXTRAS TO GET THE TRUE VALUE FOR MONEY.... WELL PLAYING MULTIPLAYER IS REALLY FUN... AND THE 
 LOADING TIME IS MUCH TOO SHORT THAT THE XBOX 360 VERSION OF THE GAME SO THATS A BENEFIT WHICH MOST 
 PS3 OWNERS WOULD EXPECT.. WELL PREVIOUS DEF: JAM FANS WOULD SURELY LOVE THIS GAME WITH THE NEW STYLISH 
 MOVES AND WELL KNOWN PLAYERS SUCH AS SEAN PAUL AND ALL..... AND AUSUMN FIGHTIN ENVIORMENTS FROM 
 THE GAS STATION TO THE GORGEOUS ROOF TOPS AND FLATS..... THE SUDDEN BURST OF FIRE FROM THE CHIMNEYS 
 AND THE ABRUPT SWING OF THE TAIL OF THE HELICOPTER IS REALLY FUN WATCH AND CAN BE TAKEN INTO ADVANTAGE.. WHICH 
 MAKES THE OVERALL FUN TO PLAY... BEST PARTY GAME EVER AS AND TILL YET ON THE PS3.... I'LL SAY..
 
  
  WELL OVERALL
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  7.5
  
  SOUND-
  10
  
  STORY-
  9
  
  INTERFACE-
  8
  
  WELL HARDCORE DEF: JAM FANS AND PS3 OWNERS.. THIS IS A DREAM COME TRUE FOR 
 U!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Upon poppin' this in, with me bein' a Hip Hop deejay, the first thing I checked for, was the character 
 models. EA delivered the goods on the character models. These are truly next-gen. It's graphically 
 gorgeous. The story line starts of pretty good, & actually follows through pretty decent. The ending 
 was actually very weak. Seems like the writers ran out of ideas for the ending. Anthony Anderson 
 ("Troy Dollar") was one of THE highlights of the game. He plays a bad guy extremely well, & is 
 1 hard boss fight! The other major highlight, was running the record label. Trying to drive the 
 label (your) revenue up is a nice challenge. Otherwise, the game has become shy on depth (which, 
 is becoming the way of games translated from current-gen to next-gen) . Less technique is required 
 to complete this game, & it really has no major replay value. However, it was a nice run, almost 
 a year after me owning this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowking123
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  def jam was just okay nothing very catchy about it its better to rent than buy
  however it doesn't deserve the title of -disastrous- thats too harsh!!!
  it has some good elements 
 too. with that kinda cash its better to pick up something else really worth it.
  it has some marketing element in it too which makes it feel it feel a bit realistic about the marketing 
 strategies....
  action is pretty cool but there is nothing beyond that
  a little free room environment would have made it a kick ass game!!!
  
  fighting gets stale
 
  good moves though
  well the best part is to see your albums go multi platinum!!!
  
  other than that anything special???
  hmm... star appearances
  luda, redman, e 40, t. i, sean 
 paul, paul wall and much more
  i wish snoop was there too!!
  
  MY FINAL CONCLUSION -- DONT BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk96
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I've played for about 2 to 3 hours now and I have gotten to the penthouse part and after fighting 
 the other guys it starts to get old, but dont get me wrong the songs are great with the maps constantly 
 moving to the beat the explosions and objects are pretty cool but there is not enough interactivity 
 and it gets frustrating with trying to block sometimes and there is not enough things in the level. 
 The customization is pretty good though and being able to customize your characters face and build 
 is pretty cool, and then when you get money you can get nice clothes and jewelery. Overall I would 
 say its good to just rent because it just doesn't appeal to you as much after a few hours as it 
 did at first. But I never have liked fighting games that much so I guess you shouldn't go with 
 me completely, but at least rent it first and if you like it by all means go ahead and buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon, the sequel to Fight for New York, has taken an entirely new direction this time 
 around. It's created by EA Chicago, the same developer that created the Fight Night series.
  The fighting system is very rhythmical since the music plays a bigger role in Icon and it affects 
 the environments and it can work for you or against you. 
  The roster is pretty healthy with artists like Lil Jon, Ludacris, Big Boi, T. I., Young Jeezy, Ghostface 
 Killah, Method Man, Redman, Sean Paul, E-40, The Game, Jim Jones and many more. 
  The character models are very lifelike, it really looks like them in the real world from Lil Jon's 
 hair to Game's tattoos to Paul Wall's grills. The story involves a created character that has been 
 spotted by Kevin Liles and he decides to sign him to his label. You can decide who gets signed 
 and all the while going to war with Troy Dollar, a rival mogul.
  Sadly, there's no Blazin' moves from past games where the artists do ridiculous finshers but the 
 uncut, in-your-face soundtrack really saves this game from being nothing short of disappointing
 
  Let's hope it comes back the next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game is that it looks too dam sick on HD Blue Ray. Its a fun game with a 
 great storyline and the game play is pretty good. I agree with the reviews on this game on gamespot. 
 Its very slow and the online play is very slow online because PS takes dial-up connection which 
 is bad.
  
  
  
  Its worth every dime to pick it up for the PS3 i liked this game alot. 9.0
  
  
  Only thing 
 that i would give it a highier rating if its more online able like it has the faster connection 
 to be right there with Xbox i also think they need to make this game play alot faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shischkabob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has really good graphics. The sweat dripping off a player, the spit coming from a fighters 
 mouth when they are punched is just amazing. Also, the amount of detail that goes into the environments 
 is quite good. Whether it is from steam coming through vents, onlookers talking and yelling things 
 at you or your opponent, or the car wash system. All these aspects lead to the feeling of a real 
 environment instead of a created one. The fighting styles offer many different moves and combinations 
 that add to the game play. The fighting styles range but I dont really like having to unlock them; 
 I would rather have to choose a fighting style from the beginning and roll with that throughout 
 then get different fighting styles as I progress through the game. The music also adds a lot to 
 playing the game with the numerous songs that can be unlocked. The unedited tracks create the feeling 
 of being in the rappers shoes. The create-a-player section is pretty cool because of the endless 
 possibilities for what your character can look like. All these items are great but what brings 
 the game down is the story line. The game is too short and very repetitive. If someone were to 
 play the game again with a new character all events that occur are the same and it gets old fast. 
 The game player has to win every match to advance. It would be better if there were consequences 
 for losing or the story line would change if the player lost. Another downside to the game is what 
 I am going to call the beat attacks. What these are is when a player is thrown to a specific 
 part of an environment like in front of speakers, near the gas pumps, or near the fire. When the 
 players are in front of these items a player can scratch the beat prompting a burst of energy, 
 explosion, or fire ball to come from that area they get tossed across the environment and it actually 
 detracts from the game. A player can lose a fight based on not being able to scratch at a certain 
 time and these beat attacks also it has nothing to do with fighting. I can see where some players 
 can like it and I respect that but if I could turn it off I would. I enjoy interacting with the 
 environment like throwing people through glass walls, denting cars, and breaking chairs; I just 
 dont like have the environment dictating what happens during the fight. Overall I enjoy this game 
 for what makes it good but I think that this game could use a few improvements which mostly come 
 from the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The first couple fights I played it made me say Damn, that's nice . But then again it only took 
 me a couple fights to pretty much do all the moves you can possibly do. The enviroments were cool, 
 and the way they intigrated the music into the whole scheme was pretty nifty. But other than that, 
 it isnt much. The controls are too simple, and it just wasn't fun after the first couple fights. 
 It felt like a restricted demo. I had bought the game, then took it back the next day. Not much 
 more to say, some people might like it tho I guess, so I recommend RENTING it to those who really 
 want to try it, otherwise its not even worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Def jam Icon is the third installment of Def Jam fighting games created by EA Games. In typical 
 fashion to the 3D fighting game genre, you can chose to play the career mode, versus mode or play 
 online against somebody else out there in cyber world. The career mode has an interesting and engaging 
 plot line as you see yourself rise to the top going from a rough around the edges nobody from the 
 streets to a rough around the edges executive of a multi-million dollar record label. For a next-gen 
 game it's a little disappointing waiting through some of the load times. You would figure that 
 the developers could have made more of an effort to eliminate these load times all together, but 
 all in all, the maximum wait time through these loading periods is not substantial and although 
 it's annoying to wait it does not devalue the over all experience of the game too much. It would 
 also benefit the user if there were more variety in the amount of boards you can choose from. Sitting 
 through an entire career mode feels a little repetitive after a while as you slowly learn all the 
 ins and outs each battle arena has to offer. The game play can feel a little slow during the initial 
 few games, but once a few rounds are over you adapt pretty well to the pace of the game. Other 
 than those few set backs, the game is pretty good.
  
  Def Jam Icon's style and presentation are great as all the character models and voice overs are 
 right on par with their real world counter parts. The game introduces a new feature, which makes 
 the game a complete success. It uses an equivalent to environmental attacks that is merged with 
 the timing of the music, so every few notes if you're close to one of these danger zones, you can 
 essentially lose health (alot in some cases) . What makes it even better is the fact that the player 
 has the ability to control when these environmental attacks will happen by simply scratching air 
 turntables. My personal favorite combo is to give my opponent a round house kick into a stripper, 
 scratch the turntables, have the stripper kick them into the speakers and then scratch again for 
 a finishing blow with an exclamation point!!! Although the game can be finished in less than 10 
 hours, this game still offers replayability to unlock all songs and artist. At its best, this game 
 can be enjoyed fighting others in the versus mode. If you're a fan of hip hop (or Def Jam artist) 
 and the Def Jam fighting series, this game could be one that you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimagpie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  Got the new Def Jam game on launch day along with Motorstorm, Call of Duty 3 and NBA Homecourt. 
 Was totally exited by getting Def Jam Icon on launch day because of the previous games Def Jam 
 Vendetta and Fight For NY. Both of these previous games lived up to my expectations as the improvement 
 of the Skill Moves on Fight for NY were the key to making the game a success in my eyes. So when 
 unwrapping my shiny new PS3 on launch day I first played on Motorstorm. This blew me away as the 
 graphics and game play were top notch. Then NBA was the same but was tricky to get a hold of the 
 controls on the first few days of playing. Then came the turn of Def Jam Icon. After playing for 
 a few hours on the game I was pleased with the roster but disappointed with the no show of 50 Cent 
 and Eminem. So 1 week later when I had finished the game and finally got the hold of all of the 
 controls I was left disappointed by the Lifespan of the game. The vast amount of jewellery and 
 clothes were a great part of the game but the Lifespan of the game just let it down. Even on the 
 harder modes I still completed the game first time with close to 1 million style points and ICON 
 status. So if you are looking for advice I would say that it is a great game for just a few days 
 but for the serious hardcore gamer then it is not worth buying because you will probably be disappointed 
 just like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I do like this game but it is the type of game where I feel like there is something missing theproblem 
 is I can't figure out what that is, it seems unreal that my character is making things happen in 
 the music industry by basically whooping ass, it seems like ny character should have undeniable 
 skills outside being a great beatdown professional, nevertheless the game is entertaining and I 
 play it quite often but I hope the next installment will take this game to the next level. Perhaps 
 the next installment will include many more hiphop stars and maybe stars from other genres as well 
 like actors or has beens who may need a comeback like Vanilla Ice or Kool Mo Dee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor83_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I had fun with this game. Being a big hip hop head i enjoyed playing through as some of the new 
 faces aswell as the series vets. Didn't take too long to get used to the controls, wasn't really 
 a lot there to worry about. A pretty simple fighting system compared to the games predecessors 
 which were a lot more complex then this game.
  
  Graphically the game is stellar, and a nice amp up for the games first go around on the next gen. 
 The soundtrack was tight and sounded really well blended with the stage fx and action noises.
 
  
  I beat the story mode in about a week, and really didnt have much desire to play through it again. 
 For a one time go around, renting this would be a good idea. Although it was a blast to play through, 
 i would have liked the game to be a little more complex, with more of a throwback to the old N64 
 wrestling games, like the other def jam games managed to do.
  
  I gave this game a lower ranking then i would have liked. Great fun when going through the story 
 mode, unless your into the multiplayer which i wasn't, the replay value on this game for me, settled 
 this games score where it stands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  For a game where the fighting is the main course Icon doesn't quite fill you up. There are very 
 basic controls where two button handle the strong punches and kicks and two other buttons handle 
 the quick punches and kicks. Throw in some special attacks that use the analog sticks and some 
 blocking abilities and you're all set. The characters moved a little too slowly and the controls, 
 especially the analog sticks, seemed to either totally miss what I was trying to do or responded 
 way too late. In general the fighting mechanics are fairly basic which I see as a strength and 
 weakness at the same time. A weakness because, well, this is a fighting game after all and the 
 more depth you can offer the better.. A strength because you don't feel overwhelmed with massive 
 button combos and in this case that's fine because you will be paying more attention to the music... after 
 all Music is Your Weapon. Ah, now this is where Icon shows a lot of it's coolness. The artistic 
 style of Icon, graphics, and music are by far Icon's strong points. The graphics are just awesome 
 and certainly something that wasn't possible on the PS2. While the arenas are by no means big they 
 are very detailed and interactive. The interactive part is where the music comes into play. The 
 environments react to the hard bass beats of the songs. For example, if you are brawling at the 
 BET studios different parts of the studio will start to break apart during the fight. Now the cool 
 part is when one of the hard beats come in the song will act as a hazard for both fighters. For 
 example, the lighting fixtures will swing down violently, or a set of lights will explode, or a 
 prop will shoot out electricity. The key is to know each song well enough to anticipate when the 
 monster beats are about to be unleashed so you can be sure to toss your opponent into one of these 
 hazards. And if you happen to mistime your attack you can always pull off a DJ scratch maneuver 
 to remix the song quickly to get the beat to explode the surroundings. I found the use of music 
 as a environmental weapon very fun and I really like the way the effects looked on screen with 
 everything jumping around. Heck, I was even digging several of the songs which were, naturally, 
 done by the real Def Jam artists as were many of the voiceovers. I was also impressed that EA decided 
 not to edit any of the songs and lets just say that based on the song lyrics alone the game more 
 than earns its M-Mature rating.
  Hey!! Hoo!!! Hey!!! Hoo!!! OK, I am not that big into the rap scene. Basically what I know I think 
 of as nothing more than stereotypes. Rappers going around causing all sorts of trouble for themselves 
 and the the idea that the more hard core you are the more successful you will be in the industry. 
 So along comes the third game from the rap label Def Jam and they do nothing to fight my stereotypical 
 view of the genre. But that's cool, I understand the whole image thing and they need to keep up 
 their street cred or whatever. The previous games in the series did not appeal to me because I'm 
 not a fan of the music and don't like fighting games all that much, so two strikes against the 
 game before I even slide it in the PS3. But I do like video games so I figure I'd give it a shot 
 and see what it's all about. Does Icon get a quick third strike or does it have a bit more game 
 than that? Here we go to find out...
  
  EA's Def Jam: Icon is the third game to feature the Def Jam artists in a fighting game, and the 
 first to drop on the next generation systems. Icon has a very specific style and audience, a very 
 big audience to be sure, but if you hate rap and hip hop music then you should stay far away from 
 this game... as it says on the game box Music is Your Weapon and they do mean it but more about 
 that in a moment. There are several game modes but really it boils down to the single player Build 
 A Label and the online multi-player. The Practice mode and Beatings with Bass are both just ways 
 to try and get familiar with the controls and the unique twist that the music plays in the game. 
 The Throw Down mode is a way to get in quickly without saving any stats and no story to deal with. 
 But the real action is with the Build A Label mode...
  
  You start off the Build A Label by first creating your character in one of the more detailed creation 
 utilities I've ever seen. But in keeping with the gangsta style of the game you don't create a 
 character instead you create a suspect. I guess that kind of tells you what's expected out of 
 you in the game. Once you got your look down off you go into the story. Obviously the main aim 
 of the game is fighting but Icon tries to connect all the fighting together into some sort of story. 
 The bad part is that they didn't do it very well. It seems that the right ideas are there, the 
 story was interesting enough for me to want to keep going but it just didn't segue to the fights 
 well. There are some very well done cutscenes but they were too few and far between. And even when 
 you did get a scene that played out interestingly it just leads right into a fight, no other interactions 
 from you, just fighting. Icon tries to take you into the real world of rap artists and producers 
 by showing you that all rappers settle things by fighting. Spill a drink on someone.. Fight! Paparazzi 
 getting on your nerves... Fight! Want to sign a new artist... Fight! Off duty cop bringing you down... Fight! 
 Fans getting too close... Fight! Well you get the idea, there's nothing in the world of business 
 that can not be solved by tossing someone into a helicopter's rotor tail. Oh sure we all wish we 
 could settle matters this way but in reality only rappers and their producers can. You start off 
 in a shoddy looking crib and as you get more successful your apartment will reflect this success. 
 You get a lot of emails when hanging out and through these you find out who you have to go lay 
 a beat down on. You get emails from your manager, lawyer, girlfriend, artists, competition, etc. 
 Sometimes there's nothing to do but read the email, other times you have to make a yes/no decision 
 that usually involves money. Things like should you buy your girlfriend a new vase, or help cover 
 the legal expenses for one of your boys, or even buy someone a house. These decisions usually have 
 an effect on how happy people are, but this doesn't really seem to have much impact on the game. 
 You also have to decide when to drop a new track from one of your artists and then create a budget 
 on how you will spend to market and sell the record. Unfortunately there are no guidelines or help 
 on how to do this. I mean how much money should you spend on airplay for a new single (which I 
 thought was illegal, but then again so is just about everything you do in this game) , or how much 
 for materials and marketing? Who knows? I tried all sorts of different combinations and never saw 
 a huge difference. I think that if EA works a bit more on fleshing out the producer role along 
 with better integrating the story into the fights they will have a very cool game on their hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is a great game about music and fighting.
  
  Its quite a short game as I was able to complete it in less than 10 hours, if you like a game which 
 is about rapping then you'll love this.
  
  The best part is the Multiplayer as it gives you more of a challenge and you don't have to follow 
 a story line.
  
  The story line is OK but could have done with a lot of improvement as it gets repetitive, and therefore 
 annoying.
  
  The controls are easy to get used to but some are challenging to do, when switching decks in the 
 game Be sure your not knocked down by your opponent!
  
  Overall this game has 10/10 Graphics for its realistic look! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Realist
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon gotten a little different than the other series of Def Jam Games from EA. Icon has 
 a Fight Night Round 3 type like gameplay controller style. you use dj hazards like fight night's 
 Flash KO. Directional Attacks are like FN's haymaker punches. To top it all off, it's not a original 
 like the first two. It's still a great game. If they sticked it to the first two style gameplay 
 plus longer storyline, this game would be great!
  
  The online play made it stay alive. If the online feature was not there for this game, this game 
 would have gone down the drain... easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NachoMontana86
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to give credit to EA for at least trying something new with the Def Jam series, 
 even if it means to remove the parts of the gameplay that made the first two games (Vendetta and 
 Fight For New York) fun to play in the first place. By that, I mean removing the over-the-top wrestling 
 gameplay and replacing it with a sort of a Virtua Fighter-esque style, where the fighting is more 
 realistic with just strong and weak punches and kicks, and a few basic takedowns. But the use of 
 the enviromental hazards, when done right, can be exciting to use.
  
  The story mode is unique, the graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is solid. If you are a fan 
 of the Def Jam series, definitely give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWestCoastDon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I had HUGE expectations for this game and it was a total letdown. The only thing good about this 
 game is the graphics and the story, other then that its completley bad. The fighting has taken 
 a new-more real form in this game. Its just punch, kick, grab then throw or attack and it gets boring 
 fast. Unlike Fight for NY this doesn't have the same fun fighting as before so that really pissed 
 me off. The character creation is very limited, which I also hated. Online is fine but it doesn't 
 last long. There are no team matchs, no free for all, no special matchs, its only one on one. The 
 music is cool, for the first time its fully explict so that might make people either happy or upset. 
 Overall Def Jam Icon is a very restriced game and it won't have you intrested for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  for people that like this game .This is a good game i like how it looks and stages are cool i had 
 to get use to the stick controls because the use of the sticks are like the movements of Fight 
 Night so if u like that u will like Icon. I found myself playing more and more as u go thought 
 the story mode u unlock more people its better with two people but on your own it cool fight with 
 different people to get a feel of their fighting style overall its good. the graphics and sound 
 are great, but I wish it could be faster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  bang bang de boogy doo wop di diddling do , wicka wicka wicka
  
  beatboxing as im street ya hear, as ive been playing this recently i though id get it to the spirit 
 of the game and most of the payers you find out there in cyber space.
  
  Well defjam icon , excited to play , no. waiting for the release date with baited breath. no. a 
 truly next gen fighting game. nope, oops sorry , NAW.
  
  this game is tripe. total and utter, its not even funny how bad it is, the older games on xbox 
 and ps2 were really good fun. good fight modes and just had a really good feel to it, but this, 
 this immensely well polished rubbish is an insult to my ps3 ( and thats saying something)
  
  firstly, the fighting itself is poor two heavy 2 light attacks and the right stick for uber 
 moves, problem is there is no flow 2 it. its just button bashing in its purest form. its boring.
 
  
  the single player is so bad it hurts, the fact that this game takes the incredibly macho world 
 of hip hop and turns it into and incredibly macho and hugely sexist world is just offensive and 
 im about as politically correct as the kkk. the build a label segments are just a waste of time, 
 the money you earn is spent on bling., thats it
  
  but what annoys me most about this game, more than the over the top hip hopness of it all is the 
 stupid turntable attacks and the lack of a practise room to use them.
  
  1 plus point is its pretty, very pretty at times but that is it
  dont buy this game get tekken 
 or doa but dont buy this unless you wanna play gangster and creating your rapper makes you feel 
 street 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Reinventing a franchise for new hardware is no easy feat, but its always good when a company (in 
 this case especially since its EA) attempts to freshen up a series and deliver new content. Def 
 Jam Icon marks a jarring departure from the series anarchic wrestling-based roots into an entirely 
 different beast altogether. With a design methodology thats all style and no substance, Icon unfortunately 
 takes a few too many risks with the basic formula for fighting game success, and ends up in a rather 
 confused state as a result.
  
  The single-player experience revolves around a particularly insane rags-to-riches tale, which lets 
 face it, as the theme for a rap game is about as predictable as it gets. Following on from a suitably 
 convenient sequence of events, your created player is furnished with the basics of a record company, 
 run from a shabby downtown flat. Its up to you to win artists onboard, release and promote records, 
 take care of business, and also date a few of the women that come your way throughout the course 
 of the storyline. Youll have access to a virtual PC to check your financial status and the record 
 charts (well, the rap charts anyway) , and also teleport yourself around a mini-map to take on the 
 various battles that form the brunt of the campaign.
  
  Refreshingly, the story in Icon is actually fairly well delivered, with decent cut-scenes and a 
 genuinely crazy sensibility about the plotline which will leave you wanting to discover the next 
 ludicrous setup for yet another fight at the gas station or the local club. Its all a bit excessive, 
 and with the level of drama involved the campaign mode comes across like a soap opera at times. 
 Of course its a soap opera hijacked by 6ft tall bling-merchants, run through a series of neon 
 camera filters and bullet-time effects. Neighbours this certainly isnt, and kudos to the designers 
 for allowing a full repertoire of colourful language to sneak its way onto the disc.
  
  Mission-based frippery aside, the core of any fighting game always boils down to the suitability 
 of its engine, and its here where Icon makes its boldest moves and also unfortunately where it 
 falls prey to over-indulgence and bloated mechanics.
  
  Fights are strictly one-on-one encounters, and comprise of very basic striking attacks mapped to 
 the face buttons, and a series of pathetically weak grapple manoeuvres that are almost pointless 
 to execute. In fact if you played the game in a conventional style youd probably drop the controller 
 in disgust within a few minutes and never look back. Fortunately youll soon pick up on a few differentiating 
 features that at least partially resurrect the experience.
  
  For a game based entirely on hip-hop artists, it makes sense to have the music as the centrepiece 
 of the action, and Icon delivers this in some style. Each star has their own associated song, and 
 as this plays throughout the fight youll notice background and environmental elements jumping 
 along with the beat in perfect timing. Its a unique visual effect, and combined with the over-saturated 
 colour scheme of each level delivers a genuinely interesting and different approach to the aesthetics. 
 Environmental detail is also beautifully rendered, with each stage taking on a different colour 
 tone and some excellent smoke and particle effects thrown into the mix to boot. This is one game 
 thatll show off the power of your new &amp;#321;400 investment to the maximum, and who knows, 
 maybe thatll help you sleep a little easier at night.
  
  The musical theme doesnt stop at the level design, but permeates the play mechanics also. The 
 game incorporates a mixing function that becomes central to the flow of each bout and essential 
 to victory against harder opponents. Holding down the L2 button puts the player into mix mode, 
 with each analogue stick moving a separate hand in order to scratch out different patterns along 
 to the beat. This can have a number of different effects depending on context. Scratching with 
 the right analogue stick triggers environmental damage areas; perfect for piling more pain on a 
 downed opponent, whilst rotating both sticks twice changes the tune thats currently being played 
 in the background. Changing to your own theme song in this manner gains you a small speed and power 
 boost, but this can be interrupted mid-flow by the opposition. (Particularly annoying if youre 
 just trying desperately to get rid of that damn Sean Paul tune)
  
  Icon scores points for originality in design then, but the problems unfortunately run too deep 
 to be saved by the decent scripting and rhythm-inspired gameplay segments. Chief amongst the complaints 
 has to be the pacing, which is stupendously slow and lethargic at the best of times. Simply moving 
 your characters around the stage feels like wading through treacle, with most punch and kick animations 
 taking an age to complete. You get the feeling that this was supposed to lend weight and solidity 
 to the bouts, but instead everything just seems to run in slow motion. The gap between normal and 
 upgraded speed when activating your chosen tune is fairly telling, and it would have been suitable 
 to run the entire game at the boosted pace.
  
  Due to the lack of variation in striking animation, unfortunately most fights inevitably turn into 
 grappling matches. Since none of the takedown animations are satisfying or even particularly 
 useful, throwing your opponent into one of the environmental hotspots becomes the route to success 
 time and time again. For a fighting game to end up so reliant on one single mechanic tells its 
 own story, and the lack of depth shows in both single and multiplayer matches. Bouts become monotonous 
 block-throw affairs, turning what should have been a particularly bombastic experience into somewhat 
 of a soulless mess. The visual design screams for attention, the gameplay simply wants to lie down 
 and die an easy death.
  
  All the usual play options are present and correct. Campaign, VS, practice, create-a-character 
 all function as expected, and unfortunately they all run at the same slow pace. Loading a character 
 model on the selection screen takes the best part of 10-15 seconds, and changing options in the 
 edit mode produces a noticeable pause whilst new content is loaded in. Some other early PS3 games 
 have gotten around the slow seek times of the Blu-Ray drive by installing gigabytes of content 
 to the hard drive, and Icon is certainly testament to the functionality of that particular route.
 
  
  Whilst its hard to criticise a game that takes a bold stance to strike out on its own path in 
 this age of by-the-numbers sequels and cookie cutter design, unfortunately Def Jam Icon simply 
 doesnt do enough to warrant a recommendation. The visuals are at times spectacular and there is 
 definite potential in the design, matching rhythm-action play to a fluid fighting style is definitely 
 something that I would love to see explored further. For now however, Icon is a curiosity at best, 
 and after an hours worth of play youll definitely be dropping it like its hot. Note: This text 
 was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tba405
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I dont know what went so so wrong . . . i am tryyyyyyyyyying to stay awake (earli in the morning) 
 and trying not to fall asleep in the middle of this review as im TRYING!!!! to help everyone out 
 there in not even renting this game out ??!!!! . . . . If you do however want to show off your 
 ps3 . . . . and tease your friends that you got one . . . rent this game out . . . let them play 
 the game for the first 15 minutes . . . and then TELL THEM TO PEACE!!!! before! they find out that 
 the buttons are crap and so is the game.
  
  All thats good about it is the graphics . . . finish . . . Gameplay ? unbelievebaly!! crap . . 
 (i was a HUGE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! fan of the past 2 games. . . . this is NOTHING like them)
  
  Story line ? boooring! .. . . its actually kinda funni tho . . . it shows how much the 'gameing 
 industry' is gettting more focused on money then on gameing . . . . . all this game is about is 
 basically advertising . . . thats all the game has good in it . . . . game plaly is also soooooooooooooo 
 slow! . . . (i actually think its ps3 . . . not sure just yet)
  
  anyway this game sucks big . . . . . . . . anyway hope you all have a good one and DONT play this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Def jam Icon is a first in the series for me. I didnt expect much nor was I fan of fighting games. 
 But this game just blew me away. This game is filled to the brim with FUN!!! The look and feel 
 of the game is exceptionally good. Great frame rates and effects. AN environment that moves with 
 every blow you give and get. It has great music in it and the stuff you can do with the turntable 
 is WICKED!! The fact that you can use your environment as a weapon is SWEET!! All the characters 
 in the game look great. Creating a character is highly detailed and you can create any face or 
 bodyheck you could even try to create you own face and body!! Unlike most games in this genre 
 Def Jam Icon has an interesting storyline and keeps you hooked throughout the game.
  
  All in all Def Jam Icon is a great a masterpiece. A wonderfully made fighting game for the PS3. 
 If you are a fan of the seriesthis is a must buy. For those of you like me who are new to the 
 series. give this game a try and trust me you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok def jam icon is here and its not exactly wat i expected. the other one def jam fight for n. y 
 was aswome the fighting ACTUALLY moves and keeps up with the fu##ing game. this game is way to 
 slow it like the matrix all over again. now were the game really shines is its great story. set 
 in the music busniess u maintain artists and keep them happy and take out who gets in ur way. also 
 the rappers r recent and great they look real. and the soundtrack is good so over all its a slow 
 as a turtle game but uuh kinda cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Higgo2006
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is fairly enjoyable. It takes PS3 graphics to an extreme as they are amazing and very 
 life-like, It creates high expectations as to the limit the ps3's graphics can go. Next is the 
 gameplay which i found to be good and very underrated by some critics. The reason it is so critisized 
 is because there are no finishers but it is replaced by the DJ Turntable controls where you control 
 the music by changing songs, mixing songs while taking control of the environment by blasting various 
 objects right open, eventualy destroying the whole setting and background. The Buiild a label mode 
 is highly entertaining and quite smart. Here you sign new artists to your label, release songs 
 and fight your way to become an icon. There is a great amount of rap tracks to listen to and unlock 
 along with many fighters to play with and unlock. Mulltiplayer mode is good fun and so is online 
 play. All in all this is a great game and i would recommend it to def jam lovers, especially those 
 who have an interest in hip-hop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  def jam: icon has many characters with great and crazy stories that you can choose and they look 
 like their real life counterparts. the graphics are realistic and the sountrack sounds great. but 
 the game's fighting system takes a lot of getting used to. but if you've already played fight night 
 round 3, you'll have no problem in using def jam: icon's fighting system. it's great how the music 
 is implemented to the fights. it makes the fights more fun. fans of the series, those who like rappers 
 or any person who likes fight night round 3's fighting system should buy def jam: icon. but if you're 
 looking for a fighting game with a simple combat system, def jam: icon is not a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaiThFul066
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Def jam icon is a great game. Good stuff:
  Good game-play- runs very smooth, you can do cool things with the turntable
  Graphics- great 
 graphics characters look very realistic, very nice
  Storyline- Very cool and interesting storyline keeps you interested. When signing an artist you 
 can adjust the investment in the artist's song do determine how much you will make in the long 
 run (very cool)
  Creating a person- very detailed can create virtually any face/body
  
  Bad stuff: You know no games are perfect so here it is,
  Characters: When dressing a character 
 he can only wear baggy clothing and it looks gangster you cannot dress him regular
  Background- weird a background in motion it is very unusual at first but when you master it, it 
 becomes a valuable weapon (moving objects)
  Ending (not giving it away!!!) - When you have to fight a character at the end you have to defeat 
 him/her twice which was really hard and angering in order to complete the game.
  
  Overall though it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: i love how this game is a street fighting game instead of wrestling like the previous 
 Def Jam titles. The DJ controls are pretty solid. Overall the gameplay is excellent.
  
  Graphics: wow. one word to describe these graphics: AMAZING. The rappers look exactly like they 
 do in real life. The venues are very good too.
  
  Sound: This game probably has the best soundtrack ever if you're into Rap/Hip-hop. Tons of great 
 songs and the voice acting is really good.
  
  Value: The Story mode is way to short but replayability makes up for this. Online isnt very good 
 because its near impossible to find someone who uses more then 3 different moves. There arent very 
 many characters but the good thing is mostly all my favorites are in this game. The diffuculty 
 levels are very good, Easy is easy, Medium is not to easy but not super hard, and hard is challenging.
 
  
  Tilt: signing rappers to your label is a blast, so is buying new clothes chains, etc.
  if you are a fan of rap you definently should get this game. If you're not then this is still a 
 solid game. Either way its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gta4lif3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is more fun than anything else, evryone should get it. this is sick just what i needed 
 to have fun and whope some ass. i recomend this game to everyone. yes i mean it its the best fighting 
 game of all time for the next gen console. one of the best game that u should get. its fun and addicting. def 
 jam has made his best series. it has good story and good gameplay what else do you need. it also 
 have good music and a special touch, the music hazard in the game. also its good on making your owned 
 character. this game is more fun than anything else, evryone should get it. this is sick just what 
 i needed to have fun and whope some ass. i recomend this game to everyone. yes i mean it its the 
 best fighting game of all time for the next gen console. one of the best game that u should get. its 
 fun and addicting. def jam has made his best series. it has good story and good gameplay what else 
 do you need. it also have good music and a special touch, the music hazard in the game. also its good 
 on making your owned character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Of course Def Jam Icon is going to have good sound. It's got alot of nice rap songs, so it's not 
 a game where you put the volume down. Instead you actually put it up. However, the gameplay does 
 not match the music. The moves are too boring and dull. There is not a alot of moves to fight with. 
 Plus there is no finishing moves, which completly sucks! Finishing moves were awsome for it was 
 for once a move that each player could do his own way. Also the game gets too difficult as it moves 
 on. It's frustrauting because if you can't beat aone guy, but you can beat all the others, you 
 still can't move on in the story. You will just have to curse yourself out until you finally beat 
 him. The graphics are nice, but of course it's a Playstation 3 game, I mean the graphics must be 
 good. Overall, I think that you should NOT buy this game, unless you wanna just throw money away. 
 Rent the game, play it, beat it and then forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamorhage
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has lots of things to love and lots of things to hate. First of all I'd say its mandatory 
 that you're a big fan of the hiphop scene. The whole game obviosuly is driven by the artists signed 
 by Def Jam. People like me who grew up with the Wu Tang clan will be delighted to sign artists 
 like Ghistface Killah and hang out with redman and methodman. Even though Lil John must be one 
 of the coolest looking characters in the game.
  
  The story mode is completely voiced over by your favourite artists and the characters couldn't 
 look any more like their real life counterparts. Add on some fantastic music to your avail you 
 can really have the best music experience you had.
  
  Unfortuantly I feel that they took the gameplay a step back in comparison to the previous def jam 
 releases. Maybe because they wanted to take the realsime to the next level they restricted themselves 
 in terms of off-world combat. The fighters are slow and throw realistic punches, but there's just 
 no spark flying off of it. Yeah sure the dj moves and interaction with the backgrounds looks fkn 
 awesome. I mean AWESOME! When you first play in some of the areas you'll just be looking at all 
 the detail and destruction going on in the background that you'll probably get beaten without caring.
 
  
  But once you decide to get into the game and get a ahng of the moves you'll realise it's not that 
 intuitive and slow and repeptive to say the least. I set the difficulty on easy just to get past 
 the fights much faster. You'll just want to know what goes on the story and waht chick you get 
 to invite to your appartment. Actually one of the most enjoyable things about the agmneplay was 
 the managing of your newly signed artists. It's just really boring as you'll fight a lot of similar 
 characters in a limited selection of 7 levels.
  EA should've really come up with some more different levels to play in or maybe take the agme to 
 the next step. A full 3d free roaming city where you could run into trouble on the streets.
  
  Anyway, it's an ok game and if you could pick it up at a bargain price its well worth a few 
 hours of your time. But it's not going to take over your life in any way, it'll just leave you 
 behind with some new pretty pictures in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  For those who are fans of the Def Jam series, this game was a contraversial one. While it starred 
 famous rappers like its predecessor, it introduced a whole new style of gameplay - which either 
 appeased to the fans... or dissapointed them greatly.
  
  The game features a ridiculous storyline that follows you on your path to become an ICON in the 
 music business. As you sign stars and *convince* certain people to mind their own business, you 
 are thrown into a world of greed and betrayal.
  
  The gameplay has changed quite a bit. From the realistic, gritty Fight for New York gameplay to 
 the musically-charged adrenaline-pumping ICON gameplay. This by itself was reason to some not to 
 buy the game. The *blazing moves* are gone and are replaced by *takedowns*. Some people however, 
 welcomed this change with open arms.
  
  The graphics are fenomenal, and the music is well-picked so the only thing that really caused the 
 contravesial response of the fans is gameplay. The game offers some freedom in signing artists 
 and customizing your look, but the story is linear, addictive, but short in the end. But if you're 
 looking for a quality and fun celebrity-fighting game, Def Jam Icon is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacintos09
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  So I guess I should have seen this coming. Of course, Def Jam would make music a big part of the 
 gameplay at some point. I get it, but I think the way they choose to do it is somewhat substandard. 
 The whole mixing thing is just lame, and it doesn't seem to add a lot to the game. Plus, what happened 
 to the cool finishing moves? Those were the best part of the Def Jam games.
  
  Also, I think the storyline may be better than some previous games, but it lacks variety for replay 
 and eventually you get tired of just fighting every 5 minutes. And the story was too short. I beat 
 it, playing a couple hours a day, in like 2 or 3 days. The online is ok, but not especially interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim-pagey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: ICON has a cool storyline by being able to produce certain hip hop n rappers and sell their 
 songs etc. The fights are good but there are not many locations so you are often fighting in the 
 same place, in the club, outside a crib or in a def jam billboard place. The other good thing is 
 that you can buy all sorts of clothes such as ecko etc
  
  There should of been more fighting styles which would of made the game more exciting. Also the 
 fact that moving your hands as if like being a dj blows up things is very stupid. Also the storyline 
 is too short.
  
  overall this game is fun to play because of the storyline and the fighting and the fact tthat you 
 can own rappers such as ludacris and e40 etc. you should only buy this game if you are into rap 
 n hip hop or like fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is the next-gen installment in the popular Def Jam fighting franchise. The previous 
 installments were not only fun due to their gameplay but due to the fact that they felt like an 
 actual game and not quick cash-in ala 50 Cent Bulletproof. DJ Icon does retain some elements that 
 made the previous titles interesting while completely revamping others.
  
  Def Jam Icon is developed by EA Chicago, the team responsible for the Fight Night series and not 
 by Aki who handled the first two Def Jam titles. EA Chicagos influence clearly shows through the 
 amazing visuals and the games combat system which heavily utilizes the right analog stick. The 
 combat in Icon consists the normal face button setup which covers your basic heavy and light punches/kicks. 
 The right analog stick handles throws and extreme punches and kicks. For those familiar with the 
 Fight Night games should feel at home with Icon since the combat is essentially Fight Night Street 
 Combat. For those unfamiliar with the Fight Night scheme you control extreme punches and kicks 
 by arcing the right analog stick in different directions. Youll have to time your punches well 
 or face getting owned by your opponent. The core concept of the combat system is good but pales 
 in comparison to the previous titles, which heavily focused on grappling and over the top finishing 
 moves. A fan favorite from the previous game, the Blazing moves, is MIA in Icon and there are no 
 real finishing moves in the game. Icons combat also feels a bit sluggish and methodical and doesnt 
 have that quick fire feel of previous Def Jam title.
  
  The actual implementation of the right analog stick in combat is a bit of a mixed bag. While the 
 moves that are mapped to the right analog stick are flashy, at times theyre a bit hard to pull 
 off since there is slight delay from when you press the button to the actual on-screen reaction. 
 It also takes awhile to get used to using the face buttons for the main attacks and then switch 
 to the right analog stick and hope you can pull off a move before the enemy disrupts your flow. 
 That being said Icon does have a steep learning curve compared to the previous Def Jams. Dont 
 be expecting to go into a match on your first try and winning, chances are you will probably lose 
 or barely win the match. Icon does have a practice mode in which you can practice your skills on 
 the various stages in the game but there no explanations to performing specific moves in the game. 
 An example of Icons mixed bag fighting is that there is no grappling or submissions in the game. 
 The previous Def Jams were a mix of fighting and wrestling style moves. None of that is in Icon 
 but there are some small grapple moves you can perform such as a suplex but how you perform that 
 is based on properly blocking your opponents attack. At the end of the day the combat in Icon isnt 
 a lot of fun due to the sloppy combat controls and the overall lack of moves.
  
  However Icon does have a highlight and thats the music integration. The music in the game is a 
 weapon in itself and the player can actually manipulate it to their advantage. Each environment 
 in the game has certain hazardous that react to the beat of the music. The player can manipulate 
 the beat of the music by using the DJ Turntable controls. By holding down the L2 button and rotating 
 the left or right analog stick the player can speed up the music to activate an environment hazard. 
 Not only does the music activate hazards but the environment animates to it. So some levels will 
 have lights on skyscrapers animate to the beat of the music while others will have debris moving 
 to the beat. Also over time the environment will break so pieces of a building or even a car will 
 be in pieces. This feature, of having music as a weapon, certainly sets Icon apart from other fighting 
 games and is a nice addition to the Def Jam franchise. Icon of course has a good soundtrack or 
 else this feature would be a waste. Each of the artists in the game has a song of theirs to represent 
 them. You can also select a song before you battle. So if theres a song that you like a lot and 
 really know the rhythm of you can choose that to use to your advantage during combat.
  
  EA Chicago set the bar in terms of visuals with Fight Night and they matched and in some respects 
 exceeded what they did in Fight Night. All of the character models match their real world counter 
 parts with eerie realism. Characters clothing and jewelry will sway realistically and over time 
 their clothing will accumulate dirt and blood as the fight intensifies. The animations in the game 
 are pretty slick but at times can seem a bit too stiff compared to the previous Def Jam. The games 
 8 environments each have certain visual characteristics that set them apart whether its a rooftop 
 with a swaying helicopter or a packed night club. There is some noticeable aliasing with some aspects 
 of the environments but its not something that is so noticeable that it takes you out of the experience.
 
  
  Just like its predecessor Icon features a story mode that encompasses your rise in the rap industry, 
 corrupt cops, rival record labels and a politician with a mysterious agenda. The game starts out 
 with you talking to your mentor on the streets of New York when suddenly hes shot in a drive by 
 and the game then goes 2 years in the past to when you first encounter your mentor. From there 
 you become part of the rap industry and that means pleasing your talent and signing new talent. 
 A new element to the Def Jam franchise is that you can manage your label. You can decide what artists 
 you sign, allocate money for album releases and receive email from your artists and enemies. This 
 aspect of the game is a nice addition but it never has any impact on the story itself. The only 
 effect the album managing has is your Icon ranking which consists of how many albums have gone 
 gold or platinum and your total respect. The story in Icon is somewhat puzzling. While it is pretty 
 well written and is probably one of the best stories in a fighting game it does find itself in 
 a way embracing several stereotypes. Unlike the other Def Jams which featured rappers but took 
 place in a fantasy world of underground fight clubs, Icon takes place in the record industry. So 
 in a way the game is portraying the stereotype that the rap industry is filled with nothing but 
 thugs and several of the artists requests such as buying Lil Jons entourage a fleet of cars or 
 a members being arrested for mysterious charges further play into this. Its a bit unclear if 
 EA was trying to play into that glam factor the street aspect of the rap industry has or if they 
 were taking a tongue in cheek aspect to it. The story however shouldnt offend anyone based on 
 its portrayals of the main cast, so in the end its a matter of preference whether the story in 
 Icon pleases you or not. And in typical hip-hop fashion the game ends in a twist with a conspiracy 
 and the games credits even acknowledges this.
  
  Icon also allows you to create your own fighter to use both in the story mode and regular mode. 
 If youre familiar with the Fight Night create-a-character system then thats pretty much what 
 Icon uses. The options for some attributes such as hair and facial hair are a bit limiting and 
 you also cant choose a different head type for further customization. Unlike Fight For New York 
 you cant choose the voice of your character so its missing that final unique touch. Of course 
 you can pimp your character out with clothing from Sean John, Adidas, Nike Air Jordan and all the 
 latest bling such as massive chains that would put Ali G to shame. While you can create your own 
 character you cant customize his attributes like the previous Def Jams. This hampers the game 
 in a way since you never feel more powerful as you progress through the game.
  
  The biggest problem with Icon is its lack of features. While the music integration and story aspects 
 are good there are a handful of features missing from Icon. The first and perhaps biggest issue 
 with the game is the roster of rappers is a bit meh. You do have artists like Ludacris, Big Boi, 
 The Game, E-40, Ghost Face Killah and Fat Joe but there are still several Def Jam icons missing 
 in action. Wheres LL Cool J, Jay-Z, or perhaps even Run DMC as the ultimate legend unlockable? 
 You also cant play as any female fighters. While there are several female characters in the games 
 story mode you sadly cant unlock any of them so you cant have your ultimate cat fight fantasy. 
 Icon is also lacking in game modes. While the game does feature online play for the first time, 
 there is no 4 player support in the game. So you and some buddies cant compete in a Battle Royale 
 or compete in a tag team competition. This lack of variety also affects Icons single game mode. 
 While its predecessor, Fight For New York, featured different stages that had different element 
 such as Ring matches, Fire matches, and areas that changed how you play such as the Subway level, 
 Icon features none of that. All the stages in the game are essentially the same except for the 
 few environmental hazards. So it may get a bit boring after awhile when you play the Club level 
 for the 15th time and know all the hazards like the back of your hand.
  
  Def Jam Icon represents an interesting step for the franchise but for every positive feature there 
 are a handful of things that take the game down. The graphics are good, the concept of using the 
 music as a weapon is good but is held down by a poor fighting system and lack of features. Many 
 fans wanted the Def Jam: Fight For New York fighting system to return but instead they get a street 
 version of the Fight Night controls. Icon also doesnt have that long term replay factor the other 
 titles have so once youve finished the story mode there isnt a lot to go back to. And while EA 
 Chicago should be applauded in trying to do something original they deviated so far from what made 
 the previous Def Jams fun that they ultimately alienate the Def Jam fans and their core audience. 
 The game definitely has good visuals and a solid soundtrack but as a fighting game Icon falls flat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limazulu69
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the series before i played this terrible game. Everything fun from the series 
 has been removed, You can no longer play this game and have fun. No weapons and no great fighting 
 engine to drive this game to the top.
  
  I played fight for new york for over 200 hours, that was a great game, you could bring out and 
 play with friends all the time. I had no fun playing this game, You use some sort of magical music 
 power to fight. the whole screen and background explodes into some sort of crazy colour crap.
 
  
  The only good thing about this game is the music and the graphics, and thats not enough to pull 
 this game from the sh*thole that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Where should I start, other than the fact that at my local Game Crazy, they had 8 used copies of 
 it within a week of it being released. This game is hands-down the worst fighter I've ever played, 
 and I've played Fight Club and had more fun than this garbage.
  
  I think I can start with three words: Street-Kwon-Do.
  
  I think these words can sum up the 
 contempt I've been having lately with games becoming ultra ghetto-fied . Managing songs and dumping 
 money into artists? This game took the greatness of the last two and swirled it into a steaming, 
 crap-encrusted pile that some poor souls out there actually paid money for. The story sucks, and 
 the new fighting system sucks even harder.
  
  Not to mention the fact that the game in itself is a complete lie. Look, anyone who's been alive 
 for more than 2 seconds knows that rappers and the like are too cowardly to take a good ol' fashioned 
 beating, why do you think there are shootings involving feuding rap artists? This game pits you 
 against other people hand-to-hand, when in the REAL streets, you'd get shot up by 8 of his homies 
 before you could blink.
  
  Which brings me to the most robotic-looking fighting system I've seen since the WWE games for N64. 
 The fighting is slow, and wait.... you're not supposed to fight them. You have to throw them into 
 obstacles, and then hold the L2 button to go into some kind of time-warping epileptic seizure that 
 moves the song to the point where the beat sets off the trap.
  
  I honestly think that the only thing remotely good I can come up with here is how good the character 
 models look.. even if you end up creating a complete abomination of a white guy in character creation.
 
  
  Simply put, this game is a joke. I hope EA fires Kudo Tsunoda for single-handedly destroying a 
 once-great franchise with his complete disregard of gameplay in favor of keeping it real ... which 
 if you read about 2 paragraphs up, I made my point on how well this game REALLY keeps it real . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  a great looking game thats puts you in the feet of a manager of a company, almost passes as feasible 
 if it wasn't for the fact that you don't just run around and start fights.
  
  gameplay - slow with weak and strong punch and kicks. the difference is in your fighting style. 
 like all the previews stated the music goes with the background and surrounds of a level your fighting 
 in. modes - quick pick up fight, online, and story mode being the most depths and most of your 
 gameplay. starting off as a young player in the game you work your way in a company manage rappers 
 while recruiting and managing there careers. tacky IMO, i got real unrealistic that i made me not 
 want to play anymore.
  
  overall - the game looks amazing but the fighting style is just to slow and you end up doing the 
 same thing. if it was boxing (which it looks like they were trying to get) it would be different.
 
  
  RENT FIRST!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock_around83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Though the graphics are awesome and lives up to the playstation 3 Next generation reputation, the 
 game falls behind on the common goals. You have to take into account that this is a fighting game 
 and the graphics makes it an excellent game, but:
  
  In the game there are record labels which you sign up artists and watch the money flow in, the 
 money is fairly simple to attain and not much stuff from which you can buy. The clothes are dirt 
 cheap, after you sign a few record deals, you can get all the bling, till you are left with a ton 
 of cash and nothing to do with it, but beat up more guys and get more of it.
  
  Other than that, the interface is better than previous games and the online gaming makes it more 
 challenging.
  
  P. S. the graphics are awesome!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBlackboi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game for PS3 owners, the simple fighting system makes it easy to learn. The 
 visuals resemble the real life counterparts, the incorporation of the music applying to the actual 
 fight was the best ideal in a long time, and the story mode has some real reflection on how albums 
 are released in real life. The online mode is what other fighting games lack that pushed this one 
 over the top, it really turns out to be the best feature for the game. Now if EA could just let 
 Sony run the server (Ressistance FOM runs great, Icon takes five to ten min just to get in a fight 
 and they still might bump you off at any given time) to make getting online more fluid then I could 
 say no wrong about this game. All in all it take fighting back to button mashing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8erBoy1993
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is about you becoming a street fighter and music producer. You can customize your 
 own character with bling and clothes. There are diffirent game modes like make a label and practice 
 mode whitch can be multiplayer and solo. Anoher mode is throwdown which is multiplayer too but 
 actually being able to kill the other player. You get to choose the rappers from def jam. When 
 fighting you choose what music you want to be played and when its played you get stronger and faster 
 but your opponent can switch the songs by mixing. Mixing is where you can make things blowup or 
 hurt the other player when theyre near the certain objects. Id give this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdope
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I think its a great game but it could have been better if it wasnt so short. great graphics, great 
 gameplay. BUY IT!!! and yes if you mix tomatoes and bananas its gonna be a fantastic trip to greece 
 but the important thing is that i dont like my sweater and its a rug yadaddamean? beyyoottcchhh 
 yes yes yes yes but on the real this is a goalie that is capable of many things in life so beat 
 it beat it yeeaahh its a great hamburger i must say DIPSET! BAAAALLIIIIIINNN!!! byrdgang and youu 
 knoow thiiss!!!! oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh 
 oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  That's the question that pops into my head when I play Def Jam Icon. Should the series just be 
 a pretty straight forward one on one fight between celebrities or should the series evolve into 
 a sandbox game featuring Def Jam recording artists. I first have to say, I've never played the 
 previous Def Jam games. I wanted to, but never got around to actually doing so. I know people who 
 have and I've owned all of the AKI/THQ wrestling games prior to the Def Jam games. If that's anything 
 to go by, then in comparison, Icon is completely in it's own league. The fighting system is more 
 advanced than your typical button masher due mostly to the innovative turn-table controls, although 
 the fights can sometimes lie heavily on throwing your opponent into environmental hazards. Surprisingly 
 the main focus in the game is the great story in the Build a Label mode. Character customization 
 is about as extensive as it's been on consoles, as you are allowed to choose how your player fights, 
 dresses and wears his hat. Think Fight Night Round 3, but with clothes and jewelry too. Shelling 
 out money for record releases and trying to make it big in the industry just drives you more and 
 more to kick some serious butt. Although fighting fight after fight can get played out eventually, 
 Def Jam Icon gives you a great story to keep you involved, instead of just telling you to fight 
 so-and-so. If the brand continues, I'd really like to see more of the Def Jam artists in the select 
 screen, not that the selection is weak, but there are so many more to choose from. Of course customizing 
 the sound track would add just another notch in Icon's belt (c'mon Sony) . Having to use the whole 
 controller for a change (minus the sixasis) was a great idea, hopefully more will follow suit. 
 In the end, I guess my original question will be answered whenever the next instalment of Def Jam 
 is released, but I'm leaning towards the sandbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is the ifrst def jam game on the next generation platforms. you can actually pick 
 from a number of really good rappers, like you could in the previous games, to play as. But the 
 big thing to the game play is how the music becomes part of the game. You can use the music to 
 defeat your enemy in multiple ways. you can play thru a career mode that will allow you to creat 
 your own character and also play thru an ok story line. The career mode is the one you will mostly 
 do to unlock extra rappers . GOOD THINGS: one is the graphics, they are extremely good. you can 
 see a lot of detail that has been put into the environment and into the characters. the fighting 
 part of the game is good also and its pretty enjoyable. one of the big feature is the DJ controls 
 which is a new one. You can use this to actually turn the music into your music and to damage your 
 opponet. this is a real big part of the whole game and controls who will win. BAD THINGS:
  the load time may get a little tedious, the career mode could have been a little bit better. because 
 after you play thru half of the game you mostly find out that it kinda of just repeats, just fighting, 
 no adventure. on top of that there is not a lot of things to do once you beat the career mode. 
 ALL N ALL: if you are looking for a pretty good fighting game with some great music, then this 
 may be intertaining. or if you love rap, then borrow this or rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam has always been one of my favorite fighters since its first release wtih Vendetta. Just 
 the idea of having the big names in Hip Hop and Rap battling it out in something that has nothing 
 to do with them was intuitive. Icon though leaves you with an empty feeling. The whole DJ scratching 
 in the middle of the fight, though different, is more of a distraction than an asset. The characters 
 are of the now era but there is the big distinction between the latter two games; it's characters 
 were from today and yesterday. Visually it looks beautiful. At first I was a little thrown by how 
 well it looked. The characters actually looked themselves. For my wife to say, Hey that's Anthony 
 Anderson, I thought was an accomplishment by far.
  The controls. Here is the tricky part. Are we in a fighting game or we auditioning for the sequel 
 to Juice? EA missed on this one and this is where the blow is the biggest. Reminds me of Madden. 
 As with Madden, if the controls could have stayed the same then maybe maybe this title would have 
 had a better chance. You have no clue what kind or type of strike you are about to unleash. Sound. 
 This is the next gen game? This is Def Jam! Vendetta lacked some in this area and EA responded 
 well on Fight for NY. What happened here? As for entertainment; since I Iiked the other two games 
 so much I played it thru for sheer fact of the series namesake. However, if the game isn't taken 
 back to it's roots; i. e. fight-game mechanics and true Hip Hop characters I'll to do as the game 
 and change the CD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The thing i love about this game is that its one of those ghetto fighting games, love the settings, 
 and the music gives off Adredaline! Has Great visuals could have better ones though, musics great 
 could use more tracks.
  The thing that sperates this game is that the story is interesting and fun.
  Give this game a 
 Try i dont see why not but i susgest you rent the game before buying it!
  Missing a few things but still a great boxing type of fighter!
  I havent tried multiplayer but 
 i bet its good, which is always a bonus!
  If you like Fighting games try this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameschok
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed with the initial releases for the PS3, but this game, along with MotorStorm, 
 has renewed my faith for this system. This game has outstanding graphics and a great soundtrack. 
 The storyline mode completely wraps you up in the hip-hop lifestyle and the controls work well 
 once you learn them. My only complaints are that you sometimes have to fight the same person twice, 
 and most annoying, sometimes twice in a row! Other than that, this is a great game, the single 
 player mode is lengthy, and this was definitely worth the purchase. For the next iteration, I would 
 like to see greater freedom over how you respond to others. Sometimes the game is like, go talk 
 to so and so and the next thing you know, you're fighting. It would be cool if you could select 
 from a list of choices that impacted how the storyline progressed. More unlockable characters would 
 also be cool and an old school version with the pioneers of rap would be awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam ICON is definitely a unique game with it's combination of features, gameplay mechanics 
 and source material. The game plays well. The fighting can often times come off as simple but is 
 enjoyable and once you get the hand of it and start using background hazards and the full dj mechanics 
 it becomes addictive and quite enjoyable to pummel your oppontents. The music is all on point and 
 the music aspect of coordinating with the backdrops in which you fight is ingenious and a valuable 
 asset if put to good use while playing. Timing a throw or strong blow into a gas pump or into a 
 broken smashed up speaker system and seeing your opponent fly across the room from the explosion 
 is just plain cool. The story plays well and is very engaging and has a good number or twists to 
 bring the adventure to life. The record exec features and trying to make money while keeping artists, 
 girlfriends and lawyers happy is all well placed and well executed. For those that are familiar 
 with mainstream hip hop outside of video games the events in the story and the character customization 
 options are all in place and faithful to the source material. Graphics are on point and every character 
 is easily recognizable with good voicework and accurate character models. The only downfall if 
 any is that the gameplay when actually fighting at the root of it is overly simple but it fits 
 once you work in the aspect of the music and environment as weapons. Overall a fun game and must 
 have for any fan of hiphop music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaam
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  I really waited for this game to come out for a long time, been looking at the screenshots, thought 
 it would be amazing.
  I feel very disappointed at how EA completely changed Def jam. The only similiar things are the 
 music and some of the artists. The graphics are really great although the gameplay is stupidly 
 slow and complicated, it takes you a decade to throw a punch. The music is great if you like rap 
 and hip hop. I think that EA really ruined the Def Jam series by creating this stupid game, overall 
 i think that this game is a total waste of time and money and only rent it if you really want to 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Nice modeling, decent sound-track, it has potential
  
  Cons: See below this game is a disaster.
  
  Well, another failure on my list of reviews for 
 EA. Def Jam games in the past have been decent and, judging from the trailer, I thought it looked 
 very good. This was all ruined by the fact that the game absolutely blows!
  
  I don't even know where to start on this one, weather its the ridiculous trippy maps, or the horrible 
 lame fighting styles the fighters use. So, lets start with the trippy maps... Why in gods name 
 would you make a map that moves as you fight? literally everything moves in a different, hard to 
 look at, pace. Did I mention that things fall from the sky/roof or cars skid out when someone uses 
 their turn table .
  
  I'm seriously surprised a rapper would even think about letting themselves be in a such a display 
 of crap. Get some creativity in your games, Street-Kwon-Doe... Gangsta boxing... give me a frigen 
 break!
  
  The only things I can say were good about this game were the rappers' graphics (body &amp; face 
 included) and the soundtrack was decent. The fact that the fighting was slow paced and stupid (yea, 
 all rappers do tornado kicks when they fight) made this game horrible, I have never played such 
 treachery in a game before (excluding NFS: C)
  
  -FrEaK
  
  P. S. I wouldn't even bother wasting your money by renting this game, have fun with it if you find 
 it in your local bargain bin within the next... Oh wait, its already there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the games I loved back in the day was Def Jam Vendetta. I'm a big fan of wrestling and hip-hop, 
 so to see a game that combined the both of them was great. Fast forward a few years and it's time 
 for the next generation of gaming consoles. Def Jam was actually one of the first games I was hoping 
 to come out for a next-gen console, and luckily for me, it did in Def Jam: Icon. The first thing 
 you'll notice about this game is a new control scheme.
  
  Game-play - The game-play in this game is much different then that in Def Jam Vendetta and the 
 sequel, Def Jam: Fight for New York. Now, you rely on primarily the analog sticks to move your 
 fighter and also to perform grapples, but the striking attacks are still performed with square, 
 circle, triangle and X. You flick the right analog stick up to grab the opponent and then you can 
 either punch them once or twice or toss them across the arena, which is always fun. But let's talk 
 about the environmental attacks, which is a new feature in Icon. You may have heard or seen in 
 reviews that there are no longer weapons, such as crowbars and hammers. That is correct. You will 
 now use the music to your advantage. When the background music hits a high note, for example, there 
 will be various explosions or other effects, depending on where you're fighting. This is the point 
 where you must toss your opponent into the environment to cause the most damage. Either that, or 
 you can hold L2 and wiggle the right analog stick fast and you'll make the environment do its thing 
 on your own.
  
  Graphics - The thing I looked forward to the most with the next-gen systems was the graphics, and 
 Icon does not disappoint. The graphics are absolutely phenomenal. If you're wearing a chain necklace, 
 that'll shake during the fight, and your shirt will also go up and down depending on what your 
 character is doing. The models are so superbly done, it actually looks like you're watching a movie 
 if the camera is close enough. The camera angles in Icon take the approach that Def Jam: The Takeover 
 for the PSP took. It can be close to you or far from you, depending on how close you are to your 
 opponent. If you're battling each other next to a wall, the camera is right there in their faces 
 basically, and the graphics there are simply unbelievable. No complaints from me for the graphics.
 
  
  Sound - And then comes the sound. Icon took a risky approach in un censoring every song in the 
 game. That's right, you read correctly. The songs are completely uncensored. The voice over work 
 is done superbly as well and the sounds the environments make when they're being used is also great.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal - Overall, this game is pretty good. It can get very hard, though, even on Medium 
 difficulty. The opponents are constantly kicking and punching at you, which can get very frustrating, 
 since it fells nearly impossible to fight back. The fights are also much longer then in previous 
 Def Jam titles. So overall, while the game-play takes a step back in my opinion, the game is still 
 entertaining. Unfortunately, possibly due to the camera angles, only single matches are available. 
 But I think Icon is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waleed77
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  its good looking and story its nice but the game play its rubish late you feel play magic game 
 like harry potter game and what ? please do something difrent butt not like this idea the hip hop 
 stars look amazing the sound its best but the gameplay its suck please dont trau this idea agaiin, 
 other def jam game its the best gameplay fight i see before evre def jam wil be loss the fans of 
 this game please be the best def jam , i know the def jam stuff they can bach on to the top becuse 
 {ALL EYSE ON YOU DEF JAM} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I chose to purchase Def Jam's ICON for the Playstation 3 instead of for my XBOX 360 cause this 
 360 (my third one) is going back for repairs. So I needed something new and good to play while 
 it's being fixed. I was heistant to buy this game because I wasn't a fan of the previous Def Jam 
 games. I played one of them a little and just wasn't impressed. And the way rap music has been 
 going I'm not much a fan anymore. But..... I'm glad to say that I was wrong about my preconceived 
 ideas about this game. I can honestly say this game is amazing. I can see 50 cent, EZ-E, Eminem, 
 Nas, and Jay-Z, kickin it at their crib smoking funny cigarettes and playing this game against 
 each other and talking trash the whole time and just laughing and having a ball. I also get a vision 
 of a plush penthouse office of a high-ranking music executive and you walk in and this game is 
 set up in the lobby to pass the time while you're waiting for a meeting. (ok i have an active imagination) 
 But to get to the game..... it is very high-quality..... I guess that's what I'm trying to say. What 
 it does it does well. And I must say I am probably most impressed with it's originality and creativeness. 
 The gameplay dynamics are so different than anything I've ever seen or even thought about in a 
 game. Using music as a weapon? Who came up with that idea? Sounds crazy but the way it's implemented 
 here is pure genuis. The fighting techniques are nothing real extraordinary you see, but the thing 
 is..... there is enough diversity in what kind of moves you can perform that it makes the gameplay 
 just right. And it is pretty much like a real fight because you don't know what the other person 
 is going to do so alot of times it's a guessing game on your next move. Should you try to block 
 hi or low? Hit em' hi or low? Should I kick them or throw them across the room? Slam them or punch 
 em' while they're down. There's just enough diversity in the options of fighting moves to make 
 it fun and interesting. Right now I'm deep into the Build a Label Mode which is the HEEART of the 
 game. You start as just a regular two-bit hustler off the strett and you work your way up through 
 the ranks of a major record label by taking care of business at hand . Whatever needs to be done 
 you do it and you'll be rewarded for your efforts. Also the flavor of this is that you also have 
 the freedom to choose how to spend your money when you start moving up within the record label. 
 Say you sign a new artist...... you have to spend money on marketing, pr, airplay, etc. And the 
 artist will start having random expenses that you can choose to pay for or not as their label. 
 You want to keep your artists happy and you have to make money for you both. The happier they are 
 the more music they'll make. It's kind of hard to explain what all is involved here but trust me 
 it is fun and if you 've ever had the slightest interest in the music business you will find it 
 that much more fun. This game is so original it really blows my mind. The graphics are superb. 
 The rappers really look like who they're supposed to be. 'The music is good and loud. You will 
 be bumpin' and fightin' and sluggin' and punchin' and throwin' and scratchin' and djn' . There's 
 a whole aspect of the ghting where the music is involved that adds a ton of original fun. Each 
 fighter has their own song and when you're song is playing you get a bonus in your fighting strength. 
 But the other fighter can change the song on you by putting on his record..... (rotating left joystick, 
 then rotating right joystick while holding r2) To change the song takes a few seconds so in that 
 time you can stomp an earthquake stomp or attack the fighter to stop him. Unless you've been knocked 
 into some raging explosion fire or something. Like I said.... there's scratchin and dj-n' and song 
 switchin' you can do and it's kind of hard to explain but trust me.... you'll dig it. It sounds 
 kind of complicated but really it's not . Once you get the hang of it it's a blast. And to top 
 it all off there's online multiplayer play! And guess what, I won my first ranked match so watch 
 out for me!! Supersonicjoker online!! It keeps track of your wins and losses so there's leaderboards 
 I'm sure. There's a practice mode and a quick fight mode too. One thing I would have liked to see 
 was the use of weapons. That would have been really cool!! Come on guys.... give us a patch for 
 it!!! There's almost always a way to improve something but this game is so fun you won't have time 
 to think about that. I think this is the longest review I've ev er written so that should tell 
 you something. I like this game enough to spend the time to type all this!! Get the game!! It's 
 a very different kind of game and loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorenzojr78
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  when i 1st started playing i had high hopes for this game graphics were nice the turntables were 
 a nice new feature and seemed like alot of options with shopping and promoting artists. Soon after 
 u start playing u realize that whether u are 15 hours into game or 1 hour its exactly the same 
 theres no character customization in terms of increasing your fighting skills u pick from 1 of 
 5 or 6 styles and thats it never changes or gets better. The computer back at your crib is just 
 something to give the impression that there is more to this gamne then there is. I believe wethere 
 u invest your entire fortune to an artist or 0 the outcome will basically be the same just an illusion 
 u have control in this area. The option to buy clothing jewelery and get tattoos looks promising 
 to at start but there is almost no new items by end of game as there was from start. The fighting 
 itself which the game is really about FAILS misserably. Each fight is basically won on luck and 
 not of skill, have had many fights where i dominated the entire fight but lost the upper hand for 
 a short period and wound up losing. The lack of any kind of hud is nice in most games but in this 
 game i feel its almost a way for computer to cheat seems as if NPC has almost 3 times the amount 
 of energy u do. During the fight the npcs seem to recover from knockdowns instantly while it will 
 take u 5 secs to return to feet agtain giving them chance to switch songs or hit u with dj hazard. 
 Dont get me started on there constant ability to throw u right into the perfect spot for a dj hazard 
 over and over even if all the way across board. For the most part graphics are nice and music is 
 good for any rap fan but every other aspect of the game is an absolute mess. I say rent 1st and 
 see if u still like few hours later but personally dont think its worth the fee it cost to rent.
 
  What no finishing moves, a bunch of lethargic kicks and punches.
  Dont waste your money, the old DEF JAMS are way better.
  I don't know what type of quality control 
 EA has now a days, but this one definetly slipped by....
  Graphics and Sound don't make a game, it never has. It's all about the controls and gameplay and 
 the rest fall into play, just a little suggestion for you EA folks.
  
  Good job EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  So as soon as I heard that Def Jam was bringing a game to the next gen, I quickly swapped money 
 I had on another preorder onto this game. Knowing fully well that when I played the first Def Jam 
 game, I was surprised by the way it was more fun to play than any other wrestling game in the market. 
 And thats how it was brought into the gaming world, a wrestling game with Rappers. I had fun with 
 that game. Then comes along Def Jam: Fight for New York. This game stepped it up to the next level. 
 It ditched the wrestling ring for fully interactive environments and brought in the addition of 
 create your own fighter. This along with its story and customization quickly jumped it up to one 
 of my favorite games. It was great with its wide range of (mostly over the top, but fun to watch) 
 moves.
  
  So imagine my surprise when I get this bad boy and bring it home. I quickly pop it into my PS3 
 and get ready for the best. With the musically charged fights I was expecting the best. The graphics 
 are definately top-notch. The audio is as great as you would expect, since this is a game based 
 on music. The gameplay however, is what killed it for me. I do mean killed, because when you are 
 fighting it seems almost robotic. Nothing is very fluid. Maybe its because they have things timed 
 with the beat of the music, I don't know but I immediately began to hate the feel of this game. 
 I gave it a few chances, but I couldn't be swayed. Even the over the top moves and finishers have 
 been taken out. Now its kind of like a one-on-one 3D Final Fight stage with rap music. I had high 
 hopes for this game, but after just a few hours this game was put up on Ebay for sale... how sad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigJunnie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, its a good game, cause there is a lot at work here; however, some parts in the game like 
 the story... It should have had more depth too itself, I kinda feels shorter than DJFFNY. The character 
 roster should have had more than its previous titles (because the character lists got bigger each 
 time) . Most of the artists didn't have enough time in the story and some weren't there period. 
 Like Bun-B, Fat Joe, Kano &amp; Tego showed up but said nothing. In Build a Label mode, there shouldn't 
 have been a break up with your labelmates, for me, Jeezy got locked up, and no other verdicts reached 
 whether or not he is going to get out of jail. That ended inconclusively. Redman, and Lil' Jon 
 fought over something, so I wasn't given the option to stop them? After Carter was killed, they 
 both left me, after spending so much to keep them happy for a while, they end up leaving me. There 
 is so much that I could say, but chances are someone else has already said it, as a matter of fact 
 someone else probably said what I just said in all of this... anyway, they game is good and I insists 
 on revolving around music as a key factor, which is very good. But it still feels like its missing 
 something. If they made this like DJFFNY but laid a few of these cards on the table with AKI's 
 old title, they could've had something to rumble with in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonrell
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon is a fighting/wrestling game that features alot of today's most popular rappers. 
 The game has a story mode in which you create a character and become an icon, a throw down mode 
 which lets you pick a character and an opponent to fight, A F. A. C. E. mode which stands for Feature 
 Analysis Catalogue Entry which is basically a create a character mode that lets you create a character 
 to put in the throw down mode. The gameplay is slow compared to other games like Virtual Fighter 
 5 and Tekken 5 Dark Resurrection, but once you play it you'll start to get used to it. Fighting 
 isn't the only thing that is important in this game, the music plays a big part of the fight. It 
 has stage traps that you don't won't to be by when the beat hits. Getting hit by these things will 
 do alot of damage to you. The music can also be altered or change by holding down the R2 button 
 and using the right analogue stick to fast forward or rewind it to a beat, or hold the R2 button 
 and use the left analogue stick then the right analogue stick to change the music. The story is 
 interesting because it lets you make choices throughout the story making the game have replay value 
 to the story so when you beat it you go back and make the choices you didn't make the previous 
 time. Overall Def Jam: Icon is a great game though it will take a little practice to get use to 
 the fighting and mixing up your beats to make you the victor of the match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  When i heard a new Def Jam game was coming out for the next gen systems i was very excited considering 
 i loved the past two titles but then when i heard they change the gameplay i wasnt to happy about 
 that but after playing it for about 30 mins i soon got over it
  
  My fav part of this series is making your own character and building up their status in the game 
 and of course buying the cool clothes and jewelry Graphically i think this is one of the best PS3 
 games its just real good to look at specially how everything goes with the beat to music its very 
 cool
  
  As for the gameplay it does take awhile to get used to specially if already used to the old controller 
 scheme but as i said before you soon will get over it even though i do miss the old special moves 
 the other elements in the gameplay kinda pick up the slack of it not being there
  
  My only complaint about the game is WHERE IS THE COOL FEMALE RAPPERS??? no Lil Kim Trina Shawnna 
 nothing!!
  
  But its still a great game i suggest anybody to pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a Def Jam Vendetta or Def Jam Fight for NY think again. This looks like a 
 revamped Def Jam game just like the overhaul the Fight Night series had. You have a couple of different 
 modes available in the menu screen as soon as you start up the game.
  
  You have Throw down where you jump right into a quick fight, Build a Label, Beating with Bass, 
 Practice Mode, and Online. Build a Lable is where you'll be spending most of your time second to 
 the multiplayer. Here is where you create a your own producer from scratch and you meet a big time 
 owner of a record label. When you find out he was murder and you'll go back to see what happen 
 2 years ago to see how you ended up where you are now. One of the things that comes back from the 
 other Def Jam games is dressing up your create a player into read clothing, sneakers, and jewelry 
 which is kind of cool but more detail.
  
  The graphics in this game looks pretty damn good for a next gen game and the rappers are very close 
 to their real life counterparts. The soundtrack is pretty good as well if you're a fan of hip hop 
 music and no there isn't any custom tracks for the PS3 version.
  
  If you into another button smasher with crazy enivornment fighting rocking to the beat and causing 
 chaos check out this game. One thing is for sure don't expect it to be anything like the previous 
 installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilD2005
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam makes a return with Icon. Icon sets itself differently from the others but in doing so 
 takes away all the things that made the first two games interesting. To put it in another way, 
 this is not a Def Jam game rather a fighting game released by EA that uses the title Def Jam as 
 a liscense rather then being apart of the actual series itself.
  
  It introduces a new system of fighting. The system consists of high/low moves with the option of 
 quick or heavy. Seems simple at first. Throughout the beggining of the game, it is likely you will 
 be mastering this system before you go in depth with all the other forms. Then come the throws 
 and the other attacks. These manuevers are made with the R stick, which at first seems cool but 
 then becomes a chore to use. The fighting styles lack the mastery that is required in most fighting 
 games and from time to time might find that your trying to execute a roundhouse kick but instead 
 watch your player try to grab. The real mastery in this game comes from reading your opponents 
 and utilizing high or low maneuvers at the right time or else you will get blocked. Then add that 
 to the harmony of the back round and the use of the record spin move, and it becomes pretty difficult 
 to completely master. What it does good is its graphics, and its story, and at times the fights 
 can be fun. The story puts you into a costumized character who gets good with a rapper/producer, 
 who in two years will be gunned down in broad daylight (Opening cutscene) . Then comes a Crow type 
 character, but replacing Snoop Dogg with Anthony Anderson. He wants to be the big boy who rules 
 the rap industry and will do practicly anything. The story from there is the rising of your label 
 amid the behind the scenes war that takes place between the competition and you. The slight problem 
 with the plot, is there is small doses of it over along period of time. Like the other Def Jam 
 games, you know what the story is by checking your email. The email will be vocal half the time 
 which is a strong point. And then you select your destination which will be one of the eight availabe 
 venues at the given time. The place will have a description of what the plot is, you pick your 
 style and theme, and then you go to the fight. One weakness is you dont see any initial escelation 
 of anything that would lead to a fight, you just start in one, and end in one. Rarely will there 
 be a post fight cutscene unless the plot calls for it. How do you build a label exactly? Well you 
 get email that has the rappers or your boss tell you whats what, and first you do favors or help 
 out the rapper your label is looking to sign, allways involving a fight of course. Then when all 
 the fights are done, you have a choice between one of the two rappers, of course no matter who 
 you chose, you have to fight an opposition before they sign. Repeat this process and that is the 
 basic feel for the whole game. However that is not ALL of it.
  
  Then you will get Email from your fellow rappers/girlfreinds asking for money half the time. Depending 
 on how many times you say yes is how much they will like you, that and doing those fight involving 
 favors. For the other half of the managing/producing of the rappers you get to basicly budget spending 
 on their next album they are producing. Little to no managment skill is actually required but it 
 adds a slight sense of feel that you are an actual part of the process. The games main weaknesses 
 come from the fighting. Though inovative, it can feel old at times as well as difficult. Fighting 
 a difficult opponent becomes more of a chore. You fight, you wait till one of you is about to faint, 
 one of you faints, restart the fight because you lost, repeat. Then instead of a quick matchup, 
 the length between getting to the ending part of the fight compared to the beggining becomes long 
 and somewhat boring. And there is practicly nothing getting you from fight to fight or variety 
 other then opponents. The game has its moments and can be fun to play. However it lacks many of 
 the machinics that make a good game, a realy good game or a great game. Its potential was there 
 but was either misused or misplaced. It is definetly worth playing however to I would have to refrain 
 from calling it a must buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
