-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Devil May Cry 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/devilmaycry4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Extraordinary action sequences highlighted by smooth controls and slick animations.
 Nero is a great new character with some terrific new moves.
 Beautiful visuals and incredible cutscenes will constantly amaze you.
 Boss characters are designed well and fun to fight.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Environments and boss fights are repeated far too often.
 Puzzles and platforming aren't much fun and chop up the pace too much.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 4,623 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The newest entry in the revered series features plenty of awesome action, a great new character... and 
 a bit of repetition. 

  You'll probably remember Devil May Cry 3 for the PlayStation 2 as being an unfairly difficult game, 
 yet one that rewarded your patience with a slew of high-quality action. If playing it gave you 
 tears of frustration, you'll be happy to learn that although this sequel is a challenge, it's by 
 no means an extreme one. In fact, you're given an excellent number of gameplay choices that help 
 you tailor the challenge to your preferences. You can initially choose one of two difficulties 
 (and if you want to cry like a little girl, you can unlock several more) , and you can even choose 
 whether you want the game to perform some combos for you automatically. No, you aren't apt to find 
 Devil May Cry 4 to be excessively tough on your first play-through, though it is no walk in the 
 park either. However, it is  generally  excessive -- not that that's a bad thing. Stylish action, 
 terrific boss fights, and beautiful, melodramatic cutscenes will inspire you to push forward, and 
 they serve as an appropriate reward for a well-played sequence of demon slaying.  

           You wanna piece of me?      

  It isn't surprising that a game featuring the charmingly 
 insane Dante would be so over the top, though the series' famed antihero is not the real star this 
 time around. Don't worry; you'll still get to play as Dante, and he brings with him a good selection 
 of weapons and fighting styles, just as Devil May Cry fans would expect. But you'll spend the majority 
 of the game as newcomer Nero, who has a selection of impressive and elegant moves of his own. Nero 
 is an excellent character, capable of delivering a few wisecracks, a brooding glance, and a heartfelt 
 plea of love to his beloved Kyrie in a few moments' time. He's clearly cut from the same cloth 
 as Dante, though it's a bit disappointing that the game doesn't explore this connection in more 
 detail. Nevertheless, you'll want to follow Nero's exploits as he struggles to learn the truth 
 about his own religious organization, The Order of the Sword, and Dante's apparent murder of its 
 leader.  

  The story doesn't offer up a whole lot of surprises, but it embraces a certain attitude of self-indulgence. 
 Cutscenes are overwrought, visually stunning affairs, and are among the best you are likely to 
 have seen in any game in recent years. The theatrical dialogue, impossibly athletic animations, 
 and swooping camera work make for quite the spectacle, but somehow, it's a spectacle that manages 
 to stay on just the right side of cheesy. Devil May Cry 4 takes itself seriously, but not  too 
  seriously, so for every shocking, bloody cutaway, there's an equally funny quip that helps keep 
 the narrative in check. There are a couple of cringeworthy exceptions, such as one scene where 
 Dante decides he's a tango dancer (don't quit your day job!) , but overall, you're apt to find the 
 scenes to be gorgeous, thought-provoking, and emotionally stirring.  

  Nero's claim to fame is his demonic arm, better known as the devil bringer. With it, you can grab 
 onto distant enemies and pull them in, pick them up, and slam them around for some excellent combos, 
 plus deliver a few other surprises. These mechanics are easy to pull off, and they represent a 
 general shift from the defensive gameplay of Devil May Cry 3 to a more aggressive approach. As 
 you play, you can pull off some incredibly satisfying moves, both in the air and on the ground -- the 
 most violent of which are accompanied by slick, bloody animations and appropriately gory-sounding 
 thwacks and slashes. Timing these various moves can be tricky, but like in the previous games, 
 eventually the subtleties of your combos click, and in time you'll be pulling enemies toward you, 
 slashing them into bite-size pieces, and smashing them into one another with glee.  

  The devil-bringer moves go a long way, which is probably a good thing, since Nero has neither as 
 varied an arsenal as Dante nor access to multiple fighting styles. However, he does have his standard 
 sword, red queen, and a revolver known as blue rose, and later on he earns another weapon that 
 franchise fans will enjoy seeing in action. As you progress, you will earn proud souls based on 
 your performance in any given mission, and with them, you can purchase new combos and upgrade existing 
 ones. And you'll need them, too, since you'll need to handle droves of demons that get progressively 
 tougher -- and they're awesome to look at, to boot. You can choose these new moves individually, 
 or you can let the game auto-select them for you based on how varied you want your array of attacks 
 to be. It's worth noting that you can't really make a mistake here; if you don't like the move, 
 or if there is a more powerful upgrade available to you, you can unlearn what you have purchased 
 for a full refund and use the souls for something else.  

           The action is stylish, beautifuland bloody.      

  You'll also encounter a 
 number of secret missions scattered about, and you'll no doubt find them the most challenging aspect 
 of the game. In some cases, you have to execute a certain move a set number of times in a row, 
 or dispatch every demon within the allotted time. While those missions are challenging, others 
 require you to have purchased a particular move before you can manage it. If at first it seems 
 that some of these missions are simply unbeatable, have faith and return to it later. There's a 
 good chance you were simply just missing a piece of the puzzle. You aren't required to do these 
 missions, but the orb fragment you earn is a perfectly fine reward, and accomplishing these difficult 
 tasks is incredibly gratifying.  

  About halfway through the game, you'll take control of Dante, and you'll likely go through a period 
 of adjustment while you get used to the change in gameplay techniques. Frankly, the devil bringer 
 is a great mechanic, and losing it is a bit of a disappointment, since it's likely to be the center 
 of your fighting style. Instead, you'll have a new set of actions and combos to get used to, new 
 weapons, and four (eventually five) fighting styles. Yet once your arsenal of melee weapons and 
 guns expands (Pandora's Box is a favorite) , you'll enjoy the cheerful boldness of them. There's 
 just a lot more variety here than with Nero, and it's a lot of fun to switch styles and weapons 
 on the fly, just to find more interesting and flashy ways of crushing demons to a pulp.     
 

   

  In addition to the dazzling action, you'll work your way through some light puzzles and platforming 
 sequences. The puzzles aren't tough, but they do require you to roam about a bit from time to time, 
 bashing on some switches, using a special device to slow down time, and accomplishing some other 
 odds and ends. They help break up the pace, but all too often these breaks result in lulls that 
 last a bit too long, making you long for another crazy demon attack. Some of the platform sequences 
 are fine, requiring you to use the devil bringer as a grappling hook to fling yourself around, 
 while some of the more standard sequences suffer from bad camera angles and an annoying tendency 
 for the camera to change positions midjump.  

           The boss fights are rather fun. Good thing, too, since you'll see most of these guys three 
 times.      

  Don't let the variety of weaponry and special moves lull you into believing that the rest of Devil 
 May Cry 4's design is similarly diverse. In fact, the many different ways of killing enemies is 
 quite a stark contrast to the repetition at the heart of the experience. While backtracking and 
 repeated environments have been a problem in past games in the series, the newest entry takes these 
 issues to an even higher level of monotony. Many successive levels take place in the same castle 
 hallways and forest meadows, and when you switch to Dante, you visit them all over again. Granted, 
 most of these areas are easy on the eyes, packed with gorgeous architecture and grand outdoor vistas. 
 Yet when you see them over and over again, and when some of the light puzzles have you traipsing 
 back and forth, you will wish for more to see. It has the effect of making a seemingly grand adventure 
 feel oddly limited.  

  That repetition even makes its way into the admittedly spectacular boss fights. These battles are 
 easily the shining star of Devil May Cry 4, and each boss is wildly different from the last, requiring 
 some split-second timing and good control over your reflexes. From a giant toad to a hulking stone 
 behemoth, these bosses are cleverly designed and a good deal of fun. Yet in the second half of 
 the game, you'll face all of the same bosses as Dante that you fought as Nero. While the game could 
 have benefitted from some new blood during these missions, the differences in styles between the 
 two at least lend some diversity to the repeated bosses and test the newest additions to your arsenal. 
 Yet amazingly (and irritatingly) , Capcom brings most of them out for a third time in the game's 
 padded and plodding penultimate mission. Yes, these fights are fun, but forcing most of them on 
 the player three times is overkill.  

  Regardless of which platform you play Devil May Cry 4 on, this game is a looker. Both Nero and 
 Dante are fluid in motion, showcasing a good deal of flair and subtlety in their movements. The 
 more damage a move does, the more astonishing it looks onscreen, and few games can approach the 
 pure razzle-dazzle of Nero jumping into the air, his cape flying and the glowing devil bringer 
 tossing lumbering demons around with matchless grace. From a design standpoint, the visuals can 
 be gorgeous to behold, and moments like your first glimpse of Gran Album bridge are bound to take 
 your breath away. What's more, all of this visual prowess is smoothly rendered on both platforms, 
 and broken up only by the occasional loading time. This can be noticeably reduced if you are playing 
 on the PlayStation 3, since some files will be installed to the hard drive, though the loading 
 times aren't excessive by any stretch. The downside for PS3 owners is that the installation takes 
 around 20 minutes to finish.  

           You may get rewarded for finishing a mission quickly, but you'll still want to gawk at 
 the scenery.      

  The sound design, like the storytelling, is merrily over the top. The vibrant brutality of your 
 most impressive moves is accompanied by equally squeamish and powerful sound effects. Fortunately, 
 the talented voice cast never hams it up, even when delivering the most melodramatic lines. As 
 Nero, Johnny Yong Bosch can be both remarkably sincere and sneeringly sarcastic, and his superb 
 acting makes for one of the most appealing new game characters to be introduced in some time. But 
 you may not find the music as universally appealing. This is the one area where Devil May Cry 4 
 feels too clichd, relying on the standard heavy metal grinds that accompany most demon-inspired 
 games and films, and replaying the same couple of tunes during combat ad nauseum. Luckily, it never 
 gets in the way, so while it may not stand out, it doesn't  stick  out, either.  

  Online leaderboards, challenging achievements on both platforms, and a host of unlockables (including 
 an action-only survival mode) will keep stalwart fans coming back for more, in spite of all the 
 repetition. Recycled content and some pacing inconsistencies aside, Devil May Cry 4 is a great 
 game, and it delivers a lot of quality action that will please fans without alienating those new 
 to the series. If you liked previous entries, you'll find what you're looking for here; and if 
 you were turned off by Devil May Cry 3's insane challenge, you'll feel a lot more comfortable this 
 time around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (321 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry made some big splashes when it was announced for next gen systems. The visuals looked 
 slick and the environments looked better than ever. While these two things turned out to be true 
 to the claims, the rest of the game does many things well while continuing some of the flaws of 
 the previous games.
  
  The level design is nice with multiple levels to explore per stage that adds depth to the game 
 play. The downside is that the game often requires you to backtrack quite a bit. Some people like 
 this style of game, and it worked well for the first three games, but I was hoping they would expand 
 into a different direction with four. 
  
  The music overall is quite nice. But again the battle music is the same piece of techno/metal every 
 time. It would have been nice if they composed a variety of battle music. It's gets annoying after 
 awhile. 
  
  Whenever a room gets closed off because of a battle, the game has to pause and show the red "roadblocks" 
 appear. This really kills the pace of the game and with the power of next gen systems, Capcom should 
 have done this in real time making the battles more seamless. 
  
  One of the additions that I really like is the fact that the player can return their points to 
 exchange for new skills. This allows the player to customize differently for each level. The game 
 doesn't become a "points quest" where the player feels the need to just get points to buy skills. 
 Although, in order to get all the blue orbs and other items, getting as many points as possible 
 is needed. 
  
  Overall I like the game a lot. The replay value is there with multiple difficulties and items to 
 gather. The graphics are wonderful, sound is good, cheesy dialogue, and the action is fast. The 
 problem is that with the setbacks mentioned it feels like the original DMC with a visual face-lift. 
 Not a bad thing, I just expected more game play elements changed to take advantage of next gen 
 systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikoflishas
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Stylish, fast action. Amazing Graphics, Awesome Cutscenes. The most funny game of the series. 
 
  
  BAD: Repetitive bosses and mission's locations. 
  
  The fourth entry of the Devil May Cry Series is awesome as the others. 
  The new character Nero 
 is a great addition: new combos can be done with his devil arm, it is fun to bring the enemies 
 back at your face just to slash with your Sword. Nero has a similar personality to Dante's; likes 
 to do jokes in dangerous moments, a bit cocky. But Dante is worse, the entire game is doing funny 
 jokes and rarely gets worry about the World's destiny. 
  Kyrie can be said that is Nero's "girlfriend", it is obvious that they like each other but they 
 never do the relationship "official". 
  
  In this entry the action is fast, gory, intense, fun and creative as the other Devil May Cry games 
 . Throughout the game you will play with both characters: Nero and Dante. There is a new feature 
 in Dante, you can change your fighting style by pressing the buttons of the D-Pad, you can change 
 from Trickster to Swordsman in middle of the combo and then to Gunslinger, you can change the fighting 
 style in any way you want. This will make your combos longer, more creative, and funnier but this 
 is a Dante's exclusive. There is a big arsenal of weapons, since Evil Portafolios to Fire Spikes. 
 They are fun to use, again, most of them are from Dante. 
  
  The game is not as hard as Devil May Cry 3 was, but still it has is hardness. There are several 
 bosses and are fun to beat, the bad thing is that you will fight them more than once and that can 
 be boring because they will act the same. Graphics are amazing, and you will watch them better 
 in the awesome cutscenes. This game by far, is the most funny of the series, Dante takes care of 
 that. This game lacks a bit in the fun and enjoyable levels in which you want to have the feeling 
 to fight the boss, instead the game is focused in make you every level a challenge. That's my opinion 
 yet the game is great so if you want to keep up with the series, there is no reason why you shouldn't 
 get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The DMC series has always been about high-flying action, super-fast combos and relentless enemies. 
 With the fourth game in the series, Capcom has somehow figured out how to pack even more ridiculous 
 (... ly awesome!) action into the combat and has crafted some of the most amazingly choreographed 
 cut scenes and boss battles to grace action gaming. 
  
  Capcom has taken the machine that is DMC, injected it with oil, infused it with even more style, 
 and polished it to a sheen that outshines the other heavy-hitters of the genre. Devil May Cry is 
 an acquired taste. Everyone struggles at first, but the realization that simple button mashing 
 will not suffice comes soon and from there, you either embrace the combo system... or dislike DMC. 
 If you fall into the former category, there's certainly a lot to like. Nero's devil arm is a great 
 addition to the combat. It can be used to smash foes into the ground or reel them in for the kill. 
 The regular enemy encounters make you feel powerful, but there's nothing quite like destroying 
 one of the bosses. 
  
  DMC4's graphics are clean and sharp and the art direction is awesome. You'll never tire of watching 
 Nero slash and splinter his way through hordes of demons.
  
  While I can't say I actually cared too much about the contents of the story, I was surprised at 
 the consistent vibe it lent the game. The story doesn't get in the way, but it definitely manifests 
 itself as a major tone-setter throughout the game. 
  
  Devil May Cry is a joy to control and a great way for the series to burst into this generation, 
 swords swinging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickboy333
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This review will be straight to the point.
  Basically there are 2 ways to see this game :
  
  A) You just want to play a fun action game.
  If thats the case, then dont read this review 
 and go buy it.
  
  B) You are a devil may cry fan who is excited about this game.
  Thats where it gets tricky. 
  Although the gameplay is great, there are many shortcomings in 
 my opinion.
  
  1. You don't play Dante very much. (Only about 1/3 of the game I believe)
  
  2. The story line is extremely disappointing. There is nothing to spoil by saying that it sucks. 
 Basically they build all this anticipation by bringing a new character, who might have Sparda's 
 blood, and who uses Vergil's Yamato, but in the end... There is no real conclusion. They dont tell 
 you who Nero is, why he has a demon arm, and to tell the truth there is no real need to know it, 
 because the character sucks.
  The story feels not part of the main plot, but just a spinoff at best.
  
  
  3. The voice 
 acting just plain sucks. Devil may cry 1 and 3 were so good, with intricate storylines and mature 
 plot. Dante just says stupid things and isn't a likeable character anymore. Nero is even worse. 
 The secondary character seem straight out of a childish anime.
  
  Basically a good game with a horrible story. Great graphics (its a ps3 game) , great combat.
  
 I would say if you liked DMC 1 and DMC 3 then you DONT NEED THIS ONE In your collection. it wont 
 advance the plot at all and you might as well wait for DMC 5 which will probably ignore DMC 4.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpions_tiger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  This fourth entry in the stylish demon-slaying series is an especially significant one; the revered 
 franchise is not only making its next-gen debut, but it's also, for the first time, rubbing elbows 
 with Master Chief and Marcus Fenix on the Xbox 360.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 screenshot
  
  A few years back you would've been more likely to spot Donald Trump and Rosie O'Donnell in an affectionate 
 embrace than see this once Sony exclusive series appearing on Microsoft's hardware. But, like Leon 
 Kennedy and Solid Snake before him, Dante has defected. While Sony fanboys might disagree, this 
 is a good thing for both gamers and Capcom, as a whole new legion of players can experience this 
 slick sword-and-sidearm series.
  
  But enough about the decline of third-party exclusives; that's a discussion for another day. This 
 is Dante's day. Or is it? It would appear that the franchise's favorite demon-slayer is taking 
 a back seat to a brand new antihero. That's right; the white-haired, smack-talkin' pretty boy is 
 now sharing the spotlight with the similarly coifed and cocky Nero. Before you Dante-lovin', flamewar-instigating 
 fans run to the message boards in protest, understand that your knight in long red leather is still 
 playable for nearly 50% of the campaign and has a significant role in DMC4's story. In fact, he 
 immediately -- and impressively -- struts his stuff in the game's cinematic opening. We won't spoil 
 it for you, but an assassination of a high profile holy man, preceded by lots of shattered glass 
 combine to make Dante's entrance a memorable one. The eye-catching opening, which sets up the story 
 and introduces the dynamic between Dante and Nero, quickly gives way to the player controlling 
 the fresh-faced protagonist. Newcomers to the series won't know the difference and will likely 
 see the two characters as one in the same; they look nearly identical, have similar personalities 
 and sport different, but equally super-slick fighting styles. Of course, if you've been dancing 
 with the devil since the original game then you'll, no doubt, miss Dante at first, but will quickly 
 adjust to the new hell hunter on the block. Nero is younger and therefore comes off a bit more 
 angsty than cool, but despite his potential to annoy as an emo goth, he remains a likeable and 
 welcome addition to the series. It's actually plausible to imagine him as a younger, less jaded 
 Dante, a bit naive and more sincere than sarcastic.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 screenshot
  
  But hey, this is Devil May Cry, not a personality analysis, so let's get to the goods: is he as 
 proficient as Dante at beating back the hounds of hell? Well, despite a different style -- that veterans 
 will need some time to get used to --, Nero more than holds his own in the death-dealing department. 
 Like Dante, he relies on swords and side arms, but he's also got a nasty little trick up his sleeve, 
 literally. His right arm, dubbed the Devil Bringer, is an invaluable asset in his arsenal that 
 works wonders for both fighting and platforming. Its ability to be used as a grappling-like device 
 gets him to hard to reach areas, and its strengths in battle include grabbing enemies, slamming 
 them into objects, and delivering deep impact punches. Visually, it puts on quite a show during 
 fights, sporting different animations depending on which type of enemy Nero's disposing of. Take 
 on a lance-wielding knight and Nero's ass-kicking appendage will grab the lance and repeatedly 
 drive it through the knight's midsection. Equally pleasing to the eye is the arm's ability to grab 
 a winged beastie from the air and swing it around by its tail. The Devil Bringer is an absolute 
 blast, and one of the cooler weapons this genre has seen since Kratos' Blades of Chaos.
  
  Nero's demon arm alone can often get the job done, but you'll want to incorporate his Red Queen 
 and Blue Rose (even the names are cool!) as well to unleash some devastating combos. The former 
 is his oversized sword that actually has a motorcycle-like throttle control capable of revving 
 up his attacks, and the latter is his double-barreled pistol that can also be upgraded for maximum 
 punishment. As with previous DMC titles, the fun in the fight comes from stringing together over-the-top 
 stylized combos, and these three weapons offer that opportunity in spades. With a few simple button 
 presses he'll fire off a few rounds, jump through the air, sword swinging, and maybe finish up 
 by thrusting his possessed arm into the skull of a nearby hell dweller. Players will continually 
 enhance their abilities by learning new combos, earning different weapons and generally becoming 
 bigger "badasses" by spending collected orbs on upgrades.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 screenshot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:53 am PT
Review:  I don't get it. This game is just bad. A friend gave me his copy after he beat it. He loved the 
 game. Maybe it's because I just finished Metal Gear, GTA4, Uncharted, Mario Galaxy, Bioshock & 
 Ratchet but I can't get into this at all. Despite the okay graphics, it just feels dated. It's 
 boring, generic and repetitive, with dull storytelling. The menus and presentation are atrocious. 
 Maybe I'm missing something, a lot of people liked Assassin's Creed too, and well that was terrible. 
 There are so many better games you could be playing than this, if you must, rent it, but don't 
 spend money on this.
  
  
  I just finished DMC4 and can't say I loved it. The graphics are great, but that is tarnished with 
 so many screens being displayed with a fixed camera. The controls are solid and intuitive with 
 all of the various combos being simple to pull off. Also, the difficulty settings are great. You 
 can go masochisitc like DMC2 or you can make it a one button masher and play all the way through.
 
  
  The main issues with DMC4 are story and reptitiveness. You've played these games and they have 
 changed very little, regardless of the character you are controlling. When I booted up DMC on PS2 
 for the first time, I was blown away. The second stage after the tutorial starts out and there 
 is immediate sense of Deja Vu, not awe and excitement. I also have a problem with the story. Unlike 
 Drakes Fortune or Heavenly Sword, the story didn't compel me to finish, and since the game played 
 identical to previous installments in the series, I only finished just to justify the money I spent 
 on it. Not a good reason to play through a game.
  
  DMC4 has some positives, just not enough to make it worth more than a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonsoalegre
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I have always liked the games of Devil May Cry, because i always receipt what i expect. Is great 
 to play in this fantastics stories.
  
  The graphics are really amazing and the new effects are great. The idea to play with a different 
 personage seems to me very interesting, because it shows a big atmosphere in the world of Devil 
 May Cry. 
  
  However, for a perfect Devil May Cry 4, the game needed to add more action of the personages and 
 major variety of the scenes, because when you play with Dante, you return to play against the same 
 bosses and enemies that you play with Nero. The idea is not so bad, but you can be tired to do 
 the same. Also, the game need more interaction with the personages and new movements to accomplish 
 the mission.
  
  With this game you receive what a Hack/Slash Game can give you. Nothing more, Nothing Less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  If you read my DMC review, you know I'm a big fan and that I've played the 1st, 3rd, and 4th games. 
 This is my review on DMC4 - probaly the last. In DMC4, your a Dante wannabe who has a blue arm. 
 Yes, I did enjoy the arm, grabbing and throwing enemies, and doing cool moves to bosses. Yet, not 
 being able to be Dante much is a letdown. WAIT! Before you say something, I konw Dante is in the 
 2nd half of the game. He just goes through the exact same things Nero went through, except they're 
 harder. The only fun thing you do as Dante, is fight an enormous floating statue above the clouds 
 - and it is FUN!!! But while you get to play as Dante, it doesn't feel the same. He's not as cool 
 and stylish. Gettin' too old for his job, eh? I mean, he actually is doing a dorky dance and talking 
 sope opera in one scene! Come on Dante! Another thing: The dramatic switch. You get so used to using 
 Nero's arm and tossing and ripping bosses and enemies, and then you switch to Dante - and that 
 arm is gone. Don't know about you guys, but I did not like that. Felt weaker, and it took longer 
 to fight. Now, the biggest thing of all, bosses. (Spoilers) A toad, a dragon, 2 human chickens, a 
 plant snake, a group of swords, an old man who can fly, Dante, and a statue. First of all, the 2 
 chickens are supposed to be angels. But come on, they're chickens. And the old man, as the final 
 boss?! I got a LOT of things 2 say, so stick around. First of all, some bosses are insanely hard. 
 The 2 chickens for example, both super hard - espacially the one with the sword. The swords, what 
 the heck? The boss fight is you grabbing swords and throwing them at a window! The plant snake 
 - must I say anything? The toad - what's up with the blue antennae women who are naked? Is that 
 really needed? And the old man who flies, I had tears coming from my eyes he was so hard! (Exageration) 
 But he was hard. I know he's the last boss, but what kind of 70 year old man can throw a giant 
 sword at you? And fighting Dante is hard. Escpecially in that tiny bedroom. Next, here's some repetition. 
 You fight the toad 3 times, dragon 3 times, one of the chickens 3 times, the plant snake 3 times, 
 the old man twice, and Dante twice. OK, to explain the 4 bosses you fight 3 times:1. You fight em' 
 as Nero and think 'ya i won!'2. You fight them as Dante - and they're harder without Nero's arm3. You 
 fight them as Nero in some puzzleNow it was cool in DMC how you fought each boss three times, and 
 they learned new skills every next battle - but THIS is ridiculous! I mean COME ON!!! That's probaly 
 why I'm being so negative - the same, boring boss fights. NOW, you might think 'man this guy must 
 HATE this game!' But actually, I like it. It just... has a few flaws is all! I like it. The bosses 
 were fun the FIRST time, then got old. And the story, eh.... it doesn't seem to have a point. First, 
 you're Nero - then Dante - then you kill an old man and beat the game. ???
  
  
  If there is a DMC5, it better bring this series back up. I want Nero gone ( that fake Dante ) , 
 I want Dante back and cool again, I want cool bosses that you fight ONCE and they're a fair fight, 
 I want a story based on fighting Nelo Angelo or maybe even turning against Sparda or being an evil 
 demon and slaughter the human race, and I want no chickens or floating men. So, IF there is a DMC5 
 (doubt it) , DO NOT DISAPPOINT US CAPCOM!!!
  
  So, the game is alright, but not quite. No exact plot, repetetive bosses and places, Dante is an 
 old-out of style guy, and there are human chickens and floating old men.
  (Liked it, a bit disappointed though. Rent it, I did and OH BOY good call! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  I knew I wanted to play Devil May Cry 4 since I had a great time playing DMC3 on the PS2. I really 
 got hooked to the fast and furious combat system and boss fights, even though the plot was not 
 worth paying attention. So, I expected DMC4 to be the same kind of game but I was wrong. This time 
 the game came with more than just a badass attitude and style.
  
  Actually, I think DMC4 improved its predecessor in almost every way. The graphics are better, which 
 is no surprise since its a new generation game but I though that that was a huge quality gap between 
 the characters and the environment in DMC3. DMC4's characters and enemies are still better to look 
 at than the scenarios but the difference does not scream out so loud. Also, there are more and 
 better movies, not only from a technical standpoint but also story wise.
  
  Speaking of story, DMC4's plot will introduce a new half demon breed, Nero. At first, this young 
 crossbreed's relation to the world famous bounty hunter is not clear but Capcom did a nice job 
 of slowly unveiling each character's background and objectives throughout the game's 20 chapters. 
 Dante is just as cool and badass as one remembers him but age somehow made him less cocky and more 
 cynical. Nero is younger and more liable to raw bursts of anger. The plot is not groundbreaking 
 but it's well told and amusing to pay attention, mainly when both half demons are present to provide 
 their own opinion and insight on a given situation.
  
  High quality movies help to give pace to the plot and also serve as an introduction and sometimes 
 ending sequence to several boss battles.
  
  Speaking of boss battles, DMC4 remains true to the series and offers plenty of boss fights. The 
 enemies will vary in size and strategy but they'll all have an epic feel. The battles are not hard 
 as in the last game but they'll often require multiple attempts and adaptation of the players strategy 
 and combat styles.
  
  DMC4 builds up on DMC3's existing fighting styles for Dante but offers a different approach to 
 Nero. Dante will still have its 4 styles, the only difference being that old age taught him how 
 to switch styles on the fly. That makes possible to use the swordsman style to attack an enemy 
 and ram it into a wall, switch to gunner and make him eat hot lead and then, when it comes back 
 at you, switch to trickster and just dodge. It takes some practice but once mastered, it just feels 
 right and gives the player a sense of being a pro. Nero only fights with a single style with each 
 weapon but his special ability is really powerful. He can use a phantom arm to grab enemies from 
 afar or to grab an specific part of a large demon enemy and pull himself towards it. This gives 
 Nero a superior mobility over Dante but he can't adapt as much as the old badass.
  
  As usual, one will have to collect orbs from deceased enemies to buy items but this time one's 
 overall rank will be the measure of upgrade points to spend on several abilities and special weapons 
 moves.
  
  DMC4 kept me hooked from its initial moments to its very end. It offers an interesting storyline 
 and a satisfying combat system. Definitely worth the purchase if you're a DMC fan or if you have 
 any interest in beat'em up games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mom1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  there is some connection between nero and vergil, i think so. whats urs opinion. in he end i like 
 the game. The game is amazing but not as 3. Dante action was not good as Nero. who is Nero is he son 
 of Vergil? there is some connection between nero and vergil, i think so. whats urs opinion. in he 
 end i like the game.
  The game is amazing but not as 3. Dante action was not good as Nero. who is Nero is he son of Vergil? there 
 is some connection between nero and vergil, i think so. whats urs opinion. in he end i like the 
 game.
  The game is amazing but not as 3. Dante action was not good as Nero. who is Nero is he son of Vergil? there 
 is some connection between nero and vergil, i think so. whats urs opinion. in he end i like the 
 game. The game is amazing but not as 3. Dante action was not good as Nero. who is Nero is he son of 
 Vergil? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is the latest addition to the series and even if some people blamed it to be worse 
 than the previous ones, it's still classy and breathtaking.
  
  Nero (the new playable character) is definitely not the badass that Dante was, but he's absolutely 
 cool and perfectly fitting to the total atmosphere of the game. He can manage huge combos using 
 his demonic hand in order to grab enemies from a far distance and smack them in the ground. The 
 gameplay is as addicting as any other title of the series and you will be begging that it never 
 ends.
  
  When you're closing to the end of the game you also get to play as Dante one more time and even 
 use the Pandora's Box. My only objection is that you don't get enough of him. Give more Dante to 
 the people!!!!
  
  Seriously now, even if you're not a fan you should try this and you'll not regret it. It's an experience 
 that any gamer should live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kleeyook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is my first DMC. And it's damn good. I'm a little bit depressed that it took me over 11 hours 
 to beat this game though (my real play time is 13 hours but I just continue to play other levels 
 or have to restart because of inevitable interuptions. : (
  
  Game play mechanic resembles much of God of War. Well, it's the same genre anyway.
  
  There's 
 variety of weapons in DMC4. Nero has Red Rose (sword) and Blue Moon (pistol) at first. He also 
 has Devil Bringer as his unique weapon. Then comes Yamato in his possess. Red Rose can get very 
 annoying with exceed gaugue which can only use in the first encounter (well, u don't want to charge 
 it while fighting for sure) . And thanks to its very existence. I have to use it or it'll be a waste. 
 :P
  
  Dante has MANY more weapon to use than Nero. He has his original sword like Rebellion which function 
 just like Red Rose, except that his moves are different. He also has 2 pistols and a shotgun. Both 
 resemble Nero's pistol but with his Gun Slinger style. The gun fire seems to be more effective 
 and cool. :)
  
  Dante can use Devil Trigger from the beginning. But we optain him a little late in the game. Dante 
 also has weapons optain from bosses. Like Gilgamesh which has the most destructive power among 
 male weapons, Pandora which is the most useful range weapon I ever have and ... (sorry, I forgot 
 its name) from Bariel which is very effective against hordes of enemies. Pandora is prolly the 
 hardest weapon to use though.
  
  About Dante's 4 styles (Nero has no style. Well, he does have Devil Bringer anyway.) , the most 
 used style is definitely Sword Master. Because either use wear other male weapon than Rebellion, 
 u will use Rebellion in Sword Master style in the end. Trickster style can be useful in other occasions 
 than fighting, like getting orbs or traveling with high speed or avoiding enemies. I never use 
 Royal Guard because it's hard to use it at the right time. Gunslinger style is something I don't 
 use either because I prefer slashing enemies. And It sucks when I use Charge Shot.
  
  The game play in general is quite repetitive. I'm fed of doing something like getting orbs or have 
 to re-battle when I fail down. Mini-game can be very frustrating because it reduces your health 
 in the real game too. And when u accidentally press X at the mini-game point. There's no return. 
 U have to play the whole damn mini-game. U can get killed too, also.
  
  This is what I'll give scores for DMC4:
  
  Game play: 8.0 (a bit repetitive [-0.5] , too hard 
 at some time [-0.5] , some enemies are painful annoying [-0.5] , mini-games are frustrating [-0.5] )
 
  Replay-ability: 8.5 (no trophy [-0.5] , unlockable requires internet connection and the previous 
 acting won't affect in the internet ranking [-1.0] .)
  Design: 9.0 (characters are SO COOL! But enemies are SO SO.) :P
  Story: 10 (great storyline that 
 makes u want to beat the game)
  Overall: 8.0 (camera angle is not very good for platform play, and u have to restart mission if 
 u quit it. Save game during mission won't help u a thing. )
  Average score: 8.5 (I hate to restart the whole damn mission again just because I have to go to 
 sleep. : () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pushkar90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Great game, kinda repetitive, highly addictive.
  Pros:
  the difficulties are great as they range from 'r u kidding, thts it?' to 'are you insane, theres 
 no way to do this'.
  
  The game at first is so much fun to play. Firstly because it is the smoothest game i've played 
 on the PS3, agreed at the expense of losing MGS4 type detail, but its better that it runs that 
 smooth (hack n slash) rather than look really good and lag.
  
  There is a lot of repetition in the game. Even in the same difficulty, you will face the same creatures 
 and bosses at least twice. Once as Nero and again as Dante.
  
  But still its a lot of fun swinging demons in the air and showering bullets at them till they explode.
 
  
  So Basically, lots of combos pretty good replay value (added weapons, though i was disappointed 
 that i did not get the cool big axe of the boss at the end) . Well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kr1TiKaL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a sequel that is quite unique in some ways. In most video game franchises the 
 protagonist never becomes the antagonist. Well that's very different in Devil May Cry 4. Dante 
 who has been the protagonist in past game is now the antagonist (or at least for the first party 
 of the game) while the protagonist in a new comer named Nero who looks similiar to Dante and his 
 twin-brother Vergil (who appeared in DMC3) . The game is set between the events of the first Devil 
 May Cry and Devil May Cry 2.
  
  Nero the lead character in DMC4. He's orphan that was adopted by the Order, he has grown up to 
 be a Holy Knight in the Sparda-worshipping religion known as the Order of the Sword. He tends to 
 not get along well with others and prefers to work alone. Nero wields a sword named Red Queen which 
 can be charged, a revolver called Blue Rose and the "Devil Bringer" powers of his right arm. Nero 
 eventually comes into possession of Yamato, Vergil's sword, which allows him a Devil Trigger which 
 summons a demonic spirit that hovers around him.
  
  The game starts off as Nero when Nero witnesses Dante assassinating the Order's leader Sanctus 
 and killing other members of the Order. At this point Nero sees Dante as a enemy. From there you 
 set off as Nero to find Dante after you engage in a battle with Dante. This is the plot for most 
 of the first point of the game until Nero finds out the Order's true intentions. By the end of 
 the game Nero and Dante have mutual respect for each other.
  
  The game has six difficulties levels so finding the difficulty for you should be easy enough but 
 the game isn't a walk in the park. It is difficult especially if your not use to playing high-speed 
 action games. The following difficulties are in the game listed from easiest to hardest: Human, 
 Devil Hunter, Son of Sparda, Dante Must Die, Heaven or Hell, Hell or Hell.
  
  In honest opinion I thought that most of the game was pretty manageable as far as difficulty goes. 
 You play as Nero for the majority of the game since your Dante for only 7 missions of the total 
 20. Nero's devil bringer makes boss fights and fights in general a lot easier then with Dante, 
 though Nero's attacks are more slower paced then Dante's. 
  
  In the end. I thought Devil May Cry 4 was a great game. Not the best in the series in my opinion 
 (Devil May Cry 3 was for me) but its still a great action game that I think everyone should play. 
 If you like action games like God of War and Ninja Gaiden, Devil May Cry 4 is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunface1011
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 continues at an unknown time, beleived to be between DMC1 and DMC2. The game introduces 
 a new character Nero, the protaganist of DMC4. As Nero you unlock powerful moves and a new style 
 of gameplay provided by Nero's Devil Bringer, an arm he inherited by being a descendant of Sparda. 
 Neros must bring an end to a corrupted pastor and save the world from doom.
  
  Story: 4/5
  The story is wonderfully wrapped in beautiful graphics and amazing art direction, 
 the only letdown would be for those writer buffs, who would complain about the lack of any depth, 
 but if your a die-hard DMC fan than Dante ass-kicking attitude should be enough to satisfy.
  
  Gameplay: 5/5
  The gameplay in DMC4 is absolutley amazing, right down to the seamless graphics 
 and seamless action, the gameplay is awesome. Unfortunatley most levels can be completed by simple 
 button mashing. But this dosent really mar the amazing looking artwork.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  Great game, breat buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Devil May Cry 4:
  
  Story:
  The story revolves around Nero, a new character to the series. He is cocky, bashful, and short 
 tempered. At first, you start out with a scene where an old man is giving grace. All of a sudden, 
 Dante jumps in the building and assasinates the man. At first, it may seem that Dante is the new 
 protagonist, but as the game moves on, you realize that he isn't. Overall, the story was solid, 
 but unfortunatley, there are many unanswered questions. Hopefully, Capcom covers this up with DMC5. 
 8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, the gameplay is split between Nero and Dante, but Nero takes the stage most of the time. 
 Most of the time, you will be using Nero's fighting style, which is a single sword, a revolver, 
 and his Devil Bringer. The Devil Bringer is Nero's best weapon, and can really pack a punch. While 
 he retains some of Dante's moves (Helm Breaker, the lift attack) , he is still a completly different 
 character compared to Dante. As for Dante, he still retains his four basic fighting styles from 
 DMC3, but Quicksilver and Doppleganger are taken away. Instead, he gets Dark Slayer, or the style 
 Vergil had in DMC3. Dante's playing style is similar to his DMC3 counterparts, only most of his 
 moves and weapons are gone. He only has three guns and swords now (not counting Dark Slayer) but 
 now, he can use his styles freely. While improving the combat system, Capcom has taken a step back 
 in balance, since the AI is much easier and the Nero and Dante gameplay seem unbalanced. Most of 
 the Dante levels seem to have been thrown in there for fanservice, since all you are doing is backtracking. 
 Despite that, DMC4 still has fantastic gameplay but there are many setbacks to it, including the 
 horrendous camera. 8/10
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are most definitley the best thing in DMC4. The enviroments, attacks, weapons, and character 
 models are nice to look at. DMC4 feels recoated and enhanced compared to the shallow DMC3. Colors 
 are vivid and the whole game is fun to look at. Cutscenes are smooth and feel refined. This is 
 the part where DMC4 shines above the other DMC games, and is easily the best part of this package. 
 10/10
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack is just as good as DMC3. I have no complaints for the soundtrack. The voice acting 
 is top-notch and not bad, but can be a bit cheesy at times. Sound effects have been improved. Ebony 
 & Ivory sound more like pistols and sword sounds sound nicer. Other than the chessy voice acting 
 at times, DMC4 sounds good. 9/10
  
  Value:
  DMC4 still has it's many unlockables. After you beat the campaign once, you can begin another game 
 using all your weapons and equipment. The Bloody Palace makes it's return, and so do the bevy of 
 unlockables. There is still the infamous Dante Must Die difficulty, which has remained unchanged 
 from the previous games. Overall, DMC4 has quality, top notch replay value. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  DMC4 is a sold action game at heart but lacks the charm of DMC1 and 3. While it's graphics 
 have been tuned up, more time should have been spent with the gameplay. Despite the setbacks, DMC4 
 is still a solid game, and fans of DMC games and action games in general will enjoy this stylish, 
 over-the-top, action adventure game. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth_rules
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:51 am PT
Review:  DEVIL MAY CRY 4... one of the game I've waiting for in 2008 and it sure did the job it was meant 
 to be, even though some of the things were a little bit annoying... to entertain through a lot of 
 amazing slashing actions. That's when killing demons is not part of your mission but it becomes 
 part of your lifestyle.
  
  STORY
  It started like all the other Devil May Cry, a peaceful and relaxing day off, listening to music, 
 until some dumb half demon decides to ruin the party (well actually, they were in a church, but 
 I didn't see the difference.) And just when things couldn't get any worse, some hordes of demons 
 decide to join in the fun and start to kill some of the people that running of the church. That 
 's when you (the player and not Nero) notice that the half demon j**k is Dante. That's when the 
 first boss battle starts.
  
  Compared to the DMC games, this fight actually shows how to play without cutting the action. Once 
 the tutorial is done, the real boss battle starts and that's when the fun begins. After you beat 
 Dante for the first time, Nero gets the kind of look that says : "Jeez!! Where did he came from? 
 How did he manage to survive? Is he immortal? and why the hell did he kill the priest for?". After 
 that, all of the further events join together to answer his questions with crazier questions like 
 : Am I demon too? or am I only Half-Demon? Is the Order of the Sword really what it is meant to 
 be? Who's really behind all of this? Am I gonna be able to save my dear Kyrie?
  
  A simple and easy plot that may drives the players imagination through all of these questions, 
 some were easy to answer while the others were a bit harder. Through out the whole story, things 
 get to be a little repetitive because of the boss battle. Some Evil God trying to leave the Hell 
 Gates and to spread their evilness all around. Each of them having their own abilities. Even though 
 the boss battles were a little bit repetitive, they were at least entertaining. In overall, the 
 story was good and simple enough to be understandable, but it could have been better.
  
  
  VISUAL ASPECT
  It sure helped the story to be enjoyable and entertaining enough for the player. 
 Some astonishing cutscenes mixed with some battle effects sure makes a great combination when to 
 this kind of Hit & Slash Action game. Even the main character, Nero has a cool and badass look 
 for a youngster. And for the people who says that he's a Copy/Paste/Photoshoped version are wrong. 
 Just a little reminder for those people, in DMC 3, we learned that Dante had a twin brother named 
 Vergil who actually died at the end of the game. In DMC 4, when you get later in the game, you 
 can automatically notice that Nero is the reincarnation of Dante's brother Vergil when he obtains 
 the Yamato. May I need to remember that Dante and Vergil were twins and that Nero is the reincarnation 
 of Vergil, which means that somehow Nero could be Dante' youngest almost twin brother. Anyway, 
 you can't deny that Nero sure looks badass in the way he's clothed. In general, this game's look 
 sure was impressive compared to the other DMCs ( How come people can say that the graphics are 
 almost the same? Are they crazy? Even though it's in the same serie.)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like I said, everything you needed to know you learned it in the tutorial in the first boss battle 
 against Dante. It was pretty simple, it didn't take too much time to learn the tricks out of it. 
 Also, Nero sure had some great looking combos and some tough ones too making the game enoughly 
 hard but not too easy too. In overall, the gameplay sure was difference compared to the previous 
 Devil May Cry titles but it was fun to play as another character and Nero sure was a cool character 
 to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of ... actually THE worst game I played on the PS3 !! Its so bad it makes me cry 
 a river and eat cup cakes while watching One Tree Hill. 
  
  Graphics:
  Adequate, not a good start on the next gen consoles. Looks like playing PS2 all over again. I mean 
 everything in this game seems plain boring and it gets very very repetitive and you can actually 
 see how unappreciated was their work on this horrible sequel.
  
  Game play:
  Not bad but not quite good. The only thing I liked was that they combined all the styles of Dante 
 at once rather than back in part 3 you could only change at a statue thingy. Nero's arm can come 
 quite useful and handy sometimes because you can actually bring your enemy towards you while you're 
 fighting. 
  
  Story:
  The new character Nero is a badly photoshop version of Dante if he every went to high school and 
 has a very annoying attitude that will get him beaten up in the wrong places all the time. The 
 other casts are weird and they seem kinda ... sorta ... AAHH!!! screw them its a disaster! What 
 the eff were they thinking !??!
  
  Please don't buy it !! rent it if you may you will feel better when you give it back to the store 
 clerk, like much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 just upped the quality Players get in any Devil May Cry.. with new installments 
 comes new gameplays, new characters and new stories.
  
  it is a great Sequel to the franchise with the same old Upbeat Dante and a great addition to the 
 forte that includes Nero. but the story now is more or less centered around Nero. well. he is a 
 kick ass character which really contrast Dante. since Dante's character in this game is more geared 
 towards comical and that Nero is the usual pre-teen angst character..
  
  Yet as far as gaming goes. DMC4 is not a disappointment. it is a good game for Veterans of DMC 
 and also for Newbies. 
  
  and as gameplay goes. it is still the same old DMC but with lesser dependence on Puzzle solving. 
 instead we rely on more Brute force. the difficulty on the other hand is insane. and of course 
 there are more choices for Difficulties after alot of playthrough. and it gets really intense that 
 is only Suited for HARDCORE fans.
  
  Capcom have done a good deal in DMC4 and hope we get to see another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrancar6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a great hack n' slash for the PS3, then look no further than Devil May Cry 
 4. Taking place sometime after the events that occured in Devil May Cry 3, DMC4 tells the story 
 of a new character to the seris, Nero. Gameplay stays true to the DMC formula, heavy action with 
 light gun elements. The story revolves around a cult that is trying to become the new gods of the 
 world. It seems cliche but it manages to keep you entertained. Around the middle of the game Dante 
 becomes available as a playable character. The two are varied enough so that they provide two different 
 play experiences. The biggest let down is that you play through the same levels with both Dante 
 and Nero. It doesn't sound bad but believe me when i say it is. Overall DMC4 is a great action 
 game for the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimdawg800
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game ROCKED, goes well with the story of Dante and how he evolved from DMC I , the graphics 
 are AMAZING......... as my friend has told me, I love the hack/slash em type games. This was the 
 game I couldnt wait to play after I bought the PS3. If you like the DMC's then you should love 
 this game, it wont disappoint! Now I will have to wait until the next Devil May Cry game......... or 
 until God of War III comes out, that is my favorite of all the games, bring on the Greek Gods!! 
 DMC compares to GOW series, so that is why I enjoyed this style of game, I am not a fan of the 
 shooter style games. I like the 3rd person style of character, as you play you watch your character 
 move on the screen, not the 1st person view..... to each there own. I would continue to play the 
 DMC series of games, they keep making them..... I will keep buying them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I guess I or anybody can call me a huge Devil May Cry fan I've been playing them ever since the 
 first one that came out in 2001. And I've also really liked and enjoyed every one that has came 
 out with DMC 3 being my favorite of all and DMC 2 being my least favorite in the series. But there 
 all great and nobody should miss out or skip any of them.
  
  So you want to know how the gameplay is in DMC 4 well it's just as great as its always been. And 
 that's one of the reasons why I like DMC so much and have always been a fan of the series. This 
 game has some of the best stylish, fastest gameplay. It's just so much fun pulling off the combos 
 and stuff.
  
  Then you have the graphics, there just great I ain't going to say that they are the best on the 
 PS3 or the 360 but they are great. I've noticed the shadows sometimes disappear but no biggie right 
 nothing to get in a big up roar about. Most people may say that the graphics are just ok then start 
 listing 100 games that look so much better but that's ok you can make your own decisions about 
 them.
  
  The sounds are also great like they have always been hearing the gun shoots, explosions, and then 
 hearing the sound of your sword hitting your enemies and everything it all sounds really good and 
 have been done really good. Overall Devil May Cry 4 is a great addition the series and one that 
 nobody should miss lets just hope Capcom keeps bringing us more Devil May Cry games and keep making 
 them just as good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klosrc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Once I saw some gameplays of this game I decided to take the bullet and test it by myself, I couldn't 
 possibly made a better decision.
  This is one of my favorites so far, even more than GTA4 and every time I play it I feel like I 
 want to finish as quick as possible.
  
  Now I wonder how were the previous releases of this game and if they were like this they will be 
 worthly to be played.
  
  In despite of the fact that Dante is not the main character, this game rocks the ps3 and from my 
 point of view it deserves to be above a lot of other games.
  
  The only thing I would like to add is that capcom should have added an online game mode for fightings 
 to make it more interesting.
  
  So far I will buy the next DMC from now on, for sure they are going to make improvements.
  
 
  The only one that beats it is God of War so far, but who know what will come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bormerc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  i played that game a few days ago and i can say it's perfect. I have never seen anything like  
 is amazing. Let's start from the beginning.
  Nero is the new protagonist of the game. He is a devil hunter who work for Order of The Sword. When 
 Sanctus ( the leader of the order ) talk to the order, Dante come to the building from the upside 
 and shot Sanctus from his head. The game starts after this with Nero. Nero is cool but not like Dante.
 
  You can play with Dante at the middle of the game. Dante is the number one.
  As i told before, Nero is a good choice for Capcom. His Devil Bringer is so useful. Dante's weapons 
 are incredible. Mission s is not boring. The boss fights is exciting (especially with Nero) .
  Like the previous games, this game loses nothing from the previous games. The story is cool.
  Graphics 
 are incredible. It deserves the new generation consoles and high-definition.
  Sounds, sounds, sounds. the sounds is good, the voice acting is good; animations and cutscenes is good.
 
  I can't say anything more. I LOVE THIS GAME! [over] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jip_the_third
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is the best I have encountered when you are playing Dante - the variety of moves and 
 easy access to most of them is impressive. Nero was fun too (namely his demon hand, however cheap 
 it was) ; though, he does not have nearly the variety of moves as Dante. And, the graphics are great.
 
  
  The downside is that you play the same levels and bosses over again alot. Apparently this is a 
 popular trait of the series. Another thing is that every time you come close to some baddies a 
 heavy metal theme comes up - even before they are on screen, so there is absolutely no tension 
 or surprises whatsoever.
  
  Still, the game is great fun and absolutely worth playing. After I beat it it felt like I had beaten 
 it 3 times, so maybe a rental is good enough. Personally, I liked it enough to keep, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Something that... I dunno, just makes it not as cool as DMC3.
  
  Next-gen graphics makes it look awesome, not to mention that the frame rate never drops down... 
 but there's something about the game itself that makes it feel weird...
  
  DMC4 introduces a whole new character, Nero, who's got much of dante's personality and hair style, 
 but at the same time, he's quite different, and he has a completely different background, not to 
 mention a different move set, overall, I'd say he is a memorable character.
  
  About halfway through the game, you stop controlling Nero, and get control of Dante, who retains 
 most of his DMC3 moves, which is cool, although the Rebellion (Dante's Sword) has some new visual 
 effects I don't particularly like. Dante is also the only who has more than one weapon, he can 
 use Gilgamesh (Which is like Beowulf or Ifrit) , and lucifer, a whole new (very stylish) weapon. 
 Apart from the usual shotgun and Pandora's Box, which has like 6 different modes.
  
  The story... well, as usual, someone wants t open the gate to the demon world, nothing of importance 
 to mention. Dante once again looks totally differen from any other DMC game, although his voice 
 actor fom DC3 is back, which is cool, and his cocky attitude is also back.
  
  Well, since the game is split into two parts, whit different characters, it makes the game feel 
 not properly put together. Let me put it like this, once you're getting the grip of Nero's moves, 
 and you're starting to pull off some awesome combos, the game changes to Dante, and you have to 
 forget everything you learned and try to remember Dante's moves from DMC3. This split also made 
 me feel the game was a bit short or something, I dunno how to express that feeling. Also, unless 
 you are interested in completing the Bloody palace mode (wave after wave of enemies) , once you 
 finish the story, there's not much left to it.
  
  So, if the game has improved, what's wrong with it? I DON'T KNOW, there's just something about 
 it that amke's it not as appealing as the last game, maybe it's the story, maybe it's something 
 else, I don't freaking know, and I don't know what to say... I'm a freaking fan of the DMC series, 
 then why does this game disappointed me? I don't know...
  
  Well, overall it was good, not amazing, but good, give it a try if you liked the other DMC games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  To be honest, this is the first Devil May Cry game I have ever played so I was a little iffy about 
 it. I've gotta say I made the right decision in getting it and I really enjoy it. The only thing 
 I knew about Devil May Cry was Dante, but the introduction of the new character Nero, definately 
 told me that this game is gonna an awesome game.
  
  The game is entirely different to me because I don't play gun games but I do play games with swords, 
 so it is my kind of game with the exception of the odd gun here and there. I think its got good 
 humour and challenging enemies which make you think how exactly to beat them. I particular like 
 the music, the battle styles, the weapons and the perfect graphics, it just makes me feel like 
 I'm in the game, like what most games should do.
  
  There's not a lot of bad things about the game except you end up fighting the same demons, bosses 
 etc, which does get pretty boring but a lot of the time I want to fight the bosses again because 
 I think they're just plain fun.
  
  Overall, it's a good, enjoyable game to get and I would advise people to get it if they don't mind 
 the repeating bosses/demons every now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostas1323
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I think that devil may cry 4 is a very good game, with great graphics, nice stories and very good 
 character's moves. But the only thing i don't like is that Dante fights the same enemies as nero. 
 I sagest to buy this game and have a great time playing it. sorry for all this next letters i just 
 wrote them to complete the  bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 o i j h g j dj jd jd hs j e ehs sh vd h hd j ddd d d ks s a ss d sfsg ki jh gfd hgf jjhg kiug hhhu 
 dsbvub bbbv jbbbb dbkb jkbhdbh sbhbhb jjb bbhb hbhb vsss bhbh hbhb njnhnh nhnhbhbb bhbhbhubbbbbyb 
 bbbhb jjjjjj gggg gggg yyyy rrtttsd ghsub sbbsh v susdbisbb buhbsuhbh hbhsbubs hbsdbhds hbshbhds 
 bshvbsbhvbhdh hb nn nb nib nbuhb nini ininin bbab ksjbhjbhjbhhh bhbhb gvgvg vjhbh hbhbh hbhbh hbhbhb 
 hbhbhb hbhbhb hbhbb bvv vuvv gvgvyg vvygv vguvu vuvvgyv gvgvv v gvgvgv gvvgv gcfcct gvjjhv gvgvgv 
 gvgcc ffv g gv gvvkz vsvavc gvv gvagvsavgyc gvvgv gvgvgc ggga ggvagvc gvgvvc gagvcjh aja cays acvv 
 ay ac avg cya ag g agacayv agavaya yagagy gavyvca yvv ayg caygacvcay ac ayvaac y yayvac yvca ayac 
 cay ca yc v g g c g vg g g g vyavycaya cy yacas caya yacya ya cy cy cy ay cas sg cs c sgsy asg 
 sgs gsg c g xhc zhdf bxzcgh g xz cx hzgga yzy sayaga ua a cauc ca ca ca ay a agg.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1NGDOMHEART
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that blasts your mind with the style it offers, whether you like the traditional 
 character, Dante, or the new main character Nero, the continuous beating on the evil monsters just 
 keeps you pumped up throughout the whole game. the story line is not as good as devil may cry 3 
 but, it's on a new system now, shouldn't we, as game players consider the outcome of this game?? 
 this might be the type of game play capcom will offer on future DMCs since, we can switch between 
 the new, main character and the old Dante, i feel the need of using Nero's abilities during a fight, 
 but then, the feeling of using Dante is just great!
  I loved using Dante in DMC 1,2 and 3, but the development of Nero's character is just amazing.
 
  since Dante can change in the demon mode, Nero can use Yamato and change into his own mode.
  this game's graphics is awesome, sound system is awesome, with a degree of fascinating style.
 
  definitely a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  DMC 4 is the most fun ive had in a long time. You start as a new character named Nero who sees 
 Dante kill the leader of his society. The rest of the story is predictable as you chase Dante through 
 castles etc. The opening tutorial shows that Nero and Dante are very similar. They look exactly 
 the same other than nero's arm and their different coats. the only difference between and Dante 
 is his arm. The Devil Bringer adds a whole new aspect to your fighting style and some of the buster 
 animations are truely awesome and live up to the over the top fighting of DMC. Other than his arm 
 Nero does not have many attacks and i ended up feeling like i was using the same attacks over and 
 over again 
  But when you start playing as Dante that is when the fun starts. You start with 4 styles and gain 
 a 5th for a level and you also get 3 swords and 3 guns. The amount of moves that you have is astounding. 
 The best new weapon is the gun Pandora. It can change to rocket launcher, laser, and even a gun 
 ship and is the only new weapon that i would truely miss if it was not in DMC5. You may think that 
 Neros arm could make up for the lack of depth with his weapons but it doesnt and the 6 or 7 levels 
 that you get to play as Dante make this game. The boss fights are the only thing Nero has over 
 Dante. Finishing a boss with your buster is the most entertaning and satisfying way to end a boss 
 fight i have ever done and is the best part of playing as Nero. The bosses themselves are unique 
 and powerful but still incredibly fun (esp. Echinida) .
  The story is truely different than previous installments. This is all about Nero and Kyrie's relationship 
 but it does not ruin the game. A DMC game with the central theme as love may seem weird but it 
 works. You can see the anger and determination on Neros face when Kyrie is taken and even Dante 
 seems to respect him because of his determination. The story is predictable but very entertaining. 
 The graphics look great especially the faces and landscapes but some of the demons look plastic 
 and the hair on some characters does not move like natural hair should and almost looks stuck together 
 at times. The sound in the game is fantastic. The soundtrack especially nero's song was stuck in 
 my head for hours after playing and the dialougue is outstanding. Nero makes his snide remarks 
 but Dante steals the show. His dialougue is so much better than the crappy lines he had in DMC 
 3 and i actually laughed out loud at some of the stuff said and when he destroyed the demon gates. 
 
  The problems with the game are minor. Like i mentioned before Nero's charecter is a bit shallow 
 in the fighting sense but the main problem i have with Nero is that he is too much like Dante. 
 They look alike and have many of the same fighting moves. if capcom wanted to add a new charecter 
 to the series i would not have picked a clone of Dante who is not even as good as Dante. The graphics 
 are not the greatest but still top notch. Like in the previous DMC's you fight most of the bosses 
 more than once and Dante plays through the same environments as Nero . This may seem way to repetitive 
 but Dante brings a new attitude to the old levels and his greatness overshadows playing the same 
 levels again. The bosses seem more repetitive but since each boss is so expertly crafted that they 
 are still challenging and impressive the third time through. The camera can also be annoying when 
 it is fixed but it rarely caused a huge problem. The story is solid but we never do find out Nero's 
 origions even though sanctus says nero has the blood of Sparda we dont know who he is and that 
 is never revealed (Vergil's son?)
  Overall this is a great game that anyone who likes action games can play. The Human difficulty 
 is currently in the process of being beat by my 7 year old brother yet playing on the higher difficulties 
 gives me flashbacks of playing Ninja Gaiden. Though the game starts out slowly with Nero when you 
 get to Dante it seems like you cant put the game down and the final boss fight is difficult yet 
 satisfying. Though i think a game with only Dante in it would be better, the addition of Nero's 
 arm is a unique experience that fans of action games should try. This is a outstanding game and 
 more than successfully brings DMC to the next gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry is a hugely popular game. This fame comes from all the other Devil May Cry games in 
 the series. This game, even many months after it's release at the beginning of 2008, is still played 
 by gamers who aren't necessarily fans of the series. That means that the game has to be pretty good 
 to appeal to so many.
  All of my friends recommended me this game, and told me it's a must play. I followed the advice and 
 got the game, for both the PS3 and Xbox360 (rented) .
  The game is set in the DMC universe. It still feels like a DMC game. Having played DMC3 before, I 
 can't stop but compare the two. Devil May Cry 3 on the PS2 was great. Even though I didn't like the 
 theme or the story of the game, the gameplay was the one keeping me going. DMC3 had a very addictive 
 gameplay. I wanted to get the same thing from this game as well. I did get it, partially. Everything 
 about DMC3 was new, but DMC4 has nothing new or surprising. I wanted more from it. Of course visually 
 the game looks very good and the animations and sound effects are well done. I can't see any visual 
 problems in this game. The game looks great, the camera is good and all the other aspects of the 
 game just fit together into this great package. The game is good, no doubt about it, but for those 
 who played other DMC games before, it's just a little old, they won't see anything new besides the 
 pretty graphics. The gameplay is solid but nothing new. The boss battles are great and are a little 
 better than before. But that's all there is to it.
  As a whole, Devil May Cry 4 is a good game for the fans of the series. They will certainly like this 
 game a lot. I know I did, but it's very unlikely to become a fan of the series if this is your first 
 game in the series.
  The game is good and is worthy of it's name, but the lack of new things over it's predecessors or 
 rivals stop it from achieving greatness.
  
  Good: -good visuals 
  -follows the DMC tradition
  -good cinematics
  Bad: -nothing new
  -not multiplayer 
  My 
 Score: 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gayloord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I know my games well, I've played most major titles, to name some: Doom, halflife, final fantasy 
 X, Bioshock and MGS 4 and None of those are anything like Devil may cry 4.
  Despite me knowing my games I was new to the DMC series but i had read reviews of the original 
 so i didn't know what to expect. In the first seconds of gameplay you'r put staight into the action 
 in a brief tutorial in the middle of a battle with the demon hunter Dante. Unfortunately you only 
 face Dante twice in the game as he is the only one with the same ablitys. You go on to face some 
 pretty twisted creatures. The highlight of DMC 4 for me wasn't the intence action or creative puzzle 
 i took hour to finaly understand but the amazing boss battles i had heard about, in fact there 
 was a whole level deadicated to a boss fight. It's not an average boss fight too, it took me 20 
 minutes! Just be aware before you go by the game that: if you exspect just action there is a strong 
 story element, It does get a bit repetitive half way through and it feels slighly like a ps2 game 
 with some graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  Excellent Visuals. 
  Outstanding Sound Effects. 
  Excellent Voice Acting. 
  Awesome Soundtrack. 
 
  Cool Boss Battles.
  
  
  The Bad:
  Dante not main character. 
  Some linear levers. 
  Game-Play not as awesome as DMC 1 and 3
  The game leaves you with unanswered 
 questions. 
  
  
  Plot  7/10
  The forth instalment in the Devil May Cry series. You play Nero, a new character in the Devil May 
 Cry series and the main playable character in Devil May Cry 4, along with Dante who is the second 
 playable character. 
  The story revolves around Nero and he is what you would expect from a young gothic type character. 
 He's stubborn, prefers working solo, acts before thinking, thinks he can take on anyone and everyone 
 and so forth. Nero can be a bit hard to accept at first, but as you play on, slowly Nero becomes 
 a pretty decent character. 
  The story is basically, you play Nero a knight for the Order of the Sword. The Order of the Sword 
 fought to protect mankind and they revere the demon warrior Sparda as their God. Their sole purpose 
 is the extermination of all demons. 
  
  On the day of the annual Festival of the Sword, a powerful man appeared seemingly from nowhere 
 and before anyone could act, this man assassinated the head of the Order. The name of the assassin 
 is Dante, the son of the legendary warrior, Sparda.
  
  Your job as Nero, is to pursue the assassin Dante and bring his to justice for the cold hearted 
 murder on the head of the Order. 
  
  The story is pretty good and at times can be interesting, but I found that some of my question 
 still remain unanswered which probably means we'll be expecting another instalment in the series. 
 
  
  
  The Graphics - 10/10 
  The visuals are without a doubt amazing. The final rendering of the character, the background details 
 and the special effect from bullet sparks to using your devil arm is just outstanding. 
  
  
  Game-Play - 7/10
  The best thing in the whole Devil May Cry series is indeed the game-play. 
 The game-play however in DMC4 is a wee bit of a let down. I found the game-play being a wee bit 
 slower than other DMC games. The game is quite linear and a bit repetitive at times, pretty much 
 the same as it predecessors. Going from A to B just killing demon and making your way to your next 
 boss fight was great back then, but I just thought that with the next generation there would have 
 been a bit more on the lever size and design. 
  Nero can do pretty much do everything Dante can do; he has a sword called Red Queen, and a revolver 
 type gun called Blue Rose. Nero has something Dante doesn't have, a powerful devil arm that can 
 be used to some pretty cool things. But, Dante still kicks ass. 
  The best thing about the game-play is the boss fights. Capcom has always done awesome work in boss 
 battle not just in DMC, but in the Resident Evil series as well. 
  
  The game-play is good, just not as good as the first and third Devil May Cry. It's quite easy playing 
 the game from start to finish but can be very difficult when trying to go for a perfect score.
 
  
  
  Sound Effects  9/10
  What can I say, the sound effects are just spot on. Great voice acting, awesome music soundtrack. 
 
  
  
  Lifespan  7/10 
  Not to long and not to short. The game will probably take you about 15 to 20 hours to finish depending 
 on your skills of game-play. Devil May Cry 4 is a type of game will probably play again and again 
 and if your like me, you'll probably try to get the best ranking on every level on every difficulty 
 level. 
  
  
  Overall  8/10
  Devil May Cry 4 is a great game, just not the best in the series. I still think the first Devil 
 May Cry is the best, and I think it will always be the best in the series. 
  
  Recommend Devil May Cry 4 to all Devil May Cry fan, but maybe not to new players.
  
  I give 
 Devil May Cry 4 an 8/10
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIGNEY279
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  WHEN I FIRST HEARD THE DETAILS OF THIS GAME, I WAS WORRIED. A DEVIL MAY CRY WHERE DANTE IS NOT 
 THE MAIN CHARACTER BUT AFTER MISSION 11 I FOUND MYSELF SAYING, "DAMN, I HAVE TO PLAY AS DANTE NOW 
 AND NOT NERO!" THE ONLY DOWNSIDE TO THE NERO SIDE OF THE GAME, IS ITS ALMOST TOO EASY. THE INTRODUCTION 
 OF THE DEVIL BRINGER IS FANTASTIC & WILL MAKE YOU WONDER HOW YOU EVER PLAYED WITH OUT IT! LIKE 
 DEVIL MAY CRY 1 & 3 MOST OF THE SECRET MISSIONS ARE RIDICULOUSLY HARD, EVEN ON HUMAN MODE. THE 
 STORY IS VERY GOOD & THE CUT SCENES ARE JUST AS GOOD AS DEVIL MAY CRY 3. (WHICH WAS GREAT) SAME 
 HEAVY DEVIL MAY CRY TYPE MUSIC. THE ONLY VILLAIN THAT POSSES A PROBLEM IS BLITZ, THAT YOU WILL 
 ONLY FIGHT TWICE, BOTH TIME AS DANTE. THE BEST BOSS OF THE GAME IS THE FIRST, BERIAL, THIS GUY 
 COULD BE A FINAL BOSS IN JUST ABOUT ANY OTHER GAME. LIKE THE PREVIOUS DMC GAMES THERE IS REPETITION. 
 YOU WILL FIGHT MOST BOSSES 3 DIFFERENT TIMES, TWICE AS NERO & ONCE AS DANTE. THERE IS ONE BOSS 
 YOU WILL ONLY FIGHT ONCE. YOU WILL GO THROUGH THE SAME STAGES A FEW TIMES BUT ITS STILL A GREAT 
 GAME. IF YOU ARE HESITANT ABOUT TRYING THIS GAME BECAUSE OF THE FACT YOU PLAY MOST OF THE GAME 
 AS NERO DON'T BE, HES GREAT & WILL HOPEFULLY RETURN IN THE NEXT DMC. (VIRGIL NEEDS TO COME BACK 
 TOO) ON HUMAN MODE THIS GAME IS SIMPLE. I GOT THROUGH IT NOT ONLY WITH OUT DYING BUT ALSO WITH 
 OUT USING A SINGLE POWER UP ITEM. ON DEVIL HUNTER MODE ITS GETS A LITTLE MORE DIFFICULT. WHILE 
 I STILL DIDN'T DIE, I DID HAVE YOU USE QUITE A FEW ITEMS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  There are five games currently in the Devil May Cry series (6 if you include the PSP title in which 
 it's been so long since there was news on it, the original announcement is now almost myth) , not 
 bad considering the original title started off life as Resident Evil 4 before giving birth to something 
 quite different.
  
  Much like in all Devil May Cry games, you play as a white haired bad boy fighting against demon 
 legions using a variety of guns, swords and powers. This time however instead of just Dante, there 
 is Nero, yet another white haired bad boy who... (etc, etc)
  The game starts off with Nero running late to a meeting of the order of the sword, a religious 
 group pledged to fight demons and protect humanity in which he is a member. During this meeting 
 Dante blasts though the ceiling and lands killing the head of the order, at the same time demons 
 start showing up and it's your job to find out why.
  
  The game plays at roughly 60% Nero and 40% Dante across 20 missions. The bad side of this being 
 that Dante's levels are merely Neo's backwards with a few twists thrown in. So it can feel like 
 the same game twice. This backtracking is lazy and rather annoying.
  
  Each mission is given a rank after it's completion based on your speed, how many red orbs you get, 
 and how much stylish you aquire. As you defeat demons they will drop red orbs, these orbs are then 
 used as a type of currency to buy healing items, life extensions among other things. The higher 
 your stylish is when they die, the more you get. To do this means you have to defeat them using 
 a huge variety of moves and not getting damaged. There is a bar indicating how well you are doing 
 with terms like "Dull" etc using a letter grade system to show how well you are doing in that fight. 
 From D to SSS.
  
  The better your overall mission rank is, the more proud souls you gain, which can be used to purchase 
 more moves, which makes stylish easier, enabling for better ranks, and more proud souls. A never 
 ending circle.... which is good as you can replay any mission you have cleared again to improve 
 it.
  
  Graphically Devil May Cry 4 is lovely to look at. The game has great textures across a large array 
 of environments from gothic castles to Jungles and snow topped mountains. The character models 
 are also finely detailed and move fluidly from one action to the next. All this runs at a very 
 smooth frame rate no matter what you are doing on screen... except for one area. On level 6 there 
 is a huge waterfall in which there is minor slowdown for some reason.
  
  The sound in this game is also great. The music is that heavy rock used throughout DMC3, and while 
 not my cup of tea it suits the action and the atmosphere well. The voice acting, while cheesy in 
 many places is performed admirably. Dante especially said his lines well giving several laughs 
 from me just because of the way he said them.
  
  With 6 difficulty modes to play through, a lot of s ranks to gain, different characters to play 
 and art to unlock you may think there is plenty to do. Well, in case you want more, like in DMC 
 2 & 3 (se) , the bloody palace has returned! The bp is merely an arena in which the idea is to travel 
 as many floors as you can before you die. The catch? You can only go to the next floor after you 
 defeat all the enemies on your current one. and every 20 you have to fight a boss, no items can 
 be used. Quite a challenge to keep people going.
  
  All in all let me sum up. Devil May Cry 4 is a fantastic looking, great sounding challenging stylish 
 action game that is well worth your time and money. However it could have been a lot better if 
 there was less level backtracking between the two characters. Still, I recommend it because it's 
 just fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  I am a massive fan of the Devil May Cry series, loved the anime and the game. Devil May Cry 4 is 
 so far the 2nd best DMC game EVER.... for now, its only bad thing that makes it behind DMC2 is 
 well... nero.
  
  Good: Its look stunning, on all platforms. Very, very stunning. every detail is done well, near 
 perfect some might say. Nero is a cool addition to the franchise, making it seem like there a Dante 
 .v2. The controls are smooth, well its button mashing, much like God of War or Prince of perisa. 
 You still levitate while you shoot. soooo kool!!!! Lady and Trish look HHHHOOOOOTTTTT!!!!!! Especially 
 Lady. Theres alot of monsters/devils to kill. Well, its a lot easier than DMC 3. phew. Bosses are 
 all differnet...
  
  Bad: The bosses are differnet yet, you can still hack them to death (in nero's case, pull them 
 and SMASH!!!) Think it needs a deeper story. A trasnition from Nero to Dante is hard to move to 
 and from. Nero has a very differnt fighting style, might be a good or bad. nero is more a pull 
 and slash character, and Dante is well... Dante. Nero's targeting system is very very irritating, 
 especially the 2nd lst boss. you will fidn out why if you play the game. nero's guns i literley 
 USELESS!!!!!
  
  Well Devil May Cry 4 lives up to its hype, but dosent really deliver in the places where people 
 wernt excited about. if that makes sense. The story is not the most interesting thing in teh world. 
 not Bioshock or anything. But still at least worth a rent, if you like button mashing fighting 
 games.
  
  BANG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Although not the best, it still is a solid game. I could still play this game for hours. Game play-wise 
 it lives up to the hype. It's not too different from the previous game, but you will notice some 
 of the changes in the combat system. The graphics in the game are beautiful as you would expect 
 and action packed cut scenes will win you over if not anything else.
  
  The introduction of Nero did rub me the wrong way in the beginning. I'm sure they question on everyone's 
 mind was, "What happened to Dante?" Nero just seemed like a clone of Dante. It didn't help that 
 he looked exactly like Dante in appearance and combat style. I was glad that he had uniqueness 
 with the use of his demonic arm which added some cool features to the game play. Slowly, but sure 
 I began to like Nero's character.
  
  One thing that I have learned to accept is CAPCOM being the king of prequels and beating around 
 the bush. They proven this in both the Street Fighter Series and Resident Evil series as well. 
 They don't clearly explain Nero's relationship to Sparda. They they talk about it in the game it 
 seems like Nero is some kind of reincarnation of Dante's twin brother Vergil seeing as he can wield 
 Vergil's sword, Yamato. On top of that, you have to figure out when which game takes place. If 
 you haven't figured it out yet, the order of the games are 3,1,4,2.
  
  Simply put, good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hororsurvive
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  we all played devil may cry 1,2,3 and 4, the fourth devil may cry is amazing so perfect. lets start 
 from the story: im sure if any one did not play this game he will engoy the game so go go destroy 
 your enemies lets Dante rock... and let nero save cryl, you will find the story is dramatic , romantic 
 sometimes and the important is fantasy action i liked the story very much
  The Graphic is terrific, the light, the shadows, the sound is good , but the music is not goog enough
 
  The control: is excellent, The moves, artifical intelligence is great 
  but the failings i think are :
  1. the extra hard level is not good because there is no chances, you 
 must buy evry thing even the chances
  2. if you killed you must start from the begining of the round
  3. the other characters is not 
 available"i mean the girls in the game i forgot their names" even when you complet the game with 
 normal or hard level
  4. there is no cheats those make you can play with super nero or super dante act
  i hope these 
 failings are repairing in devil may cry 5
  any way the all stuff are terrific and matching together are creat givet called DEVIL MAY CRY 4
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satgamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game is more for people who give a damn about story and just wanna play the game. If you are 
 this kind of person then this is a very cool game.
  But if you like stories then this wouldn't be the game for you except if you had the other 3 in 
 the series and want to know what happens next even though the layout of the story is very crappy! 
 The weapons are cool but a lot of them look weaker then they look like e. g. gilgamesh.
  I had a lot of fun playing this game but listen to this: if you get stuck in a place, trust me, 
 it will make you feel like not playing this game ever again!
  
  people who like game play, the rating would be: 9.5
  If you like more stories and you only want 
 it because you want to know what happened next, it would be a 7.5.
  
  I personally think its worth the 30 dollars/euros/pounds whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandy00345
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous games, but when i picked up DMC 4 i was impressed. It had 
 hack and slash fighting, which is my favorite style of combat, good graphics, and an alright story. 
 Its no Final Fantasy, but its good enough. The music was alright, a industrial rock for the fighting, 
 and a nice ballad for all of those romantic parts. My only complaint is that its too short. I'm 
 not your best gamer by anyone's standards. I had to redo a few levels, but still the game took 
 me only 9 hours to complete. In my world, a good fulfilling game takes AT LEAST 30 hours, if not 
 40+, especially for role-playing. I found myself fighting the last boss (which i'll admit took 
 me a good 45 minutes) on the second day i had it. The games has some replay-ability, but i haven't 
 even tried to pick it up again since i bought it a few months ago. Despite all this, i'd still 
 say it was an 8. If you like action RPGs a lot, such as KH, i would suggest buying it, but if your 
 unsure, rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  So the first 3 games were on PS2, Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition being the best one, so is the 
 2 year wait finally paid off from the Best Action-Adventure on PS2?
  
  Almost, but not quite. See there are a few problems but I'll start with the story. So you play 
 as Nero, a devil hunter who works for a organisation, like Dantes one, but on a much bigger scale. 
 They worship Sparda, and during a ceremony Dante comes blasting in and kills your leader, His Holiness. 
 After a long battle with Dante, you soon discover that the guards who tried to kill Dante, but 
 failed, were demons, which leads Nero chasing after Dante, whilst uncovering secrets about the 
 Order of the Sword. This is easy to understand, but Dante's personality shows some from DMC3 and 
 DMC2. In the cutscene when Credo dies, Credo tries to tell Dante how to defeat the Savior, and 
 instead of Dante being caring like in DMC, he just repeats the blatant obvious. Nero's past hasn't 
 even been told, and the rumours of Vergil being his father with all the evidence, again, not being 
 explained, meaning we have to wait for DMC5 to come out to see if it's true or not. The crucial 
 thing about a game I look for his the characters past, and Dante's past, in between DMC Anime and 
 DMC hasn't even been told, not one bit. Also, last time I recalled Devil May Cry, was never about 
 "love" as in "BF and GF". DMC3 was about love for another sibling, DMC1 was pretty much the same 
 thing, but DMC4? Seriously, this just ruined DMC4 soo much, next we'll most likely see Kyrie and 
 Nero go at it. The story is better than DMC by far and DMC2, but DMC3 has the best story, due to 
 the fact of character development. In this Dante acts the same all the time, and we barely get 
 a glimpse of Lady, who was the main female character from DMC3. Capcom really need to think things 
 out first.
  
  The graphics side of things are superb, best graphics I've seen all the way through 2008. One factor 
 that puts it down is the shadows, I mean they are very pixelated, but taking into account how much 
 detail their is around the area, you can't really complain too much about it. The cutscenes are 
 jaw dropping, and I don't mean as in looking at Trish and Lady in 1080p, I mean seeing sparks fly 
 off, The Savior and dust effects in 1080p.
  
  The gameplay is fairly fluent, Bloody Palace has been altered, theres a new difficulty and a online 
 leaderboard, which can compare you to friends or people around the globe (if there are in the top 
 10,000) . Bloody Palace now has a time limit, which starts at 2 minutes, you have to kill the demons 
 quickly to gain more time and to progress to the next level. Now it goes up at 1 level at a time, 
 rather than you being able to skip 100 levels at once. This is ok, presuming you can bare spending 
 2 hours to get to the final stage, then dying and getting annoyed. There is a bit of framerate 
 issue, on some Missions the framerate drops drastically, making it unplayable for about 6 or 7 
 seconds, this has never occured in any DMC game, so it's a bit of a shock to see this. As for the 
 new mode, Hell and Hell mode, it's basically one hit kill, you die, but every demon has regular 
 health. This can be quite annoying, and made too easy thanks to the Super costumes and overly powered 
 moves Dante has. With Nero you'll find yourself jumping out the way and firing Charge Shot 3's, 
 with Dante you'll find yourself using Over-Drive, or Real Impact to get the job done swiftly. The 
 bosses are very creative, and regardless of the fact you have to defeat all of them a second time, 
 it's still quite good and very fun to do. One problem are the puzzles, theres very few in between. 
 I mean proper puzzles, theres abotu 2 or so puzzles in the game. One that involves using Nero's 
 buster to hit a Gyro Blade along, and using the shadows to guide your way through a forest. Those 
 are the only really puzzles you'll have, dodging lasers and slowing down time, or figuring out 
 how to get that insanely high Blue Orb Fragment isn't a puzzle. Theres a new currency in the game, 
 called Proud Souls, which is mainly to buy Nero's and Dante's moves, Red Orbs are new used for 
 buying health, DT or items. A new feature in the game is the ability to flick between all of Dantes 
 styles on the go, and you finally obtain Darkslayer, what Vergil had in DMC3, surely this is a 
 thing everybody has dreamed about, well sadly Darkslayer is ruined. Instead of being able to teleport 
 back and forth, circle is only used to actually use Yamato, and you only have about 7 moves, which 
 are fairly weak on the later difficulties. Another slight change is you can't power up your guns 
 at all, which isn't that much of a downer considering Dante has about 80 odd moves at your disposal, 
 only problem is comparing Dante's move list to Nero's is very small. Nero has about 30 odd moves, 
 and they are no where as stylish like Dante's. Another problem is the fact that Dante has the same 
 exact moves for Rebellion and likewise with Gilgamesh (like Beowulf and Ifrit) , however it's fun 
 using Drive and Rising Dragon.
  
  The soundtrack is superb, whilst Nero's battle theme is dull and boring, Dante's remix is blood 
 pumping and very enjoyable, no matter how many times you listen to it. Tetsuya Shibata has done 
 another great job, but not as good as DMC3's OST. The main theme for DMC4 "Shall Never Surrender" 
 is soo boring, and doesn't keep up with the gothic theme that "Devils Never Cry" had.
  
  This is the best fantasy action/adventure of 2008, especially for PS3. It's just as addictive as 
 DMC3, however the difficulty feels too easy, lets hope a Special Edition will harden this Devil 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of disapointed because from DMC 1 - DMC 3 i adored these games, especially the third 
 which was superb (my 2nd best game ever, MGS4 being first now) . For me though this was just to easy, 
 yes definetely not on some of the top difficulties like 'Dante must Die' but seen as though you 
 could only start on easy or normal (not called this in game) IT , for me, just spoiled the experience. 
 It was a great game but as soon as i played it once it got kind of boring (although the survival 
 arena did keep me playing for a while)
  Not that much more to really say about the game, the bosses were superb, especially when your nero 
 and the grabs sometimes come into it. Like berial for example, you when he went red you could throw 
 him BUT if you jumped and grabbed him first, you could throw him to the ground and then do the 
 throw you would have done had you not jumped is good because you can do 2 throws in one.
  To me, the third one will always be my best (i could play that one forever!) and this one was worth 
 the 40 out of my pocket but if your not a fan it wouldnt be. But yes, if you can find it for 30 
 or lower it is worth the experience especially if you want see the end to the sega. 
  Nero is a good character and im not saying that it was him that made the game not as good as it 
 could of been, because for me he was the better character to play with in the game than dante, 
 even though dante is a legend!
  I just thought there is no replay value in the game.
  
  GRAPHICS-9/10
  SOUND-8/10
  GAMEPLAY-8/10
  VALUE-6/10
  ONLINE-N/A (RANKING ONLY) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is in my mind, one of the best Action/Adventure games on the PS3. This game has a new main 
 character named Nero. Nero is out to rescue Kyrie after Dante assulted the church, and killed most 
 of the priests. The Holy Bishop now has an intention on destroying the world with "The Savior" 
 a huge marble statue that comes to life and destroys everything in its path. Nero and Dante now 
 must join forces to stop this statue from destroying the world. The gameplay in this game absolutely 
 kicks butt! The intense combat and cool missions will keep you wanting to play more of this game. 
 Fighting demons is just sooo fun. I would bet you would probably drink a lot of soda to stay up 
 late at night just to fight demons. The music in this game rocks as well. Most of it is metal, 
 but sometimes metal is good to listen to when you are in combat. The music also can be very relaxing. 
 Overall, awesome game, really addicting gameplay, excellent music, cool missions to do, and "KILL 
 THE SAVIOR!" Try this game out if you like Action/Adventure, and horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar_88
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has always been the signature series for over-the-top hack n' slash with incredible 
 acrobatic sequences and jaw-dropping spectacular moves and combos. With the exception of the second 
 game, you always felt like a badass when you've grown to master Dante's skills.
  
  Each entry to the series introduced a new mechanic to enhance gameplay. But this time, Capcom chose 
 to create an entirely new character. Despite their similarities (they even look the same) , what 
 makes the new protagonist, Nero, stand out from Dante is his right arm, the Devil Bringer. His 
 entire fighting style in center around it, and although it doesn't seem all that amazing, you'll 
 find yourself using it a lot for your amusement. In many ways, the introduction to the Devil Bringer 
 breathes a lot of new life into a somewhat aging fighting engine by tossing in new strategies for 
 each enemy and boss by rewarding you with a badass cinematic combos when you successfully beat 
 down the various demonic presences scattered throughout.
  
  Capcom also pulled a fast one by portraying Dante as the antagonist this time around. It's apparently 
 quite obvious after the first mission that Nero, the hero, is not fond of Dante, as he is bent 
 on tracking him down and killing him after witnessing the assassination of the leader of the Order 
 by the hands of the Devil Hunter. It soon becomes apparent that Nero is fighting for his life and, 
 ultimately, fighting to save his sweetheart, Kyrie. While the storyline isn't anything particularly 
 original, the production value is above the roof. One thing that I, as a fan of both Devil May 
 Cry and the Metal Gear Solid series, I prayed to God that Nero didn't end up like Raiden in MGS2. 
 Thankfully, Nero has [almost] none of Raiden's personality, and he's [mostly] a semi-tortured character 
 you can sympathize with.
  
  As far as graphics go, DMC4 is definitely an eye-opener. Capcom has shown time and time again that 
 they can utilize any system they work on, and they definitely proved they can work on the PS3 and 
 360 to full benefit (having played it on both systems, they're remarkably similar I couldn't tell 
 the difference) . Hook it up to an HD display and you've gotten yourself one of the best visual 
 experiences to date. The environment is nicely detailed, as are the characters and enemies, but 
 the biggest award goes to the bosses, which are large in scale and menacing to behold. One boss 
 in particular is uses the power of the dark and cold, and while it may not be anything special 
 gameplay-wise, it's cool to be able to see the system's lighting effects used very well here.
 
  
  Speaking of gameplay, beyond the use of the Devil Bringer and a few tweaked enhancements, not much 
 has really changed here. If you've played any of the previous Devil May Cry games, you should have 
 no problem getting into this game. Most of the improvements are good, especially now that there 
 are two different types of "currency" in the game: Proud Souls and Red Orbs. Unlike Red Orbs, which 
 you collect by defeating enemies, Proud Souls are rewarded at the end of each mission, and the 
 amount depends on your overall rating. The Red Orbs can be used to buy items, while the Proud Souls 
 can now be used to upgrade your abilities.
  
  While you do as Nero, you play as Dante is a small portion of the game, and while readjusting after 
 you've gotten very comfortable using Nero may seem like a pain, you'll realize that Dante has turned 
 into an even better badass. You certainly remember how fast Dante was in Dante's Awakening? Well 
 in this one, he's INSANE.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game is the backtracking. Sure there's bound to be backtracking in 
 Devil May Cry games; there always has been. But this one takes it a bit far. I won't want to spoil 
 anything for you, so you'll just have to see what I mean when you play it.
  
  While Devil May Cry 4 definitely is one of the best looking games to come out thus far, whether 
 it is better than the third game is still up for debate. It's not perfect, but it's an addictive 
 game you'll want to finish from beginning to end because each combo and goal completed gives you 
 a rewarding feeling, and when it's all said and done, you might just pick up that case again and 
 pull the game disc out just to play it for kicks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakerX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  The situation is tense.... armageddon rolling in.... the background music is freakin' serious...... as 
 everyone watches the gigantic statue rising into the air.... bringing about a sense of eternal danger.... as 
 we witness the deadly powers of the yonder..... a voice squirms into your ears ,"Hey! Look! It has 
 wings" WHAT THE _?
  
  Enter_________DMC 4_
  Enter______Dante..
  
  Its funny why they can't name the game "Dante Never Cries" or summat instead of having a title 
 which seems to be, unlikely, the name of his motel.....
  
  DMC 4 is 
  It may sound like I'm having some serious virtual issues 
 here.... but it's not.... To begin with, let me tell you some things about the new guy....... (which 
 I suppose is his bro/relative) .... so he's a bit cocky though serious, trendy though messy & has 
 unique combating skills, blah, blah....... You play him for quiet some time..... before you begin to 
 realize that DMC has jus' got a bit harder & serious than its prequels........... The kid lands 
 in trouble...... gets harassed by a whacko scientist... then by a granpa whose supposedly is the 
 villain (Granpa on fire) ... yea, that's right.... old granpa has demonic powers but his stupid conscience 
 makes himself believe he is not a demon but rather an angel (Barf now) & this whacko scientist dude 
 has been employed in makin angels from demonic spirits and that kinda thingSouh-uh, Once this lad 
 gets trapped by the old **** all upto Dante to settle the fire, seal the hellgates, kill the angels, etc.
 
  
  __________
  
  This is the part of the game thats keeps the adrenaline running.... You now play as Dante & ur going 
 back in the same way Nero came byi. e Dante's gotta kill all those bosses & screw up all those hellgates& 
 believe me dudez.... the Dante version of the cutscenes are hardcore materialwho else would you 
 expect to play football w/bullet seeds, sit on a flaming demon tail or wolf-whistle prior to a boss 
 battle...
  
  The plotline also revolves around a deep connection (blah) b/w Nero & his pygmy roasted girlfriend... jus 
 for the keeps
  
  Exciting new stuff include the pandora boxtotally incredible, & a hell lot more
  
  Gameplayawesomeeasier 
 w/ Dante, of course
  
  Graphics.. good enough to be.
  
  Its not addictive of any sort. its just that you keep hackin, shootin & slashin in ways more than 
 1 till the games done with. (The game can also be played in tougher modes)
  
  Overall, its a pretty cool DMC title"awesome" to say the least..... If you're thinking of renting 
 it , go ahead but the game suggests that u buy it
  This was a review by Jailbird Fynix,
  back here after two years int the shadows,
  hope you enjoyed it,
  
  G`mo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has always been about stylish hack and slashing through stages, Devil May Cry 4 is 
 no exception to the formula and while the combat has greatly improved through new additions there 
 are some points that might be disappointing.
  
  Story: In the holy city of Fortuna exists a religious cult that worships the late Dark Knight Sparda 
 through the guide of the Order of the Sword, a group of guardians who eliminate demons. A notable 
 knight of the order is a promising warrior named Nero, who is for most parts still filled with 
 mystery.
  During a ceremonial event the leader of the order was about to give a prayer until out of nowhere 
 a mysterious man in red fell from the ceiling and assassinated the leader, Nero, who witnessed 
 the assassination, attacked the mysterious assassin and managed to chase him out of the altar.
 
  Nero then embarks on a quest to search for this mysterious man and eliminate him, since this man 
 does not seem to be human.
  
  Game design: The game's graphics are incredibly detailed, characters are well animated and graphical 
 affects are just simply amazing.
  You will be going through many different stages with really cool boss battles awaiting you at every 
 end, the stages this time however are incredibly long. 
  Cut scenes are played frequently at the beginning, middle and end of each stages.
  Like in DMC3 
 the story can be taken through various difficulty settings, once you complete the normal difficulty 
 setting you will unlock bonus contents such as bloody palace or library as well as extra difficulties 
 to polish your skills and achieve higher style points.
  You can also connect via PSN to enter a world wide ranking system to see how many stylish points 
 you obtained and compare to other players.
  
  Game play: From start of the bat you get to play as new character Nero. 
  Nero has a double barrelled 
 gun with acceptable firing rate and a Sword that can be charged to increase the damage of combos, 
 however the most unique and newest feature is Nero's right arm the Devil Bringer.
  The devil bringer can be used to snatch distant enemies and smash them into bits; this new feature 
 can also be used for platforming during stages.
  The devil bringer reacts differently to every enemy and bosses which not only provides for more 
 diverse stylish points but can also deal more damage. 
  Nero will also later on gain his own devil trigger for extra damage and defence (However speed 
 stays the same) .
  The gun, sword, devil bring and other features can be upgraded by collecting proud souls and orbs, 
 proud souls are basically orbs used for upgrading abilities and learning new combos, with the exception 
 being that they can be refunded (removed) and that amount can be used on other abilities, allowing 
 for a more flexible customization system.
  Around halfway through the game you get to duke it up as Dante.
  Dante can use his twin pistol 
 with incredible firing rate and his Rebellion sword attacks that are slightly stronger than Nero's, 
 Dante will also be able to use devil trigger (However speed also doesn't change) .
  Unlike Nero, Dante can obtain new weapons and switch them on the fly using the R2 and L2 buttons, 
 he basically plays exactly like in DMC3, only this time around Dante can also switch between 4 
 fighting styles (Trickster, Gunslinger, Sword Master and Royal Guard) on the fly using the D-pads.
 
  Orbs and Proud Souls obtained by Nero will be copied over to Dante and can be used to upgrade 
 his abilities and weapons.
  While Dante will get his own cut scenes through out stages he will be back tracking Nero's every 
 step with a slight twist in the environments.
  
  Sound: The game soundtrack is just as cool as in DMC3 with some really sweet pop rock themes to 
 get you pumped up for enemy and boss encounters.
  Character voices are well selected but dialogues don't exactly feel as original as in the last 
 game, its just that sure you will hear a couple of smart mouthing but not exactly cleverly made 
 up lines like in DMC3.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is a great game and a must buy, but it does have a few dissapointing notes.
  
 While Nero is a unique character for most parts however he feels more like a clone of Dante rather 
 than an original character, if it weren't for his arm and coat he would have practically been Dante 
 no.2.
  While the combat system is deep and satisfying the same cannot be said for the stages, some of 
 the platforming and puzzle elements are really more annoying than fun (like when rolling the dice 
 to move on or using the devil bring to swing from one place to another) .
  Also most of the enemies either non bounacble or shielded, making getting style points much more 
 frustrating because you will be forced to use hit and run tactics a lot, and some enemiers are 
 badly designed (like that thunder demon that goes super fast and cannot get damaged with melee 
 attacks) making getting style points even more frustrating. 
  The extra content is nice but not exactly very creative and new, they added a time limit to bloody 
 palace which just completely ruined it, also why couldn't they for example include other characters 
 playable for bonus content like Vergil? or better yet Trish or Lady (it felt pointless to develop 
 those characters only to make close to only a minute of appearance in a cut scene and play absolutely 
 no significant importance in the story) .
  
  While Devil May Cry 4 doesn't qualify as a dream sequel it is a pretty solid entry in the series 
 and a definite must for action adventure fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  After a brilliant, a poor, and a solid DMC game, Capcom decided to move the series into the next 
 generation. Is it worth? Of course! :) There isn't too many new things in the game, but there's 
 a whole new main character, named Nero. Well, he's a little similar, to the young Dante, from the 
 previous games, but he has a Demonic arm, and pretty cool sword. But he's not the only playable 
 character in the game. You can play with Dante for a while, but sadly, the Dante part of the game, 
 is almost the same, as the Nero part. Dante has more weapons, more combos, and he's even stronger 
 than Nero, but Nero has a lot of very strong combos with his Demonic arm. The graphics of the game 
 is nice, except for the shadows, cause those are a little poor. The musics are great, and the voice 
 acting is superb, so , the whole game is great at all. It didn't brought too much new thing, to 
 the series, but it perfected the great shame we've been expected, from Devil May Cries.
  
  Graphics: It looks great at all, but it's not the nicest game of the year. Far from that. 8/10
 
  
  Sounds: Great musics, and even better voice acting. 9/10
  
  Controls: Not bad at all, but little camera problems. Again. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: Bloody, exciting, 
 with an interesting story... Perfect. 10/10
  
  The Good: An ambitious and exciting Devil May Cry game.
  
  The Bad: Without too many new things; 
 the "go back with Dante" part is a little boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 90wushuman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge DMC to tell the truth. But I've started playing DMC since 2004, and bought DMC3 
 the day it came out. DMC3 was my wife for 2 1/3 years and I never stopped playing it. I was indeed 
 one of the most fantastic games I've ever played. Now DMC4 is out, and to tell the truth. It not 
 as good as DMC3: SE (but VERY VERY Close) , but it far surpasses DMC2, and DMC1 just like DMC3 did. 
 DMC4 didn't change anything from the gameplay, which is a good thing since DMC3 is known for its 
 fast-pace combo gameplay. DMC4 this time is more fluid, smooth, crazier, and more cinematic. But 
 lets not spoiler everything in one paragraph. Lets get down to business.
  
  Audio: DMC now in the next-gen console have one of the most well made audio I've ever seem, from 
 the sounds of the guns and swords, to the explosion, wind, beautiful music, enemies, and movie 
 CG SFX (This for example http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=uxIENEFOuCc) The voice acting are top-notch, 
 much better than MGS4's voices and they got rid of the cheese lines that were in DMC1 and DMC3 
 with the soul lines, and well directed and very moving as well (for example http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=bO13gloZLq8)
 
  
  Graphics: There is no way to explain it, DMC4 has the second best graphics on the PS3 IMO, They 
 are better than uncharted. Less you have a small quality tv, you will be one of the millionth people 
 saying the graphic sare just... ok. DMC4 has one little error, which is the shadow effect that goes 
 off rarely in any picture, but its nothing to talk about since it sometimes makes the framerate 
 for the cutscenes faster.
  
  Cutscene and Story: DMC3 has cutscenes so over-the-top, so stylish that sometimes... it goes abit 
 off and are abit messy (this for example http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=XNZim18VFKY&feature=related) . 
 DMC4's cutscenes aren't as over-the-top as DMC3's, but they were good enough to satisfy me ( This 
 for example: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=ORBQKkg07Hs) , and they put the story together very 
 nicely. DMC4 is a new beginning, and for a 4 game, the story was fantastic. though different than 
 a DMC game. The story is about a young Knight named Nero who must save his girlfriend Kyrie from 
 an organization who deceived and betrayed him, and you must stop their plans for world domination. 
 The story is very dramatic, and well directed (This for example: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=pY81yV47l_4&feature=related. 
 It totally set a new thing in the DMC by learning more about the outside world of DMC, and meeting 
 a lot of new characters. The only weakness the story has is the untelled plot elements about Nero's 
 origin. But said by Kobayashi: They will explain him later in the series, and they are trying to 
 make the story as realistic as possible. DMC3 also had the same problem with its "one year event" 
 thing which was less explainable than DMC4's "first attack." By overall, DMC4's story was beautiful.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is when DMC4 receives its tittle for the best action game of the year. DMC4 has 
 the fastest, stylish, smoothest, combo, and cinematic gameplay I have ever this year beside NG2. 
 The new Devil Bringer mechanic from the new character Nero works very well on making the combat 
 easier and having its GOW sequences. This game has however a few moves taking away from the previous 
 game DMC3 ( which are free ride, wild stomp, air raid, wallhike) but the DB, and 4 styles OTF (including 
 new weapons) made up for that. Even without the moves, and 1 weapon less. Does that really stop 
 the game from being fast and stylish? I wonder!
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=kuU_A5U94Oc
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=WMkE8TgfTaw&feature=related
 
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=WMkE8TgfTaw&feature=related
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=CaCzV3Be1zc&feature=related
  
  Overall, DMC4 is definetly a 
 huge recommendation to anyway who is new to the series, and to me. This game is an action fan's 
 choice of the year, and contender for GOTY aswell.
  
  DMC1: 9.5
  DMC2: 7.3
  DMC3: 9.8
  DMC4: 9.9
  DMC3: SE: 9.9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroKen-ii
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  when i got my PS3 this year this the the first game that i got. (besides GTA-4)
  I Loved number 3 and 2.
  This game was fun and have a twist in the story line, which made it 
 even more amazing.
  they way you up grade Nero and Dante are fun to mess around with.
  but all the combos you can get are just amazing.
  Nero was a great character, it was funny see 
 how he soled every thing and what he has to say about other people and monsters.
  Dante was even more of b*d a** then ever, in the clips he kicked a** and bet the living day light 
 out of the boss.
  and the sweet weapons you get to try after each boss was fun as well.
  Dante's guns where sweet, and his sword was cool, but i liked Nero's better.
  Graphics where better 
 then the though they would be.
  the game play was nicely done. 
  Oh and the loved fighting the boss (all of them)
  At some points in the game really made me mad, and 
 having to do things in order also made me mad, but you can have a game with out problems and stuff 
 to complain about.
  In the end i Loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutoyomper
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, good gameplay, good graphics, etc.
  Te things that dont make me appy in this game, is the blood that doesnt seem so realistic, and 
 that you repeat the game when you use dante.
  Good game but i prefer MGS or GTA 4, but its a game that you must have.
  If you doesnt play any 
 other DMC games, this isnt a good one to start but it is still very very entretaning, if you are 
 an adictive of videogames, maybe this isnt for you, but it is still very fun and very interesting.
 
  
  If you are looknig for some game that is inovating and has good gameplay this is the right chioce, 
 but if you "Only buy the best games" player, and you dont have this game, then you arent a in that 
 ranking, and when you completed it, you must be satisfied for doing that.
  
  Conclusion= if you have mgs and gta and the others great games, this have to be in your arsenal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  ... It took me sometime, but I finaly got Dmc 4.
  ... When I bought Ps2, I picked 1 game with it: Devil may cry. Hell... I played it more than Final 
 fantasy or Metal gear solid.. Gameplay was awesome, whit good graphics and story.
  But what I remember from first, its Dante.
  Dante was so cool and stylish. As you can see from 
 my name, Dante made real impact at me.
  Now, Devil may cry 4.
  Well you start with Nero, somewhat half human half demon, like Dante.
  Nero looks pretty much like 
 Dante, but he has this demonic hand. He has 1 gun,1 sword (Yamato as Devil sword) .
  His arm is pretty cool for to mission 6, but then its gets boring. And you cant really customize 
 his hand, just range gets bigger.
  You can buy new combos to sword, Red Queen and other stuff like Air-hike or Speed.
  Nero acts 
 like 15 year Child, which is pretty sad.
  Dante, has become somewhat old. His hairstyle is stupid and he looks well, diffrent person.
  
 
  But Dante still has those Waepon master and other styles, Devil mode, Rebellion sword and his 2 
 pistols.
  You get few good waepons, but mostly you use rebellion.
  Which is very, very sad.
  Devil mode is cool but you just happen to be faster, and more powerful. At 
 dmc 1, you could fly!!
  
  Bosses, well, first one, firedemon, is only cool and stunning. With that big Sparda statue.
  Others 
 are just terrible and stupid.
  Final boss is some **** old man who has Sparda, which aint cool!
  Story is ok...
  
  This is 
 not like Devil may cry 2, but still, its not nearly good as Dmc1 or Dmc3.
  I rather play those over and over again.
  But yes, it satisfies your Dmc spirit for sometime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  In this game you play as Nero a new character for the Devil May Cry series. It's not as fun as 
 Dante, but cooler to play with, imo... because you have the devil hand! You can pull monsters with 
 it, or use it to reach secret places. You can also use it in combat! You can grab your opponents 
 and make a devastating attack!
  There is just one stupid thing about Nero... he's like... almost the same as Dante, white hair, 
 red coat, i mean WTF?
  
  About the sound of the game... it can make you depressed specially that song on the shop or whatever 
 you call it... 
  In the other hand we have the Battle song which is fantastic! Hard rock FTW!!!
  Cool combos, 
 although i think I never made combos with only one button, you just have to press it with a certain 
 timing to make a certain combo, it's cool but for a slash 'em up i don't think it's that good, 
 i mean, I kinda like button smashing, like in God of war or ninja gaiden... Anyway, this game really 
 reminds me of Onimusha, not just because of slash 'em up part, but also because of the transformation, 
 or whatever it's called... 
  Nero only has one sword and one gun (which is kinda useless since it almost doesn't make any damage, 
 unless it's charged, then it will make a little more damage)
  The custscenes are OK, although some of the speeches are kinda lame... 
  The Bosses are awesome, 
 i just love fighting gigantic monsters! Specially since God of war...
  
  -----------------
  
  Here's a smaller spoiler, that you should know by now if you're in the 
 forums, or if you read the news from when the game wasn't, yet, on stores...
  When you reach 60% of the game (more or less) you play as Dante, meaning no more devil hand! damm!
 
  But still you have 2 dual pistols, and one of those half pistols half shotgun... like a pocket 
 shotgun XD
  The path you do with dante is the same as nero's but on reverse! (i actually don't remember why...)
 
  Throughout the game you'll collect more weapons for dante, including Pandora's box, yeah... i 
 mean briefcase... YOU HAVE A BRIEF CASE AS A WEAPON! 
  WTF!?
  But it's not a normal brief case... it transforms itself in 666 different forms... that's what 
 it says in the game but i only saw about 5 forms... maybe there's a cheat to that... too late for 
 me now...
  
  -------------------
  
  END OF SPOILERS, i guess....
  
  In conclusion....
  The combat system is good, music as well, lame speeches, semi-lame story, 
 cool weapons, awesome bosses... no need to say more i guess... 
  This game gets an 8 out of 10!
  
  Still, if you have any question about the game just pm me.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanos723
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, I was told DMC4 would be a PS3 exclusive. Then a few months before the PS3 came 
 out, Capcom changed their minds. Now, that doesn't surprise me these days or really hurt my feelings. 
 But when games like this go multiplatform and they feel, sub par from what they could be I begin 
 to wonder ".. what if"
  
  DMC4 introduces you to a new character in the series named Nero. Nero lives in this town and works 
 for these people who are seriously obsessed with Dante's dad, the dark knight Sparda. While they 
 are worshiping one day, our hero of past (Dante) crashes the party, and shoots the holy leader in 
 the head. This is where the game begins, you, as Nero fight Dante, learning the new abilities Nero 
 has. The coolest of all his abilities is his devil arm. The arm allows you to grab enemies from 
 afar and bring them close to you, or you close to them, and sometimes (if you combo it right) bash 
 them into the ground or throw them at other enemies (later on you can use them as a shield) . Dante 
 later runs away after the fight prompting you to chase him and this is the game.
  
  DMC4 sadly is more of the same however. If you played DMC1,2, or 3, its gonna do exactly what you 
 expect. Run through area, kill baddies, solve a puzzle, run through another area, kill more baddies, 
 perhaps solve another puzzle, etc. Personally I found this formula to be very tired and had it 
 not been for my wife nagging me to complete the game (yes, my wife sometimes wants me to beat games 
 more than I want to beat games) I might have sat it down for a long time. Like gamespot themselves 
 said, the puzzles do seem to chop up the action. You'll run into a room and kill some baddies and 
 suddenly you have this really annoying (and long if you have no idea what you are doing like i did 
 sometimes) puzzle ahead of you. 
  
  The story along the way doesn't offer much closure. It drops subtle hints as to who Nero is, but 
 no answers. The switch to Dante is nice and he has all the tricks he had from the previous game. 
 But he too doesn't offer much difference to the game (more of the same) . Hell, you even have to 
 fight the same bosses over again. 
  
  If you like the DMC series, then I would recommend this game, but don't expect anything to be new 
 or genre altering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I didnt really know what to expect when i bought it. I hoped for a game better then Ninja 
 Gaiden: S and it was. I never really felt like i was just mashing buttons but that is what you are 
 essentially doing...
  
  Positives: Graphics were superb. The story line and cut scenes were very well done. The enemies 
 are the right difficulty. And unlike Ninja Gaiden: Sigma, enemies dont reappear every time you 
 re-enter a room. A novice setting for buying "skills" so you wont buy the wrong ones (like i did, 
 read negatives) . This was the first game in the series i played and i didnt feel like i had missed 
 anything.
  
  Negatives: Well i guess the only negative was that at one point, I didnt have the right "skill" 
 to even get thru the level. I had to go back and replay levels and start passing levels on hard 
 to gather enough points to buy the proper skill.
  
  Final Thoughts: Im quite impatient and dont usually like in game movies but this was done perfectly. 
 You really get into the story and even when your done, your ready to play it again.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  IMHO its a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Words cannot describe how awesome this game is. However i will try. This game is the 4th devil 
 may cry in the series, and by far the best. The first 11 levels you play as new character Nero 
 (who is great to start with if you have never played a DMC game before) and after that you play 
 as Dante, who is considerably cooler than Nero. The gameplay and camera are flawless ao you will 
 always be able to see your character. The boss battles are very hard but satisfying to complete 
 and arent your usual sequenced battle. One problem with the game is some times quite frustrating 
 and can get quite repetitive (you fight each boss about 3 times each) but since the gameplay is 
 so great, you can easily forgive them. This is an amazing game and i would recommend it to everyone 
 (over 10)
  
  WHAT ARE YOU WATING FOR? GO KILL SOME DEMONS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwar94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Time for another round of sword swinging and one liners because Devil May Cry has returned.
  
  Story:
  
  Devil May Cry isn't really known for telling a compelling story with it's hammy 
 dialogue and way too out there ending, but this one and the one in Devil May Cry 3 were pretty 
 good. Devil May Cry 4 introduces a new character called Nero. He's got a pretty large crush on 
 a church singer named Kyrie. Nero tends to get really bored during sermons, but he always pays 
 attention and shows up for Kyrie's singing. For the most part it's his typical "I'm here for you, 
 but this church thing is trying my patience" day until Dante comes crashing through the ceiling 
 Batman style.
  
  Well since I have a rather long sheet of paper saying that I can't spoil anything I won't. I don't 
 remember the exact specifics, but to be on the safe side I'll say that it's pretty entertaining 
 and more or less dramatic and over the top. Dante is chewing up the scenery buffet style and it's 
 hilarious. There are no actual breakout characters this time and since there is no Vergil it kind 
 of lacks that dark bad ass vibe that Devil May Cry 3 had, but it's definitely serviceable and I 
 wanted to learn a little bit more about a couple of side characters. Speaking of side characters 
 after her introductory cutscene Gloria will be seared into your memory. It's one of the most provocative 
 scenes I've seen in a while, but my only question is where did she pull out that knife? I say this 
 because with the camera angle they give us I can only assume that she pulled it out of herfavors. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There are those that like Devil May Cry and those that don't, so if you're in the latter category 
 then there is nothing I can say that will make you change your mind. I personally love the franchise 
 and with the exception of a couple of quirks I've enjoyed this game. For most of the game you play 
 as Nero and he is actually a really cool character. He controls a lot differently from Dante. Part 
 of this is because his weapon set is quite limited, but he has a lot of potential. What makes Nero 
 unique is his Devil Bringer arm. It's quite common to just spam the hell out of your enemies with 
 it and not even allow them to get a chance to attack, which is what I did. Pretty early into the 
 game you get access to the Snatch ability with the Devil Bringer. It allows you to grab an opponent 
 and bring him over to you. This works even if you're in the air, but certain enemies like the Angelos 
 will bring you over to them. It actually helps with dodging their attacks and it helps to make 
 sure that you are always within striking distance.
  
  Another thing that gives Nero an actual advantage over Dante is the Buster moves of the Devil Bringer. 
 They are very powerful smash and grab moves that affect many enemies differently. There are times 
 when Nero will smash them into the ground or take the enemy by the tail and swing it around and 
 then hurl it a couple of yards away or injure it with its own weapon. Depending on the enemy my 
 basic strategy was just to do a ground sword combo, finish that with an upward sword swing, hammer 
 away at it in the air and then the ground sword swing that sends them crashing back to earth. Then 
 I'll jump up and do a Buster move. Also for more damage you can do these moves while in Devil Trigger. 
 It changes the attack completely; it also works great for bosses. This always kept a lot of enemies 
 off of me and the one I'm attacking is left defenseless. Of course you can't employ the same strategy 
 because every enemy attacks differently and... dies at a different level of abuse.
  
  Nero also has the Exceed feature on his sword. For some inexplicable reason Nero has a motorcycle 
 handle on his sword (who dreams up this crap?) , which allows him to increase the power by revving 
 it up (once again who dreams up this crap?) . There are two different ways to do it. The standard 
 way is to press the L2 button to do it, but you wind up walking slowly while doing it. The other 
 way is to press the L2 button during an attack, but it's based on timing which allows one powered 
 up attack in an instant. It's tough to master, but it's definitely well worth it.
  
  Towards the middle actually past the middle you make the character switch and start to play as 
 Dante. Just like in DMC 3 Dante has access to four different styles and has the ability to switch 
 weapons on the fly. The great part is that you're not just limited to one style and two weapons 
 anymore. You have access to all four through the D-pad and all of his weapons. For the first stage 
 it's a little bit of a pain and a hassle to play as Dante because you're kind of not used to playing 
 as him. But after the first two stages it becomes a lot more manageable. What really helps is the 
 Gilgamesh Gauntlets. They control like the Beowulf Gauntlets from DMC 3, but they're a lot faster. 
 I use them pretty much as my "tear through a boss weapon," but they are superb for pretty much 
 everything in the game. This here actually leads me to difficulty.
  
  This game is a lot easier than DMC 3 even the toned down Special Edition is harder than this game. 
 They actually made an improvement by adding save points. No more dying and having to redo a stage. 
 But this luxury comes at a price because they will deduct points for it. I played on the second 
 difficulty setting called "Devil Hunter" and it didn't have that much of a challenge until I got 
 to around mission seven. I never found myself actually antsy during battle and I didn't even do 
 that much dying in the game. I'm going to excuse a couple of boss battles, but the main enemies 
 don't instill fear in me. There's nothing on the level of The Fallen or Hell Vanguards from the 
 previous game. After you fight them a couple of times you'll realize the work around for the enemies 
 and just own them. The bosses are easier too and for some odd reason you're able to just wail on 
 them longer; it's either that or I got really good with my comboing. There are some challenging 
 ones, but they are only a challenge once (except two for me) . You'll fight them, die, get their 
 attack pattern and just dodge and wail on them afterwards. Actually you won't get hung up for too 
 long on one until you get to the last boss; and he didn't get challenging until he was practically 
 on life support. 
  
  The game also handles bosses like DMC 1 and by that I mean you fight most of them multiple times 
 (the main ones three times) . So as cool as they are and look from a diversity stand point it's 
 no DMC 3. For the most part when I beat a boss I didn't get that sick sense of satisfaction. I 
 didn't do victory dance, I didn't taunt them I just beat them. This might have been because I beat 
 the original Devil May Cry 3 and survived that controller throwing hell and I'm also close to beating 
 that on hard as well and I know when I'm truly being tested and Devil May Cry 4 didn't test me. 
 And if you're playing on Human, which for me I'm referring to as the "noob setting" you're doing 
 yourself a disservice. I personally can't wait to play it on hard (or very hard or whatever Sons 
 of Sparda technically is) so I can get an actual thrill for the combat and battles. Because DMC 
 3 on Hard is insanity at it's purest.
  
  The only thing I don't like is the antiquated camera system and the puzzles. There are these things 
 that Nero has to push around called Gyro Blades to smash objects. It really obstructs the flow 
 of the game and it simply isn't fun. Luckily you don't deal with it for too long, but puzzles were 
 always in this game and once you figure them out you're no longer pissed during later playthroughs. 
 There are a lot of times when the camera will switch to an angle that just isn't in your favor. 
 This doesn't happen during battle that much... it actually only seemed to happen once, but platforming 
 wise it's a pain at times. Other then this I thought the game was the best thing since sliced ham.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphically the game isn't going to set the world on fire, but it's still no slouch in the graphics 
 department. The enemy and character design is phenomenal and is some of the best in the franchise. 
 I love the detail on Dante's red coat and red boots and seeing the different skin textures on Nero's 
 Devil Bringer arm is great. I'm still trying to figure out what my favorite looking enemy is. It 
 might be the Angelos because they remind me of Gundam GP 02 from Mobile Suit Gundam 0083: The Stardust 
 Memory. I also like the lizard creatures because their animation is pretty fluid.
  
  The attacks are silky smooth and painful looking especially from Nero's Red Queen. The flame effects 
 from his Exceed combos are pretty vibrant. The only thing that I didn't like about the graphics 
 was the really weird shadow effect. It was really blurry and blocky and looked a little unprofessional. 
 Another slight problem came from the lighting in one specific instance. In one of the missions 
 you have to read the dialogue to a rather vital puzzle. The problem is that with the camera shift 
 you can't read half of the words because the lettering blends into the lighting. Aside from these 
 minor grievances it was nice to look at. 
  
  
  Sound:
  
  Well there's the prerequisite DMC death metal bone crunching guttural groan fest that we've all 
 come to love or hate. It's actually gotten to the point where I barely notice the music anymore 
 so I'm not really fazed by it. Also another thing that people could complain about is the shouting 
 of "Slam Dunk" and whatever else that Nero says while sword slashing and slamming an enemy to the 
 ground. It's another one of those DMC traits that I've slowly grown accustomed to.
  
  The voice acting has come a long way from the first DMC. The most notable actor seems to be Johnny 
 "Vash The Stampede" Bosch. Depending on how far back your memory goes you'll also remember him 
 as being a Power Ranger (God I feel old) . Given the fact that he was Vash The Stampede it would've 
 been really funny if Nero had a red coat as well, that and his gun the Blue Rose could double for 
 Vash's a little bit. Bosch does a good job of voicing Nero and plays a good foil to Dante's over 
 the top and entertaining (It's hilarious at times) cheese fest performance (I still enjoyed it 
 though) .
  
  The enemies sound terrific and there are still the nice audio cues to alert you to what you fight. 
 The only thing is that the intro sound to the fire dogs and the Angelo's sound the same.
  
  
  Replay:
  
  There's always a huge and rewarding challenge to playing on the harder difficulty 
 settings. It makes you appreciate the game better and I love seeing if they change up the enemy 
 types or throw harder ones earlier because it throws a little bit of unpredictability into the 
 mix. There's also Bloody Palace, which returns from DMC 3's special edition. They changed it around 
 though. Instead of fighting and surviving through a crap load of levels you also have a time limit. 
 You're allotted a certain amount of time and in order to get more time you have to achieve a decent 
 Stylish ranking. It's adds a lot of challenge to the game.
  
  Overall:
  
  Well DMC 4 is a lot more approachable to newcomers than DMC 3 was. Veterans might shun (well should) 
 the easier setting and do their best to work their way to something more challenging. Even though 
 it's easier it didn't turn out to be a sore spot on the franchise like DMC 2 was. Aside from the 
 back tracking that you have to deal with as Dante the game is a blast from beginning to end. For 
 DMC 5 (you know it's coming Capcom will sequel a franchise to death (or re-release it like Street 
 Fighter) ) they better include Vergil and give him an actual storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doz668
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4. The worst game ever created.
  For reasons i will hereby nominate:
  Dantes participation in the story is (almost) none;
  Dante fighting styles are much more complex, 
 although so little missions to exploit it...; when you begin to get the handle you have to finish 
 the game;
  Game does not use the full power of the HD capacity of the playstation 3;
  Kyrie is essencially more important character in the main plot that Dante is, however only says 
 like 2 sentences in the whole game? Patethic;
  Too much repetition you must fight the bosses over and over;
  Essencially the same soundtrack 
 from the previous sequel;
  Minor improvement on gaphics giving the potential of the PS3;
  The worst mistake: Dante is made just a coadjuvant in this story. A Robin. When he is in fact, a 
 Batman.
  Devil May Cry 4 absolutely destroys any hope of another sequel ever making up to this major failure.
 
  
  I have spoken.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Good: Probably the best thing about this game is the game is the very stylish gameplay. The new 
 character, Nero, is armed with a demonic arm called the Devilbringer, which can e used to bring 
 enemies closer and then slam em into the ground if you want. And Dante is still a playable character 
 (as well as a crutial character and Boss.) with his classic styles: Trickster, Swordmaster, Gunslinger, 
 Royalguard, and a fifth style, Darkslayer, which is later required. The story is also deep and 
 well written, but I won't give it away.
  
  Bad: There isn't much wrong with the game except for the variety for the characters. Dante is awarded 
 with three guns and three melee weapons, while Nero only gets one sword and one gun; they attempted 
 to balance it out by giving Nero considerably more abilities than Dante. Also, I personally liked 
 Dante more than Nero because of Dante's laid-back attitude. Nero's story involves saving the girl, 
 causing him to be very emotional at points in the game, but Nero is a very good character. A minor 
 flaw is the bosses and environments. As good as the bosses are, you will fight each boss twice, 
 thrice at the most; and there arent many environments: Fortuna City, Fortuna Castle, Forest, HQ, 
 and thats about it, which isn't that big of a deal.
  
  Overall: Devil May Cry 4 is great fun for anyone looking for a character with lots of firepower... 
 and lots of style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC2pwnage
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Wow... when I started playing Devil May Cry 4 for the PS3 a few weeks ago, I was amazed how solid 
 and fun it was, because I had played the 360 version, but the different control was more than enough 
 to deal with the long installation time. It was superior to the 360 version, but that is not what 
 this is about.
  
  Devil May Cry is superior to two games in the Devil May Cry series: Devil May Cry and Devil May 
 Cry 2 (Which isn't saying much) but it wasn't superior to Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening because 
 going through that extremely punishing difficulty (But the Special Edition was slightly easier) 
 was more rewarding, which is kinda similar to defeating the Ruby and Emerald WEAPONs or Minerva 
 in Final Fantasy VII or Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII respectively.
  
  Once again, Devil May Cry 3 isn't the focus of this review because this is about Devil May Cry 
 4, this comment proves that it is just as repetitive as Devil May Cry 4. But that is a fatal flaw 
 of Devil May Cry 4, it is pretty repetitious, but something in the repeating of the levels makes 
 up for half of it.
  
  For the first half of the game, you played as Nero, a man who is cursed with his right hand being 
 filled with demonic power and is known as the Devil Bringer. Using this weapon is pretty badass 
 and it lets you pull enemies toward you and smash them in the ground, but that differs between 
 foes. For some, who tear in two, you push a foe's lance through them repeatedly and launching them 
 across a room.
  
  Against some bosses, which are pretty cool, especially with the 7th Generation graphics, and pretty 
 fun, he pulls some awesome moves that remind me of God of War, except no button-mashing (Thankfully) , 
 but are not always finishing moves. Nero seems similar to Dante in the way that he uses a cool 
 sword (The Red Queen, which lets you pull a trigger on it to increase power) and the Blue Rose, 
 which is a revolver he uses, but he doesn't use two guns (Ebony and Ivory) like Dante, but he is 
 unique with the devil-bringer. All of these can be upgraded using proud souls.
  
  After Nero gets caught, not long after receiving Yamato, Vergil's Sword in Devil May Cry 3, and 
 then getting his spiffy devil trigger. In an attempt to kill the revived leader of the religion 
 that worships Sparda (Who was raped [Killed] by Dante in the beginning of the game) The Order of 
 the Sword, from using his childhood friend and Lover Kyrie so he can capture Nero and use him as 
 the power source of his Godly Form.
  
  You play as Dante afterward, and replay Nero's levels in reverse order, bringing repetition to 
 the game, but using Dante, is similar to Devil May Cry 3's styles, to pwn everything, so he can 
 destroy the escaped monsters from the Hell Gates and destroy the gates, and get Devil Arms, such 
 as Gilgamesh, transforming you in using your fists and legs, Pandora, a suitcase that transforms 
 in 666 different forms, but you use only 7 ) ;. Using Dante is fun, but the new areas are different 
 in the way that the Forest area is filled with darkness, Fortuna Castle being filled with unbreakable 
 ice and the Castle Town of Fortuna all **** up, and facing all of the bosses that Nero fought, 
 to destroy the hell gates.
  
  The game is fairly long, and unevenly difficult bosses, such as the second form of Dante and the 
 reintroduction of Trish and Lady from Devil May Cry and Devil May Cry 3 respectively with Lady 
 in a more... revealing outfit... with Trish... bouncing in the game
  
  Graphics: ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] 10
  Gameplay: ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] 8
  Value: ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] 9
  Sound: ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] 9
  Tilt: 
 ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] 9
  
  OVERALL: 9.0
  
  Wow... a game actually is exactly as the rounded gamespot score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  A new star is born in this winner for Capcom's latest in the series.
  
  Replacing fan favourite Dante, the star of the Devil May Cry series would seem like a major mistake 
 after the 'Raiden' backlash of Metal Gear Solid 2.
  
  But the new star of Devil May Cry, Nero, gives the series a much needed kick up the ass. Admittedly 
 he looks almost identical to Dante, albeit a bit younger, has a sword and gun combo going on and 
 has a similar swagger about him but has one crucial difference. The Devil Bringer.
  
  This fantastic new weapon sees Nero using his possessed Devil Arm to wreck havoc around him. A 
 large demonic blue hand extends from him grabbing enemies and dragging them towards him, throwing 
 them or pounding them into the ground. It can also be used to traverse huge gaps with specific 
 hook points.
  
  The enemy grab feature is different for each enemy type. With an Angelo Knight you run them through 
 with their own lance. For the fireball barking Basilisk dogs you use them as an improvised bazooka. 
 It's nice to see some extra attention being put into enemy design for a change.
  
  Nero's sword has a neat if somewhat fiddly feature: a motorbike-style throttle. This bizarre function 
 is controlled using a trigger on your pad to either charge up attacks or to pull on at precise 
 impact moments for stronger attacks. It's tricky to master and it's unlikely the monsters will 
 leave you alone long enough to fully charge all three bars of it anyway.
  
  Dante does feature in the game for the most part in cut-scenes, swaggering in like he owns the 
 place, providing some classically cheesy lines that fans will lap up. He's a bit older now and 
 even bears a resemblance to Sawyer from Lost. The best cut-scenes in the game are reserved for 
 when he and Nero face off with some stunning fight choreography.
  
  You will control Dante in some of the later levels but unfortunately they are retreads of some 
 of the later Nero levels in reverse order including fighting the same boss battles.
  
  It really hits home that Dante seems to be a bit past it after the rush of deploying some Devil 
 Arm shaped justice on the demon world with Nero. Dante has the four different styles from DMC3 
 and Pandora, a suitcase full of explosive mayhem but they just can't match new kid Nero's moves.
 
  
  Red orbs are no longer used to buy new abilities, instead you collect Proud Souls. These are obtained 
 by getting a high ranking at the end of each level. You can do this buy finishing it quickly, collecting 
 all the Red Orbs and of course battering enemies in style.
  
  Ah, the style. It's now much easier than previous games to build up the style metre to high levels 
 as it goes up quicker and takes longer to fade out. Overall the whole game is easier to play and 
 more forgiving than DMC3.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed; it's still full of hyper-charged leaping sword and gun combat with 
 a little bit of not too complex puzzling to rest your thumbs. The puzzles are typical levers, move 
 this here, rotate that shenanigans. Sadly the awful platform jumping sections are still in.
  
  The red webbing that covers all exits until clearing an area of nasties becomes annoying very 
 quickly, but it can be forgiven when you remember how much fun fighting as Nero is.
  
  The story involves Nero hunting Dante down when he gatecrashes a ceremony and kills the head of 
 their Order. Has Dante gone evil? Of course nothing is as it seems but to say any more would be 
 spoiling it. Fans can look forward to Dante's improbably chested allies Trish and Lady making appearances 
 at some point.
  
  Early enemies resemble nightmare visions of blade-wielding bagpipes or Jesters with a disturbing 
 knife obsession. Later on you get a variety of knights, wraiths and other things that twitch in 
 the dark of night. Every enemy type is given their own little cut-scene the first time you encounter 
 them, a nice little trick on the developer's part to put a bit of fear into you as you treat it 
 like a mini-boss encounter.
  
  The bosses deserve high praise too; they're easy to point out in a crowd as they're usually the 
 size of a house or two. The  fire demon Berial is the 
 most visually impressive of the lot, until you start throwing him around by his horns anyway! 80s 
 horror fans may notice the resemblance of the giant frog Bael to Critters, think football sized 
 and teeth.
  
  While the graphics and action of the cut-scenes are electrifying the levels are somewhat bland 
 for the indoor areas but are sharp looking in HD. The jungle level is lush with fantastic greens 
 after the drab castles and tunnels, some of which are almost too dark to see what you're doing.
 
  
  If you really enjoy the cut-scenes you can watch them altogether in a two hour long compilation 
 when you've finished the game. Ideal for showing off some next-gen material to your mates.
  
  There are only really two frustrations in the game, one being the lack of a sense of direction 
 at times, made even worse by the lack of a map. The other being the series traditional camera problems 
 that often result in entering a new area / room only to accidentally turn round and leave instead 
 of moving forwards.
  
  There's a compulsory game data install a whopping 4.8 GB (on PS3) but at least the load times are 
 small. Still, it would be nice to be given the option to not install.
  
  The only online options are score leaderboards. Capcom should seriously consider two player action 
 for the future of the series even if it's single-screen offline. Just think of the possibilities 
 of playing as Nero and Dante volleying demons across the screen to each other with some flashy 
 combos! Do it Capcom!
  
  The games 20 missions take about 10 hours to finish which is a comfortable length for a game of 
 this nature. Side missions provide some extra length to the game but they soon become a bit too 
 challenging and the rewards don't really warrant the effort. Plus if you die during one it counts 
 in the main game. A little harsh.
  
  Sure the game's a bit repetitive but it's also consistently entertaining. So a pleasant return 
 to form for the series and a title to show what the PS3 is capable of early on. A game so flashy 
 is shames most action films limping out of the movie industry at the moment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is very, very good and very, very fun. Its a bit difficult but if you're a real gamer 
 you shouldn't have that much of a problem. The graphics are truely next-gen and everything is detailed 
 and looks great. The sound is good and the sword slices and gunshot give satisfying nostalgia (even 
 hearing Dante's Stinger yell) and the music is hella cool. Gameplay provides plenty of variety 
 through the Devil Bringer, Devil Trigger, unlockable abilities, multiple weapons, and different 
 styles. Bashing enemies and hacking and slashing has never been this great. Overall this game is 
 amazing and I throughly enjoyed it. If you have a PS3 or Xbox 360 you should defininitely get this. 
 The story is good for the series and you'll like seeing your farmiliar characters and you'll truely 
 loathe the new villians. Nero, is also one my new favorite video game characters.
  
  *Why all the complaints over the PS3 install? Sure its inconvienient but it DOES lower loading 
 times, and its no big deal. I didn't like it either, but don't let all the complaints stop you 
 from buying the PS3 version.
  Also, all the reviewers saying this is the same old Devil May Cry should stop and think. What the 
 hell did they expect? Was DMC going to go first person or let you start leveling up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _BK_
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  The most poshed and fun game in series.
  
  Almost perfect controls.
  
  Really stylish and marvelous graphics and art design of environment and characters.
  
  Familiar 
 but innovative monsters design.
  
  Non-stop action, except a few places where need to seek the way in or out.
  
  Absolutely brutally 
 humorous and stylish video sequences! Directed just the best in games (maybe after Final Fantasy 
 :)
  
  Overall impressions - similar to first time played God of War. 
  
  Comparing to GoW - DMC4 has no drilling the nerves acrobatic puzzles GoW had. At the same time 
 the ease of use of acrobatic action moves and combos is really enjoyable. In everything else - 
 quite comparable - excellent gameplay, perfect controls, brutal, but humorous, while GoW was just 
 brutal.
  
  Bosses are fun!
  
  Dialogue - excellent!
  
  Going way back is just a bit annoying, but thanks for making is easy.
  
  Secret missions have 
 mad difficulty and insane creative approch, but this is why they are quite unique and innovative. 
 Thus - fun.
  
  Must have! Must play! Must finish the game! It is a Masterpiece!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This title being the first of the DMC for me to play, it's like playing an Asian-developed "God 
 of War' but slightly less inferior (again, slightly...) . Here's the crackdown on what I thought:
 
  
  GOOD: The graphics on this game look soooo good I wish I could pause it every now and then to soak 
 up the awesomeness of it. Gameplay is crazy as it requires skill to master (not just the button 
 mashing of God of War) . Music is HARD-CORE insane (matches perfectly with the overall theme) . Storyline, 
 while your classic "rescue-the-princess", provides insane boss challenges as well as hard miniond 
 to counter. Playing Nero in the first half and Dante in the other adds more deph as well as more 
 fun. Customization with skills and purchasing on items is great!
  
  BAD: a LOT of backtracking in this game (like as if they ran out of ideas, but had to fill up more 
 time) . Can get fustrating and hard at times. No customization of your outfit is here. The ending 
 gameplay level is basically recycling all the boss battles and putting it into one level (WTF) !!! 
 Oh yea, it happens technically TWICE in the game too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a awsome game the controls run smoothly and the combos you can do work perfect 
 with nero the devil arm was a good think to add now with that in the game you can keep combos going 
 even if your any is at a distance you just grab him and pull him over plus if you grab a any nero 
 does a diffreint attack with each the game also has a good story but the story did get really predictabul 
 after a few missions many i could tell were it was going after the first fight with dante but the 
 game stayed good the one down side of nero story was that he only used two weapons through the 
 whole game Blue Rose And REd Queen but it was still fun to play but in Dante's Part Of The Story 
 you got lots of defrebt weapons but new ne area's you just played nero's story backwards basicly 
 the only thing the surprised be in the game as the gloria was trish
  
  
  the maps were great in the game the all had a diffrent feel but the random change in temperture 
 and ecosytern was a little streange you go from a city in about spring i'd say to a mine/cave then 
 to a snowy castle then and tropical forest it just dose't make sence but even know you see this 
 going now one really cares becasue the game play sucks you in but over all i would say the the 
 maps fit the bosses perfectly
  
  
  but the thing i like the most that the took from the DMC series and put in the game was FRom DMC3 
 were you swich weapons you dont have to go to the menu and equip it you just hit a trigger button 
 and the made it better from DMC3 because you could onlu have to weapons at a time which got me 
 angry and the last boss battle for dante had to have been on of the best boss battle i've played 
 in all the games i've played so i would say that it was a fun game and its worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamepro0062
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, this is only the second game I've played from the Devil May Cry series. And let me 
 tell you, it was one of the best! Read more to see why.
  
  Gameplay: In the game, you play as Nero, the new guy, and Dante, the main character in all of the 
 games. Playing as Nero is awesome, he has incredible moves, and using his Devil Bringer is fun, 
 although it can get boring when you need to use it a lot. Playing as Dante is also great, since 
 he has all his old moves, and picked up a few new tricks as well. The monsters are cool, but pretty 
 familiar, since they're basically the same monsters you fought in the games before, but just look 
 different.
  
  Graphics: Pretty damn beautiful! The environments look great and detailed, not to mention the characters, 
 who are just as detailed and dramatic. The cutscenes make the game look better, since you can zoom 
 in and out, and move to different positions during the cutscenes. The gameplay is also really challenging.
 
  
  Story: Meh, it's good and bad. Good, because it keeps you entertained and the characters are well-placed 
 in the story. But it's also kinda boring, and basically one of those stories that remind me of 
 MI2. I hated that movie.
  
  Overall: If your a fan of the game, or if you've never played the Devil May Cry games, then either 
 way you'll love this game. I've loved DMC since the third game, and let me tell you, I was not 
 dissapointed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Yeah Devil May Cry 4 its one of the best DMC in all series i realy enjoy the game i don't know 
 why it took 8.0 : ( its afcorse deserve more well anyway this is the game that has biggest combos 
 ever :D it has also alot of weapons skills its just never stop action the best game for ppl who 
 like to beat the crap out demons :D the graphics in this game its also well made and the story 
 continues from DMC3 so ppl who wana know the story they shud play all DMC's to know whats hopening 
 cuz ppl who didn't play all DMC's series will be lost btw for ppl who know DMC in this game u can 
 use Yamato this is SICK :D a really nice and stylish game never ending combos awesome story crazy 
 boss fight good graphics and alot more what els u need well thats it that's was my review about 
 Devil May Cry 4 best in series :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game's a pretty good PS3 game to get whether you're a newcomer to the DMC series or a fan 
 of it. The story can seem confusing to a newcomer, but thanks to the 20-minute save file installation 
 screen, it will show an entire recap as to what's been going on in the series. Anyway, this is 
 the first PS3 game I've played, and it's impressive. The graphics are really beautiful, as are 
 the cutscenes, which look really realistic. At times, it looks like you're watching an anime movie, 
 not that I'm complaining; that's a good thing! The game's combat can be a bit repetitive, but very 
 exciting and engaging, it'll suck you right into the game's action! The platforming elements are 
 decent, though slightly frustrating at times when trying to get from one area to the other with 
 the Devil Arm, trying to stretch it onto the blue spheres or whatever they're called to "swing" 
 from one blue sphere to the next. The music is okay, some of it's beautiful while the rest is just 
 tolerable. The game's difficulty is neither too easy or too hard; it's just right, though it can 
 be a little difficult sometimes. The story is interesting, and Nero is a cool new playable character, 
 a great new addition to the DMC series. The worst thing about the game is probably the camera. 
 It's mostly movable, but it's hard to examine an area or environment when the camera is in a fixed 
 position. I never tried to compete with online rankings, but it's probably a nice addition, and 
 it gives reason to completing missions with highest ranks possible. Overall, this game makes great 
 use of the PS3's advanced technology, and it's great for any DMC fan or even a casual gamer who 
 may be interested in trying it. It's similar to previous games in the series, but still very enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govi_evil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  The first time I played Devil May Cry was the 3ed one. The first thing I noticed was... The ROCK 
 music in the game, and on Devil May Cry 4 its better! The music makes you want to blast everything 
 in your way, anyways enough with this and start with the good and bad. BUT : I currently did not 
 pass the game yet since im playing it at my cuz, so I cant like.. play it every day. Only when 
 I go There.
  
  The Good : 
  Its graphics are awsome, The sound rocks, The gameplay is really alot of fun and makes you want 
 more and more, I dont know the storyline yet but it sounds great, See Dante again =D, I heard it 
 has alot of mini games and it has mini games during the story aswell, The enemys (or demons i should 
 say) are frikken awsome... there desige is sooo cool, It comes from the creators of Resident Evil 
 4 so know your sure that your going to have alot of fun, Controls are easy and fun, Camera is great 
 and never in the way.
  
  The Bad : 
  I dont know any bad at the moment since I didnt pass the game yet but i'm sure there isnt much.
 
  
  Thats All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bablibhai90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  the last and final review of the devil may cry series, dmc 4. a new character now stars in the dmc 
 world, nero. now at the fist look u might not be impressed much, but once u get hold of his devil 
 bringer, u will learn to rock ur enemies like crazy! its one thing that will keep u immersifeid. now 
 the bosses keep repeating so at one point of time ull b thinking "oh man! not this guy again!". lol.
 
  once u shift over to dante u'll start to miss the devil bringer, but instead now u can change stlye's, guns, swords 
 nd stuff... so it should compensate for the loss. dante is pretty slick nd stylish while nero is 
 quite serious and arrogant typo.
  as for the story line.. its quite complez but ull get the hang of it while progressin thru the game. as 
 for the puzzles.. to be frank i didnt find them interesting... but the other interesting thing are 
 the enemies! visual design is brilliantly done!
  a final verdict? dmc fans will love it while new players might not appreciate it much... but all 
 an all it does well to deserve a 9+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vTank
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Description: You control the character Nero and later Dante. You go through environments slaying 
 demons with a variety of weapons and solving minor puzzles. In fighting you use mostly a sword 
 and guns. The fighting is very stylish but has a decent amount of depth. Throughout the game depending 
 on your performance you can get proud orbs (or are they proud souls?) which let you acquire new 
 abilities and moves to bang up your enemies even worse. Nero has a demon arm which he uses to grab 
 enemies and beat the crap out of them (as well as a few other things) . Dante has a large variety 
 of weapons. The game contains some epic boss battles. When you play as Dante you backtrack through 
 most of the environment Nero went through.
  
  Looks: This game looks great. I don't really know what else to say. The camera angles were a little 
 annoying to me, I prefer to follow my character from the back and I think they should have had 
 an option for that, but it doesn't hinder your ability to fight. The environment, enemies, and 
 characters are very beautiful.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are decently varied and sound okay. The weak point here is the music. 
 I believe there are two different soundtracks for "action moments." While they are both decent 
 soundtracks and serve the action well it's all too the same later on. It doesn't annoy you but 
 it takes away from the atmosphere of the game because of the repetition.
  
  Gameplay: Fighting looks great but it doesn't stop there. It is fun to battle and you can't button 
 mash without looking awkward. Against different enemies you can use various different tactics and 
 try to find which one works best. Style is a big part of the game and the badder the moves you 
 pull off and with the more variety the higher your style goes up. Style earns you proud souls (or 
 are they proud orbs?) at the end of the mission. If you get hit your Style meter goes down drastically. 
 There are a lot of advanced techniques you can use to help up your style. Lastly style can go up 
 quite high and as a newb I'm almost done with the game and I haven't reached SS (highest being 
 SSS) .
  
  Story: Some of the enemy characters remind me of power rangers and get a little corny. The story 
 doesn't take up very much game time, you can expect a few cutscenes per mission. I don't think 
 the story is particularly interesting although when a cutscene comes around you won't want to skip 
 it. Cutscenes are more fun to watch just to see the fighting or attitude of the characters.
  
  Complaints: There is so much substance to this game that when you don't feel like you have 
 enough time to get "used" to each thing you can do with one play through. This becomes especially 
 apparent with Dante. I really wish they could have extended the story line or included some sort 
 of arena mode (I know I know, I'm addicted to arenas, damn Armored Core series) . 
  
  9.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotos10kimi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  percect game !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  !!!!!!!!!!!
  1 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 11 1 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 
 1 11 1 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 11 1 11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnaVRi
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Well everyone knows how DMC games are... You hack and slash demons in a stylish combat moves...
 
  
  Now it's going to be HD... So great graphics, stunning environments, detailed characters, it's 
 jus great...
  
  The music... Yes typical DMC, expect a lot rock+goth+choir... But it suits the game...
  
  Gameplay... 
 it's nice... just as a DMC should be...
  
  Now what is bad in this game...
  
  The story is just too cliche, it's not bad, but could be better... Rescueing a girl and saving 
 the world... They should've made it better... At least better then DMC 3, which has the best story 
 by far in the DMC series...
  
  Hey we need innovations other than good graphics... The devil bringer is not enough...
  
  Dante 
 should have more of his own exclusive boss battles, not fighting the ones that Nero has defeated.
 
  
  The backtracking sucks... enough said...
  
  Well it's fun to play... really... It's just need a little twist in the story, and more environments 
 to explore, and Dante should be the main character... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worthyofnote
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 definitely delivers. Any reservations about Nero replacing Dante as the main hero 
 of this installment will soon disappear after an hour or so of play. Nero brings all the great 
 action you would expect from this series, but also adds new mechanics to the formula. Nero takes 
 what Dante has established as stylish combat, to the next level.
  
  At the center of this new mechanic is the Devil Bringer. A demonic arm that at first seems like 
 a cheap gimmick, but brings out all the thrills and interesting combos you'd expect from the series. 
 By grabbing enemies from afar, bringing them towards you, and then unleashing all hell upon them; 
 it's definitely a nice addition to the series. It saves time on the trip between foes. You'll almost 
 always have something in front of you to grasp at. When it comes to boss battles, the Devil Bringer 
 plays a slightly different role. It's strategy becomes that of set-ups and delivering death blows.
 
  
  And when it comes to the boss fights, every challenge becomes a new way to test your skills. Along 
 the way of these challenges you really take ass-kicking up a notch or two.
  
  Once you make it halfway through the game, it switches up a bit. Players then get a chance to control 
 Dante. It's nice to bring the main hero of the series back to the front lines of battle against 
 the armies of hell. However, without the Devil Bringer the game-play reverts back the previous 
 installments, leaving it feeling a bit outdated. To fix this minor issue, Dante comes packing an 
 arsenal that is quite entertaining. Dante also returns with his various styles from Devil May Cry 
 3. The great thing now is that you can switch them on the fly using the D-pad. No more running 
 back to a statue and switching it up. Unfortunately, you only control Dante for several of the 
 missions before the game reverts back to Nero to finish the game off.
  
  Everything about this game is great. The only flaws I found were simple, and they weren't strong 
 enough to discourage me from finishing this game and even giving it a few more replays. Backtracking 
 seems to be the biggest issue. Once you make it through the game as Nero, and then switch to Dante 
 you go through the missions in reverse order. There are few differences, but for the most part 
 everything is the same. You even fight the same bosses several times over.
  
  I was also interested in the plot. I was hoping for more answers to as who Nero is and what is 
 his relationship with Dante. 
  
  All minor disappointments aside, this game is awesome. The combat system is precise. It works in 
 favor of both seasoned vets and newcomers. The game is polished nicely. Effects are gorgeous and 
 smooth. Cut scenes are full of eye candy. The sound has excellent voice work, and the score is 
 just what you'd expect from the series. 
  
  All in all, this game delivers. The Devil really does cry this time; tears of joy and excitement 
 that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  This is the only game I have got in the serise and I undersrand the whole story, this is truley 
 great seeming I haven't got the first four games and the graphics are amazing and the gameplay 
 is on of the best types of gameplay I have played. Need more replayablility
  
  Truley a stunning game indeed
  
  
  iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a game that may be appreciated by some, and hated by others. I am one of the 
 ones who appreciates it. I have played and finished the other three, and was damn well happy when 
 it came out. When i started, i was progressing well. Then... I hit some BIG bumps. I realized that 
 this game was HARD. Not crazy hard, but hard. this is the thing would probably scare people away. 
 
  
  i also think that Nero is a great new character. His Devil Bringer is a cool feature too. Although 
 Dante's story is shorter than Nero's, i liked it better. You got to use three different swords, 
 and three different guns, and you had cooler abilities and combos as well. All the boss fights 
 were good, except for the fact that you fight them a couple of times with each character. Overall, 
 it is a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Ah Devil May Cry. No gimics, no hit or miss innovations, nothing but shooting, slicing, and a sweet 
 main character.
  
  When Devil May Cry 4 came out I was a tad skeptical about Nero being the main character, but quickly 
 warmed up to him. The game as a whole however, I didn't warm up to.
  
  Devil may cry 4 essentially ends on chapter 10. I say this because that's the only point in the 
 game that you're going to see a new enviroment. After that, you immediately backtrack through the 
 entire game as Dante. If you're like me, and you didn't enjoy one or two of the levels, it's a 
 huge hassle to go through them again, and fight the same bosses.
  
  Another gripe I had with it was the weapons. Sure ebony & ivory still slay, blue rose is cool, 
 and revving up the sword is a great little trick, but the other collectible weapons that you recieve 
 as dante aren't up to much. What's the point of mentioning that Pandora has 666 forms if we can 
 only use three? 
  
  I didn't dislike this game, by any means. I did however find myself hoping it would end in the 
 latter chapters. It just wasn't as entertaining as 3 or the 1st.
  
  It still gets points for being a great game, but not a great devil may cry game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamtehnuber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, up until I got to the Son of Sparda difficulty. I can't even believe that there 
 are harder difficulties beyond that.
  
  The characters in the game are very memorable, even though this is the first in series that I've 
 played. The wit of both Dante and Nero, wither they're speaking to each other or to a boss that 
 one of them will face generally left me smiling a bit, but not making me laugh much. The story 
 line is actually done rather well, even the swapping of characters feels like a good flow. 
  
  When you play, you can really tell the bosses apart each of them having their own moves that 
 differentiate them from the other bosses, although you end up facing each boss three times though 
 out a single play of the campaign, they do become harder each time, still providing a challenge. 
 But the reuse of the level design doesn't bother me greatly, I liked it after I beat the game the 
 second time, because then I can run though the levels much faster, getting an S rating all the 
 time on missions, while maintaining an A on red orbs found. 
  
  The games rating system for each time you beat a level awards you with Proud Souls, which are used 
 to purchase various skills on both the characters, the skills range from sword combos, to being 
 able to charge up which ever gun your using, making your Devil Trigger last longer, doing some 
 powerful moves (that can be very easily interrupted) , and a few skills that will provide a very 
 effective way of dodging on Nero. The souls are refundable, if you test out a skill and don't like 
 it, there's no penalty for refunding the skill. Ratings are based off of S, A, B, C and D in three 
 categories: time, style points, and red orbs; D being the lowest, S being the highest. 
  
  As I just stated, you will end up facing each boss three times, twice as Nero and once as Dante. 
 Your first fight using Dante might provide a bit of a challenge, as it does take 11 missions before 
 you start to play him, by that point you will be used to playing Nero with his Devil Bringer arm. 
 You'll grow accustomed to launching an enemy in the air, then using the Devil Bringer to do a special 
 move to the enemy, while still in the air you'll grab an enemy using the Devil Bringer's snatch 
 ability, by locking on to them and hitting the Devil Bringer's button. Then repeating this will 
 generally allow you to avoid being hit, as well as build up your style meter. 
  
  Moving on and playing Dante can provide some amount of challenge from the change, but nevertheless 
 the short time that you do play Dante, you have much more freedom with what types of moves that 
 you can pull off, you have four different stances, three different types of swords, and three different 
 types of guns to use. The control scheme to switch between all of these is designed very well, 
 you can easily switch stance, sword and guns without minimal trouble; I did have some trouble switching 
 stances at times, you might have to hold down the button for the stance that you want, at times 
 my stance would change back to the one that I was just in prior to attempting to switch, but at 
 other times the stance would remain in the one that I chose. 
  
  I'm void from talking about the graphics, I don't have an HDTV, but from what I've seen, they're 
 good, and have a stable FPS. 
  
  Overall, the difficulty might scare some people away, but if you're looking for a challenge with 
 good game play and just a good time over all, pick up Devil May Cry 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4, a new game with new characters. Nero is intordouced with a new story. 
  
  The game seems to be quite powerful since there are some new styles besides there are the old ones. 
 The playing style is still the same, the player can fight with either sword or gun. Ofcourse, using 
 the sword is much more effective than the gun.
  
  No way of acquiring skills and bying items. New orbs added to the game. Devil feature has been 
 enhanced. You can sence items with the devil arm. This makes searching for items and secret missions 
 much easier then it used to be before.
  
  Some may hate the game since Dante is not the main character, but I thing even with the new character 
 introduced, the game is still powerful since this new one follows the same style of Dante.
  
  Ranks have been increased from S to SSS. This makes the game as a challenge for players. The 
 graphics are very clear and the story is emotional one, even we saw Dante at the beginning as a 
 bad guy, but everyting will be cleared once the game is complete.
  
  The bad thing about this game is that angles of playing. Sometimes you may not see everthing clearly 
 and dark areas appear. I do not know whether this is a problem of my TV or the game itself.
  
  I rated this game to be 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aka_Oni
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced that the leading man of Devil May Cry would be taking a back set many would 
 have guessed that this DMC would have been a hot mess, but the good thing is that didn't happen. 
 Now enters the young and brash demon slayer named Nero and his unique but formidable death bringer 
 arm. The graphics are nice and crisp when you slash away at the nether world nasties or puncturing 
 their flesh with bullets. using Nero's arm as a grapple hold on enemies looks crisp and the take 
 downs vary on what creature you're pummeling. Nero much like Dante levels up using red orbs and 
 can purchase life saving items and skills from the statue. The only negative things about this 
 game is that you fight the same bosses over and over again while running through the same levels 
 bring forth some monotony, the bright side to this however is that the environments are breath 
 taking and you'll find yourself waiting to see if time elapses over the gorgeous surroundings. 
 The sounds are also well embedded even down to the small things like footsteps on various surfaces. 
 Nero brings a new breath of air into a classic and Dante, well we all know Dante kicks major butt. 
 Can't wait for number 5 hopefully Vergil will reappear and take us back to the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasengan_X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  ===================
  Introduction: 
  ===================
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is a Action/Adventure game where the main purpose is to slay demons and to advance 
 through the levels, and performing tons of deadly combos and be as $tylish as you can. Devil May 
 Cry 4 is also the 5th release in the series. And a continuation of the storyline of the previous 
 releases.
  
  ===================
  Gameplay:
  ===================
  
  The Gameplay in DMC4 is fun, brutal and of high speed. The main purpose is to run through levels 
 and slash all the enemies that cross your path into bits, with as many $tyle as possible. You have 
 access to a wide variety of moves which can be combined into an infinite chain of deadly combos. 
 The crazier the combos are the better. Luckily it isn't too hard to set up a descent combo, as 
 the controls are very simple. With only 3 buttons you can perform an immense amount of combos by 
 combining all the moves you've unlocked while playing the game. The controls are just right, what's 
 very important if you want to have fun slashing away at your opponents. Cuz else it would be nothing 
 than a pain to fight a dozen of enemies all at once. The simple controls are also a big benefit 
 to the difficulty of the game. DMC is known as a game that can become frustratingly hard at a point. 
 Having bad controls wouldn't be too much of a help in such a situation. Which any DMC luckily never 
 had. DMC4 though is not as unfairly hard as some of it's older brothers. You have a lot of different 
 difficulty modes which each fit a certain level of player. Even someone who never played any of 
 the series won't go through a hellish time fighting hordes of demons and fierce bosses. The difficulty 
 is adjusted for all levels of players. Each mode being harder then the other but yet not far much 
 harder then the previous mode. And that's really a godsend. Because in the past there really was 
 a huge gap between normal and hard mode. Nonetheless DMC4 is still quite a challenging game. It's 
 not much easier then the others, only a little. There even is a mode that surpasses the difficulty 
 of all the previous DMC hardest modes. 
  
  Even though the gameplay is fun and the game not too hard, you'll certainly have trouble with some 
 missions. Sometimes you'll come in touch with enemies you'd rather not fight in a group. And you'll 
 also fight enemies that are nothing but a pain to fight. That's quite a downside, but also something 
 inevitable in a game like this.
  
  ===================
  Side missions:
  ===================
  
  Next to the normal missions you also have so called secret missions. 
 These are missions that test a particular skill. For example: dodging, jumping, performing combos, 
 etc. These missions are scattered through the normal missions and can be accessed by examining 
 certain objects. Which are most of the time hidden. Completing these missions give you nice rewards.
 
  
  ===================
  Story:
  ===================
  
  In comparison to the previous releases of DMC (except dmc2) , Devil May Cry 4 has 2 main characters. 
 1 of them being a completely new person to the story. You can play as the legendary devil hunter 
 Dante, who wields a great broadsword and uses 2 handguns, and as the young devil hunter Nero who 
 also wields a great sword and a gun that can shoot 2 bullets at the same time. 
  
  The story is a mixture of drama and romance with of course action between it. Demons attack the 
 humans, evil villians try taking over the world. One's beloved gets caught into a plot, such things. 
 Pretty much the usual.
  
  As the story goes on you'll see beautiful scenes, The animations are truly magnificent. There are 
 also wonderful environments (which get repeated quite often) , and you come into battle with hordes 
 of demons and bloodthirsty bosses. Which all are wildly different from each other. And about halfway 
 the game you'll change from playing with Nero to playing with Dante.
  
  DMC4 doesn't have more missions then the previous games but it takes considerably longer to complete 
 them though. Some missions can take you a solid 18 minutes to complete even when you're very good 
 at the game. Don't expect to walk through most levels in 5 minutes. 
  
  ====================
  Graphics/Sound:
  ====================
  
  The graphics in DMC4, which 
 is out on the PS3 and XBOX 360 are as you could expect highly developed. Noting the system's power, 
 the graphics are beyond that of the best of the PS2 and whatever. The characters are all worked 
 out outstandingly well. As well as the Demons and the buildings and all the other details in the 
 environments in the game. It's coming extremely close to actually "realistic" as in reality. These 
 graphics are luckily extremely good, it wouldn't be the same if a game like this had good gameplay 
 and awful graphics. The graphics are also a vital part of the game that makes it so exciting to 
 play. The sounds are also good. The sound effect of the clashing swords, the rumbling skies and 
 the battle cries of the demons are all tremendously performed. The sounds kind of suck you into 
 the game. Compared with terrific voice acting, this game is truly a masterpiece of the Devil May 
 Cry series. Also, there are great boss battle themes and greatly picked music themes for the various 
 battles you'll have. You shouldn't have baby music playing while fighting a giant disgusting demon 
 who's trying to eat you.
  
  
  ====================
  Play Time/Replayability:
  ====================
  
  It will most likely take you 8 - 20 hours to complete the game at least 
 once. If you're aiming for a total completion of the game (all modes, max items, all skills, etc) 
 then it could take (depending on your skill) up to 40 - 80 hours to do it, or even longer. Then 
 you also got other extra features that require certain tasks to be done but really there's no time 
 estimating how long that could take you. Completing the game once obviously doesn't mean you're 
 done and got nothing left to do. You still got the other modes left, you probably still got some 
 moves you don't have, still gotta max out health, etc... it stays worth it to keep playing the 
 game over and over for a long time. Going back fighting certain bosses for fun, or developing other 
 strategies for fighting enemies even better, it's all a part of what makes it so fun to keep playing 
 it. 
  
  ====================
  Final Recommendation:
  ====================
  
  Devil may cry 4 is a brutal masterpiece for all kinds of gamers that don't mind huge masses of 
 enemies trying to tear you apart, and also love a challenge. And not to forget, slashing away at 
 enemies for some time to totally obliterate them. It's a game worth buying, and surely searching 
 for if you're already a fan of the series. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Genre: Action/Adventure
  
  Devil May Cry 4 has some great action and fantastic levels, but there a few flaws that weigh it 
 down.
  
  You play as the new character Nero with his Devil Bringer arm to hunt down the assassin (Dante) 
 who killed the leader of the Order of the Sword, a religious organization. Meanwhile, the Order 
 is plotting against Nero and trying to steal his demonic powers. The story isn't very surprising, 
 but has a few good twists and plays along nicely. 
  
  The major flaw in the DMC series is repetition, and this game is no exception. You'll spend most 
 of your time slicing and slamming demon enemies while completing missions. Although, the action 
 is really tight, and a whole lot of fun. There's a decent amount of combos to use and unlock for 
 Nero, who's a really cool character himself. Your gun, sword and demonic arm work together nicely 
 for some highly entertaining gameplay, as the series has always delivered. The Devil Bringer is 
 really useful and overall a great mechanic. Unfortuneately, puzzles don't match up to the action 
 by a long shot, and are usually pretty dull. Some puzzles are solid and fit in well with the level-design 
 though. 
  
  The graphics are excellent, the best in the series of course. Lighting and detail come together 
 to form beautiful environments, and especially cutscenes. The over-the-top athletic cutscene moves 
 are back and more ridiculous than ever. Boss fights are spectacular and innovative, they really 
 steal the show. You'll be fighting giant, demonic icy toads, fiery bulls and flower serpents. Unlike 
 some other games such as Heavenly Sword, gameplay fits very well into each and every boss battle. 
 This game isn't necessarily challenging at all, except for the tough side missions, or a playthrough 
 on higher difficulties.
  
  Here's the part that kind of takes the game off of its high perch. In the second half of the game, 
 you play as Dante. This isn't really a bad thing, in fact it's really cool since his style and 
 moves add some change into the mix, although you might miss the Devil Bringer. Also, he has faster 
 and more powerful guns and more abilities. However, you'll spend your time backtracking through 
 levels and environments that you already fought your way through. You'll fight the same enemies, 
 complete the same puzzles, and defeat the same bosses, sometimes 3 times over. The backtracking 
 is only really good for getting achievements and completing side missions you missed before, but 
 there are some slightly different levels and puzzles to complete. The soundtrack combines classical 
 and sometimes dark organ music with slick heavy metal for a great sound experience. The voice acting 
 is fantastic as well.
  
  This game is a whole lot of fun of hack and slash fun, and a definite play for any fan of sword-slinging 
 action games. 
  
  Pros:
  -Great characters, especially the new Nero
  -Devil Bringer is a useful and great combat mechanic, as well as the other great weapons like guns 
 and swords
  -Slick and fast-paced action from start to finish with great combos and attacks
  -You can play 
 as both Nero and Dante
  -Cool demonic enemies
  -Amazing and highly entertaining boss fights that steal the show
  -Fantastic and well-lit graphics 
 with great design and production values
  -Good voice work and insanely cool soundtrack
  -Three huge and entertaining levels, with great missions
  
  Cons:
  -Story is good, but a 
 bit bland and thrown together
  -Gameplay is a bit repetitive
  -Large amounts of backtracking in the second half of the game through the same levels and battles
 
  -Puzzles are simple and sometimes unenjoyable, and don't meet up with the action by a long shot
 
  -The Devil Bringer is taken away from you
  -Side missions are a bit too challenging at times
  -Dialogue is cocky and laughable at times
 
  -Minor camera flaws
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.3
  Sound: 9.9
  Replay Value: 8.0
  Concept: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  "Capcom" is one of the most preeminent companies in the industry; it's also one of the most innovative, 
 especially considering the last few years. However, that doesn't mean they don't milk their cows 
 quite the opposite, they have one of the more sequel driven publishing strategies. From a financial 
 point of view, their tactic is sound: use "R&D-like" small production units to create new concepts, 
 and then explore the established franchises until they stop selling. Yet, from an artistic point 
 of view, it's an odd sight to see the same company name behind the brilliant "Devil May Cry", "Killer7" 
 and "kami", and the not so interesting "Megamans", "Street Fighters", "Resident Evils" and "Onimushas".
 
  
  But, the past is past, a new generation of platforms has arrived, and it remains to be seen if 
 the financially risky creative departments will have a chance to produce new titles, considering 
 the high production values behind 360 and ps3 games. So, after the original and interesting "Dead 
 Rising", it is with little surprise that "Capcom" now launches a sequel: "Devil May Cry 4". "Devil 
 May Cry" has been a series filled with its fair share of ups and downs. The first "Devil May Cry" 
 was a pure masterpiece; the second was a step backwards and the third a step sideways. So, it's 
 fair to say that the expectations weren't very high. The question with this fourth installment 
 is simple: does "Capcom" pull a "Resident Evil 4" out of the hat, or simply one more "Code Veronica"? 
 The answer is neither. Sadly, "Devil May Cry 4" doesn't reinvent the series, but fortunately it 
 has enough punch to forget the series' uninspired past.
  
  Looking at the game, it is nice to see that many of the original game's concepts were recaptured 
 and finally improved on this sequel. Firstly, the neo-Gothic art style has returned in full force 
 and went back to basics. Instead of opting for the grand-scale scenarios of "DMC2" and "DMC3", 
 that mixed modern urban settings with the neo-Gothic architecture and some horror inspired scenarios 
 (with mixed results) , "DMC4" goes for a more classic approach, forgetting the modern settings and 
 replacing them with nineteenth century architecture that blends much better with the neo-Gothic 
 style. In the character department, there is also a return to the series roots, with more serious 
 (but not exaggeratedly serious) designs replacing the often ridiculous monster design of the series. 
 And thanks to more powerful hardware, everything looks even better, with crispy HD quality and 
 great lighting effects that make everything shine; it's easily one of the most visually impressive 
 games around, thanks in great part to its art design and technical execution.
  
  The tone of the game as also taken a leap backwards to the first "DMC", forgetting the over the 
 top humor of "Dante's Awakening", and going for a more B-movie feel: either stupidly serious or 
 seriously humorous; it's still is charmingly funny and witty, without going to the point of being 
 "too" ridiculous. This goes well with the plot, that though mind numbing, manages to keep some 
 interest in its unfolding. This is, in no small part, thanks to the virtuous cut-scene directing 
 from the hands of Yji Shimomura ("Versus" director) , who had already worked in "DMC3" and "Onimusha 
 3" with great results. His cut-scenes are among the best ever seen in a video game, and it is impossible 
 not to notice that they are done with great cinematic flair and style, though without the limitations 
 of a real camera.
  
  But those are mere details, what really matters in a "DMC" is the action, the one where you can 
 take part of. And it is there that "DMC4" doesn't do as well. On the good side of things, besides 
 series' veteran Dante (that comes with all the moves from previous games) , there is a new playable 
 character named Nero, that actually plays differently. It's a not a difference you'll notice immediately 
 mind you, but as the game moves on, it'll become all the more apparent: Nero's movements were thought 
 from scratch and forget many of the unnecessary complications of Dante's moves (the numerous styles 
 and weapon combinations) . Nero has only one way of playing, and because of that, his game-play 
 feels much more modern and intuitive. Yet, many of the classic moves still make an appearance, 
 and the somewhat obtuse and dated control system hurts the game... a lot. The reason for this lies 
 in the use of subjective directions to make certain movements; the problem with this is that "DMC4" 
 is too frenetic and action-driven for the player to be constantly trying to find out which direction 
 Dante or Nero are facing, and which enemy they are targeting, especially if you consider the elevated 
 number of enemies in each arena and the awkward camera angles (that are as bad as the ones in the 
 first game, which dates to 2001) . So, while some progress was made in the game-play department, 
 its quirks and old-school approach just don't cut it by today's standards, and are hardly deserving 
 of a sequel.
  
  "Devil May Cry 4" fails to be a true sequel to the first game in the series. It's better than its 
 two predecessors, but not enough to make it a masterpiece. The reason for this probably lies in 
 "Capcom's" management department, that chose Hideaki Itsuno ("DMC2" and "DMC3" director) for director; 
 meanwhile Hideki Kamiya (director of the first "DMC", "Resident Evil 2", "Okami", "Viewtiful Joe") 
 and Shinji Mikami (director of "Resident Evil", "Resident Evil 4", exec. producer of the first 
 "DMC") are probably doing something new that will drive games in a anew direction. It's a shame 
 that "Capcom" isn't always capable of reinventing its franchises, but one must understand that 
 in order to innovate, they first must cash in on their series. Besides, how many masterpieces can 
 gaming geniuses Shinji Mikami and Hideki Kamyia create each season anyway? Not many, I'm afraid 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry is one of the only franchises out there where i have owned and completed every single 
 one, and enjoyed it (yes, even the second one) and Devil May Cry 4 is just like its predecessor's 
 which is a good thing, but can also be viewed as a bad thing if you are looking for something new.
 
  
  DMC4 takes a new twist in which you do not play as Dante for a great deal of the game (almost a 
 deal-breaker for me as i think he is cooler than an ice-cube) instead you take the role of Nero 
 who seems to come from the same area as Raiden from the metal gear saga, both have a heavy burden 
 and both get on my nerves with there constant pretty boy "i don't want to do this crap but the 
 guy with the joystick keeps on making me" edge to them, it's because of this that i came to appreciate 
 being Dante sooo much more just to get a guy who does actually enjoy this line of work.
  
  The game play is more of the same, so basically do whatever combo you like, solve that puzzle and 
 hey-presto your at another boss fight with... wait didn't i kill you like 6 levels ago as the annoying 
 pubescent teen pretty boy? yes as you can tell there is a fair amount of repetition in this game 
 and it does feel a little recycled at times, but on a good note the graphics look great and the 
 whole game runs at a very solid frame-rate.
  
  All in all this is not the best in the franchise (that honor goes to the sheer awesomeness of Devil 
 May Cry 3) and to newbies on the 360 it will probably feel fresh and funky, but for the playstation 
 owners out there, you have seen this game 3 times before and if you still want to go for another 
 night of demon-slaying than this is going to be right up your street, for everyone else just put 
 your pride aside and play god of war 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippyskullz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Ive played each one of the DMC games and i loved each of them for different reaons but, in my opinion, 
 NONE of them got it all right.... this last one does the closest job in my eyes but just ends up 
 monotonous.
  
  Especially when you realize most of what you just beat you have to re-beat as a different character. 
 DMC is surely fun to pick up and play at random, but surely isnt some epic wonder. Its entertainment 
 in games as if it were a Hollywood moneysucker. (meaning you can see alot of the best parts in 
 the trailer) .
  
  The models are nicely detailed and the cinematics resemble Matrix-style action. but that is to 
 be expected and works effectively enough to distract you.... but between the Proud Souls and how 
 stingy with these they are it takes too long to upgrade and by the time your character is nice 
 and strong I'm shocked you had played this far without realizing what I felt.
  
  Awesoem game, not too much Sticking power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a Devil May Cry fan, and this game left me satisfied for many reasons. This game 
 has one of the best (if not the best) graphics I've seen in awhile. Every level was put together 
 very well. Nero brought something new to the game. New moves and weapons he used made the game 
 more interesting. The story (although confusing at times) was great. With the nice cinematics it 
 really pulls the whole game together. The characters were awesome and the voice acting is very 
 impressive. The enemies and bosses were also nicely designed. 
  
  Now there are some somewhat major downfalls in this game. The game isnt really long. I beat it 
 in about 10 hours. Its aslo pretty repetitive. The first 10 missions you play through as Nero, 
 and then the next set of missions you play as Dante, but they are the exact same as Nero's levels. 
 Even all the bosses are repeated at least twice, some where repeated 3 times in the game. I know 
 this is a Devil May Cry game, and they are all fairly difficult, but that usually makes the game 
 less fun for me. I'd rather have a longer game thats a little difficult. Not a short game that 
 has quite a few frustrating moments. I dropped so many F bombs playing this game. 
  
  Anyways overall this is still a great game. If you've played any of the devil may cry games, you 
 will enjoy this game like I did. If you dont mind some frustration and some repitition then you 
 will like this game. It really has some great visuals, voice acting, and characters. If your looking 
 for a nice action game, you should give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BPoole96
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  After playing Devil May Cry 3 for the PS2 I was convinced that DMC 4 could not be any better than 
 3. After spending hours upon hours beating every mode of DMC 4 I can surely say that it is the 
 best in the series. The combat system with both Dante and Nero make the action nearly limitless. 
 Both characters can execute all sorts of actions that will send demons straight to hell. There 
 are various types of enemies that you will encounter and each have to be dealt with in a particular 
 way. I wouldn't necessarily call this a "Beat 'Em Up" game because I feel that this game takes 
 alot more skill than just beating the enemies up. The only gripe i have is that repitition of the 
 bosses. Each boss is faced at least two time, but mostly 3. The boss fights are very fun and can 
 be challenging on the harder difficulties but they got old for me after beat every difficulty. 
 This is a very good action game and I would recommend it to anyone who wants to be challenged by 
 a game but have fun at the same time. Definitely worth 60$ ( Mine was 80$ because I got the CE, 
 and I don't regret it at all) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  The 1st Devil may cry was one of the greatest action games ever made with a lot of action, a lot 
 of enemies and a lot of moves and weapons, the second devil may cry was a total let down with a 
 confusing history and a completely diferent surrounding, letting being all the gothic stuff that 
 worked so good at the 1st devil may cry. In the third installment the series came back with all 
 its glory, with action like we haven't seen before, a lot of movements, a lot of weapons and a 
 great flashback in Dante's history. So far we had the story being told this way: DMC3, DMC1 and 
 than DMC2.
  In DMC 4 the story takes place between DMC1 and DMC2 (I think they wanted to forget about DMC2 
 so nothing in DMC4 its related to DMC2) , I was afraid of another let down, but I was wrong and 
 capcom delivered another great DMC that lives up to the standarts of the series.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  In DMC4 we are able to control 2 characters, Dante of course, and we also control 
 Nero (we can say nero its the main character) . They are quite diferent from each other and that 
 makes the player not to get sick from nero or dante, you play with nero like 2/3 of the game and 
 than you play with dante and than with nero again at the end. Nero as what they call a devil arm, 
 the arm its pretty usefull and there are gorgeous animations when you use the arm, when you play 
 2/3 of the game using the arm and you switch char for dante you will certainly miss it, with the 
 arm you can grab enemies, grab enemies in the air, smash them to the ground... a lot of things 
 and combos can be done with it, the bad thing about nero its that you don't have any more weapons, 
 you only have 1 gun, but with dante you will have some more and all the styles from DMC3, with 
 dante you'll have a very uncommon weapon that its both a grenade launcher, a minigun and can also 
 transform into something that remembers a TANK!
  Anyway the gameplay its pretty solid and really enjoyable, there are just a few games where mastering 
 the gameplay can feel so rewardable.
  8. (Because everything its solid and works great but there's nothing really new aside of nero's 
 arm) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  The environments are a decisive factor in the devil may cry franchise, at the beggining I was a 
 bit worried about this because you start of in more like an industrial setting than in a gothic 
 like setting, but this changes and even when your in the forest (that as nothing to do with the 
 game original environments) it feels cool, the variety of environments in my opinion its pretty 
 cool because we are not always fighting monsters in a castle or a dungeon.
  The graphics in the game are really good, its a really next-gen game and devil may cry characters 
 look better than ever. It doesn't matter where you're playing (castle, forest, city) everything 
 looks pretty cool, in the forest levels the shadows and rock textures are really amazing, also 
 the animations are flashy and pretty, smashing fruit can be really fun to watch.
  9.
  
  Music:
  
  All of that rock style music in battles are back, and the themes differ from place 
 to place depending where you're playing, also soundeffects of the environment are pretty cool.
 
  8.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Anyone who have played previous DMC games know what makes this games have a long lifetime, you 
 have something like a 12-15 hours of play, but then you unlock more dificulty levels and a lot 
 more things that keep you going on playing in other dificulty settings, the gameplay its so rewardable 
 to master that makes you really play the game at least 3 times, you also don't unlock everything 
 at the 1st time you play, so you need more to upgrade weapons to their max and unlock every single 
 picture and stuff like that.
  9.5
  
  Overall:
  
  Devil may cry 4 its one of the best action games out for the ps3, it has good graphics, great gameplay, 
 the music its pretty cool and a lot of things to do in the game. DMC4 its a game that deserves 
 to be picked up.
  Final: 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: only-in-dreams
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the Devil May Cry game on the PS3, it has a fresh new hero as well as the classic Dante. 
 The story for this game follows Nero's path as he tracks Dante who killed the leader of the Order. 
 But while tracking him he uncovers dark secrets and motives about the order, which puts his love 
 Kyrie in danger. 
  The games graphics are smooth and flowing which helps create breathtakingly realistic style scenes, 
 which are complimented by some camera angles that show just how large and detailed they are. Plus 
 the high def capability of the PS3 make it increasingly superb. Also with the PS3 using Blue Ray 
 Discs means larger accessible and detailed areas can be developed for you the player to explore. 
 The characters playable and non-playable also follow the realistic trend with finely polished details 
 for both outfits and characteristic/features, in addition the actions and movements of characters 
 smooth and easy which makes them look effortless and realistic. 
  With new characters of course come new moves. Dante also has new moves as always but they are upstaged 
 by the new heroes unique Devil Bringer. This demon arm allows you to grab monsters from a distance 
 and pull them closer to attack them, you can also throw them into the ground and eventually use 
 a grabbed monster to shield yourself from attacks. Along with the sword Red Queen the Devil Bringer 
 makes combat more interesting and allows for more varied moves. Although when playing as Dante 
 there is no Devil Bringer he still has an interesting collection of weapons at his disposal, including 
 the familiar Ivory and Ebony guns, and a new collection of moves.
  The combat system has a grading system like on previous games with ratings from D which is Daring 
 to SSS meaning Smokin Sick Style. This can be used to help increase the overall mission grade achieved. 
 However there are penalties which can lower the grade rank for example using a Gold Orb. But it's 
 nothing to worry about because the time you take to complete the mission and percentage of Red 
 Orbs you collect also count towards the final mission score. 
  The selection of game bosses and monsters have specific characteristics in there design which hints 
 on how to defeat them. Many of the first bosses are huge compared to Nero which makes them seem 
 daunting to fight, and with the graphics they look even more stunning. Each boss has its own specific 
 weakness so you have to work out with each one how you must defeat it and how fast and agile Nero 
 needs to be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a 9.0. No, really.. This game shouldn't be underrated by anyone! It is an impressive 
 game.. Starting with the appellative story.. Continuing with the Characters, their personalities, 
 their different styles of fighting and their addition to the story.. The diversity and quantity 
 of weapons, items and techniques make this game something special, that easily creates NUMEROUS 
 styles of play for NUMEROUS players.. (insanely joyful combos!) The diversity in the game, the 
 numerous styles of play and numerous techniques you can use make you really enjoy fighting and 
 go through repeated places with no problem.. Because you are constantly upgrading your hero, and 
 also cause you go through the same stages and bosses, but with different characters! I found this 
 to be something really good, that forces us to defeat the same bosses we did before by different 
 means. On to the Boss fights.. they are SO fun to play that i can't believe people talk about that 
 as a repetitive part of the game.. Well, opinions. The graphics? They are stunningly beautiful.. 
 The visual effects of attacks and techniques.. The Bosses.. The transformations.. The battles.. 
 Everything will make you almost want to see more and more of those great effects. The only negative 
 thing is, as in almost every game, after completing it there's not really anything you can do besides 
 playing it in an harder difficulty and with your saved techniques and everything! (which makes 
 for it a little) . You can also give online a try. That's all. A great jog by the creators! Thank 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yugil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I loved it!!!! The first Devil May Cry i had ever played and i enjoyed every second of it!!!!!
 
  And i will continue to play!!!!!!
  Fantastic graphics, the combos are great, a lot of blood, the bosses are fun to kill. It would 
 have been perfect if it wasnt so short and repetitive. and no multi option.
  
  If you have a PS3 go now and buy this game if you wouldnt enjoy ill pay u back.
  
  And if you 
 dont have PS3 go and buy one
  
  my top three games for PS3 are: GTA IV, Devil may cry 4, assassins creed.
  
  i truly enjoyed 
 every second fantastic game.
  
  At first you would think "Its fun but not great" but as you move on with it you would descover 
 a game that is great.
  It is a bit irritating that you will walk the same way as Nero with Dente and fight the same opponent 
 and bosses, but if you will drop it, it will become one of your favorite games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Dante, lead demon slayer of the Devil May Cry series, is one hell of a bad ass. His sword slicing, 
 gun-juggling, devil-transforming antics have made him a hero for millions of adrenaline junkies 
 across the world. For three games now (first one wicked, second one disappointing, third one ultra 
 hard) Dante has been laying waste to the demon horde like it's never gone out of fashion. And along 
 the way he's accumulated a loyal following - a fan base if you will. His public adore him. And 
 it's not just because he gets the job done - sending the evil minions of hell packing on a regular 
 basis. It's because, in true Will Smith fashion, he makes it look good. He's a showman - when not 
 nonchalantly sitting cross-legged a top a stone structure, oversized sword resting on his shoulder 
 and a coy smirk on his face, he's taunting and wise-cracking his way into the bad books of the 
 biggest, baddest bosses the bods at Japanese publisher Capcom can come up with. In short, Dante 
 is one of the best, coolest video game characters ever to grace a game console.
  
  Which makes Capcom's decision to replace him as lead playable character in the franchise's first 
 next-gen outing with Nero, a sort of "Dante-lite" demon hunter from the corrupt religious cult 
 The Order of the Sword, either incredibly brave or ridiculously risky. Fear not Dante stalkers! 
 He's not been entirely banished. Dante turns up as a playable character for just under a third 
 of the game, but Nero remains DMC4's central character, and one you'll be spending much more time 
 with. For newcomers to the series it may be less of an issue, but let's be frank here, for serious, 
 die-hard DMC fans, letting Dante go is a shocking decision.
  
  Before the **** flaming and all that other horrible angry Internet stuff commences, let's give 
 our Nero a chance. He's very similar to Dante - sort of like a younger, more brash and nave version 
 (and sans the stubble) . He has silver hair, like Dante, wields weapons with funny names, like Dante 
 - Nero has Blue Rose, a rapid-fire, double-barrelled six-shooter and Red Queen, a giant sword that 
 can be revved like the handlebar of a motorbike - at his disposal. He can jump, dodge, air-juggle, 
 infinite combo and, like Dante, generally make a mockery of any demons that might be stupid enough 
 to cross his path. But there are a few key differences which combine to make Nero his own man.
 
  
  Chief of these is the Devil Bringer, which grants Nero's left arm a blue glow grapple hook effect 
 which he uses to drag himself towards enemies or drag enemies towards him. With it, Nero can initiate 
 a combo string, air juggle and then drag himself towards the next target without pausing for breath. 
 He also has special close range grapple attacks which are different for each enemy. These range 
 for the spectacular and downright savage-looking to the mundane, but they do help to give Nero 
 some individuality to his carnage repertoire.
  
  Here's a few examples - early on in the game, you'll get to fight a boss called Berial, a giant 
 fiery Balrog-type demon with a massive sword. Berial is your typical DMC boss - big, spectacular 
 and predictable. Once you've worked the pattern of his attacks and adjusted to the timing of the 
 required dodges, you should be ok, at least on the easy to normal difficulty levels. Weaken him 
 with repeated slashes, and you'll be able to grapple and initiate a special attack - hurling the 
 huge demon into the air then slamming him into the ground. It's amazing to look at, and heart-thumping 
 to experience first hand.
  
  Getting to a boss or a mini-boss demon and seeing what happens when you grapple them is what keeps 
 Nero's combat interesting through the first play through. We won't spoil anything for you, but 
 Nero brutally pummels one of the bosses during a mission about half way through the game in an 
 attack that ends with a super-slow motion punch to the face that'll have you wincing every time 
 you see it. This is what the DMC games are all about - over-the-top, brutal, Japanese-style violence. 
 And we love it.
  
  The great thing about DMC4 is that all the hallmarks of the series have been wonderfully recreated, 
 despite the fact you'll for the most part be playing as someone other than Dante. You've got the 
 most annoying hard-rock soundtrack in history to listen to every time demons start on you. You've 
 got orb collection, to spend on items, and Proud Souls, earned through completing missions, to 
 spend on upgrading Nero and Dante's weaponry, combos and abilities. You've got one of the most 
 incompetent cameras ever to grace a videogame (what's up Capcom? Surely this should be fixed by 
 the fourth game) , and you've got gothic surroundings, a ridiculous plot, buxom women and hammy 
 voice acting.
  
  And you've also got the classic Capcom action game combat, as seen in the DMC and Onimusha series. 
 People often look down their noses at these so-called button-mashing games and snort - citing the 
 lack of skill required and the repetitive nature of the combat. We can certainly see their point 
 - most of the combos in the game involve differently-timed presses of the same button combined 
 with varied control stick directions - but there's an odd, addictive and totally rewarding nature 
 to it all. Sure, you've just spent half-an-hour carving through similar-looking demons in a cathedral 
 using the same combo string over and over again, but you know you love it. This feeling, a feeling 
 unique to the DMC series, reassuringly remains in the fourth game, despite the switch up in main 
 playable characters.
  
  But, and this is a big but, Nero's fun to use Devil Bringer, and the spectacular special attacks 
 it allows, is still no match for Dante's varied, quicker, more powerful attack style. Again, we're 
 trying desperately to avoid spoilers here, but when you do eventually get to play as Dante, it's 
 almost as if the game has been released from the shackles imposed by Nero's combat limitations. 
 We've got nothing against the guy, but, at the end of the day, he's got nothing on Dante. As one 
 of the game's chief baddies says of Nero: "he's not in Dante's league." He's right.
  
  How much of a problem is this? Well it wouldn't be any problem at all, if it weren't for Capcom's 
 almost inexplicable decision to regurgitate Nero's missions, and bosses, for Dante to traipse through. 
 This is somewhat of a kick in the teeth - you work your way through the game, finally get the chance 
 to give Dante a spin, and you find that you have to do it against enemies and in locales you've 
 already seen. Dante himself feels fresh. Everything else, once you get to play him however, stinks.
 
  
  We'll go into a bit more detail, since the backtracking is perhaps the one that prevents DMC4 from 
 being a nine-out-of-10 in our opinion. As you work your way through the game you'll solve puzzles 
 in creepy castles, battle countless demons in war-torn city streets, uncover insane experiments 
 in an underground laboratory, work out how to escape a forest maze and defeat ice creatures on 
 the wind-swept cliffs of snow-capped mountains. You'll face some truly spectacular, and sometimes 
 frustratingly difficult, bosses in encounters which require much more skill than anything else 
 in the game, too. And then you get to play as Dante, and instead of the game presenting you with 
 new locations and enemies to kill, DMC4 does a kind of loop, forcing you to go backwards through 
 all the areas you've already spent hours traipsing through until you end up at the beginning. You 
 fight the same bosses too, with little or no variation on the first time. After the elation of 
 getting your trigger finger firmly poised to fire Dante's amazing death-bringing weaponry, it's 
 all a bit of a letdown.
  
  What's not a letdown but a complete pain in the ass is the fact that once you get control of Nero 
 again, for the game's home straight, you have to fight the bosses all over again in a roll the 
 dice snakes-and-ladders style puzzle that's so frustrating it makes you want to gauge your own 
 eyes out with a spoon. Once with Nero was cool. A second time with Dante was a drag. But a third 
 time? That's just taking the piss.
  
  There are other problems. We've mentioned the camera but we'll mention it again, it's that bad. 
 In one puzzle section you need to hit spinning blades along corridors in order to smash down doors. 
 It's almost impossible to aim accurately because of the constantly shifting camera, which automatically 
 changes what up, down, left and right is on the control stick. There are odd moments when enemies 
 will get stuck in walls and on ledges too, but these are rare and largely forgivable. And the game 
 doesn't do anything to help you work out where to go (some players will actually prefer this) , 
 meaning you'll need to accept that for extended periods of time, sometimes as much as 30 minutes, 
 you'll just be running around like a chump trying to work out where to go next.
  
  All this negativity is rather unfortunate, because, in our view, the game's failings were totally 
 avoidable and come across as lazy game design for the most part. Bad form Capcom. But that doesn't 
 stop us believing that the game is the best in the series since the first one - yes, despite all 
 these problems, it's that good.
  
  DMC4's plot, bafflingly Japanese as it is, revolves around Nero's love for Kyrie, a damsel in distress 
 in every sense of the phrase. The game opens with the assassination of Sanctus, the head of the 
 corrupt Order of the Sword religious cult, by Dante during a sermon in a cathedral. Then, in the 
 chaos, demons attack. Eventually, when the dust settles, Nero is sent to sort out Dante. We're 
 under orders to keep the story under the most secure of wraps, but what we will reveal is that 
 Nero eventually uncovers some nasty stuff within the Order itself, Kyrie is kidnapped and, as you'd 
 expect, there's more than one face off between the two white-haired demon hunters. But what are 
 Dante's motives? Why did he kill Sanctus? And exactly why does Nero have a glowing, demon arm in 
 the first place? We know some of these answers because we've finished the game. But there are still 
 tonnes of unanswered questions left posed following its completion. Perhaps too many for our liking. 
 Still - the story, told through gorgeous rendered in-game cut scenes, won't win any Oscars, but 
 is everything a DMC fan could want.
  
  Have we mentioned the game's graphics? Shame on us. DMC4 is a next-gen master class, effortlessly 
 whizzing along at 60 framers per second at all times. The characters are gorgeous, the environments 
 wonderfully detailed and the bosses breathtakingly realised. It's super slick on both the Xbox 
 360 and the PS3 - we didn't notice any discernable graphical difference between the two, and is 
 a game you'll want to show off that HD television you got cheap from the New Year sales (we did 
 notice the odd graphical blemish in both versions of the game, but nothing to worry about) . We 
 know this kind of graphical level is easier to achieve in a game of DMC4's type - that is linear, 
 with self contained areas loaded within the same level - than a game like, say Halo 3, with massive, 
 open ended levels, but it's impressive nonetheless. A minor difference between the two versions 
 is the inclusion of Sixaxis motion control on the PS3 game, but it's nothing more than a pointless 
 alternative for camera control.
  
  We finished the game in just over 16 hours on the Devil Hunter (medium) difficulty. Expect some 
 rock hard difficulties to follow if you're so inclined. There's tonnes of replay value too, including 
 earning enough Proud Souls to unlock all Dante and Nero's abilities and combos, beating your level 
 scores, which can be uploaded to online leader boards, and generally just having a load of fun 
 trying to improve your timing, combos and stylish ratings. It's densely packed for a modern action 
 game, that's for sure.
  
  In many ways, we think DMC4 could be one of the games we end up coming back on and off throughout 
 2008. It's got a strange addictive quality to it in that way, and, once completed, has a lot in 
 common with the pick up and play for a quick 30 minutes feel that something like PES 2008 has. 
 Capcom has done such a wonderful job recreating what makes DMC great, it makes all the game's failings 
 a much harder pill to swallow.
  
  Here's a theory - DMC4's game world feels like it was built from the ground up for Nero, with bosses 
 and level design tailored to his Devil Bringer attacks. Perhaps Capcom, at some point through the 
 game's development simply thought they couldn't release it without having fan favourite Dante playable 
 at some point. And so, rather than redesign the game, they had our stubbly anti-hero thrown into 
 environments and facing enemies that weren't designed to get the most out of him.
  
  It's a crying shame, because with a little more effort, DMC4 could have been a genuine contender 
 for 2008 game of the year. As it is it's a brilliant, addictive, just plain cool hack and slash 
 action game which goes some way to bringing the series back to its initial lustre. There are some 
 high quality contenders to the throne - the God of War and Ninja Gaiden series' spring to mind 
 - but there's something uniquely appealing about DMC. Capcom has done nothing to make it more appealing 
 for those who have passed on the series in the past, has been very brave with its decision to replace 
 Dante with Nero, and, in many areas, been extremely slack in terms of game design, but, on the 
 whole, DMC4 will leave fans with a smirk the great demon hunter himself would be proud of.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 7
  Overall: 8
  
  The good:
  
  - Classic DMC 
 gameplay.
  - Gorgeous graphics.
  
  The bad:
  
  - Lots of backtracking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 marks the debut of Dante in the PS3. But this time he's not alone in the quest 
 of slashing demons and bud guys. Nero, a young man, is the main character this time and I'll be 
 honest. I prefer him than Dante. You'll play with Nero most part of the game, while with Dante 
 not so much. Nero has a devil arm that is his most powerful weapon (and the greatest thing about 
 this game also) . This devil arm is called the Devil Bringer and you can smash your enemies to the 
 ground and also use it as a tool to move around. As I said this is his most powerful weapon so 
 don't expect the same effect in his sword or gun. The gun is the weakest weapon of Nero, but the 
 sword (called Red Queen) is pretty good too. You can upgrade them any way you like.
  With Dante you have the traditional weapons as the other games (Ebony & Ivory, Rebellion and Coyote-A) 
 and, of course, you can upgrade all of them, as same as Nero.
  Graphically the game looks awesome. I can say that looks pretty the same that Uncharted. The expressions 
 are realistic and the dialogs are pretty fun, specially with the bosses.
  I played Devil May Cry 1 and 3 and in terms of difficulty this is pretty easy compared to that 
 games. And for that I'm relieved because 1 and 3 were very difficult, specially DMC3.
  The game consists in 20 missions as always with some of them boss fights that are pretty entertaining. 
 
  You can beat the game very fast also, but you have replay value (harder difficulties and other 
 things) . 
  So this game it's worth buying because it's not difficult but not a walk in the park either (when 
 you play as Devil Hunter) . Slashing and smashing to the ground your foes are great and you will 
 be asking for more when you finish the game. Buy it, you will have a great time with Devil May 
 Cry 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to fast-paced action, Devil May Cry is arguably the pioneer of the sub-genre, 
 and shares pinnacle status with the likes of Sony's God of War and Tecmo's Ninja Gaiden franchise. 
 Thanks to the PlayStation 2, Devil May Cry has quickly risen to all-stardom, despite a shortcoming 
 with the sequel. Devil May Cry 3, and especially its special edition re-release, is widely regarded 
 as one of the finest action games of the past generation. Now, we're in an all new generation, 
 and having endured a grueling three year wait for the fourth Devil May Cry, it relieves me to say 
 that it's finally here and boy does it deliver. 
  At the end of the day, and at the end of the three year wait, it's nice to say that Devil May Cry 
 4 plays exceptionally well. It may not be revolutionary, but it sure won't leave you bored. If 
 anything, Devil May Cry 4 is perhaps even more addictive than the last, thanks to a rather enjoyable, 
 well-done story. More importantly, it's hard not to love the game, as everything about it is just 
 so meticulously well crafted, from the fighting, to the controls, down to even the visuals. A game 
 of Devil May Cry 4's caliber is arguably the best way to kick off an all new year. I highly encourage 
 all PlayStation 3 owners to immediately run to your nearest game retailer and get yourself a copy 
 of Devil May Cry 4 - I promise you will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aronnyc
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  DMC4 reminds me of being in an abusive relationship, where you are beaten up so often that, when 
 the partner exhibits acts of kindness, you either feel intense gratitude bordering on tearfulness, 
 or abject terror that something really bad is about happen. That is how I've felt many times during 
 the game when the designers mercifully tossed me a miserable green orb to replenish my health (after 
 launching waves upon waves of enemies at me) , or let me in a state of panic that I have somehow 
 done something wrong and is about to see how cruel the designers really can be.
  
  I really think this game is fantastic in many ways. There are many fights that are truly epic and 
 exciting. What has plagued this series (at least DMC 3 and 4, which are the only ones I've played) 
 are the terrible camera angles. I don't mind losing to a boss because he is powerful, but I do 
 mind when it's the camera angles that get in the way. There are so many examples when you simply 
 can't see where the characters are going because the camera.
  
  I don't think this is going to change. Maybe that's part of the charm of the series. I think it 
 should be fixed because it vexes gamers for no good reason.
  
  Another thing, which I'm sure has been brought up before, is that I feel a bit cheated when the 
 designers are too lazy to design a whole game, and decides to design half and have players play 
 it through twice. Basically, you play are Nero in the first half, and Dante in the second half. 
 Dante has to fight the same bosses Nero does. Somehow Nero doesn't kill them off. Somehow Dante 
 doesn't either because Nero has to fight them a third time! OMG!
  
  Finally, the puzzle game with the dice SUCKS. It's smacks of lazy game design. Sorry, there's no 
 other way to see it.
  
  This game is too repetitive, and it makes an otherwise excellent game into a merely mediocre one. 
 I'm not sure how many newcomers get turned away, but I can imagine it's more than in other games. 
 This is a shame because it means that some players will be deprived of some of the more amazing 
 action sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  now im a big devil may cry fan. So naturally i was a bit put off by the fact that Dante was being 
 replaced by Nero? my thoughts where of metal gear solid 2, where Raiden swang in out of nowhere 
 on his homo horse to homo up the whole game! (Those still enjoyable admittedly but not the best 
 in series for that reason) was the same going to happen to our beloved devil may cry? YES! Who 
 is Nero? I dont care! He has a cool hand tho... being able to snatch enemies form afar and land 
 super attacks on weakened enemies is admittedly cool I still l cant see why this wasn't just given 
 to Dante. Nero admittedly being an annoyance doesn't harm that game much at all (although playing 
 as Dante who is obviously more powerful then Nero in attacks did bring a tear to my eye) the main 
 quibble with the game is its repetition. U fight the same boss's at least 4 times! Although this 
 is usually common in a devil may cry game in dmc4 it is painfully obvious that they're stalling 
 the end and trying to make the game lengthier. Graphically the game is beautiful and the controls 
 and game play make u feel right at home. just a shame the home is occupied by an imposter. Looking 
 past these minor hindrances ull find a great action adventure game true to its roots. Not the best 
 in the series (I believe dmc3 holds that title) but an experience to be enjoyed non-the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few sword fighters I've played, but even though it does lack some things DMC3 
 had, it still is a good addition to the series.
  
  Gameplay 8/10- This game has great combos and upgrades that you can buy. The boss fights are fun 
 and interesting. You get plenty of fighting and you can play as two different characters in the 
 main story. The game is not punishingly hard like the third nor too easy like the second. The story 
 isn't as great as some of the other Devil May Crys but is still pretty good with some forgivable 
 parts. However, it just seems it isn't as open-ended as DMC3 and when you get to be Dante, there 
 is pretty much just backtracking. There aren't as many Devil Triggers as some other games, and 
 this game does kind of break off from the main Devil May Cry story but overall has the gameplay 
 and style that Devil May Cry fans love. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- The graphics and lighting are simply beautiful. This is one of Capcom's best games 
 graphically and the framerate is good. 
  
  Sound 9/10- Great voice acting and sound effects, this game shows the true value of high definition. 
 
  
  Value 6/10- This is where the game lacks. The main story can be beaten within ten hours and the 
 enemies do start getting repetitive after a few playthroughs. There is another unlockable mode 
 but not enough to last you months. Sadly, this game is repetitive with enemies and area design, 
 but if you are a huge fan of the series, you can forgive this. There are also achievements, but 
 most of them are just defeating enemies, collecting orbs, and beating the game on different modes. 
 If you are fan though, you may think there is more replay, but if you are not a fan, then this 
 is probably just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Of the reviews I've read for DMC4, most identify its main shortcoming as being its repetitiveness, 
 in particular the fact you must fight the 3 core bosses 3 times throughout the course of the game. 
 I can see how some people seem to find this boring, but in my opinion I love it, because I love 
 the boss fights. They are well thought out and interesting, and the bosses themselves are quite 
 cool. Also when you fight each boss the second time, you fight using Dante rather than Nero, and 
 you must adapt your strategy as Dante lacks some of Nero's core abilities, and you must learn to 
 use Dante's styles instead. 
  
  The graphics in DMC4 are great, providing an awesome visual experience. The overall feel of the 
 game is great, and in my opinion the visual style of the game compliments the overall style of 
 gameplay. The traditional DMC style of sword and gun combat is continued, along with the arcade-style 
 combat style rating system. The basic controls are easy to learn and use, while still maintaining 
 more complex advanced techniques that require more skill and practice. 
  
  The range of difficulty levels means players of all skill levels and DMC experience and enjoy the 
 game, and it allows players to continue to strive to better themselves after finishing the game. 
 Each new difficulty doesn't just make enemies harder to kill, but gives them new attacks, increases 
 the amount of enemies in some areas, increases the frequency of harder enemies, and adds new elements 
 to the mix. For example in the 5th difficulty, Hell and Hell mode, the player is defeated in a 
 single blow, keeping the most veteran of players on their toes. 
  
  The Bloody Palace also returns in DMC4 and is another proving ground for competitive players, providing 
 another challenge for those bored with the story missions. 
  
  Overall, DMC4 is a game I recommend to all gamers who are into platform-action games, and although 
 there is some repetition, it's not as bad as some make it out to be. Overall, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballinxcivic
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo, I thought this game was awesome. I heard about the hype towards this game, 
 and I was anxious to see how fun it would be. I never played any Devil May Cry game, but I knew 
 what type of game this was and it interested me. I actually chose to buy this game over Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma because it seemed to have more style and flair to it over NGS. 
  
  I would have to say this game is fun if you really love those 'beat-em up' type action games. Because 
 other than that, it's pretty much repetitive in the fact that all you do is beat enemies up with 
 different styles and combos with two different characters. The story is lame, however, it had a 
 lot of potiential. Devil May Cry fans would surely disagree because they have been following the 
 series before, but if your new to the series, the story may bore you and definitely doesn't motivate 
 you towards the missions. I really wish I rented this game first, because I would have had more 
 fun just playing it for a couple weeks, rather than buying it and forcing myself to finish it. 
 Like I said before, if you like 'beat-em up' style games, then this is the game for you. If you 
 like adventure/platforming or a decent story for the missions, then you won't find much of that 
 in this game. It's just a fun game that let's you try all sorts of different cool combos with different 
 weapons and styles from 2 different characters; Nero or Dante. Rent it first if your not sure, 
 I wish I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  -STORY-
  You play as Nero a young man who has strong feelings for a girl named Kyrie. When visiting the 
 church one day, it gets attacked by demons and a man appears with a red cape. Soon after Kyrie 
 gets captured and you have to fight for her back and discover who is behind creating the demons 
 and why they are doing this. In this Devil May Cry it probably focuses the most on the story than 
 ever before. This is a good thing.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  It's what you expect from every devil may cry. A fast paced action game. Don't worry you still 
 get afew missions being your old hero Dante. For most part of the game however your Nero, you have 
 guns, a sword and one of the most deadliest things that Nero has on him is his devil arm. This 
 is the latest addition to the DMC series and the devil arm allows you to grab enemies whether its 
 crushing them, throwing them, swinging them about your arm can do many things. So the gameplay 
 doesn't get repetitive (even if it was it is well fun!) you have stylish points and by using various 
 moves and switching about your stylish points will go up and this will add to your rank at the 
 end of the level as well as giving you points to spend on new abilitles. 
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  Lovely graphics. pretty realistic and smooth textures. 
  
  -MUSIC-
  This devil may cry for 
 me had the best soundtrack. It used sort of opera music which gives a scarey affect and it also 
 uses rock music during gameplay. this music is very unique and something you would come to expect 
 from DMC a decent soundtrack.
  
  -OVERALL-
  If your craving an action game you can't get must better than this game. This game also carries 
 tones of replay values with the achievments system. If your new to the series i would recommend 
 you playing the older games which are cheap now and are all for the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechtRonin07
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4 takes a chance by turning the spotlight on new protagonist
  Nero, the move is a bitter sweet one that has me questioning the future of this series. The good 
 news is that Nero is an extremely enjoyable character to play as, he's so fun to play in fact that 
 the game runs into its biggest flaw when you resume control of Dante. Dante's combos feel cumbersome 
 and staggered, it lacks the ubiquitous chaos that Nero's arm unleashes. The content with Dante 
 also feels stagnant since it's simply the stages you played through with Nero rehashed. There is 
 some major potential here for a sequel that expands upon Nero's abilities, this particular entry 
 however, feels bogged down by a perfunctory design job based on repetition. I hope to never battle 
 the same group of bosses 3 times in any game I play again. The "go in this room, now you're suck 
 till you kill everyone" formula is wearing thin. 
  Bad things aside. This game does sport some amazing graphics and some of the best animation I've 
 seen, particularly in the boss battles. The combat is fast and fierce, and the returning style 
 system keeps the battles from getting to tedious.
  I guess my final thought would be... Almost. In an industry where today's newest games often feel 
 dated in a year, I hope Capcom will take a lesson from itself ( Resident Evil 4 ) and take Devil 
 May Cry to the level we all know it could and should be.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p90reloaded
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Whether in context with the rest of the Devil May Cry series or not, Devil May Cry 4 is an amazing 
 game in its own right. It continues the series' originality and beautiful storylining. 
  
  While the story itself when compared to other DMC games isn't the cream of the crop, it is the 
 voice acting of the game that will set itself apart from anything a player has heard in the series, 
 or in the gaming universe for that matter. The diction, dialogue, and emotion, deserve fitting 
 awards; every statement, cry, groan, etc, is felt by the player with immediate response. This is 
 more than a mere game; this is a story with living, breathing characters, and is more than worth 
 the play-through simply for the cutscenes. 
  
  Gameplay-wise, the action has been upped from Devil May Cry 3, and has also increased on the series' 
 love of insanely chaotic combos and swordplay. A feature that was loved in DMC3, were the numerous 
 styles that the player could choose to fight with, although it was criticized to to having to wait 
 till the next mission, or finding specific points to change the style, weapons, etc. This has been 
 completely atoned for in DMC4, as with a mere button press, players may cycle through all of Dante's 
 original DMC3 styles, with the addition of another that is added on later.
  
  Nero's addition to the play obviously is vital to the story, but it is the gameply that is equally 
 affected. The "Devil Bringer" Nero possesses, brings new elements into the game ala Scorpion of 
 Mortal Kombat.
  Players will have to resist the urge to constantly snatch an enemy and reel them in before beating 
 them to a pulp with the demonic fist, if they have any hope of achieving a high style rating for 
 the mission, which is another feature guaranteed to keep gamers busy.
  
  Flaw wise, the game possesses next to nothing that would detract from its success. The graphics 
 are top notch, the cutscenes Oscar-worthy, and the action a pure adrenaline rush. The difficulty 
 issue that plagued DMC3 has been addressed with a number of varying difficulty options, starting 
 out with a much more relaxed-but in no way casual-difficulty than the games predecessor. Repetition, 
 is the only main defect. While used as a plot device, the obligation to go back and fight the same 
 bosses that a previous character did not finish off is a bit irritating, but fortunately, is more 
 than made up for by the different character's extremely diverse skills.
  
  All in all, the game is amazing, and extremely worth having if one is interested in an intriguing 
 plot, the DMC series in general, or just unleashing absolute carnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucid1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I will star off by saying this...
  
  I ORGASMED WHENEVER I PLAYED THIS GAME!
  
  I love the Devil May Cry series more than I like the Resident Evil series and about as much as 
 I love the Metal Gear Solid series.
  
  Anyways! through most of the game you'll play as Nero, a pretty much average looking 20 year old 
 from your average bad ass anime, Nero is just plain bad ass. So is Dante.. minus the damn boots 
 in this... I hated those boots... Umm anyways,
  
  Controls are very good, and very responsive, and sometimes makes me feel like I'm actually swinging 
 the sword. The thing I love about this one compared to the other games is that it's more sword 
 based like if you chose blademaster in DMC3 as opposed to other games: 1st one was great at balancing 
 out shooting and sword. 2nd game... I could have beaten the whole damn game with just guns, which 
 took the fun out of it...
  
  Graphics, arn't amazing, but sometimes the scenery was beautiful looking. Nero looks good, Dante 
 looks good, Kiria looks good, Trish and Lady look go- BOOBS :D er.. good looking, any major character 
 looks good. So do enemies.
  
  Sound is good, music is good, fighting music repeats though... luckily evey zone has different 
 music. My favorite music in the whole game is the music for the idol of time and space which is 
 where you will buy your abilities, upgrades for known moves and items.
  
  Combat as i said is very good and fun, timing some of you attacks like the time after you press 
 a button can be stronger attacks and so on. The Devil Bringer, which is Nero's very special unique 
 ability is fun to play around with.
  
  Story, at first is kind of like a panic, like you don't know what's going on everything is confusing, 
 then BAM you get a hold of it not to far in
  I'm not going to ruin it for anybody so play it to see, I will say I think it's a better story 
 than the other games.
  
  Replay value, since they added the new ranking system, you can guess from there. The game still 
 has that platform fighting thing from the 3rd game after you beat it where you just fight enemies.
 
  
  Over all I highly reccommend the game weather you have a PS3 or a 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm a big DMC fan. I own all of the games in the series. (except for the special addition dmc3) 
 It's a great series that never disappoints you so buying them is always a plus.
  
  Though when you get down to it, you have to actually choose. Rent it, or buy it? Now, I bought 
 mine and I don't regret it one bit but I will say, that once I beat it, I never felt an extreame 
 urge to play it again. 
  
  Storyline: Great and easy to follow. The voice acting is great and the characters are all memoriable. 
 Nero isn't a disappointment compared to Dante, which most people figured was going to happen. Dante 
 is as cool as ever (perhaps too cool now)
  
  Gameplay: It's all about style baby and if you've got it, then your going to jump right into the 
 game quick and easy. It does take a bit of time to get use to only because you can see others play 
 and do all these amazing stunts and you want to jump in doing exactly what you've seen. Best idea 
 is to start simple, then learn how to chain gun and sword use, then get into combos, and finally, 
 raise all hell.
  
  Sound: Are on point. Nothing bad to say about it however the music is not as great as 3 in my own 
 opinion. Sound effects however are perfect.
  
  Graphics: look at a video review and screen shots. That said, you should already know that they 
 are good and up to par with the ps3 and 360 graphics.
  
  Why I say rent it?: Once you beat it, you'll probably spend at most 5 more hours playing to get 
 all the skills and power ups, play the survival mode a couple of times, and then the game will 
 sit at the back of you tv stand collecting dust. Not that the replay value is bad but only those 
 who really love this style of play will continually play and play this game until their fingers 
 bleed.
  
  All in all, this is a solid game that you can add to your collection and not regret but beating 
 it and putting it down will satisfy the thirst of blood everyone gets once in a while. Devil May 
 Cry 4 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyugacrysis
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Release Date: 02/05/2008
  ESRB Rating: Mature
  Genre: Action
  Publisher: Capcom
  Developer: Capcom
  From the outset, DMC4 pulls some surprising punches -- benching well-liked, 
 wisecrackin' Dante in favor of decidedly emo, hoodie-clad newcomer Nero may seem like a dumb move, 
 but the gamble actually pays off. Nero's truly the star of this quest, and you control him through 
 nearly two-thirds of the game as he attempts to rescue his lovely lass from a corrupt theocracy. 
 It's a far more serious, earnest, and mature adventure than you'd expect, even if the game's female 
 characters sport ridiculously massive mammaries and the "angels" you're fighting look more like 
 Gundam mechs. 
  
  
  
  
  [Click the image above to check out all Devil May Cry 4 screens.] 
  
  
  
  
  Nero offers 
 a remarkably different style of play thanks to the Devil Bringer, his demonically enhanced right 
 arm. Its various uses include tossing foes around, pulling off unique finishing moves, and grappling 
 across chasms -- all of which mix up the otherwise predictable character-action proceedings. Devil 
 May Cry has always rewarded pinpoint timing, and the Devil Bringer reconfirms that commitment with 
 its brilliant "Instant Rev" mechanic that dishes out maximum damage by perfectly timing a button 
 press during a combo. It's a seemingly insubstantial, purely optional gameplay addition that deepens 
 combat immeasurably. Even though Nero lacks many of the skills that make Dante such a blast to 
 control, he's far from boring
  Few games boast such excellent controls -- you'll instantly find yourself pulling off impressive 
 combos thanks to tight, responsive, and intuitive setup offered here. And you'll feel a real incentive 
 to master combat, as the game constantly rewards stylish play with a branching tree of unlockable 
 skills and attacks that expand your death-dealing repertoire. 
  
  
  
  
  [Click the image above to check out all Devil May Cry 4 screens.] 
  
  
  
  
  While fans 
 agree that DMC's addictive gameplay provides the primary draw, the series has a solid audiovisual 
 legacy, as well. DMC4 looks predictably slick, with an excellent mix of hyperdetailed interiors, 
 dense urban areas, and expansive natural environs. You'll spy a few glaring inconsistencies (the 
 forest stage suffers from lighting problems and infrequent bouts of slowdown) , but overall it's 
 one of the most attractive current-gen efforts to date. The game's aural offerings aren't quite 
 as compelling, though.... The same divisive industrial hard-rock nonsense (featuring torturous 
 vocals by Shawn "Shootie HG" McPherson) that sullied DMC3 returns here, and the voice acting runs 
 the gamut from lovably corny to embarrassingly melodramatic. Still, Dante's supremely charismatic 
 actor deserves praise for making us love an increasingly insane devil hunter who repeatedly boasts 
 about the prowess of his own genitalia (allegorically, of course) . 
  
  Like its predecessors, DMC4 unfolds in a strictly linear fashion, with a diverse mix of combat, 
 puzzle solving, and platforming in each of its 20 stages. Even though it's divided up into chunks, 
 the game world stands as one interconnected, realistic realm packed with dense jungles, abandoned 
 mines, and mammoth castles. But unlike the past games, this one takes an overly frugal approach 
 to level design: Once you've battled through the holy empire as Nero, you get to trudge back through 
 it all over again (including the bosses) as Dante. Sure, this crimson-clad badass controls like 
 a dream -- his godlike strength, agility, and special attacks erupt with a fury that Nero simply 
 can't match -- but having him merely retrace the other hero's steps feels like a missed opportunity. 
 Also, while the initial appearance of a ponderous board-game challenge (in which Nero has to roll 
 a die in order to move around a board riddled with potential enemy encounters) can be forgiven, 
 the other four occurrences cannot. And just when it appears that no further corners could be cut, 
 the game's penultimate stage parades the game's big bosses back out for an unprecedented third 
 battle. Seriously, Capcom? They're good bosses, but not that good. 
  That said, you'll definitely want to play through DMC4 more than once. Burying fan-favorite Dante 
 so deep in the game practically guarantees that you'll want to tackle the quest a second time on 
 a tougher difficulty, if only to explore his incredibly over-the-top arsenal. Compared to the more 
 defensive ebb and flow of Nero's gameplay, Dante's hyperkinetic tempo invites players to simultaneously 
 experiment with a multitude of weapons and combat styles -- mastering how to switch up his attacks 
 on the fly isn't easy, but the results are visceral and rewarding. New toys such as Lucifer (an 
 evil backpack that lets Dante toss out an infinite number of glowing blades) and the unfathomably 
 cool Pandora (a suitcase that transforms into everything from a spinning saw to a gyroscopic missile 
 array depending on your controller input) bristle with creativity. 
  
  Although it dips into the recycling bin a bit too much, Devil May Cry 4 still remains a must-play 
 title for action-adventure gamers. Its gorgeous trappings, addictive combat, and well-balanced 
 difficulty make it the most satisfying DMC in years, and Dante's such a killer character that you'll 
 actually want to tackle the game on a tougher difficulty in order to fully explore his amazing 
 arsenal. 
  a farsi review
    !
  
  
  Devil May Cry   
      
     
    
     
    
     
    
       
      
      
 .    
     
     
     
     
     
      
      
     
     
  .
  
      
     
     
     
      
    
   .   
    
     
      
 .      
  !   
    
    
      
    
      
    
     
     
    
      
      
     
     
     
     
      
  .
     
     
      
    
   .
  
   
  
   
     
      
      
     
    
     
   .  
     
   .
  
      
    
      
    
     
     
     
    
     
  .  
     
     
      
     
 ("Order of the Sword,")  . 
    
    
   .  
     
     
      
     
     
   .  
     
     
 !
  
      
      
      
      
   . 
     
      
     
      
  .   
     
 .    
    
     
     
   
     
     
 !   
   .
  
  
  
      
     
      
   . 
     
 Capcom   DMC 4   
     
  .  
     
     
 PS3    
   Resident Evil 5   
      
 .    
     
     
      
     
   .  
      
     
 .
  
      
      
     
 DMC3     
      
    
    
 .   
     
      
      
 .     
      
      
     
       
    .  
       
     
    .  
     
    
      
      
     
     
      
      
 .   
       
    
      
  DMC3   .
 
  
       
    
      
     
      
     
     
 .      
     
     
      
    
     
      
      
    
     
 .
  
      
    
      
    
     
    .  
     
      
     
     
      
      
 .   
    
      
    . 
     
    
      
      
     
     
       
   !
 
  The River Runs Red
  
  A few things have become synonymous with the Devil May Cry series. One is high-octane fast paced 
 gameplay, another is over-the-top boss battles, and the most important is the red trench coat wearing, 
 smart assed hero of the series, Dante. The newest iteration of the series has all these things 
 and more. Although some fans may be disappointed in the role Dante plays in Devil May Cry 4.
  
  For those that have been keeping track of the whole convoluted storyline, Devil May Cry 4 takes 
 place between the original Devil May Cry and Devil May Cry 2. The game starts off with a bang as 
 Dante busts through the roof of the Opera House and kills the high priest of the Order of the Sword. 
 Nero takes it upon himself to take on Dante, generating some of the most breathtaking visuals ever 
 put forth in a video game. 
  
  Dante makes an exit and Nero is tasked with bringing him back to the Order to answer for his crimes. 
 But things are not as they seem and Nero is being played, by all parties. He slowly comes to the 
 realization that maybe not everything is right with The Order of the Sword. Mysterious experiments, 
 gates to hell, ascension of gods, giant frogs and glowing lesbians are all part of the story that 
 unravels in this game. It's a decent tale that is told well but some longtime fans may be left 
 questioning if this should be a true Devil May Cry game or just a side story bearing the series 
 name. 
  
  Graphics 9 
  Sound 8 
  Interface 8 
  Replay 9 
  Gameplay 8 
  Stability 9 
  Bullies infest every school. They have an undeniable hatred for some of their school 
 mates and you could notice this when you walked past them because you got a strange feeling they 
 were thinking, "I'm so much better than you". Capcom have managed to grasp that feeling of hate, 
 confidence and challenge from those bullies, and bundle it into a game called Devil May Cry 4. 
 Because Devil May Cry 4 doesn't want you to succeed. Never have I felt so small and insignificant 
 in my life than when I was playing this game. That's because it is so hard and stylish that it 
 makes most of us realise that we'll never be cool enough, or tough enough, to be a demon slayer. 
 
  
  
  DMC 4 does to the franchise what the original DMC did to the entire hack-and-slash genre, and that's 
 redefine it. With DMC 2 you had a lacklustre sequel that was a major step down from the masterpiece 
 that was its predecessor. With DMC 3, you had a game that was so damn hard you wanted to smash 
 your Playstation 2 into the wall. It's no question that the fourth addition to this over-the-top, 
 stylish and Japanese cut-scene-filled series is a mixture of the two better games in 1 and 3. It 
 grasps the great gameplay and trailblazing graphical direction of the first and mixes it together 
 with the so-hard-it's-fun difficulty from the third. 
  
  In regards to the difficulty of this game, it's not quite "kick in the balls" tough where you're 
 going to be dying every 5 minutes. Instead, you're going to have to use your smarts and common 
 sense in order to raise the probability of success in the more challenging areas. For example, 
 you're going to at one point or another be confronted with a hoard of 10 or so demons. Now, they 
 are relatively easy to defeat... individually. That's where some of the challenge comes from. The 
 game doesn't rank you on the use of combos and "style" for the fun of it. It does it because you're 
 going to have to be super-aggressive and combo-hungry to succeed in this game. Passing a mission 
 means nothing if you get a D at the end of the stage. A low ranking doesn't justify the creative 
 purity and stylistic direction that has been put into it. If you're used to playing a game with 
 obvious checkpoints, easy boss fights and simple gameplay, you're not going to get that with DMC 
 4. It doesn't have these aspects because it doesn't want to have them and the entire way through, 
 you'll get the impression the game's laughing at you because you're running in circles trying to 
 figure out what the hell you have to do next. Oh, and by the way, there is a fair bit of backtracking 
 and that's where the "Japanese" development shines through. There's nothing wrong with it in this 
 case. At least I didn't think so. But if you're not the type to fight through an area, enter a 
 room, unlock a door and then travel back through the same room you entered from, only to be met 
 with more demons, than you might meet this game with a bit of angst because that's what it does, 
 and that's where its difficulty is most obvious. 
  
  However, it's not quite as hard as DMC 3. That's good because it should be a lot more open to those 
 who have never played a game in the series before. The difficulty curve is pretty good too, so 
 once you pop the game in you're not going to be thrown straight into the deep end. It takes a little 
 longer to get going (difficulty wise) than in previous instalments. It's still insanely tough though 
 and it's not a step back, it's more like piggy backing on DMC 3's back; they're on the same level, 
 but 3 is just slightly in front. 
  
  There are some changes in this latest installment from DMC 3, and the most obvious is the introduction 
 of Nero, a character that at first glance looks identical to Dante. Anyway, Nero has taken the 
 role as the games leading man, or for half of the game at least, and he has a whole bunch of aerial 
 combat moves and powerful strikes that can send an enemy demon flying into the air and onto their 
 feet. Dante's combat abilities in the first three titles were generally highly praised and Capcom 
 have done a fantastic job of incorporating a new character that has upgraded moves and all new 
 abilities. Oh, and he has an awesome demon arm that can reach out over long distances and pull 
 enemies close. With some enemies the arm also has the power to swing them around or propel Nero 
 over the top of them, momentarily blinding them to Nero's whereabouts. This is particularly useful 
 when you're greatly outnumbered and want to quickly fend of enemies. This is also the first time 
 where your controlling character can throw enemies, and I have to say that it's a hell of a lot 
 of fun to pitch a demon to another one that's standing at the other end of the hall. Demon bowling, 
 yeah! 
  
  Nero also has his trusty side-kick sword to help him out and once again he has a special skill 
 that was otherwise lacking in Dante's previous adventures. Nero can rev-up his sword and use it 
 in a much more powerful fashion. However, this is another example of how DMC 4's difficulty shines 
 through in other aspects, rather than just combat and how many times you die. You see, you can 
 rev up the sword (which takes a couple of seconds) and strike an enemy, but it's rather pointless 
 because it does the same amount of damage that a four hit combo could in the same about of time. 
 With DMC 4, not everything is as it seems, you see. If something doesn't quite work as you think 
 it should, you're probably not doing it right, so it would be worth experimenting with the gameplay 
 more so than what's explained in the game tutorials. There is so much to cover and learn in regards 
 to the gameplay. Furthermore, you have to rev up your sword mid-combo, because then it revs instantly 
 and you suddenly have a very powerful swinging motion. But you have to continue doing it in order 
 to keep the combo and revs up. It really is as difficult as it sounds. And chances are, even if 
 you do pull it off a couple of times during a mission, you'll still only get a B or C ranking at 
 the end. It's not because you're no good, but rather because the game just have very high standards. 
 
  
  
  You can finish DMC 4 without pulling off combos like this though, but you're going to regret it 
 when you finish the game and you're made to feel like you've just eaten the piece of cake that 
 your mum was planning to give to the homeless kids down the street. In saying that, finishing the 
 story isn't all of what DMC 4 is about. It's about being "stylish", obsessive and creative with 
 your combat and skills. And I don't mean computer hacking skills. The pacing of DMC 4 seems a little 
 out of whack though and this is a little disappointing. You'll often be succumbed to 2 or 3 challenging 
 areas or even a boss fight, but then you'll go a good 30 minutes without all that much happening. 
 Perhaps its the games way of saying, "Here... have a break. You need it." 
  
  DMC 4 is very linear. There is some exploration to be had, but all within the linear boundaries. 
 It's not often that a game of this type can be so straight forward in direction in reference to 
 where your character is meant to go, but the enemies you meet and the puzzles you encounter more 
 than make up for it. Yeah, you're not going to be able to explore a castle or walk around a forest, 
 but the areas that you can interact with are generally very large and action-filled. It's also 
 not like you're being pushed into the right direction. You're limited to where you can go, but 
 in which manner you do it is what matters in this game. You're going to unlock something and then 
 have to go through one room to get there, but which room is it? It's a linear title, but it's not 
 overly restrictive. There's also a tone of hidden environments to be found. 
  
  
  Remember when you would win something, like a chocolate bar or lollipop, and either your sibling 
 or friend would cry and complain for one themselves? Then your mum would go and buy the same thing 
 you're having, kind of like sympathy buy? Well, DMC 4 pretty much does the same thing. During the 
 gameplay, it laughs at you and throws 5 different kinds of enemies your way in the same small area, 
 peer pressuring you into pulling off insane combos. But then when you die, it realises that it's 
 gone too far and it actually rewards you with currency-like things called Proud Souls. That's right. 
 DMC 4 wants you to be "proud" in yourself and never give up! Seriously though, these Proud Souls 
 can be used to upgrade your skills and, unlike in the first three DMC's, there are two different 
 items you have to use to purchase things. One is the Proud Souls and the other is Red Orbs, which, 
 like previously, are used to buy health-upgrades and Holy Water (a liquid that severely damages 
 nearby enemies) . This was always a great aspect of the original games and it's no different this 
 time round. It's really important that you keep note of what skills you have and how much damage 
 they do also, because you can sell them and buy other ones as you see fit. You're also going to 
 have to keep filled up with Vital green stars which rejuvenate health ingame, especially for boss 
 battles, because once you die, you're thrown back to the next checkpoint. Yellow Orbs are also 
 very important, as they resurrect you if you die and, especially during a boss fight, they can 
 stop you from having to restart the whole area again. Also, be sure to use your power-ups wisely, 
 because if you use all of your stars during a boss fight and lose, you don't get them back. 
  
  There are a few instances in DMC 4 though that are just a little... well... unfair. There is 
 one area in particular that will probably have you pulling our your hair. There are disappearing 
 platforms over a large canyon and while you wait for the next lot to light up, some cloud-like 
 monsters accompany you. When you do fall, you'll be in an underground cave where you must fend 
 off about 15 demons before you're granted permission back to the top to try it again. Fall again, 
 and it's the same process over and over. We can understand that they'd be demonic guards in a castle 
 that block off doorways, but this is just ridiculous. These things are trying to stop you from 
 crossing a pathway that isn't really there. Maybe I'm just complaining because I had to do it five 
 times before I crossed, but it was just a little too frustrating for its own good. There are a 
 few other instances like this that hamper the gameplay and they're really not at all that fun. 
 They feel like humours attempts by the development team to mock the patience and skills of gamers 
 around the world. 
  
  
  There is one other problem with DMC 4 and that's the seemingly obvious laziness by the development 
 team to make you practically repeat the first half all over again when you take control of Dante 
 in the second half of the game. Instead of all new levels and new bosses, it just seems like a 
 copy and paste job on behalf of Capcom and it wasn't overly impressive. Up until mid-way through, 
 the game really pushes you to want to success and complete it, but then you're objected to the 
 same thing again. However, the gameplay is almost completely different because of Dante. It's also 
 a lot harder. Dante feels slower and more restrictive than the younger Nero, and the lack of a 
 demonic arm also lifts up the difficulty rating. This is good though as the game becomes just as 
 tough as DMC 3 at this stage, but the repeated levels are disappointing. Of course, the story is 
 different and it's not 100% identical, but the environments, enemies and bosses seemingly are. 
 
  
  It's not all bad though from that point. The story starts to get very interesting from mission 
 10 onwards and the cut-scenes ooze class and style. As mentioned above, the difficulty in controlling 
 Dante also adds something different to the feel of the game and it might be Capcom's way of saying, 
 "Here's your reward for getting up to here... ten harder missions!" 
  
  From a graphical standpoint, DMC 4 looks gorgeous. From the start of the game right through until 
 the end, the environments are amazing, the enemies are chilling and scary and the cut-scenes are 
 very cinematic and fun to watch, albeit sometimes a little cheesy. There is some very noticeable 
 tearing in the 360 version that looks ugly but it doesn't affect the gameplay. The lighting and 
 shadow effects on both the PS3 and 360 versions are also a little discouraging and pixalated, especially 
 in the forest when the sun is very bright. The camera isn't as bad as some have made it out to 
 be, and it's just a matter of getting used to this style of game development and genre. The camera 
 style's aim is to be overly cinematic and it does that. It works well in the combat and sometimes 
 blinds you from enemies, but it doesn't do it often enough to cause concern. 
  
  The soundtrack is what you should expect from a DMC game; cinematic and calm orchestral sounds 
 during non-combat areas, hard-rock metal during combat and boss fights. While the metal music isn't 
 something I approve of, it fits in well with the feel of the title. The voice-overs are good, but 
 the dialogue itself is very cheesy. Think Ace Combat 6 meets Resident Evil 4. It's very cringe 
 worthy, but it gets the story across. 
  
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is a game that's going to own you in more ways than one. It's going to own you 
 through puzzles, backtracking, combat and boss fights. It's the game that feels as though it has 
 a secret hate for you, but deep down it just wants you to experience what it has to offer, and 
 that's a long, difficult, action-packed adventure that's filled with twists and turns in its plot. 
 The introduction of Nero as a character adds something different to the franchise and his demonic 
 arm is very cool to fight with. 
  
  9.5 - Gameplay
  Back again is the over-the-top, stylish and challenging combat that made the first three so pleasurable. 
 There are some new twists and turns in both combat and story, and Nero is more than a worthy addition 
 to the family. His demonic arm adds something new to the combat and there's nothing better than 
 grabbing demons mid-air and throwing them back down to earth. Dante is still as cool and sly as 
 ever and so are his skills. There's plenty to upgrade and collect and the game has the harshest 
 rating system in the history of games. The gameplay isn't as repetitive as it looks, thanks to 
 the skill upgrades, and the boss fights are some of the best you're ever going to come across. 
 
  
  9.0 - Graphics
  The environments are what really stand out in DMC 4. The castles have that eerie feel about them 
 that is so accustomed to DMC and they look amazing. There is some tearing in the 360 version but 
 it isn't that common. Also, the cut-scenes are very cinematic and impressive. Overly, DMC 4 looks 
 really good. It's not the best either system has to offer, but it's up there. 
  
  8.0 - Sound
  It doesn't stand out in any area but it does the job. The soundtrack fits in well 
 with the feel of the title and the voice-overs are done perfectly to fit the characters. The dialogue 
 is a bit iffy, but overly, DMC 4 sounds fairly good. 
  
  9.0 - Value
  There is really only one major fall in DMC 4, and that's the lack of originality in the Dante levels. 
 Still, it shouldn't stop you from playing through the whole game. Once you finish it, you'll want 
 to play through it again to better yourself and buy all of the skill upgrade's. 
  
  9.0/10 - Overall
  It's probably the best DMC game in the series. It's pretty much just as challenging 
 as DMC 3 and sets graphical boundaries for the genre just like DMC did. The gameplay is superb 
 and the story is executed well, even through poor dialogue. Seasoned veterans to the hack-and-slash 
 series should find that DMC 4 is more of the same with a touch of extra spice, while those new 
 to it should find enjoyment in the combat, boss fights, story and presentation.
  
  Playing Devil May Cry 4, it's impossible to shake the feeling that nearly everyone involved wasn't 
 all that interested in making a video game. After completing DMC4, I took a over an hour to watch 
 all of the CGI movies back to back. I was treated to footage of people flying around, juggling 
 each other in mid-air with bullets, and getting run through by swords, but not minding too much. 
 Watching the balletic violence, the cinematic camera angles, and the endless transformations of 
 characters into monsters, the fact became inescapable that as crazed and borderline incoherent 
 as the story was, the developers cared far more about it then they did the sections of gameplay 
 that happen in between the movies.
  
  The fourth in Capcom's series of over-the-top action games, Devil May Cry 4 drops players into 
 the role of Nero, a bald-faced rip-off of the series' longtime star Dante. By this point in the 
 series, a clear formula has been established, and DMC4 follows it step-by-step. The highs are still 
 there, including the frenetic combat, mostly naked women, and wonderful art design. Unfortunately, 
 so are all of the lows, like the repetitive combat, restrictive level design, and ridiculous difficulty 
 level.
  
  The story fails to make any kind of logical sense even by the series' own incredibly lax standards. 
 The greatest unanswered question is just who is Nero, why is he so incredibly similar to Dante, 
 and where does he come from? Broad hints are dropped that he might be Dante's long-dead brother, 
 reincarnated somehow, but the lack of answers provided are just one of the story's issues. The 
 core narrative is simple enough-in an allegory for 9/11 conspiracy theories, a religious cult secretly 
 opens gates to hell all over an island, allowing demons to run wild attacking the populace. Then 
 they plan to raise their dark god and have him smite all of the demons, so that the people will 
 be so grateful for being rescued they will accept the cult as their new religo-fascist rulers. 
 While the cult isn't supposed to be representative of any particular sect of Christianity, its 
 leader wears suspiciously pope-like clothes, and their False God takes the form of a giant angel 
 statue.
  
  It's a clear premise, but the game's presentation of the story is so muddled as to be nearly incoherent. 
 It begins with Dante assassinating the Pope-alike, and Nero being tasked with tracking him down. 
 Nero does this by wandering aimlessly along an entirely linear path, which is helpfully populated 
 by thousands of demons that he needs to slaughter. There's so little character or story here that 
 Nero never seems to consider where all of these demons are coming from, and when his own troops 
 start attacking him, it's just another in the long line of random, out of the blue developments 
 that define everyday life in the Devil May Cry universe. There's a point where self-awareness stops 
 being cute and starts being obnoxious. Devil May Cry 4 passes this point halfway through the third 
 opening movie. When every character seems to realize they're in a videogame, and treat their predicament 
 with the lack of seriousness that suggests, it's kind of hard to become emotionally involved in 
 the proceedings. This detatchment leaves the game to be judged solely on the quality of its design 
 and gameplay, which is something of a mixed bag.
  
  
  
  There's no content other than fighting monsters, and attempting to obtain as high a score as possible. 
 As always, that score is based entirely on how 'Stylish' the player's fighting is. This is determined 
 by how long the player can go without being hit, or using the same move twice in a row. This is 
 actually quite easy to do because Nero has access to a Demon Arm that functions a lot like Scorpion's 
 famous spear from Mortal Kombat. It allows Nero to instantly drag enemies into slashing range, 
 removing the need to go leaping and dashing all over the area to keep a combo going. The whole 
 process is so shockingly easy, up until halfway through, I thought that the that the developers 
 had finally broken down and produced a game that anyone could play.
  
  That all changes when Dante shows up, though. Once the original white-haired demon hunter returns, 
 so does the series' classic impenetrable gameplay. Using Dante in a fight puts the lie to the idea 
 that videogames are for lazy, unmotivated people. Where fighting as Nero is simply a matter of 
 mashing buttons and dodging the occasional attack, every battle as Dante is akin to playing Twister 
 with fingers. Dante fights with five separate styles, four melee weapons, and three firearms, one 
 of which transforms into three different guns. Getting a decent score is dependent entirely on 
 the player's ability to switch constantly between these 14 things while jamming on buttons and 
 keeping the next enemy in their sights. Of course, Dante is so ridiculously overpowered that players 
 can just tap the sword and gun buttons to force their way through the combat, but if players do 
 that, they'll never get the high scores that the game revolves around. 
  
  Having these two styles of play should serve to give the series a breath of fresh air, but a key 
 design mistake ruins it. After making the switch of to Dante, the player is forced to play all 
 of the levels that Nero just ran through, fighting the exact same enemies and bosses in reverse 
 order. The difficulty level isn't even noticeably ramped up for the second run through; all of 
 the fights are just harder because they're being played as Dante instead of Nero. There's nothing 
 new or different to do, so the first half feels like more of a practice mode than anything else. 
 As if the developers were saying, "Okay, now you've played through the game once, how about doing 
 it again with the training wheels off?" It's nice that they decided to wean players slowly onto 
 the mechanics rather than just drop them in the deep end, but it would have been nicer if there 
 were some new levels or enemies once they'd learned them.
  
  Watching the various CGI movies that play before every major battle and when entering most rooms, 
 it's impossible to not be impressed with the care and detail put into them. Every action sequence 
 leaps off the screen and grabs the attention of the viewer in a way the game's actual combat utterly 
 fails to. In the minds of the developers (as represented in the videos they make) , Devil May Cry 
 is the place where albino fops pose dramatically before epically swordfighting demons while running 
 up and down walls, pulling off acrobatic maneuvers that require not just superhuman reflexes, but 
 at least three or four more senses than normal people possess.
  
  
  
  In stark contrast, the Devil May Cry that people play involves hitting the same two or three buttons 
 over and over again while figures on the screen collide with one another in their best approximation 
 of choreography. Yes, the individual moves look fine, when the static camera is lucky enough to 
 be aimed in the right direction to catch them, but the combat is just too simple, repetitive and 
 arbitrary to provide the kind of operatic play experience the developers are obviously looking 
 for. When Dante and Nero bounce around a giant statue, slicing at each other with giant swords, 
 it makes for an interesting visual experience. When the player has to fight the same scarecrow-themed 
 enemies over and over again with a limited set of moves, it's less enthralling.
  
  The problem is most apparent in the boss fights against huge opponents. Yes, the foes are monstrous 
 in size, but they couldn't be less interesting to fight. They all have a few standard attack patterns 
 that can be dodged, and a few huge attacks that leave them vulnerable afterwards, just like every 
 other boss in every other game. Fighting them inevitably boils down to hacking away with a sword 
 for a while, dodging an attack, then hacking away again. There's no flow to the fights, no buildup 
 to a climax, and no satisfying finishing moves. No matter how dramatic my demon-powered throw was, 
 as an aura surrounded me and drove spikes through my opponent, if that grand, impressive, slo-mo 
 attack didn't take out the boss' very last hit point, he goes right back to fighting as if nothing 
 had happened. Proceeding to finish the boss off with a few shots from a pistol isn't just anti-climactic, 
 it's kind of depressing. Especially when a CGI movie kicks in the second that last hit point disappears, 
 showing Dante or Nero finishing off the boss in a way that's far more interesting than anything 
 I was able to do during the actual battle.
  
  For four games now, the developers of the Devil May Cry series have attempted to find a way to 
 bring all the drama and thrills of anime combat to consoles. And they've failed all four times. 
 Each title has been an interesting failure, to be sure, but not one of them has ever managed to 
 deliver gameplay that's one hundredth as intense or compelling as the CGI movies that bracket it. 
 Given that they're already churning out over an hour of CGI each time, wouldn't their resources 
 be better spent tacking on just a little more story and calling them films? They're clearly more 
 passionate about their ridiculous characters and ludicrously overblown stories than they are in 
 delivering a fun, playable game. Isn't it time they just gave up and admitted they want to make 
 movies instead?
  Capcom pulls of the impossible, managing to ensure that a hardcore, 20-level epic can be enjoyed 
 by the masses too. 
  On paper, Devil May Cry 4 looks like something horrible: a bloated spectacle for the God Of War 
 crowd, full of maladjustments, contrivances and enough self-loathing to push Dante, its dazzling 
 hero, completely out of frame. Who is this Nero, with his fresh face and demon arm, automating 
 the very processes that make DMC so clever? How dare he vault effortlessly, at the touch of a button, 
 over the heads of his enemies, racking up combos with nary a thought for distance or defense?
 
  
  
  
  The truth is complicated, particularly because all of the above (bar the horrible bit) are true 
 to a degree. In a bid to rescue his beloved Kyrie (pronounced Ki-ri-yay) , a winsome opera singer 
 abducted just as he was getting somewhere, Nero literally flies through a game that's more lenient, 
 streamlined and accessible than any of its predecessors. More like Kratos than Dante, his role 
 is to reach out, through an initially rather cheap grapple technique, to players who think a Crazy 
 Combo comes with fries and a fizzy drink.
  
  
  
  Why? Because this is a series with a problem, not that you might think it. The better it gets, 
 the fewer people can enjoy it. The more it allows Dante to get drunk on his own skill, the more 
 it plays solely into the hands of the most dedicated, talented players. And the niche can only 
 get so small. Given that Dante alienates everyone but his fans while being essential to DMC, Nero 
 has become a necessity himself. His half of this 20-level epic can be enjoyed without any prior 
 experience. His job is to make a Dante fan out of everyone.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  So much of this game is surprising that you may as well put spoiler tags around the lot, but some 
 things you can take for granted. Underground laboratories hide beneath a castle, for example, the 
 corridors of which are stalked by possessed suits of amour and weird concoctions of guts and metal. 
 Spectral energy and synthetic rock music still conspire to make everything feel like a disco, even 
 under candlelight and the gazes of gargoyles. And if you're not a pantomime freak, you don't get 
 any dialogue.
  
  
  
  Despite Capcom's reticence, it's common knowledge that Dante does become playable, butting heads 
 with Nero in one of the greatest boss battles ever and retaining all four of his DMC3 styles  
 Gunslinger, Sword Master, Royal Guard and Trickster. You should also know that his half of the 
 game, which is faster-paced, is also a reverse trip through levels you've already played. Don't 
 get upset: the spoiler would be to tell you why this isn't a problem, and how ingeniously the levels 
 are reinvigorated, both in strategy and tone.
  
  
  
  But the two halves  those two mentalities behind Dante and Nero  aren't always complementary. 
 Most baffling is the game's use of enforced adaptive difficulty, not optional like in DMC3 but 
 woven inextricably into the scoring system. Fail just a few times and things get easier, the enemy 
 types changing while bosses become weaker. A warm gesture, perhaps, in a game built not just to 
 be enjoyed by all, but completed. But it's overzealous, altering the game before you've even had 
 a chance to adapt yourself, stripping away that traditional sense of achievement. Did you win or 
 did the game take pity? Unless you're either exceptionally good or bad, you never know for sure.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  In a game so disparate in its ambitions, deciding which are important, which are adequately achieved 
 and who is likely to benefit can be an ordeal. But if Capcom's true goal was to deliver Dante to 
 those who never knew they needed him  or could control him  then DMC4 is a massive success. Nero 
 passes the baton at just the right time, his own learning curve enough to whet appetites for Dante's 
 more intricate score attacks. And because both characters' upgrade systems are entirely flexible 
  skill orbs can be refunded and re-spent at leisure, persisting across all game modes and difficulty 
 levels  there's a sense of ownership which breeds perseverance.
  
  
  
  Just as well, because DMC, with its intangible rewards and arcane grading system, is still a tough 
 sell. This new game might act like a mainstream hack-and-slash, throwing its technological weight 
 around, tutoring newcomers and bombarding you with cutscenes and special effects, but the superficialities 
 soon flake off, exposing that all-important score attack. Fear not, students of Dantology: the 
 internet will again be checked, tactics will be exchanged, and every character, enemy, attack and 
 environment will be put beneath the microscope.
  
  
  
  That DMC4 stands up to such scrutiny, even where Nero is concerned, is all that should really matter. 
 As the game ends and its hard-earned crowd of casual players departs, it throws off its disguise 
 and gets back to the old routine, a realtime style-score (numbers, not letters) sneaking back on 
 to the HUD for repeat players. Its adventuring aspects, backtracking included, still jar slightly 
 with the needs of a time trial, but otherwise its levels beg to be replayed.
  
  
  
  In a tricky situation, forced to make a game even Bagpuss could complete, Capcom has pulled off 
 the impossible. DMC4 is not the grotesque misstep it so easily could have been. DMC4 is hardcore.
 
  farsi story
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
   
  ps2   devil may cry  
       
     
    
     
     
      
     
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
     
  
      
  Hideki Kamiya   
     
     
     
  CapCom   
     
     
      
     
    Resident 
 Evil    
      
     
     
     
     
      
     
      
     
 
  
      & 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moondawgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  devil may cry 4 is by far the best DMC game yet. Taking full advantage of the nex gen consoles, the 
 game looks stunning and runs at an amazing and fluid pace. Nero takes the lead this time around 
 and it seems that capcom has another hit character on their hands. While very similar to Dante, Nero 
 packs a few extras punches via is Devil Arm and Sword Charging abilities.
  The Devil Arm allow you to grab foes and beat the crap out of them in many utterly entertaining 
 way, especially so with the boss battles, you won't be able to hold back that smile as you watch 
 Nero effortlessly manhandle those larger than life bosses.
  The story in the game is as usual very good and very entertaining, with the usual over the top 
 cutscenes scattered about.
  The controls are perfectly responsive and the combo system is just incredible.
  With many different 
 difficulty levels and unlockable content, its definitely a game you'll be coming back to over and 
 over again. (even just for the sake of racking up another gratifying SSS combo)
  A must have game for fans of the hack and slash genre and DMC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I want to start out by saying how much I HATE the fact that I need to wait half an hour while the 
 damned game installs a FIVE GIGABYTE install file onto my PS3! The whole point in consoles is that 
 you don't have to bother with installs and crap like this! And what's the benefit? Load times get 
 reduced from 4 seconds to 2 or 3 seconds. . . . whoop-da-de-friggin-do! If it made the difference 
 between load times of 30 seconds and load times of 5 seconds, then maybe it would be worthwhile, 
 but wasting 5 gigs of precious hard disk space to save me a second or two of load times is just 
 plain not worth it, Capcom!
  
  So now that I've gotten that out of the way, DMC4 does in deed live up to the expectations set 
 forth by the first and third games. I still think the original is by far the best in the franchise, 
 but I would be willing to admit that 4 is right around the same quality as 3.
  
  New character Nero is quite cool and the Devil Bringer ability is a very effective new way of keeping 
 combat multipliers going! In fact, it'll be hard to play any subsequent DMC games without a similar 
 feature. Action is fast-paced and usually very entertaining. Boss battles are pretty well done, 
 but still didn't seem quite as appealing as the first game's bosses. The story should keep you 
 entertained while your not kicking demon ass and characters are well-developed. Nero's section 
 of the game is pretty dry and serious, but Dante's portion is full of the kind of humor you expect 
 and want from the franchise.
  
  There are only really two problems with this game (aside from the 5 gig install, that is) , and 
 they are:
  1. The game is a bit too easy. I don't think I ever had any problems clearing a level within one 
 or two tries. The enemies just didn't seem to be aggressive enough, and Nero's Devil Bringer sometimes 
 seemed a bit too overpowered, as it allowed me to keep all the enemies almost constantly stunned 
 and incapable of attacking me. Of course, once you take over as Dante and no longer have the Devil 
 Bringer, its a bit tougher, but he gets access to some pretty powerful weapons that once again 
 give him a decisive advantage. I'm glad the game is not as frustratingly difficult as DMC3 was, 
 but a little more challenge might have been nice, and I'm still waiting for a DMC game to recapture 
 the awesome enemy design from the first game, which was surprisingly strategic for being a twitch-based 
 action game!
  2. The game is too short. You spend about 2/3 of the game as Nero, making your way to a castle. 
 Then take over as Dante for 1/3 of the game to backtrack from the castle to the beginning of the 
 game. Then play as Nero again for the final levels. As such, Dante's time seems very rushed and 
 kind of half-assed. He gains a new weapon after almost every level that yo play as him, giving 
 you very little time to really explore what each new weapon can do and never allowing you to really 
 become comfortable with any of them, which means that most players will probably just spend this 
 whole time using his standard sword and handguns. And the fact that Nero has no auxiliary weapons 
 makes you even less likely to bother using Dante's, since you've spent 2/3 of the game getting 
 used to Nero's swordplay.
  
  Its still a very good game, well worth your time if you are a DMC fan, but it still fails to recapture 
 the shear awesomeness of the first game's level and enemy design and overall pacing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivor-dk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  In the Devil May Cry storyline, the events of Devil May Cry 4 happens after the first game. The 
 game brings back characters from both the first and third game as well as introduce new characters 
 to the series.
  
  This time around, you don't play the whole game as Dante, you mostly play as Nero, who seems like 
 a younger version of Dante. Nero is sassy and provocative, just like Dante, and comes with a lot 
 of new moves that fit right in with the combat that fans of the series have come to love. Nero 
 doesn't have the different styles that Dante have but he does have the Devil Bringer (his arm) 
 that he can use to grab enemies and throw them around.
  
  The core combat of Devil May Cry 4 is just like the other Devil May Cry games. If you want a good 
 score, at the end of each level, you'll have to mix up which attacks you use so you get more style 
 points. Simply mashing triangle all the time, and unleashing the same combo over and over, will 
 not get you a lot of style points.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good but with highly detailed backgrounds the frame rate can 
 get a little choppy at certain levels.
  
  The games soundtrack consists of hard rock made by the same person who made the music to the third 
 game and it works out well in combat. The voice acting is fantastic, to put it simply.
  
  Despite the great voice acting, some of the characters come across as very shallow. Like Kyrie, 
 Nero's love interest; Eventually in the game Kyrie gets kidnapped by the bad guys and you're supposed 
 to feel sorry for him but it's really hard to find the sympathy for Nero, because you hardly even 
 see Kyrie in the game.
  
  My major quirks with the game is with the pointless repetition and its storyline continuity errors. 
 Around midpoint and through most of the remaining game you revisit previously visited areas, this 
 time as Dante, and four of the games boss fights are fought a total of three times. That's 8 fights 
 where Capcom could have thought up new boss fights. I will say, though, that the second time through 
 these four bosses make sense in the games storyline, but the third time around it's just pointless 
 repetition where Capcom should have thought of some different fights. As for the storyline continuity 
 errors; in a flashback cutscene, that takes place in Dante's store, Trish answers the phone and 
 says "Devil May Cry" even though Dante renamed the store Devil Never Cry in the end of the original 
 Devil May Cry game. There is another continuity error but that would be giving away plot spoilers 
 (fans of the series should pick up on it) . And I don't know what Capcom were thinking when they 
 decided that all breasts in the game should bounce like they were made of jello.
  
  To end things off; Devil May Cry 4 is a great game that could have used a few more cutscenes to 
 add depth to some characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Like most from the PS2 era, I've been in love with the Devil May Cry series from Dante's very first 
 adventure. And altough DMC2 was something to be desired, DMC is one of the most crazy, hardcore, 
 awesome action games you can play!
  
  THE GOOD
  
  *Awesome graphics! DMC has always been on the cutting edge visual stimuals, and it looks better 
 than ever on the "next-gen" systems.
  
  *Though some purists may disagree, Nero is an awesome addition to the series. Not that the game 
 needed it per se, but he was a great shot in the arm as far as the action goes. The devil arm powers 
 he possessed definitely made for some over the top combos.
  
  *Ridiculously sick boss fights! The boss fights are like nothing you have ever seen or done in 
 this game, or many others like it.
  
  *Dante is back and kickin more ass than ever before! Once you get your hands on Dante and all his 
 new moves, weapons and smart-ass comments, you won't want to let him go.
  
  THE BAD
  
  *Story has never been this series' stong point. And though it has been improved on so many great 
 levels, I still fell the story was pretty weak. I'd even dare to say the weakiest in DMC history. 
 You'r just thrown into this all new charecter without any backstory at all. You're not even sure 
 how Nero got his "Devil Arm" in the first place, no news on the giant city or it's inhabitants. 
 With what some games are doing as far as story telling goes with the "next-gen" consoles, DMC needs 
 to beef it up..... a little at least.
  
  *Grinding (leveling up) has always been an issue with me in DMC, and it still is on this newest 
 outing. Red orbs and the currency of this universe, and though they can be pretty easy to come 
 by, the price for upgarding gets really high. It doesn't really become that much of an issue until 
 towards the end of the game, when you have massive boss fights and hardly any items to help you 
 along the way. The only solution to this is to go back and play level after level... again, to collect 
 orbs and souls to upgrade. If you've played the game you know what I mean. I don't know it just 
 gets kind of annoying and tideous.
  
  THE UGLY
  
  * The 5 gig, 20 min install controversy. 
  
  
  Well, once again thanks for making it thorugh 
 my review. Now if you'll excuses me, I just beat that game and need to ice down my sore hands! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pincrup
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  
  Devil May Cry has an attitude problem, at least that's what it's teacher probably said about it 
 whilst it waltzed around school, pushing other kids in the mud, and smashing up the hop-scotch 
 markings with it's giant demoniacally possessed arm. Case in point, one of the very first cut scenes 
 in the game shows Nero, the game's protagonist, walking into what appears to be a church ceremony 
 late and proceeds to sit amongst the congregation, listening to heavy metal through huge headphones. 
 Then Dante smashes through the roof and puts a bullet through the head of the leader of this odd 
 cult... but we're getting a bit ahead of ourselves.
  
  The story goes that Nero is a member of a cult that worships the demon Sparda, who famously (well, 
 in the game at least) turned against his demon brethren and sealed off the demonic realm from the 
 human one, thus bringing about a peace which has lasted for around two thousand years. The game 
 kicks off, as previously mentioned, with the assassination of the leader of this cult by who the 
 game initially refers to as "The Man in Red" (but believe me, it's no secret that it's friggin 
 Dante) . You're then tasked with hunting down and taking out this "mysterious" assassin though typically, 
 things soon spiral out of control. A love interest is also thrown in for good measure of course.
 
  
  This increased complexity in narrative marks a departure from the previous installment's typical 
 story (Read: "Kill this dude. Trust us. he's just no good") . The cut scenes that form the entirety 
 of the story-telling provide incentive to keep playing, with over the top fights that could only 
 ever make it into a Devil May Cry game.
  
  If you're wondering whether these lavish cut scenes have detracting from the main game... well... you're 
 partially right. Let's start with why you're partially wrong. The combat as you remember from the 
 previous games is still an in depth as it always was. One of the reason's behind the change of 
 protagonist from Dante to Nero was that's the developers felt they'd done all that they could with 
 Dante's moves, and as such, Nero has a completely new move set. The staple actions are still here, 
 from the move that'll chuck your enemy up into the air to sliding gracefully across the ground 
 to attack an enemy from afar, but many new combos have been added, which adds variety whilst still 
 staying true to the one button combo-ing of the series. The addition of Nero's demonic arm adds 
 and extra level to fights, allowing you to melee enemies, or drag them from across the level amongst 
 other things. It's worth noting however that you won't be finding multiple swords for nero.
  
  As previously mentioned, DMC4 has a new protagonist, but at around the halfway point in the 
 game you switch back to series veteran Dante. It's at around this point that the game takes a turn 
 for the worse. Firstly those who have spent much time perfecting Nero's combos may be disappointed 
 to here that their skill won't carry over to Dante as much as they'd hoped. His combo's are very 
 different from Nero's, and he lacks the devil arm of the new kid on the block. He does however 
 have multiple skills, which you can switch on the fly using the d-pad. ou'll either love or hate 
 this change. It causes you to almost start again, forcing you to relearn fighting techniques which 
 had become second nature when you were fighting with Nero but on the upside, it ensures that if 
 you were perhaps getting bored of Nero's combat, you now have an entirely new character to mess 
 around with.
  
  This mid point in the game also marks the point where you'll start back tracking considerably through 
 areas you've already visited in the first half of the game. This makes the game feel a little half 
 finished and cheap, and whilst you won't be taking exactly the same routes to levels, the repetition 
 in scenery is sure to grate on some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowith
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  seriously, there are only two things wrong in the game- backtracking nd faulty camera angles (rare)
 
  but with superbly beautiful graphics and awesome gameplay cancels them out in my book, Nero is 
 GREAT character and gives a fresh look to the series and virulent dante lovers should just take 
 break and let the series move on.
  the game's real USP in my book is the story which is siply awesome and makes u stick to the game, 
 and has amazing replay value too. ppll might have problems with cheesy dialouges n all but for 
 a fact its much better than dmc3 or any of the older dmcs
  i have the ps3 version but i've also played the 360 one, the ps3 one is definitely superior in 
 graphics and load time
  i dunno why ppl are complaining bout the 20 min data load at the beggining of the game, u can jus 
 watch tv till then and its definitely worth the wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livinglegend100
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  When, I first put the game in my PS3 (after-waiting 30 min. for downloading) it blew me away with 
 the presentation and the way it looks and feels well-crafted. When, i went thought the game it 
 didnt feel rushed like some other games i recently played. I know a alot of people are throwed 
 off by the change in character Nero being the main guy and Dante being more of an secondry
  character.
  
  Don't be mad cause Nero is great new face that opens up the game in a whole new 
 way, not just for being new, but his fighting mechanic with his arm is a great new addition that 
 fans will appericate and newcomers will enjoy, Dante is not too shabby either. He has varieties 
 of fighting styles you can switch on the fly. Personally, Pandora's Box is by far my favorite in 
 the game.
  
  Now, the downside in my opinion is puzzles are pain something but wont make you stop playing at 
 all, just remember an oversized dice. Another, little thing I noticed was that the creators were 
 in the recyling bin a little too with the bosses, you will see the same bosses about three times. 
 it not a huge problem ,but the bosses are not epic enough to fight them more than twice in different 
 parts of the game. Finally, with that say this game is still a best-have For anyone who is a fan 
 or just like action games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodseeker23
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Hmm.. lemme start it by saying this..
  I'm kinda dissapointmend on this 4th game for the dmc series. Why?
  If you played 1-3 and really 
 digg into the story, you'll surely miss Dante as a main char right? who doesn't.
  
  Anyways, Nero is a good new character but he lacks combo styles.
  IF you COMPARE Nero to Dante 
 you'll find Dante has a lot of KICKASS MOVES and not to mention different oriented styles of weapons. 
 
  
  And i think if Nero can have different weapons the game would be so muuuuch better, just like Dante.
 
  
  But Nero's Devil ARM is so kickasss!!! no doubt about that lol.
  
  And i really hope they come out with a 5th installment, because i was hoping to know what happen 
 to Vergil or how did he died etc. 
  
  I view DMC4 as a filler not really part of the story. BUT OVERALL
  This game is so FUN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of DMC since the demo i received with my code veronica.
  Dante has been a favourite of mine among all gaming characters and is up with the likes of Albert 
 Wesker, Royce Glas and Kratos Aurion.
  
  Unlike most i didn't see the inclusion of a new younger character giving me nightmares over the 
 Raiden fiasco since i thought he looked like a pretty powerful muthafooker.
  At watching the opening cutscene i surprised myself with an uncontrable smile growing from cheek 
 to cheek at the amazanitity (yes i no, not real word but thats how great i feel the graphics are) .
 
  And being a fan of typical cliche' gothic opera i found the opening song sung by Kyrie to be in 
 my playlist in seconds.
  Through the opening fight between Nero+Dante it brought back the love i had for this kickass leather 
 wearin gun toting anti-hero but still found myself feeling Nero had his own style of coolness aswell.
 
  While obviously being related to dante someway it is sadly never found out, although Nero does 
 occupy Dante's sarcasim but also a more laid back and serious personality closer to Vergil than 
 Dante, so my money would be on Dante's nephew.
  
  Starting to play, i found Nero to be an easy character to control and his devil bringer a absolute 
 necessity (especially against bosse's) . Throughout Neros run i found the bosse's fun and tough 
 with that Dragon seed spitting hussy a personal favourite. 
  
  Just over half way you switch to Dante and while your tasked with an easy first mission with him 
 to get used yourself comfortable with this Devil-Bringerless protagonist, after playing with Nero 
 for so long you might see yourself dying as Dante in a few situations where your sure you would 
 of came out alive with Nero.
  Through Dante's run you'll be trailing all the way back to the start at the Opera House facing 
 all the same bosse's though in a different order. Dante will encounter some new types of enemies 
 though it is essentially Nero's run with Dante. It's a good thing the graphics are as brilliant 
 as they are since there really is only a handful of enviroments to explore.
  
  Still my main problem is the lack of unlockables and i stress mainly on no extra costumes :S. The 
 main additions are the Bloody Palace survival mode (which is much harder than DMC3's abeilt much 
 shorter) and of course a suped up aurora induced super version of both characters.
  We've come to expect alot of difficulties to slash through, but in the prequels there was at least 
 more costumes to spice up the next run through. Oh and i guess these days no game would be complete 
 without a small and simple gallery which adds around a minute or two to your playtime though some 
 of the pictures in the gallery are surprisingly the hardest unlockables in the game :S.
  
  None the less that doesn't stop this game from being friggen sweet and a must buy... well if your 
 a fan of pure demon-slayage and oversized weapons anywhoo.
  Final Score-8.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: god13g
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  ok here goes: DMC used 2 be one of the best action games and still is an amazing action game. so 
 if u like hack and slashing then u should get it. now 1st the story: the story is something that 
 DMC is gd at. like u play with this guy called "nero" almost through the entier game but u get 
 2 play as the hero DANTA which is stronger then nero. so just like any story it gives u a sence 
 of u getting backstabed. i dont need 2 say anymore coz i dont wanna spoile it.
  2nd the gameplay: the gameplay is just what u want out of a DMC game devil form and kicking ass! 
 so "nero" has a sword which u can charge and then unleash its power and has a gun that charges 
 and gets stronger "will be useful later one in the game" and later on u get devilform for nero. now 
 as for danta he is my fav!. he has his sword that waz passed down 2 him from his father "sparda" 
 well danta can charge the sword and then throw it and his 2 pistols which r very popular rightnow 
 and they r the best out of the other 3 guns u have and u have 3 swords well not all 3 r swords 
 1 is dantas sword the other is boxing gloves and shoes and the other one is a devilish sword making 
 deathnote swords the stick 2 ur target and the blow up in them which is very fun 2 play with and 
 the u have dantas styls which can be trigerd by the D-pad there is 
 
  next are the GFX: the GFX are just amazing 2 look at with a stuning stable 60fps (frame rate per 
 second) and there is this lvl that u play in which has amazing lighting its a jungle and the sunshafts 
 r amazing.
  last is there a replay value?
  HELL YES!! which can be the ultimatly hard difs or the bloodypalece which is this place where u 
 fight and pick ether danta or nero and play more then 99stages i think.. and u kill lots of bad 
 guys oh and no loading times for the swiching with stages.
  so overall its a game u would like 2 buy spend lots of times playing it. hope u enjoy and that 
 my review helped: D . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 took a new step into the new generation consoles, giving it more power for Capcom 
 to create a dream game.
  Nero, the new hero; is a member of The Order Of The Sword and tasked in completing missions, his 
 love interest Kyrie is also a member, as with most people within the off-shore town of Fortuna. 
 Although Neros lack of faith causes dilema and Dantes kickass entry makes quite a scene. The story 
 seems very different to most "first ' person ' kill shoot in a war" games, emphasizing and basing 
 its story around love, which i find more appealing to have something fresh.
  
  Through progressing in the story, you learn many traits and emotions within Neros character, and 
 learn to love his abilities and just 'who he is', I found him to be as enjoyable as Dante and actually 
 missed him when Dante took over the role from a personal view. His personality resembles Dante 
 or as Dante did describe him "Pffft what a punk." with some hilarious rebelious dialouge. Nero 
 is shrouded in mystery as Capcom didnt really reveal who he actually was apart from basic information. 
 Hopefully, Devil May Cry 5 may clear this up.
  
  As for Dante's return within the series, you wont be dissapointed. Dantes arrogant attitude certainly 
 hasn't dissapeared. The change from Nero to Dante actually makes it difficult since your so used 
 to the Devil Bringer and ability to snatch enemies at a long distance, but you are equipted with 
 a new-line of weaponry such as Lucifer and Gilamesh along with firing weapons; Pandoras Box. The 
 game seems quite tightly woven around Dantes plot to over-throw The Order Of The Sword, despite 
 him not being the main protagonist. 
  
  In the game, you can interact with a variety of objects and upgrade to new abilities with the Red 
 Queen, Blue Rose and more. There are a variety of combos which make it enjoyable to watch the spectacular 
 outcome and Neros Devil Bringer can act differently with varying enemies. This makes quite a dazzling 
 display when it comes to getting your Stylish Meter up, and having a sense of accomplishment and 
 adrenaline rush just from playing a game. However if you want to become a true demon hunter, harder 
 difficulties are available which should keep you preoccupied for many hours. Many people claim 
 of broken gameplay, but when you interact within the story and play until your hands bleed, you 
 wont notice instead of being picky.
  The bosses and enemies within DMC4 are quite fun to play around with, (given an easier setting) 
 and generally mess around with combos such as with cannon-fodder enemies like Scarecrows. Taunts 
 within the game give a laugh and spur foes to aggresively attack (depending of which demon) and 
 affect your Stylish Meter also. The bosses were pretty simple, and easy to defeat, but this isnt 
 to say it wasnt fun such as with Berial and Bael etc.
  
  As with the game overall, im extremely happy being a huge Devil May Cry fan and enjoyed Nero even 
 as much as Dante. Eventhough Dante is the coolest still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro_Fayad
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I still don't know how gamespot has the right to say that Devil may cry is repetitive and Assassin's 
 creed isn't... those games can't be compared...
  
  I've first met Devil May Cry when it was already at the 3rd special edition.
  At first instance, 
 I've read the gamespot review, and thought that the game wasn't going to be the same style of game 
 that I've met on the number 3 SE game.
  Yes, it isn't the same experience.
  Yes the 4th version is worse than the 3rd Special one, but that still doesn't make the game more 
 ordinary.
  When I've finished playing the game once, it made me thought... why a 5 GB game has so much more 
 than a 25 GB?? how this is supposed to happen?
  Enemies on the 3rd edition were more entertaining, in more diversity, more dificult, we had More 
 Weapons, more Styles, two awesome characters, lot of bosses, but nonetheless, the 4th version of 
 Devil May Cry doesn't stay behind. 
  So much can be said...
  Beautiful Graphics, Stunning Gameplay, great dificulty, nice history (With so much to be explained... 
 on others games) , great enemies, less bosses, but yeah!! fighting against Dante is one of the most 
 awesome things they've could put in the game, although I wanted to play Dante versus Nero.
  A great New character, with awesome styles.
  Dante with diferent styles during the same mission, 
 without using the statues. 
  Everybody says that DMC4 is repetitive im most aspects, but I don't find it... Even though you 
 go through the same spots more than once, the enemies can be dealed in millions of diferent ways... 
 and they have a lot of diferent attacks that needs reflexes and habilities (comparing to Assassin 
 that the fighting system is just NOT dynamic and the history is just repetitive)
  
  Well to go to the point
  Devil May Cry 4 is still the same Dynamic Game it always had been, with 
 a great fighting system, great dificulties and execelent characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_Nero
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has to be the best game currently out on the PS3. It offers a very quick based game 
 play which is complimented with stunning visuals and stylish combos. On top of having both Nero 
 and Dante as playable characters both are able to purchase new combos and fully upgrade their weapons 
 and find new weapons along the way. The boss battles are challenging but drag on as they are each 
 repeated 3 times. The storyline is great and has many big twists which keep you wondering who's 
 good and who's bad. The control layout is fairly simple and beginners will find it easy to adapt 
 while more experienced gamers will be able to nail the big combos more easily. The difficulties 
 are well designed by giving new players an enjoyable but not too easy experience and challenging 
 more experienced gamers and giving them a good challenge AI. All in all DMC 4 is a brilliant game 
 and is worth every penny spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petef20
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I thought the first Devil May Cry was an excellent game with superb action broken up by puzzle/ 
 platforming elements. The story may have been less than great but the overall scope of the game 
 was very impressive and I'd still say it was one of the PS2's best games. The second game I skipped 
 out on because I was told it was rubbish and I only played the third one very briefly because of 
 its prejudice against check points that made the levels a nightmare to get through. As a result 
 of that Devil May Cry 4 is the first one I've really played since the original and so I was prepared 
 for it being a very different feeling game. So I was very surprised when it wasn't. at all.
  
  Marking the game down for having the exact same gameplay as its PS2 predecessor isn't really 
 fair. The main reason the combat hasn't changed in over half a decade is that it was pretty much 
 perfect to start with, but there are some other things that could've done with being updated. The 
 game is very linear, which isn't necessarily a bad thing but there's a sequence near the start 
 with a whole load of demons wreaking havoc on the streets and all you can do is watch as you ruin 
 across a balcony up above. It can feel a bit constrictive at times which doesn't give it the feel 
 of a next gen game.
  
  So what does give it the feel of a next gen game? Well for one the graphics. DMC4 has fantastic 
 visuals and great character designs and animations. The only bad thing about the graphics is the 
 show effects. They look pretty awful, but aren't really noticeable with the exception of one puzzle 
 that focuses on where the shadows fall. A note for developers, if there's something about your 
 game which isn't great do not draw attention to it! The other part of the presentation is the game's 
 story and the cutscenes which tell it. First off the story's dire, but worse than that the dialog 
 is horrendous for the most part. Several times the main character will try to use a witty line 
 or pun that falls so flat it's almost laughable.
  
  Of course although not great the story is important for why you're battling through hordes of demons, 
 and why you're not the series' protagonist Dante. Well for some unaccountable reason you begin 
 the game as some guy called Nero who is quite similar to Dante in that he also has a huge sword 
 and gun, as well as long white hair and a leather coat. In fact the two look so similar at one 
 point towards the end of the game my flatmate asked me why the same guy was talking to himself, 
 not realising that they were two separate characters. Nero's main difference to Dante is that he 
 has a demon hand which allows for some very cool grab attacks. You do eventually get to control 
 Dante again just after the game's halfway point and as he still features heavily throughout the 
 game he's not missed.
  
  But Devil May Cry isn't about the story and the game seems to know that. It comes off as very tongue-in-cheek, 
 to the point where you recon that the developers know the story's awful and so just have fun with 
 it. Now this is where the cutscenes shine. The action in the cutscenes as well as the overall quality 
 of the animation is fantastic. Many Hollywood movies would do well to take a look at some of these 
 action sequences. Sure they're over the top and seem to be taken straight from an action anime 
 series, but they're just really fun to watch. Whilst on the topic of the graphics though I have 
 to say that the game is a bit cheap with a few transformation sequences. Many of the enemies for 
 some reason can transform into insect looking things and almost each time it's done it's off screen 
 and even the few times it's seen it's hidden with a bright lighting effect which I thought was 
 very cheap. The only other slight gripe I have is that your characters can do some things in the 
 cutscenes that they can't even come close to when you're controlling them which comes off as annoying 
 if nothing else.
  
  Speaking of the combat I suppose I should mention why it's so awesome. As I said you start as Nero 
 who is armed with a sword that has a throttle on its handle, a double barrelled pistol and his 
 devil arm. Each of these items can be upgraded as you progress through the game allowing you to 
 unlock new and interesting ways to slice up the many, many enemies that you'll encounter through 
 the game. Of course just as you're getting used to Nero the game switches you to Dante who has 
 a similar fighting style (in other words also a big sword and guns) but it's the details of each 
 of their attacks which makes the two so interesting. Dante has a whole range of different attack 
 styles which can be switched between on the fly making for some very cool combos. He also has three 
 different primary and secondary weapons which keep things interesting. In fact there's so many 
 upgrades and extra abilities for both characters you'll have to go through the game at least twice 
 to get the full use of them!
  
  The levels themselves are well designed and most end with a cool boss fight. One of the best things 
 about the levels this time around is that they're possible to complete! As I mentioned Devil May 
 Cry 3 refused to have checkpoints throughout the level. Now while I'm all on board for a game which 
 is tough the way they did it was just poor design. I got to the boss on the first level in that 
 game and died and so had to go through the entire level all over again only to be killed by the 
 boss again. After doing this for the third time it was then traded back into my local games store. 
 DMC4 is still tough, but in a far less "controller thrown through the TV screen" kind of way. Firstly 
 it has checkpoints throughout each level which is nice, so if you do get killed by the boss you 
 just start right back from the start of the fight. If you die several times the game even puts 
 it down to an easier difficulty for that particular battle so that you can progress. However it 
 never loses its battle hardened roots as if you die or need the boss to be put on easy mode for 
 you the game points and laughs at you because of it. The amount of points you get to power up your 
 weapons will be less if you were less successful getting through the level which keeps you as a 
 player striving to improve yourself as the game forces you to.
  
  So the cutscenes are good, graphics are great and the fighting and progression system is also excellent 
 so what could possibly be wrong with this game to warrant it not getting a higher score? Well there's 
 quite a few things. Firstly when you take over as Dante at about the halfway point he just goes 
 through all of Nero's levels in reverse order. This isn't actually as bad as it sounds as he does 
 get different standard enemies to fight and because his fighting style is different even the same 
 bosses feel fresh. The game does however make you face almost all of the bosses a third time towards 
 the end of the game which is just a bit too far. The boss battles may be fun but when battling 
 them for a third time it seems stretching it a bit. Even the final battle is pretty much the same 
 as one you fight about halfway through the game.
  
  But that isn't the worst part of the game by far, the worst part is the platforming segments. Apparently 
 the DMC creator never plays any other games for fear of them polluting the ideas for his games. 
 This is never more apparent than in the platforing sections as if he had ever played any platforming 
 game such as Mario or Jak and Daxter he'd realise why the jumping puzzles in DMC4 suck so much. 
 Platforming needs precise controls to perform fiddly jumps, which is something Devil May Cry doesn't 
 have as far as movement goes. You basically have two types of jumps; a standard hop which goes 
 pretty high but only about three feet forward and a running leap which goes about fifteen feet. 
 Neither of these are good for traversing different platforms. But if that wasn't bad enough the 
 camera tends to be fixed in these situations purposefully to give you the worst angle making judging 
 which direction to press near impossible. These sections are so bad and so infuriating that they 
 should be used as a type of torture technique. There are three I can think of in the game which 
 are particularly bad and each of them I came very close to turning off the console and throwing 
 the game out of the window. The only thing that stopped me was the promise of exciting battles 
 to follow (which of course there were) .
  
  So with the exception of some disastrous level and story design Devil May Cry 4 is still a good 
 game, if not a great one. If you're a big fan of the series then it's probably worth buying but 
 if not then it might be better to rent for a few days. Considering it isn't particularly long it 
 can easily be finished in a week. However there are a few extras after you finish it and trying 
 to get all of both character's power ups as well as doing all the secret missions does extend the 
 game's lifespan a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight; if you're buying Devil May Cry 4, you know what to expect: Over the 
 top action, and shallow hack and slash gameplay.
  
  It's not a bad thing, however. The fighting is so over the top, it feels like it's straight out 
 of an action movie. Every weapon and skill is upgradeable, along with your health bars and your 
 Devil Trigger gauge (basically your super mode) .
  
  There is a pretty distinct difference between playing as Nero and Dante; Nero has the Devil Bringer, 
 which can be used as a grappling hook, or a melee attack in combat. Dante has a wider variety of 
 weapons, and instead of a Devil Bringer, he uses styles (using the D-Pad to select a fighting style, 
 and Circle to use the selected style) .
  
  The storyline is no novel-worthy piece, but it's still interesting enough to make the cutscenes 
 fun to watch. The game is also clever and witty, especially in a few of Dante's cutscenes.
  
  The final verdict: If you're a fan of hack n' slash games, you'll like Devil May Cry 4. If 
 you like the Devil May Cry series, this is a nice addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has an attitude problem, at least that's what it's teacher probably said about it 
 whilst it waltzed around school, pushing other kids in the mud, and smashing up the hop-scotch 
 markings with it's giant demoniacally possessed arm. Case in point, one of the very first cut scenes 
 in the game shows Nero, the game's protagonist, walking into what appears to be a church ceremony 
 late and proceeds to sit amongst the congregation, listening to heavy metal through huge headphones. 
 Then Dante smashes through the roof and puts a bullet through the head of the leader of this odd 
 cult... but we're getting a bit ahead of ourselves.
  
  The story goes that Nero is a member of a cult that worships the demon Sparda, who famously (well, 
 in the game at least) turned against his demon brethren and sealed off the demonic realm from the 
 human one, thus bringing about a peace which has lasted for around two thousand years. The game 
 kicks off, as previously mentioned, with the assassination of the leader of this cult by who the 
 game initially refers to as "The Man in Red" (but believe me, it's no secret that it's friggin 
 Dante) . You're then tasked with hunting down and taking out this "mysterious" assassin though typically, 
 things soon spiral out of control. A love interest is also thrown in for good measure of course.
 
  
  This increased complexity in narrative marks a departure from the previous installment's typical 
 story (Read: "Kill this dude. Trust us. he's just no good") . The cut scenes that form the entirety 
 of the story-telling provide incentive to keep playing, with over the top fights that could only 
 ever make it into a Devil May Cry game.
  
  If you're wondering whether these lavish cut scenes have detracting from the main game... well... you're 
 partially right. Let's start with why you're partially wrong. The combat as you remember from the 
 previous games is still an in depth as it always was. One of the reason's behind the change of 
 protagonist from Dante to Nero was that's the developers felt they'd done all that they could with 
 Dante's moves, and as such, Nero has a completely new move set. The staple actions are still here, 
 from the move that'll chuck your enemy up into the air to sliding gracefully across the ground 
 to attack an enemy from afar, but many new combos have been added, which adds variety whilst still 
 staying true to the one button combo-ing of the series. The addition of Nero's demonic arm adds 
 and extra level to fights, allowing you to melee enemies, or drag them from across the level amongst 
 other things. It's worth noting however that you won't be finding multiple swords for Nero.
  
  As previously mentioned, DMC4 has a new protagonist, but at around the halfway point in the 
 game you switch back to series veteran Dante. It's at around this point that the game takes a turn 
 for the worse. Firstly those who have spent much time perfecting Nero's combos may be disappointed 
 to here that their skill won't carry over to Dante as much as they'd hoped. His combo's are very 
 different from Nero's, and he lacks the devil arm of the new kid on the block. He does however 
 have multiple skills, which you can switch on the fly using the d-pad. ou'll either love or hate 
 this change. It causes you to almost start again, forcing you to relearn fighting techniques which 
 had become second nature when you were fighting with Nero but on the upside, it ensures that if 
 you were perhaps getting bored of Nero's combat, you now have an entirely new character to mess 
 around with.
  
  This mid point in the game also marks the point where you'll start back tracking considerably through 
 areas you've already visited in the first half of the game. This makes the game feel a little half 
 finished and cheap, and whilst you won't be taking exactly the same routes to levels, the repetition 
 in scenery is sure to grate on some. 
  
  Graphically Devil May Cry 4 excels on all fronts. Character models look smooth and polished, enemies 
 look sufficiently varied and incredibly evil and levels have taken on a much vaster quality, perhaps 
 inspired by the cinematic God of War. 
  
  Sound is adequate in all senses of the word. Whilst the effects sound as deep as always, the voice 
 acting is at best passable and at worst cringe worthy. In the music department DMC4 retains the 
 series trademark gothic score, and of course the cheesy death metal returns at full force.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 manages to walk the thin line between staying close to the series roots but 
 whilst also remaining new and fresh. Above all though, it's simply a blast to play, and when a 
 game has a button especially to taunt your enemy with cringe-inducing phrases, can you really say 
 no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geonelone
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Nice game but as others say it's some sort of repetitive game... and most of all if no one notices 
 or if someone does... ever thought of having dante some cool stuff like nero have... lets just 
 say when you compare their power or abilities and also weapon, nero is much superb for me.... 
 
  
  wish dante had his old swords... like agni and udra (correct me if im wrong can remember the name) 
 the two swords that talk... it has a better combo... and that's all.... i just wanna see dante 
 become even stronger if theres gonna be a DMC5.... with nero... 
  one more thing! WISH that lady and trish are playable..... hahaha! LOL
  i think it'll be cooler 
 if those two gal can be used to kick some demon ass... like of course the previews DMC's.... also 
 i enjoy changing char.. on different missions... kinda a challenge... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  The game is spread in 20 different missions and 6 difficulties and 2 awesome playable characters 
 the cocky youngster Nero and the Legendary Devil Hunter 
 
  Nero has the the all new Devil Bringer which allow you to smack down demons and on the other hand 
 its Dante with 5 different fighting styles Sword Master, Gun Slinger, Trickster, Royal Guard and the 
 Dark Slayer. Also each character has his own fire arms Nero has a revolver called "Blue Rose" a 
 six-shooter customized by Nero to fire with a double barrel and Dante use his standard twin handguns 
 "Ebony & Ivory" that he personalty designed. And now my best part the "close range weapons". As 
 everyone knows Dante use his standard longsword sword that his father gave him called "Rebellion" 
 to clash demons in DMC4 he will obtain 2 more the "Gilgamesh" gauntlets and grieves with incredible 
 power and the "Lucifer" a weapon attached in Dante's back and fires red blades which you can make 
 them explode when you want with the throw of a rose. Nero only has the "Red Queen" which he only 
 can control because is a blade developed by the Order Of The Sword he customized it heavily to 
 suits his needs. All in all the game rocks so hurry up and by it now!!!!! 
  Ladies and Gentleman's............. WELCOME TO  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  DMC4 is the first game in the series that I've played, and it is, simply put, amazing! Among action 
 games, this is one of the finest I've played in a long time.
  
  I think my favourite thing about the game has got to be its story, or more specifically the cutscenes. 
 These cutscenes are pretty incredible, with Dante or Nero fighting off against enemies and killing 
 them in awesome ways. The two main characters are always extremely sarcastic when dealing with 
 the enemies which is always hilarioius. The story itself is really cool too, and while I won't 
 give many spoilers, I'll just say that it's got a lot of touching moments throughout. :)
  
  The gameplay is also really awesome. Pulling off combos with your crazy sword and guns is always 
 fun. The only problem is that the game involves A LOT of backtracking, to the point where you're 
 even fighting the exact same bosses in the later half of the game. Still, backtracking aside, the 
 gameplay is super fun.
  
  The graphics and sound are top knotch as well. Playing this game in 720p, I was stunned at the 
 amount of detail that goes into each character and the environments. It is simply amazing and definitely 
 a very nice game to look at. The music is really cool as well, with hardcore heavy metal music 
 playing during the fighting that really keeps you energized throughout.
  
  The length of DMC4 is kind of short, managed to beat it in about 11 hours. There's certainly a 
 large amount of replay value though, including several difficulty settings to play through the 
 game, and I definitely have interest in playing through the game at the next highest difficulty 
 maybe sometime in the future.
  
  Overall, DMC4 is a must-have for fans of action games. It really is just an awesome game and a 
 joy to play. While it doesn't quite reach the level of God of War, it certainly manages to get 
 close. If you own a PS3 or an Xbox 360, then you definitely owe it to yourself to play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The story:
  Devil May Cry now you play as Nero another half demon like Dante. Nero is searching for Dante and 
 helping this certain group to caught Dante. Nero is the newly character in this game, that has 
 new powers to use. When you begin you are in love with this girl, once she is taken from you, you 
 are quite angry and began the journey. You can also switch characters in this game once you hit 
 a certain mission.
  
  Graphics/Music:
  This game is really wonderful the graphics improved a bit but not as much. The characters are also 
 great you can tell the expressions are excellent. The voice acting is good, same as before in the 
 Devil May cry series. The music is really great for the game. The cut-scene looks really real and 
 it looks like a real Animated movie. 
  
  Weapons: 
  Now you have a new weapon called the Devil Bringer, this is Nero new weapon. He uses his arm to 
 grab demons, and also to jump from higher place. You can also upgrade new styles such as speed, 
 health and other upgrades for guns and swords. Now you use souls to buy the newly equipped items, 
 instead of using the red orbs.
  
  Other:
  Dealing with monsters are quite impossible hard at most point. Sometimes you will repeatedly have 
 to beat the monster several times. But the other demons are quite easy too beat. But this game 
 is really good, different from the other DMC series. Something fresh for new comers that never 
 played the game is really good, but you might not get the story much when you play as Dante. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 was a game that I couldn't ignore, and though I'd never played the earlier games, 
 I was looking forward to it's release quite a lot. Then the reviews came in and I was a little 
 suprised at how all these '8's' were coming up, and slating the game design as repetitive and unimaginative. 
 
  
  Well, here we are a few months later, I bought the game a few days ago and just finished it. My 
 opinion; one of the standout games of the next-gen consoles.
  
  Graphically, it's very ambitious and delivers on high levels, with some excellent cutscenes and 
 beautiful level designs. Much of the theme is gothic, which is nailed perfectly, but there's also 
 a lush forest to run around that is also looking absolutely amazing. Also, the game perfoms great, 
 only one section towards the end started to look a little odd, but I have a pre-owned copy so maybe 
 it's just that.
  
  The gameplay is great, quite similar to ninja gaiden, with plenty of button bashing combo's and 
 some great finishing moves from Nero with his demon arm. There's quite a bit of running around 
 to do, and a few platformy sections, but everything feels balanced and nothing seems like it shouldn't 
 be there.
  
  Okay, so I'm going to address the thing everyone complains Great about now. The fact that half-way 
 through, you switch characters to Dante and have to backtrack through the same places you have 
 been with Nero, and fight the same bosses. I was awaiting this with some fear, but when I actually 
 came to it, it wasn't that bad at all. In fact, it's quite a strange and original game design that 
 makes perfect sense whilst playing through the game. Also, the fact that it opens up a completely 
 new combat style wih Dante makes it an extremely fresh half-way point.
  
  Not a dull moment throughout the game, I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys games, especially 
 if they like their epic, overblown stories and lots of emotional cutscenes!
  
  So...
  
  The Good: Great Cutscenes and brilliant voice acting (lots of screaming!!) - Great graphics - Fun 
 gameplay - Plenty of replay value
  
  The Bad: Switching characters and backtracking might annoy some people who think about it too much?? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  It took me a long time to decide if I should get this game because I didn't really like the 2nd 
 and 3rd one as much as the 1st one. After the original, it just went straight downhill, till this 
 game, DMC4 came out. I finally decided to buy it and I am glad I did. The 4th installment is one 
 of the best since the original. The fun is back, the story is interesting (except for the loving 
 part between Nero and his girl) , and the graphics are truely Next Generation. 
  
  This game looks really good. The movements of the characters are fluent and flawless, no glitch 
 anywhere to be found. The backgrounds are beautiful to watch, especially outside the temple. When 
 you look at it, it makes you feel like you are really there. Capcom did a really good job in the 
 graphics side.
  
  The music is Rock, which fits perfectly for this kind of game and these kind of characters. The 
 music actually makes me want to play the game. It gives you a boost, like you are ready to kick 
 some butts. They should've included the Soundtrack in the game as an extra after you beat the game. 
 It's a Bluray disc afterall, so fitting a simple soundtrack wouldn't hurt.
  
  The story and gameplay are pretty decent. You start out as Nero and you are running to the church 
 to meet up with your girlfriend, who's a church member. On your way there, a few Demons pops up 
 and you have kick some butt. After you make it to the church and pretend like it was nothing, you 
 sit down and listen to the prayers. Nero gets bored and went over to his girlfriend and gave her 
 a gift he bought her. As Nero was about to leave, Dante shows up and messes up the party. He started 
 to kill people. Nero's girlfriend got hurt, so he's pissed and jumps in and fight with Dante. That's 
 where the fun comes in. In the game, you will collect red orbs. These red orbs are collected after 
 you beat a Demon. With these orbs, you can purchase items, such as, healing health and magic, or 
 resurrection artifacts that lets you use it if you die. The other thing you have to look out for 
 is after you beat a mission, you will get points. With these points, you can purchase skills. You 
 can choose what kind of skills you want for your character or let the game choose for you. I rather 
 choose it myself. It's better that ways cause I know what I want.
  
  There's only a few things I think they should have included in the game. The soundtrack of the 
 game and Japanese Dialog. I'm sure the Bluray can fit those extra minor things. 
  
  Overall, this game is great and pretty much got underappreciated. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who's into action games like God of War or Ninja Gaiden. Also, the loading is really fast 
 in this game. You will hardly see it loading after the 25min install in the beginning. I know a 
 lot of you complain about that, but it is not as bad as people make it is. They are just fanboys 
 who hates on the PS3. I've been through the install and it was nothing so dramatic. While installing 
 the game, I went to my PC and browse the web. In no time it was done. Was it worth it? Yeah, hell 
 Yeah. Less load time, why should we complain?
  
  Anyways, get this game if you are an Action game fan. Peace out!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaerun
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  When putting the game in for the first time, you are unfortunately greeted with a loooong installation 
 process. I found this quite disappointing. I recommend getting a good drink, sitting down and watching 
 TV, flicking over now and then to check progress. Don't you worry, it's definitely worth it.
  
  Those of you that are familiar with the series will probably be confused at Dante originally 
 being portrayed as a villain, but don't worry, it all rights itself in the end, and is definitely 
 an ending that will make you say "Ahh, so that's what X was meaning in that scene with Y!" 
  
  The main character this time around is Nero, a brash, younger hero with the apparently terrible 
 inconvenience of a demon arm. He mentions a few time that it frustrates him, but then, from the 
 looks of things, so does everything else. One problem I had with Nero is he always seemed angry, 
 and doesn't come close to gaining the same attachment I have with Dante. He seems angry or disinterested 
 with most events, apart from his flame, Kyrie. (pronounced Kirr-ee-eh)
  
  How does this demon arm come in to actual gameplay, you ask? Well, Nero can use it to bring enemies 
 closer to him, whether he is in the air or on the ground, pick enemies up and slam them into the 
 ground, or even counter enemies attacks. New puzzles appear, as well. Little glowing blue orbs 
 to latch onto and swing around on. Nero also has the fun-to-use Exceed system, making his sword 
 Red Queen attack faster and harder, plus changing what he says when using certain attacks (such 
 as "Crazy!" when using High Roller) . I found getting combos with Nero fairly fun, in that you could 
 smash enemies into the air, pull them down, hit them up again, leap up to meet them... and so on.
 
  
  Unfortunately, I did not find enough difference between Nero and Dante, hence a lot of speculation 
 they are related before the release. I'm not going to touch upon that, but they are remarkably 
 similar. Instead of two pistols, Nero has a physically-dubious double barreled revolver, which 
 fires at roughly the same rate. Close combat wise, they do look a little similar, but Dante's combos 
 are more fun to use. I love Stinger in particular. It was a good idea to make the player play as 
 Nero first (oh, people are going to hate me for saying that one) as his combat mechanics are easier 
 to pick up than Dante's. Newbies to the DMC series will find it a lot easier to get style combos 
 with Nero, as style combos with Dante tend to involve a LOT of style switching. And more attention 
 paid to the fight. Ranged combat as Dante at least has a point, with Nero you may as well throw 
 your boot at the enemy. Until you get Charge Shot. Then it all changes. I love using Nero's Devil 
 Bringer arm to pull the enemy close whilst holding Square, then just as they get to you releasing 
 a Charged Shot in their face. Good style rating for it, too.
  
  Storyline-wise, it's interesting and hard to discuss without revealing spoilers, so I'll leave 
 it at the storyline will at first confuse, then completely capture you.
  
  Graphics are quite simply amazing. Very immersing, you'll probably want to watch cinematics over 
 and over again, and each time you'll find a visual effect that amazes you all over again. Even 
 in the middle of combat, each swing of your sword, each reeling enemy will send a tingle up your 
 spine. It is a beautiful game. Simply beautiful.
  
  Audio is fantastic. The voices are great, Dante and Nero are both great to listen to. The effects 
 and in-combat speech is great, as well as Taunts (accessed with Select) . Granted, the combat music 
 will get extremely annoying. There should be a little more variation when it comes to in-game music, 
 but apart from that, fantastic sound. Hearing your blade thunk into enemies, scything... uh... 
 scythes, bullets whizzing through the air. Play this with surround sound and you'll duck every 
 time shots are fired.
  
  I now come to my major gripe with the game: Difficulty levels. Difficulty jumps too much for beginners, 
 and those new to DMC will find it hard to adjust to Devil Hunter after playing Human. In Human, 
 charge in sword swinging, screaming LEEROYYYY JENKINNSSSSS! and have fun doing so. After Human 
 though, strategy kicks in. Enemies use combos, and powerful moves. Use the same tactics and you 
 will die. It is as simple as that. However, there is a plethora of difficulty levels to choose 
 from. Human, Devil Hunter, Dante Must Die, Heaven or Hell and finally Hell or Hell (enough to make 
 a grown man cry) . So, replay ability is there. Definitely there.
  
  In conclusion, this game is definitely one for your collection. If you like actions, go for it. 
 If you like RPGs, you will enjoy getting new abilites. If you like FPS, well, maybe not so much. 
 But there are guns. Big guns. And shapeshifting ones! Keep it away from the kiddies though, strangely 
 enough hacking up demons might scare em. But enjoy, nevertheless.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This time Dante plays the back burner to newcomer Nero, but when you do finally play as him its 
 worth the wait just to fight the Savior. New characters are cool and interesting. Credo is one 
 of my favorites to see and fight against.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have to be seen to be believed they are astonishing. Clean visuals, great 
 lighting effects, rich color, etc. Character models are unique and stylish. Fighting Credo on Dante 
 Must Die Mode with his eyes glowing dark purple as he swings his sword and cuts the ground is crazy. 
 The cinematic scenes are so tight they have to be seen even if you beat the game ten times you'll 
 still want to watch them.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are solid even if the soundtrack gets annoying after awhile, but if you're 
 a DMC fan your use to it by now. Sword slices, gun shots, enemy screams all sound terrific.
  
  Controls: The controls are good for Dante but, when your using Nero its best to change your 
 controls. Make square/devil bringer & R2/Gun. This allows you to charge the gun while you swing 
 your sword. This is a must to get Stylish ratings faster. It takes awhile to get use to but it's 
 worth it.
  
  Overall: The game is noticeably easier than past titles even on harder difficulties. Son of Sparda 
 and Dante Must Die are the best ways to play the game. Boss fights are very fun to play, but they 
 get repetitive since you have to fight some more than THREE TIMES!!!!!!!!!!! I can beat most bosses 
 without taking damage because I've fought them so many times. 
  
  THIS GAME IS A MUST PLAY!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Couth_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Given the wild reception I have seen of this game, I will try to write a review as objectively 
 as possible. It seemed many peoples feelings toward the game were influenced by whether they enjoyed 
 the first 3 installments of Devil May Cry, or whether they prefer other Hack n' Slash games like 
 Ninja Gaiden, or God of War. Having never played a Devil May Cry game I am free of subjective feelings 
 toward the series. With that said, I am thoroughly impressed with Devil May Cry 4. I can't nail 
 my finger on one specific thing, but all the elements that make the game seem to mesh together 
 perfectly. It seems to have the right mix of game play, combat, corny but interesting story, amazing 
 boss fights, breathtaking visuals, and even length and replayability.
  
  One of the things that plagued early PlayStation 3 titles this generation was the short length 
 and lack of re-playability. Games like Uncharted and Heavenly Sword are great in their own regard, 
 but both clock in at under 10 hours and offer little incentive to play again. Devil May Cry 4 boasts 
 a campaign between 15-20 hours, and there is reason to play again, or re do missions as any completed 
 mission is easily accessible at any time, and points are given which are used to cash in on abilities 
 and combat skills for your main characters, Dante and Nero. There is also achievements you can 
 earn, and various difficulties which can be unlocked to challenge your skills with the game.
  
  If your into competing, your top scores per level are recorded, and you can check out the online 
 leader boards from around the world, to see how your skills stack up against the worlds best Devil 
 May Cry junkies.
  
  One drawback of the game though, is that levels are recycled. You play through the levels and puzzles 
 as the new character Nero, then go back through the same areas as the old hero Dante. There are 
 even some bosses in the game that you fight up to 3 times, each time increasing in difficulty. 
 So you would think the game could get repetitive, only I found the game to be the complete opposite. 
 You begin as Nero, and start off with only a few combat skills, but as the game progresses, so 
 does your character, and you can enhance Nero's and Dante's skills as you wish, cashing in the 
 points you earn from levels. Because of this combat is constantly changing, and once you think 
 you have all of Nero's abilities mastered, your switched to Dante, who has a completely different 
 combat style, which is more complex than Nero's. And once you think you have Dante mastered, you 
 are back to Nero. Because of this, it's very difficult for the game to get old in my opinion.
 
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed Devil May Cry 4 from start to finish and think it is one of the better games 
 this generation without online play. I think it is worth at least a look from everyone who owns 
 a PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoJaMcco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Devil May Cry series ever since its conception and, aside from the abomination 
 that is the 2nd, it has continued to impress me. The newest installment does a lot more.
  
  I admit, I was skeptical when I found out that the game wouldn't fully feature Dante, but I jumped 
 the gun. Nero is a great new charcter who adds a new depth to the story as well as excellent new 
 game mechanics. 
  
  The visuals far surpass anything that has come out to date and the audio fully accents both the 
 feel of the cutscenes to the intensity of the action. The music and scores are perfect for the 
 environments and the situations.
  
  Also, I was suprised by the plot. The cutscenes are superior to many recent Hollywood movies and 
 the voice acting was excellent, which is something the series isn't known for.
  
  Enough of the artistic details, let's talk about the action. Its amazing. Both Nero and Dante's 
 moves will be cause for plenty of "OH SNAP" moments and it never seems to wear off. And on the 
 plus side, the difficulty has been lowered, but is still challenging.
  
  The puzzles were actually a great add-on too. The board game scenes are twisty and can be just 
 as fun as the action.
  
  There is still a bit of repetition and it can be very unforgiving at times, but that all is relieved 
 once you pull off some of the most intense combos an action game can offer.
  
  This is a superb entry and I look forward to the nest one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Devil May Cry 4 is the latest in the DMC series. It plays like any other game in the series, and 
 it's just as good! A few changes occur in the series with this installment too. Dante is not the 
 protagonist in Devil May Cry 4. This game introduces you to Nero, who has a demonic arm which is 
 quite handy when playing the game. A lot of awesome features in it, and it's an addictive game 
 that will glue you to your PS3/360 for a while.
  
  THE GOOD:
  Highly addictive, interesting character design, neat graphics, cool online features.
  
  THE 
 BAD:
  Weapon upgrades would've been nice, the same enemies over and over with the same ways of killing 
 them, the gun sucks... enough said.
  
  Graphics:
  A huge improvement from the previous installments. They are very impressive too! They aren't the 
 best i've seen on a 7th-Gen console, but since when did that matter? They are still very impressive. 
 Simply everything in it is pretty much excellent!!
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack in DMC4 is decent. However, the music is far too repetitive. It's good, but there 
 could have been a bit more of a selection. Hearing that same rock song with those weird lyrics 
 in them ain't too bad, but does start to get slightly repetitive and boring. I also have to mention 
 that song that Kyrie sings, now that's used too much as well, still alright though. However, there 
 are some cool tracks here and there. Voices aren't too bad either.
  
  Gameplay:
  It plays like your average DMC game. There is the button mashing action, the puzzles you need to 
 solve, the demons that you need to kill. There's quite a bit to do in Devil May Cry 4. It's a good 
 place to start for beginners of the series too. It keeps you up with the story, and there's a difficulty 
 level for those who are new to the series. It's quite cool fighting enemies, whether it's a regular 
 enemy or a boss. You have many ways of killing them; The sword, which looks cool and pretty much 
 is; the demonic arm, which is probably the best way of killing them; and the gun, which I do NOT 
 recommend. Nero's arm also has this grappling feature which is likeable in it too. The buying feature 
 is quite good too. You get these little red things, which is one of the two currencies in DMC4. 
 These little red things are used to buy healing items. As for the souls, they are earned at the 
 end of every mission. This currency is used to buy abilities. It could be sword or gun combos, 
 or maybe more speed. You can also find these hidden blue particles. Every four gives you an extra 
 health bar, much like in Zelda. These particular items can be found in hidden places, or in Secret 
 Missions which are also found in hidden places. Secret Missions are found in scrolls that are in 
 the most random places. Most of these missions are near impossible, but can be done. When looking 
 for hidden places, you can sometimes tell where they are by looking at Nero's right arm. If it's 
 glowing, then something secret is nearby. Bosses are quite cool. They all have interesting strategies 
 on beating them. It could be shooting them to death or grabbing them and slicing them to death. 
 Most of the bosses are quite cool. The online feature is cool too. There's a ranking of the best 
 scores in every mission, and you can also view your achievements. You can also check whether any 
 of your PS3 contacts have played DMC4, and you can view their achievements too. Not actual online 
 gameplay, but maybe that could be some new feature later on. The gameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is 
 fantastic!!
  
  Character Design:
  Nero is the main character in DMC4, while Dante is not on Nero's side or the other side. There's 
 a bit of a rivalry between Nero and Dante. Kyrie is also worth mentioning, as she is the main female 
 in it. Good character design. Some other really good characters in it as well.
  
  Storyline:
  The game opens with Nero hurrying towards the central Opera House where the Order 
 of the Sword is conducting a ceremony, his right arm in a sling. Meanwhile Kyrie, Nero's romantic 
 interest, is beginning to open the ceremony with a song and is disappointed not to find Nero in 
 the audience. She begins her song none the less as Nero encounters several Scarecrow demons on 
 his way to the Opera House; he easily dispatches them without breaking his stride and arrives at 
 the Opera House just in time to hear the end of Kyrie's song. Following this, Kyrie joins Nero 
 in the audience where she finds Nero has left a present for her in the form of a gold necklace. 
 The High Priest of the Order of the Sword, Sanctus, beckons the Order members to join him in prayer; 
 Nero is visibly bored by this and is about to leave despite Kyrie's protests when his right arm 
 begins to glow ominously. At this moment, Dante bursts through the ceiling and assassinates Sanctus. 
 The knights quickly rally to avenge their fallen leader but are easily dispatched by the assassin. 
 Nero, under the impression that Kyrie is in danger, attacks Dante initiating a fight between the 
 two. As Dante gains the upper hand, Nero reveals his demonic right arm named the Devil Bringer 
 and uses its power to seemingly kill Dante by impaling him with his own sword upon the statue of 
 Sparda. Dante merely jests "getting better" and pushes himself off the statue. As Dante removes 
 the sword from his chest Nero asks, "You're not human are you?" Dante replies that "We are the 
 same you and I... and them," pointing to one of the dead knights. Nero looks and it is revealed 
 that the knight was possessed with a demonic appearance. Nero looks up to see that Dante is already 
 resting on the hole in the ceiling from which he came. Dante states that he thinks Nero has something 
 different from the others then swoops out of view just as the knights reinforcements arrive. Nero 
 is charged with capturing Dante and bringing him back to the Order to answer for his crimes by 
 Credo, the leader of the Orders knights and Kyrie's brother. Upon leaving the Opera House however, 
 a demonic horde begins to lay waste to the city. Nero and Kyrie are separated as Nero begins to 
 slay the demons. Whilst journeying to Fortuna Castle he meets Gloria, a new member to the Order. 
 Nero fights his way into the depths of Fortuna Castle, on the way, the player is allowed to witness 
 a scene revealing that Sanctus has been infused with the soul of a demon to revive him. The player 
 is also introduced to Agnus, the stuttering scientist and mastermind of the Orders demonic power 
 manipulation. Chronologically, Devil May Cry 4 is the third in the series, with DMC3 as the first, 
 DMC1 as the second and DMC2 as the fourth. Good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is the first devil may cry game i have played in the series. At the start, you 
 get to play as Nero a stuck up boy. He is a lot of fun to play because of his arm and special moves. 
 Although when you get half way though the game you switch characters and then it become a little 
 boring.
  Graphics:9: The Graphics in Devil May Cry are outstanding they are very well done and the texture 
 and colors stand out very well.
  Storyline:9: The story line in this game is very good and enjoyable to be in. The voice acting 
 is very good and sometimes quite funny. This game really drags you in through the problems that 
 each character faces.
  Gameplay:9.5: All I can say about the game play is that if you love killing things this game is 
 very good. I enjoyed all the moves you have as Nero but sorry to say when you switch characters 
 it broke my nuts. 
  
  Conclusion: If you like intense games full of action i recommend this game, but if you do not avoid 
 this game! Like I said before i enjoyed this game a lot until half way through where you switch 
 characters.
  
  Total: 8.5 (not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilCouldCry
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  How is Devil May Cry 4 good you may ask? Well there are a variation of valid reasons to prove this.
 
  
  Devil May Cry 4 took a new step into the new generation consoles, giving it more power for Capcom 
 to create a dream game.
  Nero, the new hero; is a member of The Order Of The Sword and tasked in completing missions, his 
 love interest Kyrie is also a member, as with most people within the off-shore town of Fortuna. 
 Although Neros lack of faith causes dilema and Dantes kickass entry makes quite a scene. The story 
 seems very different to most "first ' person ' kill shoot in a war" games, emphasizing and basing 
 its story around love, which i find more appealing to have something fresh.
  
  Through progressing in the story, you learn many traits and emotions within Neros character, and 
 learn to love his abilities and just 'who he is', I found him to be as enjoyable as Dante and actually 
 missed him when Dante took over the role from a personal view. His personality resembles Dante 
 or as Dante did describe him "Pffft what a punk." with some hilarious rebelious dialouge. Nero 
 is shrouded in mystery as Capcom didnt really reveal who he actually was apart from basic information. 
 Hopefully, Devil May Cry 5 may clear this up.
  
  As for Dante's return within the series, you wont be dissapointed. Dantes arrogant attitude certainly 
 hasn't dissapeared. The change from Nero to Dante actually makes it difficult since your so used 
 to the Devil Bringer and ability to snatch enemies at a long distance, but you are equipted with 
 a new-line of weaponry such as Lucifer and Gilamesh along with firing weapons; Pandoras Box. The 
 game seems quite tightly woven around Dantes plot to over-throw The Order Of The Sword, despite 
 him not being the main protagonist. 
  
  In the game, you can interact with a variety of objects and upgrade to new abilities with the Red 
 Queen, Blue Rose and more. There are a variety of combos which make it enjoyable to watch the spectacular 
 outcome and Neros Devil Bringer can act differently with varying enemies. This makes quite a dazzling 
 display when it comes to getting your Stylish Meter up, and having a sense of accomplishment and 
 adrenaline rush just from playing a game. However if you want to become a true demon hunter, harder 
 difficulties are available which should keep you preoccupied for many hours. Many people claim 
 of broken gameplay, but when you interact within the story and play until your hands bleed, you 
 wont notice instead of being picky.
  
  The bosses and enemies within DMC4 are quite fun to play around with, (given an easier setting) 
 and generally mess around with combos such as with cannon-fodder enemies like Scarecrows. Taunts 
 within the game give a laugh and spur foes to aggresively attack (depending of which demon) and 
 affect your Stylish Meter also. The bosses were pretty simple, and easy to defeat, but this isnt 
 to say it wasnt fun such as with Berial and Bael etc.
  
  As with the game overall, im extremely happy being a huge Devil May Cry fan and enjoyed Nero even 
 as much as Dante. People seem to over-exagerate how "dissapointing" it was because the flaws are 
 only minor and the rating should be higher. Not to mention over 120 minutes of high-definition 
 spectacular cutscenes which are an equivilent to watching a movie and . Nero should hopefully make 
 a return in the next installment and this is (so far) my favourite within the series due to having 
 something fresh with Nero and a new meaning around love and companionship, id be perfectly happy 
 to let Nero take a main role again! A beautiful game, totally different feel to anything else, 
 I never expected to like a character as much as Dante or more and Nero is my new favourite character 
 within the series and possibly of all time, dont believe the Gamspot rating! This is what game 
 is made of!
  
  Enjoy!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN9800
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The devil may cry franchise is one of big players in video game industry due to part of fast pace 
 hack and slash gameplay. The original Devil May Cry came out in 2001 and is often held as one of 
 the best action adventure game ever made, but the series has been though many up and downs; thankfully 
 Devil May Cry 4 manages to deliver a great experience and is one of the best in the series. The 
 biggest problem with the Devil May Cry franchise is the difficulty, capcom never seem to have gotten 
 right DMC2 was way to easy while DMC3 was way too hard so much so that capcom had to re-released 
 it. But capcom really did its homework with DMC4, for starters there are two difficulties to choose 
 from in the beginning Human (easy) and Devil Hunter (Normal) , the human difficulty is obviously 
 targeted towards newcomers while Devil Hunter is for veterans, furthermore there is a tutorial 
 in the first level of the game which teach new comers the basics of the Devil May Cry 4 combat 
 system. Veterans of the series will quickly notice the new protagonist Nero he seems like a character 
 that was made to carter newcomers as his moves aren't as deep or complex as Dante's. In Nero's 
 arsenal are his Blue Rose a Duel Barrel Revolver "Dirty Harry eat your heart out", the Red Queen 
 a large sword with a motorcycle handle which allows players to charge there sword for faster and 
 stronger attacks or exceed which is what the game calls it and finally the Devil Bringer a demonic 
 arm that allows Nero to do busters which means he picks up enemy's and slams them into the floor 
 and he even says "Slam-dunk" and the second ability allows Nero to stretch out his arm to reach 
 certain platforms or even grab enemies a'la Bionic Commando style. Half way though the game you 
 well get to play as Dante and this is where Devil May Cry 4 gets really fun as Dante plays more 
 fluid than Nero. Dante gameplay mechanics is very similar to DMC3 except for one big change and 
 that is that he can now switch Styles on the fly which really opens up the combo system and allows 
 for a lot of crazy things to happen. Dante four styles are the same as DMC3 you get Trickster, 
 Swordmaster, Gunslinger, and Royal Guard you get pretty much the idea by there name. Graphically 
 Devil May Cry 4 looks amazing, character animation and models look superb and the level design 
 is diverse. On the sound department Devil May Cry 4 retains its heavy metal soundtrack and it's 
 probably the best one in the series. Devil May Cry 4 length will average around 7 hours to complete 
 but you can go back to find secrets and carry over your powered character into the many difficulties 
 in the game, adding to the replay value is achievements and online leaderboards this adds a lot 
 to the game as you can compare scores with your friends online. Devil May Cry 4 is one of this 
 years best action/adventure game and if you have either a PS3 or 360 and are in the market for 
 an action/adventure game this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladycroft142
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry is one of the best gaming series ever created and number four doesn't fail to offer 
 gamers more of what made the series great as well as a host of new additions to make it the best 
 DMC yet. Graphically it is quite simply a joy to gaze upon the games many varied locations ranging 
 from Gothic themed castles to snowy mountains and lush jungles. This game really is a testament 
 to the level of detail and realism that can be achieved on the PS3 and Xbox 360.
  
  Taking control of Nero instead of Dante for the majority of the game brings with it a fresh approach 
 to combat. Neros devil bringer is immensely fun and satisfying to use and allows long combos to 
 be executed with relative ease. But Dante is not without his own enhancements he may now switch 
 between his four fighting styles sword master, trickster, gunslinger, and royal guard on the fly 
 making combat with him deep, stylish and above all unbelievably enjoyable. Newcomers will like 
 Nero for his simplistic approach while seasoned DMC players will enjoy getting to grips with the 
 seemingly endless abilities at Dantes disposal during his time in the spotlight.
  
  The story is a compelling one with twists you don't see coming and the cutscenes are brilliantly 
 done with fight sequences to rival Hollywood blockbusters. Voice acting is also well done and the 
 cheesy one-liners remain intact.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 takes place over 20 levels giving it a lengthy playtime of about 15 hours a rarity 
 in games these days as a lot struggle to pass the 10 hour mark. One cautionary note however is 
 that halfway through, when control switches to Dante you are forced to play the same levels including 
 fighting the same bosses you have with Nero. This doesn't make the game repetitive or boring though 
 because playing as Dante is so varied that it shouldn't bother you that you're doing a lot of the 
 same things again only that you're having a hell of a lot of fun doing it and believe me you will.
 
  
  In terms of difficulty players now choose between Human and Devil Hunter the former giving gamers 
 easier enemies and bosses something not seen in a DMC game as usually even the easiest mode provides 
 a thumb achingly tough challenge. This provides an opportunity for new players to experience this 
 fantastic series and veterans are catered for with the much harder Devil Hunter mode with even 
 harder modes unlocked upon completion.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is one of those games that gets more rewarding the more time you put into it. Complete 
 it just once and you're guaranteed only to have scratched the surface of what the elaborate combat 
 system has to offer and with the bloody palace, mission rankings and global rankings Devil May 
 Cry 4 is guaranteed to keep you highly satisfied and coming back for more. This is the best game 
 in what was already a groundbreaking series and one that no gamer should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinnapticked
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Look, the consensus of this game is that it is awesome. I thought differently. Nero shows some 
 potential as a new hero to the series and I will be interested to see what happens to him in the 
 overall series of games (i. e.- going into Hell after Dante possibly.) But the game fell short in 
 terms of versatility. Why would I want to fight the same boss three different times? I felt like 
 the creative team went on strike about the time Dante becomes playable. Unfortunately, the feeling 
 of being left high and dry stayed there until I was fighting the big bad giant at the end. That 
 was one of the most dynamic boss fights I have ever enjoyed, but I felt shafted after the credits 
 rolled.
  Lose the repetition and this would have been an excellent game. As it is though, Why pay sixty 
 bucks for seven levels and like 5 bosses just copied a couple times?
  Excellent rental in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  # I never knew that dante had a twin brother total rubbish.
  #The dialog they speak is retared they talk like selfsatisfied bumlickers and i just want to smack 
 them in the face with boat paddle.
  #There's plot hole the size of a catamites rectum like where nero has been born with a democic 
 hand for some reason. O YEAH and neros girlfriend says about two words in the whole game. 
  #Doing the same levels again aaaahhh LAZY CHEAP BORING not only that you fight the same bosses 
 again great NOT!!!! 
  #Action is ok with Dante but with Nero its more limited. Combos with Nero and more easy to do but 
 less varitey in moves. O YEAH and guns are useless better weeing on the emeimes wih corrosive pidlle.
 
  #The puzzle dice board game thing is just stipid and a watse of time its just point less delay.
 
  #The main bad guy is a old grustry and git. 
  #The second last mission is a joke all the same bosses a 3rd time round and the puzzle board game 
 in between each one lame. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  I like devil may cry 1and 3 but the seris has turned into fan boy game just like silent hill has.
 
  O YEAH STOP THROWING perfect scores at its all be done before anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game when it was first released and I must say that I was hooked from day 1. This game 
 is for all new/old players to the dmc universe. 
  
  
  Story- This time around you're playing as a young knight of the Order of the swords named Nero. 
 He witnesses Dante kill Sanctus, the Order of the Swords leader and is now hunting dante down for 
 answers. The game hit you with some amazing twist & cool enemies to keep you hooked. 
  
  Music- The game plays the same song over and over as you battle your way through demons, but the 
 song is hot to me, so I don't mind it at all. 
  
  Graphics- I'm playing on a 60 inch sony bravia hdtv, so the graphics are really good. I think they'd 
 be the same on an sdtv as well, so don't let that stop you. 
  
  Overall- DMC4 is an excellent game and should be in your ps3 collection by far. The story & new 
 addition of enemies is more than enough to keep you hooked to the dmc franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karmacodelc18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Before I get into it I want to say anybody that thought Devil May Cry was done after the horror 
 that was DMC2 can eat my boots. You wouldn't like that they are very stinky like your girlfriend. 
 I popped Devil May Cry 4 into my PS3 and didn't stop till I beat it... thats right it had me at 
 hello and didn't stop till the next morning right at the crack of dawn. I won't argue that the 
 whole backtracking thing sucked I would have preferred a totally different storyline for Dante; 
 different missions, enemies, and bosses. Speaking of Dante he is still my favorite character despite 
 the fact that there is a big place in my heart for the angsty Nero (call him emo and I will kill 
 you) the Devil Bringer added a welcome spice to the already sizzling combat system that spice being 
 brutality. Words cannot do Neros brutal attacks justice you are just going to have to find out 
 for yourself. For those of you who don't have Devil May Cry 4 I hope my words can sway you to at 
 least give it a try. To those who havn't even played a DMC game... find and purchase DMC1 and DMC3 
 forget DMC2. You will not be disappointed! Now, back to Devil May Cry 4. I played through Son of 
 Sparda mode and some bosses and enemies just outright kicked the crap out of me. The Blitz monsters 
 are incredibly tough on higher difficulty settings. I like a challenge though so I am not one to 
 complain. Devil May Cry 4 is one game you must have. I'm out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b3rT_K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Awesome game..!!!! No Comment. i waited a lot for this game to come out.. and when it cames. ohhh 
 yeahh!!!! Great graphics... awesome combat techinques... great sound... really good game.... wonder 
 what kind of PC would run this game smoothly :P
  
  Romanian: S-a anuntat oficial : Devil May Cry 4 nu mai este un joc exclusiv PS3. Cel mai nou episod 
 al jocului nu va mai ramane limitat pe consolul Sony.
  Aparitia jocului s-a anuntat a fi maine, vom mai avea de asteptat putin pana cand va apare pe XBox360, 
 dar va merita de asteptat !
  
  Alte jocuri care sunt planificate pentru convertarea pe XBox : Virtua Fighter 5, Assassin's Creed, 
 Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War, Fatal Inertia (toate doar pe PS3)
  
  Dupa cei de la Capcom, Devil May Cry 4 va folosi punctele forte a tuturol platformurilor pe care 
 va rula. Compania a admis faptul ca aceasta decizie a fost luata pentru "mari profitul". Macar 
 sunt sinceri si cinstiti :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't disappoint entirely. In a lot of places this game outshines its predecessor. 
 However, this sequel is still missing a lot the last game had. 
  
  SOUND: Excellent. Gun popping, sword slicing through flesh, and the screaming and yelling portrayed 
 by the voice actors all make this game very lifelike. The game is very violent, and the sound effects 
 help bring you into the carnage appearing on your screen. 
  
  The music in Devil May Cry 4 is better than DMC 3. The game's storyline has a more serious tone 
 to it. The battle music is the same type of techno/metal players are used to from previous Devil 
 May Cry's. The 3rd's battle music was better. Nero's battle theme is catchy, but nothing memorable. 
 Dante's, however, is a bit too noisy. It takes time to get used to. 
  
  Other than the battle themes, Devil May Cry 4 has music that is eerie and at the same time relaxing. 
 The music helps to offset the cheesiness and goofiness that the characters bring to the game. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Expectingly, the game looks better technically than the last game, and it also looks 
 better artisically. DMC 3 has a dry and dull look to it, that needed a change so Devil May Cry 
 4 could stand out. The enviornments are vivid, and colorful. 
  
  The character designs are well done. The nasty chimeran plantlike creatures that cling on to other 
 monsters, those demon possesed armors that sound like jets when charging towards Nero or Dante, 
 and the cinematic boss battles do a great to draw you into the Devil May Cry universe. As for the 
 main characters, they do have that "metrosexual" look to em, but every superhero can't look like 
 a 300lb. grizzly looking man. 
  
  Technically the game doesn't exceed many games of this generation, but you should be able appreciate 
 the artisitc beauty of the graphics. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where the game, unfourtunately, falls short of the previous installment. The 
 combat is fun, and challenging at times although no where as tough as DMC 3. Some fans will be 
 disappointed. It's still an enjoyable experience. However, the game feels less rewarding. There 
 aren't as many weapons as before. And Dante's new weapons are lame. Almost as lame as his corny 
 one liners. Therefore...
  
  Nero is a welcomed addition to the series. His deformed arm really brings a lot of fun to combat, 
 especially in boss fights. Watching the hideous, glowing arm bash gigantic monsters and demons 
 into the ground makes some fights seem one sided. The moves he perfoms are way more over the top 
 and violent than any of Dante's. Nero is greatly appreciated. 
  
  There's a lot of backtracking, aren't many bosses, and leveling up of weapons has been mysteriously 
 taken out. Maybe the absence of leveing was taken out for newcomers so they can get adjusted to 
 the Devil May Cry series. Veterans might be disappointed that they have to collect easily attainable 
 souls instead of killing everything in sight to level up. 
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: Devil May Cry 4 has made a few changes. Some good, some bad. Changes (sacrifices) 
 were done probably to attract more gamers. Devil May Cry 4 is great eye candy, and the audio is 
 used well in this game. Sadly, the game is somewhat of a disappointment. It's a good game worth 
 trying out. Fans shouldn't miss it, and neither should new players afraid of the more challenging, 
 and better, Devil May Cry 3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BossJJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  DMC4 is by far the best game in the series. The visuals are great and so is the storyline. Fighting 
 bosses have never been so fun, especially when you get to grab them and toss them across the playing 
 field. I thought you would only be able to do that on regular demons. New enemies around every 
 corner keeps you on your feet. Every enemy you encounter lets you react with them in different 
 ways. The best part of the game is trying chain a long combo. It really is a challenge because 
 you have to dodge every attack while still dealing damage to the enemy. Be cautious and know your 
 enemies attack pattern and you should be able to do it. The secret challenges are harder than ever 
 now! It takes a lot of time, but eventually you will be able to get through them. I must say that 
 I will play through the entire game more than once. I would recommend this game to everyone, especially 
 those who have followed the DMC series. Along with the game, I received a copy of the Devil May 
 Cry Anime Series! It looks very promising. Check that out when you get the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamba22
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game off of my friend after he said it was brilliant, however when i got it home 
 and played it I was disapointed to say the least. The limited and boring combat was terrible and 
 thrown-together and the shockingly limited amount of choice of paths was apalling. The bland, boringly 
 similer monsters all acted alike and appeared to have no intelligence what-so-ever. If you are 
 hoping to purchase this excuse for a game then get ready for severe disapointment. Overall this 
 a disapointing game and a waste of money and is one to be avoided. I have no doubt that this will 
 be in the bargain bin before long 
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Devil May Cry 4 is the latest in the DMC series. It plays like any other game in the series, and 
 it's just as good! A few changes occur in the series with this installment too. Dante is not the 
 protagonist in Devil May Cry 4. This game introduces you to Nero, who has a demonic arm which is 
 quite handy when playing the game. A lot of awesome features in it, and it's an addictive game 
 that will glue you to your PS3/360 for a while.
  
  THE GOOD
  Highly addictive, interesting character design, neat graphics, cool online features.
  
  THE 
 BAD
  Weapon upgrades would've been nice, the same enemies over and over with the same ways of killing 
 them, the gun sucks... enough said.
  
  Graphics
  A huge improvement from the previous installments. They are very impressive too! They aren't the 
 best i've seen on a 7th-Gen console, but since when did that matter? They are still very impressive. 
 Simply everything in it is pretty much excellent!!
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack in DMC4 is decent. However, the music is far too repetitive. It's good, but there 
 could have been a bit more of a selection. Hearing that same rock song with those weird lyrics 
 in them ain't too bad, but does start to get slightly repetitive and boring. I also have to mention 
 that song that Kyrie sings, now that's used too much as well, still alright though. However, there 
 are some cool tracks here and there. Voices aren't too bad either.
  
  Gameplay
  It plays like your average DMC game. There is the button mashing action, the puzzles you need to 
 solve, the demons that you need to kill. There's quite a bit to do in Devil May Cry 4. It's a good 
 place to start for beginners of the series too. It keeps you up with the story, and there's a difficulty 
 level for those who are new to the series. It's quite cool fighting enemies, whether it's a regular 
 enemy or a boss. You have many ways of killing them; The sword, which looks cool and pretty much 
 is; the demonic arm, which is probably the best way of killing them; and the gun, which I do NOT 
 recommend. Nero's arm also has this grappling feature which is likeable in it too. The buying feature 
 is quite good too. You get these little red things, which is one of the two currencies in DMC4. 
 These little red things are used to buy healing items. As for the souls, they are earned at the 
 end of every mission. This currency is used to buy abilities. It could be sword or gun combos, 
 or maybe more speed. You can also find these hidden blue particles. Every four gives you an extra 
 health bar, much like in Zelda. These particular items can be found in hidden places, or in Secret 
 Missions which are also found in hidden places. Secret Missions are found in scrolls that are in 
 the most random places. Most of these missions are near impossible, but can be done. When looking 
 for hidden places, you can sometimes tell where they are by looking at Nero's right arm. If it's 
 glowing, then something secret is nearby. Bosses are quite cool. They all have interesting strategies 
 on beating them. It could be shooting them to death or grabbing them and slicing them to death. 
 Most of the bosses are quite cool. The online feature is cool too. There's a ranking of the best 
 scores in every mission, and you can also view your achievements. You can also check whether any 
 of your PS3 contacts have played DMC4, and you can view their achievements too. Not actual online 
 gameplay, but maybe that could be some new feature later on. The gameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is 
 fantastic!!
  
  Character Design
  Nero is the main character in DMC4, while Dante is not on Nero's side or the other side. There's 
 a bit of a rivalry between Nero and Dante. Kyrie is also worth mentioning, as she is the main female 
 in it. Good character design. Some other really good characters in it as well.
  
  Storyline
  The game opens with Nero hurrying towards the central Opera House where the Order 
 of the Sword is conducting a ceremony, his right arm in a sling. Meanwhile Kyrie, Nero's romantic 
 interest, is beginning to open the ceremony with a song and is disappointed not to find Nero in 
 the audience. She begins her song none the less as Nero encounters several Scarecrow demons on 
 his way to the Opera House; he easily dispatches them without breaking his stride and arrives at 
 the Opera House just in time to hear the end of Kyrie's song. Following this, Kyrie joins Nero 
 in the audience where she finds Nero has left a present for her in the form of a gold necklace. 
 The High Priest of the Order of the Sword, Sanctus, beckons the Order members to join him in prayer; 
 Nero is visibly bored by this and is about to leave despite Kyrie's protests when his right arm 
 begins to glow ominously. At this moment, Dante bursts through the ceiling and assassinates Sanctus. 
 The knights quickly rally to avenge their fallen leader but are easily dispatched by the assassin. 
 Nero, under the impression that Kyrie is in danger, attacks Dante initiating a fight between the 
 two. As Dante gains the upper hand, Nero reveals his demonic right arm named the Devil Bringer 
 and uses its power to seemingly kill Dante by impaling him with his own sword upon the statue of 
 Sparda. Dante merely jests "getting better" and pushes himself off the statue. As Dante removes 
 the sword from his chest Nero asks, "You're not human are you?" Dante replies that "We are the 
 same you and I... and them," pointing to one of the dead knights. Nero looks and it is revealed 
 that the knight was possessed with a demonic appearance. Nero looks up to see that Dante is already 
 resting on the hole in the ceiling from which he came. Dante states that he thinks Nero has something 
 different from the others then swoops out of view just as the knights reinforcements arrive. Nero 
 is charged with capturing Dante and bringing him back to the Order to answer for his crimes by 
 Credo, the leader of the Orders knights and Kyrie's brother. Upon leaving the Opera House however, 
 a demonic horde begins to lay waste to the city. Nero and Kyrie are separated as Nero begins to 
 slay the demons. Whilst journeying to Fortuna Castle he meets Gloria, a new member to the Order. 
 Nero fights his way into the depths of Fortuna Castle, on the way, the player is allowed to witness 
 a scene revealing that Sanctus has been infused with the soul of a demon to revive him. The player 
 is also introduced to Agnus, the stuttering scientist and mastermind of the Orders demonic power 
 manipulation. Chronologically, Devil May Cry 4 is the third in the series, with DMC3 as the first, 
 DMC1 as the second and DMC2 as the fourth. Good story.
  
  Overall
  Devil May Cry 4 is very entertaining, and has a lot of brilliant features! It may have a few missing 
 features, but it is still worth owning and it contains a lot of goodness. If you don't have it 
 already, then think about buying it!
  9/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I've never seen so many high reviews for such an average game. Way, way, way too generous, people. 
 Being a fan of the original DMC, I was really hoping to see a next gen leap. 
  
  
  Graphically, it delivers. It's a gorgeous blond. Unfortunately, it's a gorgeous blond who's transparent 
 shallowness bores you to pieces after week one. The level design is downright bland. There was 
 a time when you had to think to finish a DMC stage. 
  
  Those days seem to be long gone if DMC 4 is any indication. The boss fights are cool, but c'mon, 
 do I really need to fight them again and again? 
  
  
  the combat isn't what it's cracked up to be anymore. Hmm, to pull off uber-combo supreme, press 
 triangle-triangle, then triangle. To pull off uber-combo supreme deluxe, press triangle-triangle-triangle, 
 then press -- you guessed it -- triangle. Sorry, that's called button mashing. Ultimately, DMC 4 is 
 a one and done experience. 
  
  The media did a great job of fooling everyone (including me) into buying this lukewarm action game. 
 Do yourself a favor and rent it if you really need to see for yourself why gaming media outlets 
 are nothing more than glorified PR lackies. Better yet, buy Ninja Gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  If you like previous DMC games, you will love this one. 
  
  The game shines in terms of its graphics and HD, well acted cutscenes. The story line plot is good.
 
  The major flaws of DMC4 is that you play the game from beginning to middle (around chapter 10) 
 as the new hero "Nero". Up to here, there is very little to fault with the game.
  However from chapter 11, just when you've about got used to Nero... the game forces you to play 
 as dante from which point you will have to learn a complete and very different set of skills and 
 combo moves.
  The biggest disappointment is that the the game recycles itself. When you play as Dante, you bascially 
 replay the game again but this time from the end to the beginning going via all the bosses you've 
 met before in the game in the reverse order! The in Chapter 20 you fight them all again! Three 
 times in the same game! Talk about recycling :p
  
  Bonuses seem pretty average and very hard/ very tedious, so i doubt i will be spending hours trying 
 to complete them all again just to collect 4 blue crystals to boost my health.
  
  Overall, a good buy, good hack n slash with good combos moves- the designers obviously cheated 
 DMC fans by recycling the game. Easier than DMC3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  No wonder that Devil May Cry is one of the best action games ever made, the fourth installment 
 got further improvements than just graphics, this time Capcom put you in the control of a new fresh 
 character named "Nero", a young member of a group called "the order of the sword" who worship Sparda 
 "Dante's father" the legendary devil hunter. Nero's actions and moves are different from Dante's, 
 there is the "Red Queen" "Nero's main weapon" unlike Rebellion, the new sword got totally different 
 combos and most importantly the combustion system with an ex-gauge that can be charged to three 
 levels in order to perform more powerful attacks. One major ability is the devil arm which can be 
 used in fights to execute devastating attacks like slamming opponents to the ground and grabbing 
 them from a distance. The devil arm can also be used for purposes other than fights like reaching 
 high places and finding secret missions and hidden items like the red orbs. Only one sword "Red 
 Queen" and one gun "Blue Rose" but Nero have many moves combined with the devil arm which are new 
 to the series that make him a unique character. Vergil "Dante's evil brother" doesn't make any appearance 
 but you will have his weapon "Yamato"a powerful katana that can be used by Nero's devil trigger. You 
 will also have the chance to play as Dante at the beginning of chapter twelve, Dante's battle system 
 and moves are enhanced and modified from the previous games and this time you can change the fighting 
 style during the fights so you can make your own combos by mixing between the four styles like 
 Devil May Cry 3, gun slinger, trickster, royal guard, and sword master, there is also a new style 
 "Dark Slayer" that also uses Yamato. Dante's devil trigger is still the same but there is several 
 new weapons moves, red orbs are no longer used to upgrade your moves, you can only use them to 
 buy healing items, upgrading and having new moves can be done by using the "proud souls" that can 
 be earned at the end of each chapter, it depends on the rank, the higher the rank, the more proud 
 souls will be earned, there is also a world rank which will let you compete with other gamers depending 
 on the devil hunter points. Visuals and textures are pretty sharp and highly detailed combined with 
 deep colors running in 720 progressive which makes cut scenes and fights really beautiful. The boss 
 fights are intense and great especially when executing a special attack "Nero only" which differs 
 depending to the boss you are fighting with, you will encounter some bosses three times which will 
 feel a little annoying and unnecessary. The storyline is good, romantic and more reasonable from 
 the previous games, with new characters like Kyrie "Nero's love" , Lady from DMC3 but sexier and 
 more matured, Gloria and Trish, another hot female character that will help Dante during his missions. If 
 you are so addicted to DMC there is six difficulty levels to play. At last DMC4 was worth the wait 
 and another successful installment, keep on that work Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluparatha
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  an excellent game coming from capcom, one of the most highly anticipated games for the next generation 
 consoles devil may cry 4. dmc4 definetly lives up to the hype, adding a new character to the series 
 aswell as some great boss fights. the new character is a guy named nero who may seem like a less 
 cooler version of dante at first. but as you play the game you lle eventually begin to like nero 
 even more so than dante. the level design all looks great the graphics are amazing to look at except 
 for a few shadows which kinda suck. the gameplay in dmc4 is better than ever. nero brings with 
 him not only a sword and a gun but also has a demonic arm called devil bringer which can do a variety 
 of moves on different enemies in the game, which is alot of fun . then there is dante who you play 
 later on in the game. if you were hardcore fans of dmc3. you would feel that the creaters have 
 took a step back from dante. his gameplay compared to dmc3 is not as good. but in this game he 
 is able to switch to any style on the fly. however i found dante to be not as fun as nero and play 
 with him after playing with nero for so long is awkard. but adding dante to the game is a great 
 addition for old devil hunters. however even though with all those positve notes there a few problems. 
 the level design gets repetitive as you play the game. in the first 12 missions you lle play as 
 nero and then dante. when you do switch over you lle realise that with dante you will have to backtrack 
 all the missions nero went through. and also you would fight most of the same bosses that nero 
 faced. this can get repetitve and frustrating as the question may pop up why didnt they just create 
 seperate levels and bosses for dante. that is relatively the only main problem in the game, dmc4 
 is totally saved by its combat system. its deep and rewarding. and after playing this and completing 
 it up to 3 times. i have to say nero is the star of the game. i would recommend this to any action 
 game fan who are into ninja gaiden or god of war or any other great action title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_Els
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  HAHAHA this game i think just didnt suit my taste, the camera the designs those supposed to be 
 called demons who seem to be funny looking stichted up dolls with a sword coming out of there arse 
 as a common enemy really anoyed the **** out me which took me a while to figure if these were serious 
 foes haha! and this boss which was bull on fire that i stabbed a couple of times and took me maybey 
 nearly an hour to reach was just devastating.
  And the game play was a repetative little **** but maybey i wasnt playing it correctly.
  
  
 Dante is a pretty kool guy to play he pisses excellence! his style and all the stuff that goes 
 with him is rad!! 
  
  I do admire the cutscenes and the characters and the elusive story line and the movie scenes in 
 it OH YEAH that part of the game pisses excellence!! the graphics rule like a flaming golden hawk! 
 to lovers of the series i say buy the game because youll love it but for a first timer like me 
 perhaps i needed to start with dmc1 to get used to the camera angles and the funny lookin enemies 
 which i laughed at hahaha!! but yer i didnt like it much but had this been a movie id give it 5/5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  After a 3 year hiatus, Devil May Cry returns. Since we're in a new era of gaming, Devil May Cry 
 4 debuts on the PS3 and also on the Xbox 360. The story takes place between the events of DMC's 
 1 and 2 with a new playable character, Nero, who's a knight from the Order of the Sword, an organization 
 that worships Sparda. During a service, Dante crashes through the ceiling and kills the leader 
 Sanctus, Has our hero turned against humanity?. You're gonna have to play to find out what happens.
 
  
  The gameplay is tighter than before, Nero brings something fresh to the game by adding the Devil 
 Bringer mechanic which is very useful by grabbing enemies from afar. You'll spend the majority of 
 DMC4 as Nero but series veterans worry no longer, Dante is still part of the game, he takes over 
 for about halfway through playing, he still uses the 4 styles from the previous installment but 
 instead of sticking to one style, you can switch them up at will and it amps up the stylishness 
 while playing as him. The difficulty isn't as extreme as in DMC3 which newcomers and vets alike 
 can breathe a little easier. Plus there's new weapons for Dante. (I love Pandora's box) . If you 
 worry that Dante will lose his swagger this time around. You can forget it, he's still the swaggering 
 badass we've grown to love.
  
  On the flipside, the game can get very repetitive with both characters facing the same bosses, 
 demons and going through the same environments. But the tight gameplay and sharp-as-a-thumbtack 
 visuals save Devil May Cry 4 from being a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenn99_23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  It isn't surprising that a game featuring the charmingly insane Dante would be so over the top, 
 though the series' famed antihero is not the real star this time around. Don't worry; you'll still 
 get to play as Dante, and he brings with him a good selection of weapons and fighting styles, just 
 as Devil May Cry fans would expect. But you'll spend the majority of the game as newcomer Nero, 
 who has a selection of impressive and elegant moves of his own. Nero is an excellent character, 
 capable of delivering a few wisecracks, a brooding glance, and a heartfelt plea of love to his 
 beloved Kyrie in a few moments' time. He's clearly cut from the same cloth as Dante, though it's 
 a bit disappointing that the game doesn't explore this connection in more detail. Nevertheless, 
 you'll want to follow Nero's exploits as he struggles to learn the truth about his own religious 
 organization, The Order of the Sword, and Dante's apparent murder of its leader. 
  
  The story doesn't offer up a whole lot of surprises, but it embraces a certain attitude of self-indulgence. 
 Cutscenes are overwrought, visually stunning affairs, and are among the best you are likely to 
 have seen in any game in recent years. The theatrical dialogue, impossibly athletic animations, 
 and swooping camera work make for quite the spectacle, but somehow, it's a spectacle that manages 
 to stay on just the right side of cheesy. Devil May Cry 4 takes itself seriously, but not too seriously, 
 so for every shocking, bloody cutaway, there's an equally funny quip that helps keep the narrative 
 in check. There are a couple of cringeworthy exceptions, such as one scene where Dante decides 
 he's a tango dancer (don't quit your day job!) , but overall, you're apt to find the scenes to be 
 gorgeous, thought-provoking, and emotionally stirring. 
  
  Nero's claim to fame is his demonic arm, better known as the devil bringer. With it, you can grab 
 onto distant enemies and pull them in, pick them up, and slam them around for some excellent combos, 
 plus deliver a few other surprises. These mechanics are easy to pull off, and they represent a 
 general shift from the defensive gameplay of Devil May Cry 3 to a more aggressive approach. As 
 you play, you can pull off some incredibly satisfying moves, both in the air and on the ground -- the 
 most violent of which are accompanied by slick, bloody animations and appropriately gory-sounding 
 thwacks and slashes. Timing these various moves can be tricky, but like in the previous games, 
 eventually the subtleties of your combos click, and in time you'll be pulling enemies toward you, 
 slashing them into bite-size pieces, and smashing them into one another with glee. 
  
  The devil-bringer moves go a long way, which is probably a good thing, since Nero has neither as 
 varied an arsenal as Dante nor access to multiple fighting styles. However, he does have his standard 
 sword, red queen, and a revolver known as blue rose, and later on he earns another weapon that 
 franchise fans will enjoy seeing in action. As you progress, you will earn proud souls based on 
 your performance in any given mission, and with them, you can purchase new combos and upgrade existing 
 ones. And you'll need them, too, since you'll need to handle droves of demons that get progressively 
 tougher -- and they're awesome to look at, to boot. You can choose these new moves individually, 
 or you can let the game auto-select them for you based on how varied you want your array of attacks 
 to be. It's worth noting that you can't really make a mistake here; if you don't like the move, 
 or if there is a more powerful upgrade available to you, you can unlearn what you have purchased 
 for a full refund and use the souls for something else. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Any people who say that DMC has a wack story should stay in a corner with a pointy hat with donkey 
 written on it. I mean seriously I have read the whole story and found out stuff that not even 1/10 
 of the fans know! I can't stop thinking about it...
  anyway this game is perfect! It is the sort of game that after beating it, you will surely try 
 the other difficulties and browse through all the unlocked items and modes..
  The gameplay is awsome, playing as 2 half-demons with white hair, one with a ruby coat and a son 
 of a legendary savior and the other as a young new comer with a black coat and a massive demonic 
 arm.
  The cut scenes are the best that I'v ever seen in any game and the exagerations (such as defeating 
 an enemy made of rock with the size of 5 colossi from SOTC or having a sword enter into your stomach 
 and come out from your back and hadly feeling anything. Why? Cause you're a demon that's why, and 
 in some cases you a the demonic son of a god.
  The music helps that feeling of 'woah' after a nice cutscene or cool gameplay because the songs 
 themselves are also demonic. Shall Never Surrender fits perfectly in the game and so did Taste 
 The Blood in DMC3.
  Capcom really know what they're doing in this series... I want to marry DMC and have a DMC family 
 with little DMC children and a DMC dog named Spike!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IP_Yamiko
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Game-Play:
  
  In my personal history of playing the Devil May Cry series-I think Devil May Cry 4 all of them 
 by an excessive margin. Well, yes-the first in the series was the pretty much the undisputed king 
 of slasher games of its time, the introduction of Nero and his wicked Devil Bringer Arm puts a 
 whole new fun into this terrific franchise. Seriously-you can slam monsters to the ground, throw 
 'em up in the air, slam them back down again-and (my personal favorite) literally grab them by 
 their tails and hurl them at enemy characters, doing additional damage along the way. Also-the 
 Red Queen and the Blue Rose are a nice little compliment to this uniquely innovated fighting style, 
 throwing in quite a punch of their own.
  What's a major relief about this game is the fact that your "devil-rank" (A-D and S for "stylish") 
 is not altered by the use of healing items. (A fall-back, which I found to be somewhat of a hindrance 
 in the previous game) . 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are absolutely amazing, thanks to the wondrous powers of the Playstation3 and the 
 X-BOX360-I mean, lord almighty; 'everything' is rendered beautifully from the granite of the cathedral 
 walls to the metallic glaze on Nero's weaponry. And I think that for once in video game history, 
 that the game play itself exceeds the visuals of even the cut-scenes (that's a major breakthrough, 
 people) .
  
  My only beef with the graphics is during Mission 3, when you are given an extreme close-up of a 
 pantie-shot from the biggest sensually fashioned character in the whole franchise (screw the Kiss 
 of Death maiden-this is 'serious') who also visually exerts obvious, pieces of the most, erm "Interesting 
 focus points" of any type of fan-serivice known to man.
  
  Sound:
  
  Mono and Stereo sound is perfectly fine in this game. Although, the new and classic sound effects, 
 joined by the most engaging types of music can only be "completely" appreciated with 5.1 (plus) 
 Surround Sound. I know this for a fact. I have a Magnavox in my room (when I want some quiet-time) 
 and an Aquos Sharp in a home theater styled environment in my den, and this is where the game jumps 
 from just being pretty eye-candy-to kick-@ss "awesome!" The music is pretty good, with the exception 
 of the song "The Time Has Come." (I think the only reason I like it as much as I do is because 
 I made fun of it in my editing class by adding footage of "dancing chickens" during the phrase: 
 "my army comes from deep within"-so its basically just personal) 
  
  In addition-the voice acting would be nearly "flawless" (our lovable characters can sometimes really 
 come life) -if not for god-awful 'screenplay.' Let's face it people, the script is loaded with the 
 lamest catch phrases "any" douche-bag could ever verbally exert, but to put it in a more sophisticated 
 way, imagine some other country taking a generic/stereotypical version of American Slang-and turning 
 it into a total nightmare. Also-let's not forgot those- "lines" said during battle, including but 
 not limited to:
  
  "Go down!"
  "Slam Dunk!"
  "It's Over!"
  
  (eye-roll)
  
  Conclusion:
  
  In my opinion-Devil May Cry 4 is probably the "BEST" violent action game you 
 can get for the PS3 (don't know about the X-BOX360-let them tell you their opinion) . It's twisted, 
 it's devilish, and probably one of the better games that Capcom has punched out of their company. 
 In short-a "must" if you have anyone (or both) the high-definition counsels. (Just make to disable 
 the subtitles before you play)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  There have been 3 previous Devil May Cry games, the first being one of the greatest action games 
 of all time, the second being one of the most disappointing sequels of all time, and the third 
 being one of the hardest action games of all time. Everybody gasps when I tell them I have never 
 played one before, and all look at me in horror. Well, after hearing almost nothing but good things 
 about the fourth in the series, I decided to give it a try. Is it a disappointment like the second 
 one was, or does it join the first and the third? I seriously have no idea. All I know is that 
 Devil May Cry 4 is amazing, and is the best game to be released this year.
  
  This is the definition of a polished game. The studio has poured their souls into this game, and 
 it really shows. The game on the easiest difficulty will take you 8 - 10 hours, but there are 6 
 difficulties to go through, and you keep all your skills as you progress. There are a ton of secret 
 missions that will take your unbroken attention and skill. Once you complete the game, you unlock 
 some new art in the art gallery, and the history of DMC. The extras are plenty, but aren't to the 
 extent of a limited edition. After each mission, you get graded on your time, your style, and your 
 attention to detail. There are leaderboards worldwide, and gives you more ambition to play. On 
 top of that, the game is just flat out fun, and you'll want to play it through over and over again. 
 The framerate never drops from a solid 60 the whole game, which is a real treat. Ps3 owners hardly 
 ever get that, and it's really appreciated when it does happen. There are no glitches to be found 
 in the game, minus a few instances of clipping. There's a lot of stuff in this game, and it is 
 worth the price of admission.
  
  I'm not the only newcomer to the series, so it's really great that while continuing the story of 
 the series, DMC 4 is easy to follow as a seperate game on its own.
  
  The story revolves around the coastal town of Fortuna, a town inhabited by followers of Dante's 
 father, Sparda. A gathering is right away amushed by Dante, who assassinates the leader of the 
 Order. Nero confronts Dante, and the two get into a battle, that Nero obviously loses from the 
 start. The Order sends Nero out on a quest to capture Dante, and bring him to justice. Along the 
 way, Nero battles demons, meets some intriguing characters, who aren't as they seem, and his girlfriend 
 gets kidnapped. Nero's thoughts on who to trust, and who not to trust are shaken throughout the 
 game, making for some very thought provoking moments that are unforgettable.
  
  The only way that the story is told is through cutscenes. These are very frequent, and are a real 
 treat. Every cutscene is choreographed greatly, and there is some very witty dialogue. Both Nero 
 and Dante are against authority, and they show it through their heavy sarcasm, and ability to take 
 harsh situations lightly. They love to insult each other, as well as the demons around them, making 
 you absolutely love every single line thrown out by these guys. I don't know if this is in the 
 other games of the series, but it is rampant in Devil May Cry 4.
  
  What gets me, though, is although the cutscenes look great, they could easily been incorporated 
 into gameplay. I'm not saying they had to be in game fights, but some kind of quick time event 
 needed to happen. It unfortunately didn't but I can get over it. Maybe I'd cramp the game's style.
 
  
  The story's characters are all very well developed, and you fall in love with them. Every character 
 has their own tone and feel, and it just makes the game feel so organic. Every person in the game 
 is well explained, and everything just feels right when you are watching the story unfold.
  
  This is a stunning game. The facial animations are fantastic, as well as full body animations, 
 both in game, and in cutscenes. Every texture is well realized, the water effects are good, and 
 everything runs at a brisk 60 frames. This is a game to look at if you want to show off your system 
 to a friend. The artistic style is great, the demons are all very unique, and the environments 
 are all very good. The only real issue is the shadows. for 270 degrees, every shadow looks sharp 
 and fantastic. For the other 90 degrees, every shadow is very pixelated. This wouldn't be such 
 an issue, if one sixth of the game wasn't spent in the jungle. After playing something like Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune, I can't really look past this with ease. Another issue with the shadows, is that 
 at one part of the game, a puzzle requires you to go in the opposite direction of your shadow, 
 forcing you to look at the hideousness. This probably won't bother many, but I really won't forget 
 it. Other than that, the game is a real feast for the eyes.
  
  The environments you'll see include the town, dark mines, evil labs, lush jungle, and "hell"? Each 
 one is different from the other and it keeps things fresh.
  
  The soundtrack is full of these really cool electric metal songs. It's really unique, and makes 
 you feel like such a stud when you're in battle. Not one song (minus the end credits) is bad, and 
 actually, every song is worth getting on your mp3. The dialogue is very clever and funny, and is 
 also very well delivered. The only questionable voice is the one for Agnus, but that's probably 
 because I hate his guts. The sound is very unique, and is just as uber stylized as the cutscenes.
 
  
  I know I've been complimenting this game on the other four categories, but the game play is what 
 makes me love this game. The game is damn near perfect when it comes to this. You play as Nero, 
 and as Dante, but I'll get to playing as Nero first.
  
  Nero has a lack of weapons in his arsenal, but he still brings it. He has a sword, a pistol with 
 unlimited ammo, and a possessed right arm, which he uses to grab enemies, toss them around, and 
 rip them to shreds. You'll come up with a lot of creative combos. My favorite while playing with 
 Nero was tossing enemies up in the air with my sword, jumping up to them, hitting them to the ground, 
 grabbing them up to me with my arm (devil bringer) , and tossing them to the ground again using my 
 devil bringer. Of course, the variety of enemies causes you to come up with new combos that you'll 
 need to use.
  
  As Dante, who you get to play as halfway through the game, everything is changed. You no longer 
 have the devil bringer, but you do have some really cool stuff. You have 4 different styles to 
 use. There's trickster, which allows you to dodge attacks faster than normal, Royalgarde, which 
 lets you block almost anything, Swordmaster, and Gunslinger. Everybody has their favorite style, 
 as mine was trickster. However, you'll need to change your style frequently to adjust to the enemies. 
 Dante has his large sword, Rebellion, his twin pistols, Ebony and Ivory, Coyote, his shotgun, and 
 the coolest thing in the history of the world. But I won't spoil that.
  
  Dante also has 3 different weapons. Rebellion, of course, but he also has 2 others that are very 
 helpful for certain situations. Switching weapons is made possible on the fly, due to the L2 and 
 R2 buttons. Due to the sensitivity of the buttons, this is a breeze to pull off, and it becomes 
 essential.
  
  What's really cool about DMC 4 is the lack of realism, while maintaining the fun. When you shoot 
 at an enemy in the air, they will remain in the air as long as you continue to shoot. Same goes 
 for you, if you are in the air, and you shoot, you will stay in the air. It adds to the uniqueness 
 of the game, and again, its something that's really appreciated. Some people may not like it, but 
 I certainly loved it.
  
  You can pull the right trigger to lock on to enemies, and the game's controls are very responsive, 
 keeping everything dynamic. Locking on is essential for combat, and you'll use it frequently.
 
  
  There are a ton of combos you can purchase throughout the game, and you can refund them for other 
 ones, if they don't work out. I've played for just over 15 hours, and I've barely scratched the 
 surface. You can upgrade everything you have, and it's incentive to get you to be stylish in your 
 play.
  
  There are a few puzzles, but they are just lumps in the gameplay dominated by the swordswinging, 
 and gun shooting.
  
  There is never a dull fight in DMC 4. Due to the number of combos available, every single fight 
 will be interesting and fun. The boss fights are proof of this. There are about 6 bosses throughout 
 the game, and you fight each on at least twice. However, they never get old. It sound repetitive, 
 but it just isn't, because of how much fun it is and the style that each fight brings.
  
  The combat is just flat out fun. It is the best aspect of the game. The animations are all fluent, 
 and each enemy has a way of being taken down. The fun is figuring that out, then executing on your 
 plan. The combos that you can pull off, will sometimes have your jaw hit the floor, because it 
 was just so cool and satisfying.
  
  The latter difficulties are actually very hard. The last one, actually being on par with Ninja 
 Gaiden in terms of difficulty. Meaning, when you complete the game, you feel like you have accomplished 
 something. You really need to think about what you are doing.
  
  The only real issue about the gameplay is the camera. It can be at the worst of places at times, 
 taking you out of the action for a second while you adjust it. The other issue about that, is when 
 you go into a room, the fixed camera changes, and sometimes you'll be running in the opposite direction. 
 This sometimes has you running into a room, then running out just as fast. It gets annoying, but 
 you'll get the hang of it.
  
  Even though I've never played any other Devil May Cry games, I absolutely love Devil May Cry 4. 
 The game is polished to a shine, it's very pretty and unique to look at, the gameplay is fast and 
 furious, the story is fantastic and classy, and there are a ton of extras enough to bring you back 
 for 3 or 4 outings. If you are a fan of fun games, look no further than Devil May Cry 4. It is 
 one of the best action games I've ever played, and it belongs in your console. Everything about 
 this game, will have you feeling like a total stud while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AranJatt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I never thought Devil May Cry would continue it fantasic gameplay, looks and Style as good as it 
 did.
  Nero is the latest addition in this game, in a total of 20 missions you play as Nero through to 
 mission 12 .
  That is when Dante Comes into it.
  I was frozen looking at the screen during every cutscene looking at all the style and the great 
 graphics.
  There is only one problem in the game that is The camera which does get quite annoying when you 
 be close to geting a SSS style rank and it comes in the way of you and your enemy.
  This addition to the franchise carrys on it funny side of things by constantly having one-liners, 
 even when fighting the biggest, baddest, evilest demons the game has ever seen. 
  The storyline is great but i will not go into much detail as i might risk giving spoilers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl0009
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a beat-'em-up for your PS3 and struggling what to buy, I highly recommend 
 DMC above all others out there. Why? Read on ahead.
  DMC is a long running franchise devolved by capcom, and easily one of its most famous one.
  It's 
 not hard to believe though, because DMC is just so stylish, fast, and action packed, it's hard 
 not to like the game.
  DMC in HD is just mind blowing; it also runs at 60 Fs per second, so it's fast and beautiful, perfect 
 combination.
  The game is pretty simple, one button for smashing around your sword, one for shooting, another 
 for grabbing, another for jumping, and shoulder to recharge the sword. Yep, looks easy, but the 
 depth of the fights and unlockable combos and characacter customization, really puts down to the 
 mix just right. You have to use these combos and skills intelligently in order to survive the hords 
 you're are going to be facing in the game. The game is challenging, but not that hard to make you 
 smash your PS3 a couple of times.
  The game also as 2 main characters, each one feels and plays differently, which gives even more 
 variety to the style and strategy you will need to use.
  The sound also delivers quite well, giving the slashes, guns, and demons a realistic, yet awesome 
 touch.
  DMC is a game that can be easily picked up by everyone, and have a good time with it, especially 
 the boss fights, they fight just as good as they look, so anyway, just pick up DMC, as play it 
 already! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeastatBay
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Simply put Devil may cry 4 may be the best ps3 game yet to have come out and thats saying something. Yeah 
 it may not seem like it but weve gotten resistance fall of man, unchatrted, and ratchet and clank 
 tools of destruction so the ps3 has done some good. Now its 2008 and with titles like metal gear 
 solid 4 showing that the ps3 is powerful but for right now we get dante our anti hero on another 
 mission hunting demons and doing it all in style but now with some help. A new addition to the devil 
 may cry series is playing as nero a younger more serious version of dante. In the beginning of the 
 game dante comes crashing down in a church during a ceremony and kills a priest and causes all 
 sorts of chaos but nero wont stand for it. They both fight no one really wins and now nero is sent 
 to bring Dante to justice after he escapes. But dont think Dante is a bad guy here right after nero 
 and dante fight nero finds out that the priest and men dante killed were demons. The story eventually 
 evolves a human made demon army and some other things which i wont spoil here and its all good 
 though not great but still good so if you didnt have a problem with the other stories in the other 
 devil may cry games you shouldnt have any here but dont expect too much. The gameplay is a fun hack 
 and slash as both characters Nero and dante as they fight all sorts of crazy demons and you do 
 it more with nero who is played about 60% and dante 40% and it split into 20 missions along with 
 some secret missions and some other cool modes which can be unlocked after you beat the game. As 
 nero you get a cool devil arm which you can grab enemies and slam them to the ground or some other 
 cool things. He also gets a cool sword and a handgun which are also fun to use .You will also fight 
 some cool boss fights as nero which are pretty fun. Now later in the game you will play as Dante 
 who dosnt have a cool arm to slam people to the ground with but has 4 types of fighting styles 
 to choos from and a bunch a crazy fun weopons so its all good. My problem with Dante is he just 
 basically takes care of the things nero couldnt finish off. So playing as dante sort of feels like 
 some bactracking. The game just like other instalments in the series have had great environments 
 and like the third one has cool cutscenes. So if you have played other devil may cry games you should 
 know what to expect. The music is similar to what devil may cry 3 offered which was metal which 
 feels very appropiat when fighting a bunch of Demons. The voices all sound great though the dialogue 
 can get pretty corny sometimes especially when Dante says something but you wont go crazy over 
 it. Overall the game is great and if you like devil may cry own a ps3 (or Xbox 360 though this is 
 a review for the ps3 version not 360) or like action games then try this one out.
  Story-8.0
  Gameplay-9.5
  Graphics-9.5
  Sound-9.0
  Overall-9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I figure I may as well make it a rounded trip by reviewing the whole series while I'm at it, yup, 
 I'm talking about: Devil May Cry 4
  
  The series is popular and well received, it's not just pumping steam and flash, it's carrying that 
 weight with an increasingly interesting story as it goes, building on what I initially thought 
 would have made a poor story into something that's rather hooking and fun to play along with. 
 
  
  The story starts out simple enough; we're introduced to a new hero, Nero, the boy with a devil 
 arm for a right hand. This arm is shrouded in mystery and not too much is revealed about it during 
 the course of the game, which leads me to think there will be more to chit-chat about when the 
 next game comes along, whenever that'll be. There's a bunch of speculation behind who Nero 'may 
 really be' or what the devil arm is and so on but I'll leave the arguing to the fan boys and girls 
 until there's true confirmation on that front. Continuing along the story seems to place Dante 
 as the bad guy for mysterious reaons for most of the game, and it really has you going to find 
 out what's really going on. I won't spoil; you'll have to see for yourself.
  
  To be honest I was weary about getting a new lead, just as I was for the Ace Attorney series, but 
 I have to say, if Capcom keeps this up and is able to pull off any other games like this, they'll 
 have a pretty good track record when it comes to switch ups. Dumping Dante for Nero wasn't to painful, 
 Nero's flashy attacks and devil arm is a much needed breath of fresh air pumped into the series, 
 eased by allowing the player to run through several missions as the great Devil Hunter himself, 
 so all in all it was a painless transition, on top of that Nero is hard not to feel for, he's spunky, 
 a smart-alecky, heroic and tragic individual; fulfilling the criteria for protagonist indeed. 
 
  
  The missions in this game are a lot lengthier and fun to run around in, some of the puzzles have 
 more challenge to them than they did in the past but still have that Devil May Cry mechanic to 
 them, never losing their charm throughout the series and always presenting a rewarding boss at 
 their twisted ends. 
  
  As for the bosses themselves they're memorable, I mean how can I forget a boss that I have to mandatoryly 
 fight 3 times throughout the game? Yeah, the problem this game has is a bit of repetition, you 
 have to backtrack through the game levels that Nero himself took through the first half of the 
 game with Dante. This isn't too much of a major gripe as you have to find new ways to get back 
 to the beginning, but I don't think there would be much complaining if there was some new scenery 
 to look at. Each boss is fun to fight in their own respect but it felt like just going through 
 the motions with each character.
  
  Instead of spending your well earned monkey bloo- er I mean demon blood or red orbs as they're 
 called, on new moves to enhance your character you get what is called Proud Souls, which you are 
 rewarded with at the end of each level depending on your rank, which is judged by the following 
 criteria, Clear time, how fast you race through the level, Stylish points, for the combo score 
 you achieve and orbs found, for how much demon blood you pick up. This time around Red Orbs go 
 toward items like blue orbs and purple ones, so you can concentrate on increasing your health and 
 offence, while Proud Souls go toward new moves, it's kind of a downer that you can only get them 
 by completing a mission though.
  
  What's a tough bite to swallow for the impatient is that the game on the PS3 takes approximately 
 30 minutes to install onto your drive, this is a one time thing during start up, but really, if 
 you're planning to play the game in a hurry, well you're going to be disappointed. Best find something 
 to do during this time or you'll be sorely frustrated. I heard that a lot of people returned the 
 game just because they could not wait for this time. On the plus side, in comparison to the 360 
 version, PS3's Devil May Cry's loading times are significantly shortened, making for smoother transitions. 
 
  
  Nero's move set is both impressive and satisfying, a new sword is given to us that has a Fuel Injection 
 System, which is like a mega power flash boost to your weapon, rev it up like a motorcycle and 
 slash your enemies into oblivion. The devil arm is useful as it is fun, snatching your enemies 
 from afar to drag them in or even slamming them helplessly around into other foes, it all depends 
 on your opponent really, so this arm is very versatile and always brings something new to the table. 
 Truthfully I miss Ebony and Ivory, Nero has a nice double barrel gun, but it doesn't pack as much 
 of a punch as far as I'm concerned, so really, it hardly got put to any use. Devil Trigger mode 
 is fun, but I won't go too far into it since it's kind of spolierish. 
  
  Dante has some returning favorites as well as some new flashy moves, his styles are now quickly 
 accessible on the fly, thank goodness too, set on the D pad you can select any devastating style 
 to your suiting with a simple push of the button. Being that I'm a returning fan of the series 
 it was easy enough to fall back to Dante's good old attacks and quickly become dependant on him, 
 it was a bit difficult to switch back to Nero toward the end, so least to say I had a bit of difficulty 
 with the final boss because of this. 
  
  There's also another secret ending to be unlocked if you defend a certain piece of sitting duck 
 during the ending credits it's kind of difficult but the cut scene is pretty well worth watching 
 for good times sake. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  The concept stays true to its roots adding a bit more ass kick to the mix; switching out for a 
 new hero is always a risky move and is rarely pulled off so well. Nero makes a nice edition to 
 the Devil May Cry franchise and there seems to be a lot in store and promise off his story and 
 the core of his character. It's exciting to see where the story will go next.
  
  Graphics: PS3 boasts a good deal about it's graphic quality and boy they weren't just puffing hot 
 air, this game is gorgeous it's rare that I'm stunned by the quality of graphics in a game to the 
 point that I have to stop and look at everything as I go, this is a good and bad thing in and of 
 it's self, for a game that depends on ranking by time it's hard to make a good score when you're 
 hanging with your jaw on the floor. The moves are artistically beautiful as well at all the cut 
 scenes in their splendid glory; this game is so easy on the eyes it practically hurts. 
  
  Sound: The music fits very well with everything, each scene is fun to look at and its depth is 
 secured with the fine music set behind it. A little bit more heavy rock going on in the fighting 
 background, appropriate, but I'd like to hear some variety here. Other than that, everything is 
 excellent. There are nice little touches that are highly appreciated and show just how much blood 
 and sweat has gone into this game. 
  
  Playability: Smooth as ice, the characters are easy to move around the environments and the camera 
 angles have been improved, you're able to adjust your camera with a little more freedom this time, 
 but the already fixed angles are satisfactory, so I rarely touched them.
  
  Entertainment: It's very difficult to put this game down for long, running around breathtaking 
 landscapes and fighting off hordes of demons has always been pretty filling. A gripe though is 
 that the game is very often interrupted by cut scenes, these cut scenes are awesome to look at, 
 but on a second play through they get annoying and seem to be to frequent. The choreography has 
 been toned down from Devil May Cry 3 but the fight scenes are still impressive none the less and 
 suspending your belief isn't as hard to achieve. 
  
  Replay: There are secret missions, new moves to grab and really, just running around the game for 
 no reason is a true pleasure. There are many difficulty levels to add to the challenge as well 
 as other miscellaneous, it's a good game to have. You may find yourself skipping over cut scenes 
 a lot though. 
  
  All and all: A worthy buy, it's brilliant, having a bit more length held over its previous installments 
 and a lot of promise for the future of the series. Grab it up, give it a go, it's a total slam 
 dunk. 
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Well too answer quickly in my opinion, yes, this does beat DMC3. Okay DMC3 had a much better storyline 
 with a much more bad ass cast of characters but fans and newcomers alike will definitely get a 
 kick out of this.
  
  The story is what you would expect from a Devil May Cry game except there is much more romance 
 than any of the previous games which does add a new feel and motive to the player. The game starts 
 with an assassination of the Saviour and you Nero must pursue the assassin, seems simple enough 
 eh? The story does develop more and gives some pretty interesting results but don't go expecting 
 DMC3 standards.
  
  If you've played previous games and have become a big Dante fan, do not fret because the new character 
 Nero is actually quite a bit of fun. The game introduces the new Devil Bringer which gives Nero 
 many new fancy abilities, for instance you can grab enemies and slam them into the ground, use 
 your imagination and you can come up with some pretty nice combos. However once you get to play 
 as Dante you do get much more freedom because he is just generally stronger. He controls pretty 
 much the same as in previous DMC games.
  
  The game has got a new coat of paint and i must say the character models are pretty impressive. 
 I would have said the same for the environments but you will soon find yourself backtracking to 
 extreme proportions.
  
  The problem with DMC4 is that it just seems so lazy at times. You have to re-fight the same bosses 
 at least 3 times in the exact same fashion and the exact same place. They don't even make them 
 any harder which brings me to my next complaint. The games difficulty has been softened from previous 
 installments. Backtracking is not kept to a minimal, enemies are recycled and repetitive. 
  
  Pros:
  One of the few good hack and slash games which is not a mere button masher. Superb 
 graphics and unique game play elements. Achievements are a good form of replay value. Great story. 
 Many things to unlock. Some pretty dazzling boss fights.
  
  Cons:
  Too bad those boss fights are repeated to often. Dante is reduced to almost a cameo. Story doesn't 
 live up to DMC3 standards. Too much backtracking. Boring enemies.
  
  Overall:
  DMC is the best in the series, whether it beats 3 is up to you. A game that has its fair share 
 of flaws but it you will feel very fulfilled after completing the game and shall stay in your memories 
 for some time.
  
  Score:
  a dazzling 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reuben4boston
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The controls in this game are perfect for the ps3, seeing as I have played both, and the xbox controller 
 scheme just feels off. The visuals are stunning and overall are crisp and clean. I stood in awe 
 as this was the most beautiful game I had owned on the ps3 at this point (later got uncharted, another 
 great game that should be checked out) . The story that's prevalent in DMC 4 is very interesting, 
 and makes me almost blow my mind after the twists played out.
  
  The big problem I have with DMC 4 is that after you play through as Nero, you have to go back and 
 beat all the previous bosses as Dante. This is very frustrating because each boss now has a different 
 strategy because you no longer have the Devil bringer. Overall, the mechanics are fun and easy 
 to play as, but difficult to master. This game deserves an 9.5/10 for the strong game play mechanics, 
 the stunning visuals, and the great story. The only problem was the game was made longer due to 
 you playing as Dante, as stated previously.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This was my first DMC game, and I absolutely love it. 
  
  I'm a casual gamer when it comes to genres like this, a similar game I played before this was Ninja 
 Gaiden Black. I know there are lots of fanboys out there who practice lots to memory the combos 
 and achieve harder difficulties, but I really got sick of being kicked around in the game, it got 
 really frustrating. A game is supposed to be fun and challenging, but that game overdid it. Therefore 
 DMC4 was a welcome change for me.
  
  I really like how the game doesn't force a difficulty on you, and that you're free to choose from 
 2 difficulty levels from the start. After you acquire more skill (lost souls, orbs, upgrades) , 
 you can start a harder difficulty while retaining it all - brilliant! You can also choose to forgo 
 all the button mashing and memorizing combos, there's an automatic option for the player to simply 
 combat. Playing as both characters, both have unique assets, yields lots of fun and breaks up the 
 monotony of playing as one character. Also, I'm not a big fan of magic, so the plain old shoot 
 & stab works well for me.
  
  Now the downsides. I thought the cutscenes were cheesy. It would've been nice to play the Nero 
 missions as Dante - he's the most fun to be, there are so many options with him. I also found the 
 lock-on mode to be faulty, often when I was fighting multiple enemies, it would lock on to those 
 that I would rather not focus on (such as concentrate and attack one at a time) . The replay value 
 is limited, I wish there was a mission editor instead of playing the story missions again.
  
  The bottom line is that the game can appeal to a wide variety of players, not just the hardcore 
 ones. Wielding swords, shooting guns, jumping all over the place like a complete bad*ss... without 
 having to worry about potions and memorizing crazy combos is what makes this game a winner for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRXgamer93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  THIS game is well to put it Amazing the design artwork. The fights incredible, unlike genji this 
 is pure and true fighting no pressing buttons to ge lucky and perform a combo no this game is filled 
 with combos that are easy. Nero is a nice change aside from Dante he is the same personality but 
 Dante has gotten boring. This game is hack n slash meaning its not as different as like god of 
 war or genji, but its fresh and will keep you hooked until you beat it. and the difficulty is easy 
 but well what hack n slash isnt Am i right? still if you dont like this genre THEN DONT PLAY AND 
 DONT CRITICIZE. have fun with it and then once yo get bored play call of duty or somethin, because 
 1 year from now you will get that crave to play right now i wanna play ocarina of tima and FF7 
 the greatest games of all time. And this game is what it said to be nothing more nothing less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  DMC 4 home on the PS3...
  To begin things off with yo play as a young Knight named Nero. That obatains the power of the devil 
 bringer. With this power he's on a quest to discover answers and to save the one that he loves. 
 Not wanting to spoil too much for you so lets get on wth the good things
  GOOD THINGS: the graphics are awesome and the enviroments are beautiful. This game has long beautiful 
 cut scenes that are packed full of intense action. That DMC fans will come to recognize. The action 
 is took to a hgher level , not just in cut scenes but also in game play. The game play is a mixture 
 of sword action and gun action. You will find out the new character with his new powers hs some 
 new great moves. To defeat your cool new enemies and amazing boss battles.. You will meet new allies 
 and enemies and some may seem familar. One character the fans will recognize, will also be in this 
 one and will also be a playable character. Not wanting to give away anything. The story is deeper 
 and more envolved than the other DMC games. It does a good job of filling you in on what happened 
 in the other games while still moving on with this one. You will be very excited to see what directon 
 that will be takin the series in. You will find out answers and that will bring more questions. 
 This game as a great replay value. 
  BAD THINGS: all of the DMC games last about the same amount of time, 3-4 days. There is realy nothing 
 that I can say about this game that qualifies as being bad. I really enjoyed the entire aspect 
 of the game. and felt very satisfied wih the game upon beating it. I have beat it 2 xs and I am 
 still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_fanatic_7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect with it's boss fights and it's style moves. The new hero Nero shows us what 
 power is with his demonic arm he offers new moves that destroy demons and flawless combos. This 
 game has great cut-scenes of power and love showing gamers it is not about fighting for no reason 
 it is about fighting for something. Nero must go and venture through this terrible demon filled 
 world to save the one he loves. He meets legendary demon hunter Dante they do not get along well, but 
 they learn to make it threw they must fight together. They battle strong and powerful bosses witch 
 keeps gamers on their heels as gamers must battle bosses with Nero, Dante, and Nero again but it 
 is worth it when Dante gets powerful weapons one that has the power to change into different weapons 
 known as Pandora's Box and others as well. As the story continues Nero saves the one he loves and 
 wins the battle against the demons him and Dante say goodbye until the next time the demons appear. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This was my first real play through of the series, I'm glad I started here. If you're new to the 
 series, a quick wikipedia will help save a lot of time for previous story lines. Generally you 
 shouldn't care either.
  
  The game has you following Nero for 75% of the story and 25% to Dante. Switching characters could 
 be kind of troublesome if you're not careful, but it's a button masher game so you don't need to 
 know much. No spoilers her so play the game if you want to know the story. It's really tacky and 
 nothing new.
  
  Overall gameplay is simple. Dodge, dip, dive, and dodge! But seriously you have counters and strong 
 moves ranging from swords, to guns, and down and dirty first fights. The game allows you to level 
 up your moves and also cancel the process and start over. Its Capcoms way of adding strategy to 
 a hack and slash game. A Style system is used to determine your combos in various ways. You can 
 get creative here with the way you kill demons. All levels are based of Time, Style, and orbs Found. 
 Each level is ranked and added to the PSN network to brag. The game is really easy and has pretty 
 good replay value. If you don't mind playing the same levels over and over, you're good. 
  
  Simply put this game is a good pick up. For DMC fans it's satisfying and newbie's have a good 
 rental unless you want to really get into the series. Personally its too weird for me, Sparda, 
 fake gods, girls with huge boobs.. well not that. The game speaks for its self so go ahead already 
 and pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  I have to say in advance- I didn't finish it yet. I'm at 12th chapter right now (the switch to 
 Dante) . And, well, I'm playing on recommended difficulty for novices :P And that means- Human
 
  
  There are few major positive points I would like to mention:
  - It's very, very artistic. The environments is masterpiece of texturing. The graphic designs are 
 so inspired that I often stop playing just to watch around
  - Animations of characters are amazingly fantastic
  - Doing combos is so satisfying that the 
 fights are never getting repetitive- you just want more & more action
  - The cutscenes are top notch- like proper 3D animated movies
  - The storyline is very good- 
 it's like a good anime comic book
  - Lasting appeal? Well, I'm pretty damn sure that I'll re-play this game once more (at least)
 
  - Difficulty. I can't say how difficult game is on a proper difficulty level, but playing on Human 
 is not too difficult. So don't be scared by hardcore fans' talks about how punishing the game could 
 be. Just take it easy and play the recommended difficulty level.
  
  Though, there are 2 minor negative points:
  - Camera switches between fixed and controlled modes 
 without warning. But I got used to that and that doesn't annoy me anymore
  - The graphics are gorgeous. However, the graphic engine isn't flawless
  - Few puzzles are unfair, 
 so feel free to read some walk-throughs :)
  
  The bottom line is that it's one of the best games on all platforms and it easily stands in one 
 line with the best games like Gears of War (one of my most favourite games ever) - it's damn artistic 
 and addictive!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiepliskin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Alright dont get me wrong this IS a good game, along with all the other DMC games in the series 
 (minus DMC2) , this one just kind of takes a step back in a few places. The best thing (s) about 
 this game i would have to say is the graphics and the controls/handling, both are silky smooth. 
 The addition of the new character Nero is a refreshing new change, but IMO when it boils down to 
 it, we all just want to play as Dante the whole game, because come on, hes badass. Now as for the 
 levels, this is kind of a catch 22 (along with the boss fights) , they are awesome the first time 
 through, after that i just found myself going "this.. again?". The combos are wicked, no complaints 
 there. Now for the the dice game, some may like it, I myself am not one of those people. The basic 
 enemies i really have no opinion on, they are just kind of "meh", just get ready to fight the same 
 things over and over and over again. Sooo all in all DMC4 is by no means a bad game, but is also 
 no game of the year, id likely say rent it first to see if its your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSSnakeRacer27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Since I liked Devil May Cry 3 so much, I decided to check the fourth game out on the PS3 and it's 
 very good, still entertaining to play.
  
  STORY: 
  This is not an ordinary Devil May Cry game; you do not play as Dante - well, you do in the second 
 half of the game - in the first half, you play as Nero, who is with the Order of the Sword. Dante 
 comes crashing through the window and he kills a large amount of people within Nero's Order. Nero 
 sets out to get revenge on Dante, but as he goes through his adventure, his love interest Kyrie 
 gets caught up in the mess. Therefore, Nero must also save her. It's a very good story for the 
 series, and it's got excellent characters. The script was very well-done but some of the humour 
 was kind of cheesy.
  Score: 8
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  It's the same as Devil May Cry 3; if you've already played that game, you might find this kind 
 of easy. The new entry to the series as Nero is his claw, which is used to smack down, throw enemies 
 or pull them towards him. It's a very cool feature and it's extremely fun to use. His gun, Blue 
 Rose, is a fun pistol to use. It has all the elements that Devil May Cry 3 had to offer when you 
 play as Dante. It's easier than the third game because some sections are easy. The boss battles, 
 I have to say, are the best in the series, even though there isn't enough of them. Fighting Dante 
 is very challenging. You will find yourself returning to the same levels and fighting the same 
 bosses as Dante, which is somewhat repetitive.
  Score: 9
  
  GRAPHICS: 
  The graphics are great. The character models look superb, the environments look great and boss 
 battles look realistic.
  Score: 10
  
  SOUND:
  The music is great - you will have different music as you play as Nero or Dante, or when you fight 
 a boss battle. The sound effects are good and the voice-acting does a very good job of bringing 
 the characters to life, despite the occasional cheesy lines. 
  Score: 8.5
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is great and is very entertaining to play, though the repetitive levels may get to you. 
 But with it's high replay value, it does make up for it. I recommend it for hardcore gamers who 
 want a challenge and those who enjoyed the third game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4
  Since the game was released and that I've had it in my pocession, I wanted to do a review of it. 
 But I had to finish it first for making a complete review. The day has come XD!! Here is what I 
 have to say about it.
  When you see the score that I gave to the game, you think that I'm another freek who just puts 
 10 eveywhere. NO I'M NOT!! The first game with a 10 that I've put was God of War 2 and this is 
 the second, which means that there were both the best games I ever played in my whole life. 
  I couldn't not give this game a 9 or 9.5 because I would be wrong. Yes there is a bit of repetition 
 in it and that its almost the same gameplay than the third of the serie. But this doesn't mean 
 that the game is not good. Since God of War 2 was released, there wasn't a game that made me addicted 
 to it than DMC4. I know that we cannot compare these two games, but these were the only ones. 
 
  
  DMC4 brings us a few years later after Dante's last mission. You're Nero a young boy who looks 
 familiar (REALLY) with Dante when he was younger. Nero gots a demonic arm and that his one big 
 piece of Nero's gameplay. You'll gain abilities with it and will be able to kill differently the 
 ennemies and to break objects. Evey single type of monsters that Nero faces can be kill differently. 
 
  When you'll be able to play with Dante, because the game is divised in two parts, you'll recognize 
 almost the same gameply that you loved in DMC3. But ! You remember that you could use different 
 style by choosing them in save points, now it's at any time!!
  The game contains a stronger story compared to the third installement. The game begins allready 
 with action. Dante makes an appearance and kills the father of the church and fights against the 
 army soldier. He kills them all (NO KIDDING) anf then Nero and him fights. ( Is Dante bad ?? You'll 
 see. ) . After the fight, monsters comes and the adventure begins. You'll pass throught an old castle, 
 jungle, iced montains and more. Compared to the other DMC, you can't put this one like a sequel, 
 because you see Trish (DMC) , lady (DMC3) and you'll noticed about Yamato...
  And what to say about the diffulty... less than the third one. Lots of fans were mad and frustrated 
 by the one of DMC3 and Capcom listened. The fourth is easier.
  
  What is great about this game, is thatt it's fun to do again and again the mission for earning 
 a better score, more money and things that you mist. When you'll finish the game you'll earn new 
 difficluties and there hard and are a great challenge. Also the bloody palade mode that is fun. 
 There is non-stop action and you won't be bored after a few hours, because the story is really 
 good.
  So that was my review of DMC4. Looks like the DMC3 but in better. Capcom changed the bads and ad 
 new that brings fun. It is a must and everyone who has a PS3 system of other console who has the 
 gae, should try it
  Thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  I like this game a lot. I've finished dmc 1 and 2, but the 3rd one proved a little too frustrating 
 and i never went back to finish. i liked the gameplay in 4 the best. new main characters are always 
 sketchy especially when you're going up against a badass like dante, but nero is a lot of fun to 
 play. the graphics are beautiful. the audio is.. meh.. well what can i say it is good, but it seems 
 like dante and nero have very few sounds they make when you attack and you attack a lot in this 
 game so be prepared to hear the same "hyaahh!" a million times. 
  
  my only real complaint is that this game never goes to the underworld! all the environments are 
 pretty and for the most part bright and sunny and they look great, but it's like... "dude? this 
 is devil may cry? when do i get to make the trip into hell? oh i don't? dang."
  
  all in all this game is a lot of fun to play if you're a fan of the series at all, if you don't 
 like the others, don't waste your time. if anything i found that this one on the easy setting was 
 ridiculously easy and that the normal setting was tough in spots, but never crazy frustrating the 
 way dmc3 could be. it is kind of short, so maybe just a rental would suffice; i beat it over two 
 weekends and i don't have a lot of time to play games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I've never seen so many high reviews for such an average game. Way, way, way too generous, people. 
 Being a fan of the original DMC, I was really hoping to see a next gen leap. Graphically, it delivers. 
 It's a gorgeous blond. Unfortunately, it's a gorgeous blond who's transparent shallowness bores 
 you to pieces after week one. The level design is downright bland. There was a time when you had 
 to think to finish a DMC stage. Those days seem to be long gone if DMC 4 is any indication. The 
 boss fights are cool, but c'mon, do I really need to fight them again and again? And yes, I'll 
 dare say it: the combat isn't what it's cracked up to be anymore. Hmm, to pull off uber-combo supreme, 
 press triangle-triangle, then triangle. To pull off uber-combo supreme deluxe, press triangle-triangle-triangle, 
 then press -- you guessed it -- triangle. Sorry, that's called button mashing. Ultimately, DMC 4 is 
 a one and done experience. The media did a great job of fooling everyone (including me) into buying 
 this lukewarm action game. Do yourself a favor and rent it if you really need to see for yourself 
 why gaming media outlets are nothing more than glorified PR lackies. Better yet, buy Ninja Gaiden. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, maybe you've played it, and maybe you don't like it, but I really think that it's a masterpiece. 
 I like way too much the style and this kind of game. The swordplay is fantastic, the graphics are 
 awesome, the gunplay is too cool, and the gameplay is fabulous!
  
  
  The new character, Nero, is too cool. His hairstyle is very cool for the kind of character he plays... 
 I can't tell you much about this game because I only rented it for three days but I did 80 percent 
 of it so... Like I told you, I rented it, but I will certainly buy it in the next 2 months so... 
 
  
  
  This is really ALL I can tell you about this game. I highly recommend this game to anyone who liked 
 the previous ones, but you should all do as I did and rent it first so you'lle know if you like 
 it... 
  
  
  This is the end of my review.
  
  
  
  Sincerly, 
  
  Carl Maycry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I didn't play throught all version of DMC, all i've played till date is just DMC1, and DMC4.
  Devil May Cry 4 consist of lots of elements, fighting, romance, betrayal. You play as both charactors 
 Nero and Dante, but you start with Nero first. Nero has this demolic arm which he possess, it's 
 very strong and one of the reason nero is easier to use than Dante.
  The devil arm has the power to snatch demons to himself, save time from walking or jumping to a 
 foe. 
  The game tells about how his holiness presumed to be a good guy at the start, end up being a great 
 demon himself and requires extermination.
  Nero started out serving his holiness, while Dante sort of is trying to enlighten nero. When you 
 starts to play Dante, u actually follow Nero's routes and fight the same bosses, but for every 
 boss u defeat, u gain a weapon and destroys the gate. Because of that some felt cheapscate in level 
 design.
  
  Gameplay:
  Hack and slash is the word to describe this game. But u do have combos which u can earn and use 
 them. For nero, he's stuck with a demolic arm and a sword, later into the game, he gets yamato, 
 a sword and he's able to summon his demolic form which does extra damage. The same goes for Dante 
 as well, but Dante himself can get more weapons, especially after boss fights.
  The controls are very good, it response immediately and it's critical for coordinating combo attacks. 
 You buy potion with red orbs and skills with some sort of skill points.
  This game also has some puzzles along the way, some gates results u walk around and solve them, 
 while others like boss fight need u thinking a little bit before u figure out to defeat them.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing excellent here, but the graphics are very good, for both charactors and environment. One 
 thing i have to praise DMC4 is the cutscenes, they look real good especially during boss fights 
 etc, there's some sort of humor during these cutscenes as well.
  And to add, there's no faults with the graphics, everything went very smooth, except sometimes 
 the camera angle which anger u.
  
  Sound:
  A great here. It's nothing out of the ordinary. It uses Dolby Digital, all the surround can be 
 heard accurately and the bass is balanced. When the charactors talks, they do have good lip-syncing.
 
  
  This game is a wow, i was expect it to be a real hard game, thanks to the difficulty selection, 
 i need not fear that. If u like hack and slash, this is a must get. If you like a great storyline 
 with a humor stamped on it, this is for you as well. My only complaint is that the gameplay could 
 have been better by asking the players to coordinate button during the devil arm animation.
  If you're thinking of getting this game, just get it, u won't regret and will have a good and fun 
 time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Best Feature: Same devil murdering action and attitude we've come to know and love. A new character 
 takes the main stage and he doesn't suck! Nero's arm mechanic is certainly welcome. Cool characters..
 
  
  Worst Feature: Meh story. Bosses are rehashed... and then rehashed again. So are the envoirnments, 
 that just screams lazy!
  
  I haven't always been a huge Devil May Cry fan. I bought number one as a greatest hit, and liked 
 it okay enough, it was nothing mind-blowing however. I then bought Devil May Cry 2 for cheap, and 
 well... lets not talk about that one. Then I bought the crazy hard Devil May Cry 3, again as a greatest 
 hit, and it was phenominal. I would have eaisly paid $40 for it. It made me a huge believer, and 
 I couldn't wait for DMC4.
  
  Now that I have a PS3, I have it and its really very good, but not without its flaws. (Most of 
 which result from shortcuts taken in the development) First of all, its not nearly as hard as the 
 punishingly difficult Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening. (This isn't really a bad thing for most, 
 but I like my Devil May Cry hard as hell.) It's still reasonably difficult and therefore more accessible 
 to the casual gamer) Since its on the PS3, the game is quite beautiful. Everything is bright and 
 colorful, and a good graphical case for the PS3. (As if it needed one) The environments are a joy 
 to explore... the first time.
  
  This is the first place that things hit a snag. You start the game as new protaganist Nero, in 
 a tutorial battle with series mainstay baddass Dante. Nero is a cool enough character with his 
 own mechanics in the form of his extendable devil arm, that are a little offputting at first but 
 are quickly comfortable, making him more then welcome. (Remember that not so welcome MGS2 switch?) 
 You play through the first 2/3 of the game as Nero, until he's snatched from you and put back into 
 the baddass boots of Dante. Which is fine cause Dante rocks, but thats where the snag hits. Rather 
 then give Dante his own stages to play through, your simply given task to fight through Nero's 
 stages, only backwards! 
  
  Doing things you've already done in reverse order doesn't make for the supreme fun that Dante's 
 section should have been, you simply retread old stages, only with greater ease due to Dante already 
 having a wealth of upgrades and being already used to his play style. If this weren't enough, you'd 
 think Dante would get his own bosses at least... nope. As you pass through the boss stages, you 
 fight all the same ones again only this time as Dante, so they are significantly easier.
  
  If that isn't incredibly dissapointing enough, in the games final stage your switched to Nero again. 
 While this is fine, your set upon a gauntlet stage that follows what I like to call Mega Man final 
 stage rules. You know what that means... that's right... you have to fight all those same bosses... again, 
 only in one stage. That kind of lazyness isn't really forgivable and while it didn't ruin the game, 
 it dropped this review score an entire point and a half. 
  
  This game is by no means bad, its a good game, just not what it should have been. It should have 
 been the series best effort with the technoligical firepower of the PS3, but its no Devil May Cry 
 3. It just feels lazy in places, keeping DMC 3 and the top of its devil slaying tower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menmerga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is incredible fun, it is highly addictive, you may think that the screwed all when 
 they decided that Nero was the main character, but its very good, it has the same sword and gun 
 action but with a plus, it has his arm called devil bringer that helps you to do fantastic combos, 
 the only thing bad about this character is that unlike Dante, he doesnt have different styles but 
 its okay.
  
  as in the other devil may cry games, after you finish the game for the first time you will unlock 
 difficulties and finishing it in these difficulties you unlock different rewards, this makes you 
 play this game for more time.
  
  the story in this game is very good also, and it will keep you wanting to know who Nero really 
 is and what is his connection to Dante and Sparda!! i will not tell you anything else to not ruin 
 you interest in the story.
  
  This game has very good graphics one of the best i have seen in a game for the ps3 actually, and 
 the music during the fights is good also.
  
  if you are a fan of the series you MUST get this game, if you are not, this is a nice start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikook
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is one of the best sequels to the DMC series that there is. You play as Nero who 
 mysteriously came in contact with a devil gate and had his arm transformed to a devil arm which 
 is the main part of the game. Then you come in contact with Dante who then you fight. The game 
 has only a very few let downs, One of the big ones is when your fighting bosses for example their 
 will be parts that you can use a Buster (which is your devil arm) to do massive damage on them, 
 Thats not the problem the problem is that certain bosses that you may need to use it on or need 
 to because of low health will be hard to spot when you can use it. Which is hard for new comers 
 to the game. The secound bad point is some Tv's will have serious lag to it, It never happend to 
 me but a lot of people I know have this problem. Ok now for the good parts, One of the new updates 
 is achievements, But not only can you do them you can see what achievements your friends did. The 
 bloody palace is back and better than ever with harder parts and basically no load time with it. 
 Also you get to play as Dante who you can change styles of fighting anytime you want, Which is 
 fun but the main greatest update to the game is Neros devil arm. It makes fighting a lot funner 
 and somewhat harder if you dont know how to use it. Thats all I have to say about the game but 
 I will have to note this. WHEN YOU START A LEVEL YOU CANT SAVE ANYTIME DURING IT, thats very bad 
 because the levels are extremely long. But other than that the game is a must keep for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Everybody knows what this game is about or you wouldn't be reading this review. Anyway Nero is 
 an awesome character I tend to like him better than Dante because you're so use to Nero by the 
 time you switch to Dante. One thing I hated was the back tracking and you pretty much fought each 
 boss 3 times except for the big one. The music is great but the mission start music wasn't that 
 great it kind of made me want to play COD4 instead. All and all the gameplay is great the story 
 is great but it's a little short about 8-10 hours so unless you feel like paying $60 bucks for 
 a cool afternoon then by all means buy it. But honestly I'd just gamefly it, that's what I did 
 and it was great so any way hears the rally up.
  
  Good  Great sense of old and new. Amazing graphics and gameplay with a great story that you'll 
 remember.
  
  Bad  Incredible amount of back tracking and it feels a little recycled throughout the game like 
 the developers got tired and they just kept reusing things.
  
  
  Graphics  Graphics would definitely be a 9 incredible visuals.
  
  Gameplay  Gameplay was 
 great the gun could have done more damage but that gets an 8.
  
  Sound  The sound was good but sounded kind of stupid sometimes and the lip sync wasn't always 
 their, that got a 7.
  
  Value  Honestly can't say that it's very valuable. Once you play and beat the game you get art 
 and movies but theirs no real reason to go back and play through it again that got a 7 to.
  
  So unless you're a die hard Devil May Cry fan I think that this is definitely a rent and it 
 got an overall score of 7.75 so an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  So much to say about DMC4 and so little space. DMC 4 is imo the best entry in the series. Game 
 itself could have been done in a more "next-gen" way but i think it would have lost its charm.
 
  I am very glad that the basic mechanics, such as combo system, pick a mission and play, short 
 story but with 6 difficulty levels, have been intact as well. 
  
  Graphically it is definitely next gen. DMC4 looks amazing and play very smooth. One thing it lack 
 is the interaction with surrounding. However do not forget this is an arcade style brawler so going 
 to town on puzzles and whatnot could have easily compromise the gameplay.
  Character annimations are superb and there is a nice variey of new enemies, of which the Angelos 
 are by far the best creation in a while. Very cool looking, pretty fun to fight and it has by far 
 my favorite buster type.
  Soundtrack has also remained true to itself. Heavy, "satanic" metal dominates the game and it perfectly 
 suits the mayhem you cause. One problem i had was the closing song. It is cheaply composed and 
 somewhat cheesy, but hey, cant get it all perfect. Should have just had a nice beat based outro 
 (think Rage at the end of Matrix, or Prodigy at the end of Event Horizon) .
  
  Of the new things in the game, the biggest by far is the new lead character Nero. He offers a great 
 fresh approach to play with ihs Devil Bringer. It also seems to be a character designed for those 
 with "impaired" DMC skills (read: new players :p) , as it is very easy to get acustomed and than 
 as you progress he can easily be master to preform some amazing stuff.
  Dante this time around is a true bad @ss! More mature, cooler, and with a whole lot less of cheesy 
 one liners. I actually got giddy with happines a few times, during cut scenes. Capcom surely did 
 a brilliant job "aging" Dante.
  
  Gameplay, as i mentioned above hasnt really changed much. It is still old fashion, full speed ahead, 
 button mashing mayhem. and that IS a good thing. I was not too happy with some of the puzzles as 
 it took some practice to get them perfect and occasionaly they would ruin a S rated speed run, 
 which can get annoying! But, in Capcom's defense, puzzle were never their strong point (think back 
 to the 1st 3 RE games... laughable puzzles) . 
  Also to really get the best of the game, you have to be willing to play thru it well more than 
 just 6 times/difficulty levels. It will take a while to get skills to complete all of the achievements, 
 buy up all the skills and master each combo. So as always be patient. However one good thing i 
 found is that the difficulty curve was a bit more staggered and it alllows to barely be challenged 
 thru Human and Devil Hunter difficulty modes. This being a good, it will allow you to get your 
 S ranks in, and also plenty of time to play around with fine tunning your demon hunting skills.
 
  
  Last but not the least i have to say that while game may not be fully representative of the next 
 gen stuff we are getting used to, at least not in its complexity. It is the experience that counts 
 here. There are many things to enjoy, a lot of challenge, and of course you can always pop those 
 movies up on youtube. com and see how you stack against other Dante wannabies, which only adds to 
 the games charm and replayability.
  So, if you dont own DMC4 by now, you are doing something wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_Sparda
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  ***Intro***
  The Devil May Cry series went through a lot of phases, the first in the series revolutionized the 
 action genre, & many of the action games now followed its' footsteps! the second game was a big 
 let down to the series, many people consider it a good game, but bas compared to the first! the 
 series came back strongly in it's third, with a big over-the-top moveset, an all-new style system, 
 & on-the-fly weapon switching!
  and now the fourth installment is out, with many additional features!
  
  
  ***Story***9/10
 
  A long time ago, Sparda - The Legendary Dark Knight - rebelled against the demons to save the 
 human world... and now after almost two millenniums, a religious organization worship him, & sworn 
 to rid the world from evil... the organization is known as "The Order of the Sword" or "The Order" 
 in short.
  
  The Story in this game is deeper than the past installments, with few twists here & there, though 
 some might hate on the story, the story has a bigger meaning than any other DMC game, the bad thing 
 is, it has so many plotholes, and that is a big reason people hate on the story... but for me, i 
 think capcom did that to prepare a very BIG DMC5, with what i expect, the biggest game in the series.
 
  ***Graphics***9.5/10
  The graphics in this game are top-notch, while it's not the best game out there in terms of graphics, 
 it's still one of the best,... the environments are well-detailed, the characters design is superb, 
 the shadows are amazing, & the game is very colorful, the only downside is reflections from the 
 mirrors, but it still doesn't effect the game, as there are only a few mirrors in the game.
  
  ***Sound***8.5/10
  the game has great battle music, and fit the situations really well, though 
 it's not comparable to the first & third,....& the voice acting is simply spectacular, probably 
 the best voice acting in the series.
  
  ***Gameplay***9.5/10
  General:
  This game has the best ranking system in the series, which counts your time, style, & orbs as your 
 basic rank, and you get extra bonuses like no items used or no damage, or extra penalties like 
 using a gold orb or using a continue.
  and there is one thing this game is bad at, & it's difficulty, this game is very easy compared 
 to the third or first, though the good thing it's difficulty is not cheap* like the third!
  this game also has a very bad backtracking, probably the worst backtracking in the series, and 
 you actually get to fight each boss 3 times, without a change in his moveset.
  
  * cheap difficulty means that the developers give the player less health, while throwing in more 
 enemies and giving them bigger health!
  
  Nero:
  the game introduced an all-new system, the Devil Bringer, it can grab most enemies and pull them 
 toward you, or pulls Nero towards the enemy if the enemy is heavy, & it can grapple any enemy in 
 the game, & each enemy has a different animation, you can even grapple stunned bosses. Nero also 
 has an all new revving system, where you can rev your sword like a motorbike, and enhance the already 
 huge moveset. though the downside to Nero is that the only gets one extra Devil Arm in the entire 
 game, & he cannot really use it in all situations.
  
  Dante:
  people call Dante in this game a pumped-up version of DMC3 Dante, where he gets all four styles 
 in DMC3 plus one extra style, and you get to change your style on-the-fly, though some moves were 
 removed, they added a few more moves. Dante gets to use 3 Devil Arms & 3 Fire Arms, not as much 
 as DMC3, but it's a lot compared to his potion in the game. and there are two problems, first, 
 you cannot unequip an unwanted weapon, secondly, the fifth style is,... you will see yourself when 
 you play the game.
  
  ***Replay Value***9/10
  This game has easily 60 hours into it to regular gamers, & over 100 hours to DMC vets, it has 6 
 difficulty levels, a 101 level survival mode, a huge HUGE skills to buy for both Dante & Nero, 
 where you cannot get them in a few playthroughs, plus, you get lots of accomplishments which gives 
 a good replay value, though there is one thing this game lacks, & it's extra costumes, you only 
 unlock the traditional super character, no coatless Dante/Nero, no DMC1/2/3 Dante, no LDK, & no 
 Vergil/Nelo...
  
  ***Closing***
  This is one of the best DMC games, with having two great characters, each with different gameplay 
 style, the graphics are amazing, the battle music is good, and the voice acting is at its' best, 
 and a thrilling story.
  the game still had it's downsides, like only one weapon for Nero, & no weapon unequipping for Dante, 
 or no character reflections, no extra costumes.... etc
  
  all in all, this game is well worth the pay, and will keep you entertained for over 60 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  As my title states DMC4 is a dramatic production with some of the best cut scenes to date on the 
 PS3. I as a player felt like i was starring in a movie to some point.
  
  Graphics: IMO This is the beginning of the graphics that can be produced in this generation of 
 games, boy will we all get a treat as developors push the power of the consoles to the limit. the 
 enviorments are pure masterpieces with perfect lighting and textures and a smooth frame rate that 
 could only be improved by 1080P and 60fps framerates.
  
  Sound: The music and action sound is right on the money but the voice overs sometimes make no sense 
 or seem far fetched.
  
  Gameplay: Some of the best movements in the series, easy to learn and keep up with, but nothing 
 really new other then the cool buster arm that nero has makes the action seem seemless to repeative. tons 
 of great fighting or slashing lol but boss battles are kinda few and you need to repeat them 3 
 times. but with that said they look and play hard at times and graphicly they are large and gorgous. 
 I also found this game to play a lot easier then any other DMC something i wish was added to this 
 title was that difficulty factor from previous DMCS.
  
  Over-all impression: With the new charectar of Nero and an ok storyline i found this game to be 
 fun and worth the bucks with some greatrreplay value if you want to challenge yourself with the 
 more difficult levels and challenges ect. my few gripes are the boss battles having to repeat them 
 3 times each is boring and i wish they had added something new here. i love the fact we can play 
 as dante for a good portion of the game at the end and love the cool new weapons in this game.. 
 
  
  I for once this year have to totally agree with gamespot on thier review. i see no bias on thier 
 part for the first time this year. maybe its because of the great heat they have gotten of late. 
 but for those action adventure gamers this is a good buy or must own game for your libary. For 
 those that realy dont care for hack and slash this still would be a great rental just for the story 
 and the wonderfull movie aspect of the game. worthy of the 8 that this site gave it i went a little 
 better with an 8.5 because i gave more points for the great graphics and the no load times that 
 i got after the 4gig hdd load worth it to me although i would rather have a choice if i wanted 
 instead of being forced to install. i wish you great gaming this year seeing the PS3 has some many 
 great titles coming out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is the first Devil May Cry games i have played ever. Right when i started a game 
 in this i new it would be a fun and great game to play. When you first start this game u start 
 off as "Nero" and he has some sick and cool moves to pick from to use. You can also collect red 
 orbs to buy new moves when you see a shop (usually before bosses) . Latter on in the game you get 
 to be Dante and he is my favorite character in DMC4. He has a ton of AUSOME moves that you can 
 use. 
  
  Starting at about the 4th chapter, there is a boss basically at the end of every chapter. These 
 bosses aren't really hard once you have mastered the controls. To make the bosses easy, you should 
 buy a golden orb before entering battle. If you have a golden orb, when you die you reapear with 
 full health. 
  
  Overall this game as AMAZING graphics, monsters, weapons, characters, bosses, and very very many 
 more. If i were to pick, i would definitely buy this game over renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HawkGamer2008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a great game for both veterans and newcomers to the series. This is definitely 
 an early game of the year candidate. Even though Dante doesn't have much screen time, it just makes 
 the time you do play as him all that much more special. Also there is absolutely no difference 
 between the PS3 and X-BOX 360 versions of the game, there completely identical. Devil May Cry 4 
 is action packed, so if you aren't into action games steer clear of this game. This game is what 
 classics are made of.
  Anyone looking for a good game to buy this year should definitely pick up Devil May cry 4. This 
 is one the most addicting games i've played in a very long time, not to mention it's lasting appeal. 
 This is a must have for anyone into action filled games. Newcomers to the DMC series will especially 
 enjoy this forth and hopefully not last entry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wannafreeze
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  DMC, the best ever. beautifully done as always. great story line, great music, amazing graphics 
 and boy oh boy highly addictive. the game looks so great on HD tv as if the characters are about 
 to walk out of the tv. Dante looks great, wild and the fighting techniques and weapons are sooo 
 good. love the music played in the back ground, they sound very similar to the music in DMC 3. 
 liked the part where dante get's his powerful hand that's similar to the one in the game GOD HAND. 
 it was nice to see many of the characters from previous DMC's all in DMC 4. 
  the red orbs now show a face instead of the usual red globes that were in the previous versions 
 of the game. 
  i thought this game was sooo good in every way and it's worth buying and would recommend to anyone 
 who's crazy over great games with graphics, music, storyline and etc..... my score for this game 
 is A+++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullduggery368
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4 your normal beat-em-up with the classic try and beat your old score element. Now 
 i'm farely new to the series but as soon as i installed the game and got going i was instantly 
 having a blast.
  
  Devil may cry 4 starts off in a beautifull church with the new guy nero sitting down listening 
 to his girl friends opera. as he gets up to leave everybodys favourite anti-hero Dante jumps through 
 the ceiling and kills every guard in sight. this soon leads to an awsome fight scene between Dante 
 and Nero. this will probably be your favourite set of cutscenes as Dante and Nero try and chop 
 each other up, but after a while Nero shows dante what he's made of by unleashing his right arm 
 upon dante. after this cutscene you too actually have a fight, which is pretty damn fun. in fact 
 you two are so evenly matched that if you shoot at Dante he will shoot at you and your bullets 
 will collide in mid-air.
  After this battle another cutscene and dante escapes. and of course you are sent to find him. Nero 
 is a pretty baisic charcter to master. he has three different weapons and after a while you can 
 devil trigger. Not: this is only available to you if you complete a certain part of the game. Devil 
 trigger amplifies your attacks and with Nero's devil trigger you can even attain new ones. while 
 in devil trigger, Nero has accses to yamato, Dantes brothers sword from DMC3. Nero's other weapons 
 include a very cool sword call red queen. Red queen can be charged up to perform various special 
 amplified attacks. Nero also has a gun called blue rose. The gem of Nero's abilities is the devil 
 bringer, a very powerful demon arm. Pressing circle activates the devil bringer and lets you do 
 a powerful attack on an enemy. each different type enemy Nero faces will have a different devil 
 bringer combo that Nero can use on them.
  There are 20 missions in the game and you will use Nero in 13 of them. the other 7 levels you use 
 Dante in them. Dante is baisically the same as he was in DMC3 except he's got a couple new tricks 
 up his deisel designer sleeves. He can now switch weapons on the fly using R2 for close range and 
 L2 for long range. he also has some new attacks as well. Dantes weapons are the real fun. at first 
 youonly have access to Ebony and Ivory, Coyot-A and Rebellion. but after every boss fight you'll 
 gain something new. these unlockable weapons include Gilgamesh, Pandora and lucifur. 
  
  Ebony and Ivory are twin pistols, the Coyot-A is a shotgun, Rebellion is a large sword, Gilgamesh 
 is a powerful armour that can unleash powerful charged attacks, Pandora is a suitcase that can 
 change into really cool ranged wepons and the lucifur can unleash thousands of loating explosive 
 blades that are under your command. Also, at the very end of Dantes run in the game you will unlock 
 Yamato. Yamato is pretty damn cool.
  
  Dante and Nero are both awesome characters, but where would the fun be without the demons. Luckily, 
 DMC4 provides a wide range of demons to destroy and alot of puzzle elements were put into this 
 game. Bosses are also very fun to battle and you'll find yourself going back to old levels to face 
 them again.
  Devil May Cry 4 is not without it's flaws. the only thing i found that was really crap was that 
 Dante is in only 7 levels. I mean c'mon It's Dante we're talking about. DMC4 is still a pretty 
 good game.
  If you love that classic beat-em-up action, or your just a fan of the series. Then Devil May Cry 
 4 is the game for you. And If you live in Australia DMC4 is actually M15+ not MA15+.
  
  Hope you Enjoy Killing demons and setting free the devil inside 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 offers a good shooting, fighting and skill game. There are lots of things to unlock 
 and do on the PS3 version. Unfortunatly the Xbox 360 version is a bit of a disapointment when it 
 lacks the proper quality it should be. Here are the GOOD and the BAD points.
  
  THE GOOD
  -Graphics are very impressive
  -Sound is very powerful and strong
  -Lots to achieve and unlock
 
  -Variety of moves and attacks
  -Great voice acting
  -It has alot of replay value
  -Monsters are deadly and are fun to smash up
  -Nero's Devil arm adds more fun to the game
  
 -Boss battles are amazing!
  -Network features add a great element to the game
  
  THE BAD
  -Enviroments you would expect to be destructable
  -Can get repetative
  
  Graphics 
 - 10
  Sound - 9
  Gameplay - 9
  Value - 10
  Legend Status - 8
  
  HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This new chapter in the series takes a whole new turn as you play Dante and Nero along with all 
 new characters that will prove to be fun battling. As you progress through the storyline you learn 
 that Nero contains demonic power where his arm also know as devil bringer has the ability to grab 
 enemies from a distance and crush them to the ground with a devastating blow. You get to use a 
 revolver also known as the Blue Rose and a sword mainly named Red Queen which was customized by 
 Nero himself. Nero sets out to save the one he loves called Kyrie who was taken by demons in order 
 to lure him in and to use them to their advantage if they are ever to gain absolute power and to 
 rule the world. 
  
  The graphics in this game are greatly improved with stunning visuals and the uniqueness that will 
 want to bring the gamers to play this game over and over again. In this game you get a new array 
 of moves and abilities that will allow you to fight enemies with mindblowing style. You also get 
 new weapons throughout that will prove to be very useful as you unlock higher levels for that specific 
 weapon. Later in the game you play as Dante with four fighting styles similiar to that in Devil 
 May Cry 3 which are royal guard, sword master, gunslinger , and trickster. Each one with its own 
 advantage when fighting the enemy. 
  
  This game has also many puzzles that might take time considering if you know where to go. The down 
 side to this though is that the ending will disappoint you and there aren't really that many weapons 
 when playing as Nero. As for Dante thought that's another story as depending what character you 
 play really differs. This fourth istallment will however surprise gamers at the fact that it's 
 actually easier than part three which will prove to be most satisying. Once you finish the game 
 there are bonus content and new difficulties that can be unlocked depending on what mode you're 
 on. 
  
  DMC4 also has online capabilities but it's the kind that you would expect. There's no online gaming 
 but rather more of a point sytem to see what rank you are in the game that will push you to try 
 harder and to do your best if you ever want to get more points. The storyline is pretty short and 
 should not take more than a minimum of eight hours to finish unless you like to take your time 
 looking for red orbs that can be used to purchase items. It's a great game but not better than 
 it's predecessor because of its repetetiveness and the fact that it lacks what it has to feature 
 which makes DMC3 more outstanding than this. If you're thinking about this game I suggest that 
 you rent it first to see if it really meets up to your expectations. Overall, it's great and fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Siriously what kind of game is this i just dont get it its like a virsion of dynasty warriors where 
 everything looks the same when you attack some one it just feels like you got from one room to 
 another and same room over and over again makes no since to me because i just played it when my 
 friend got it and we had to turn it in because it was so bad yes graphics are bad. Game play good 
 game so bad that i cant talk about it you shoot 1 guy 100 times and then you walk up and hit him 
 with sword about 10 more times and then he dies wow amazing please dont waste your money like my 
 friend did its so not worth it i do not want to hear about this game or any new games that come 
 out by this company because it just killed it right there their company just now diged up them 
 self a big gient hole and now they will have hard time geting out of there because most players 
 hate this game because of this boring game play for all people that i played with and asked about 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  If you're a Devil May Cry fan, you know what to except - You want fast paced action that requires 
 quick reflects and proper timing instead of mindless button mashing, you want large scale epic 
 and tough bosses that will make you scream like a baby when they take away half of your life with 
 one attack, you want dozen of monsters to rain down on you without any break to catch a breath.
 
  
  You want more kick-ass cocky action that you paid for. And you have it all in what is is the best 
 in franchise series.
  
  Some fans of the series might be disappointed that Dante didn't take the primary role as he did 
 for the last three 'chapters', however rest assured the newcomer Nero brings his own dynasty of 
 troubles as well as new "Devil Bringer Arm" ability with him. I can't stress enough how great it 
 plays.
  Lets get something straight out, Nero is no Dante - that's a fact.
  
  They look alike, they have similar play styles, but they are quite different. Once you get hold 
 of Dante by about middle of the game after Mission 10 you will recognize that this is real Devil 
 Hunter we so much adore. He is in his prime mature age and is as tough as we know him, if not much 
 more tougher and daring.
  Nero's Devil Arm makes already lovable gameplay into the new age. Many combination are possible 
 with the proper use of arm as well as different grabbing abilities which are going to be extremely 
 useful and much, much needed especially in boss fights.
  You can literally "dance" with your opponents without any restriction as the arm allows you to 
 pull yourself from far away as well as get enemies close and personal attacks much quicker.
  
  That's the biggest change that Nero has over Dante and as a new addition to Devil May Cry world 
 - it works fantastic. DMC-4 is very heavy story based then previous installations. Big focus is 
 on Nero's special person - Kyrie. It's a powerfully romantic story that anyone can appreciate.
 
  Mind you, this is not a large scale RPG storyline, but it's good and charming. It fits Nero perfectly 
 as he is a human that posses Demonic power but he is troubled by it and needs a little guidance, 
 both from Dante and Kyrie.
  
  DMC-4 also introduced plenty of new characters and they are done well. I especially have to mention 
 Credo, Kyrie's Brother as he play his role nicely.
  
  Once you get hold of Dante approximately half a way through after mission 10, the gameplay that 
 Dante brings to the table will be quite different for new comers to the series. It will requite 
 a little time to adjust, but once you understand how Dante plays you will become one killing machine 
 of tremendous power.
  Four Styles are back, RoyalGuard, Trickster, SwordMaster and Gunslinger.
  
  All four are variable 
 to use, some are tougher to master then others. For new players I strongly recommend to make use 
 of Trickster, as it's a great abilities that will save you on many occasions, especially bosses.
 
  The big difference from previous titles is that now you can change your styles on a the fly.
 
  Just press Up, Down, Left or Right on your D-pad and in a instant you are going berserk with Swordmaster 
 while you're able to dodge the impossible boss hit with instantly switching to Trickster while 
 in the air.
  
  It takes some work to get your speed and timing up but if you put work into it, you will be rewarded 
 with tons of stylish points, red orbs and most importantly Soul points which are required for your 
 skills and abilities upgrades.
  This is quite interesting since original three games had this abilities combined, which means your 
 red orbs were all on the same page if you wanted anything. if you wanted to upgrade your skill, 
 abilities or buy items you will have to spend hard earn orb which only come in quite low quantity 
 compare to DMC-4.
  
  In short, the better you're in playing, the more soul point you will gather, the better your rank 
 will be.
  Difficulty level is right on, once you get about Mission 8, it goes up considerably. Until you 
 learn how to fight bosses and which strategy works best on them, you will have quite a challenge. 
 This isn't an easy game.
  
  Also keep in mind, some bosses tend to be quite unpredictable, you might have found a way to kill 
 them, but the next time you face him or if you die and retry it, you will find out that the boss 
 reacts a bit differently. Either way, you will be required to constantly move, dodge and be quick 
 and precise without getting hit.
  
  There are six difficulty level, however you start with Human and Devil Hunter.
  
  If you're 
 new to the series Human is a definitely a recommended start.
  
  I was a little worried with Dante not being the main guy this time around but you can rest assured 
 Nero is fantastic and has a great feel to him with Devil Arm by his side.
  Once you get to Dante, DMC fans will instantly feel right at home since Dante is better then he 
 ever was. The numerous combination that can be pulled out with him are only limited by your imagination 
 and skill level.
  
  If you put hard work into it that is.
  
  From visual standpoint, Devil May Cry 4 is gorgeous however its not as polished as Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune for example, but it's a game that favors extremely fast and brutal action, the gameplay 
 is so solid that you don't care for graphics. This is an old school style that tests your skills 
 and rewards you with top notch Hollywood-jealousy cinematic and chirography looks.
  The game is gorgeous. Superb Voice acting, Outstanding Soundtrack and music. Hardcore metal fits 
 Devil's word so well that it makes your blood go pumping every time you hear it. Some people may 
 not like it, but it belongs here. You don't need to be familiar with previous DMC games to enjoy 
 Devil May Cry 4. Certainly there are some old characters in here but during the installation of 
 the game (PS3) you will be given a screen which gives background information on DMC 1-3 to keep 
 you little updated.
  
  It's hard to find many flows. Since this is a PS3 version review you will be required to install 
 4.8 GB of data on your hard-drive when you first put in the game.
  This is supposed to lower down the loading times during the game load menus. Personally the loading 
 times are about 3-5 seconds which is great.
  
  You will visit the same bosses and locations as Nero did, but because Dante plays differently, 
 his approach to the bosses and enemies in his own stylish way of gameplay is so satisfying you 
 won't care who is in your way.
  Dante gets the job done, literally.
  
  In the end, regardless if you're a new comer to Devil May Cry franchise, or a fan - you will have 
 a great time with Devil May Cry 4. The game itself is 15 hours long on default Devil Hunter difficulty 
 for average player.
  DMC4 still has everything that fans expect of the game  over the top fight sequences, tons of 
 replayability and an experience with an excellent production value.
  
  Excellent game that shouldn't be missed by any action gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  So I just got the PS3, and realizing this game was out for both of my systems I decided to use 
 the PS3... and on a side note can anyone explain to me why the game has to download or whatever 
 onto the PS3?
  
  Ok but onto the review... this game in one word is epic!
  
  The graphics are sexy as sin... the story is great... and don't get me started on the cinematics. 
 They were getting me so happy I thought the game was going to ask me if I was over the age of 18 
 to view the sexiness.
  
  I don't really see the replay being all that high, and to prove this I did sell the game after 
 I beat it.
  
  The game did seem a bit easy though, especially with the devil arm. It just felt that I just jumped 
 and swiped with the swords and the bosses were dead. So yeah, not that much a challenging game.
 
  
  I donno what to say about this game except to buy it.... so go buy it... and ummmm I think I am 
 going to go play the first three now.
  
  PEACE OUT!
  
  -TCM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This Game starts off with some killer Graphics and the best set of Combos any game of this genre 
 has ever offered. As it begun I was hooked looking forward to unleashing the Devil Bringer and 
 taking advantage of the arsenal of combos I had at my disposal. As the game progressed tho something 
 horrible happened..... The scenery Never Changes and you find yourself trampling through the same 
 rooms over and over and OVER again. Not only do you remain in the same locale but you fight the 
 same bosses over and over and OVER again. The first part of this game gets a 8 review but the remainder 
 back tracking gives this game a Blemish it never overrides. And switching to Dante really throws 
 you off considering Nero is much more powerful and everything you do to build up your abilities 
 is just washed away as you make the transition.
  This game had plenty of potential but the developers just got lazy in bringing it together. I would 
 recommend that this game be bought at a later date for a much lower price then its retailed at. 
 I beat it, and returned it for a measly 18bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Finally it's here, after all the waiting we went through the latest installment in Capcom's stylish 
 hack and slash fest is here, Devil May Cry 4 takes all the good stuff in the previous games and 
 forges it into the ultimate DMC experience, and it's out on both consoles: the PlayStation 3 and 
 Xbox 360.
  The first DMC game was a marvelous breakthough, it was something fresh and new, the second game 
 was a big disappointment for it lacked the variety and didn't take the series to the next level. 
 After that and realising that DMC had to change the guys at Capcom gave the game new life by almost 
 reinventing the game, so they perfected the gameplay, gave it an exciting soundtrack, a decent 
 story and made the hero of the game younger, and so Devil May Cry 3 was released on the PlayStation 
 2 and wowed every one with it's new exciting gameplay (although it was hard as nails) .
  Devil May Cry 4 puts you in the shoes of Nero, a new hero that you'll spend most of the game playing 
 as him, he's a member of The Order Of The Sword, a group of people that worship Sparda (Dante's 
 father) . One day during a seremony Dante comes down crashing in the church and stabbing the leader 
 of the order, he starts killing every one trying to stop him untill he confronts Nero in a battle 
 that serves as a tutorial to familiarize yourself with the controls, you'll be learning Nero's 
 basic abilities including his excitingly cool devil arm abilities, Nero has a devil arm that enables 
 him to grab enemies, punch them, slam them to the ground and later on you can snatch far objects 
 and move to far to reach areas. You'll be able to control Dante eventually but not before half 
 way through the game. And you'll be glad to know that he regains all his previous styles of combat 
 from DMC3, but what's even cooler is that you can change styles at any time during the game with 
 a single press of a button. All the usual combos you expect are there but what's even better than 
 that is the fact that they're all tweaked and look like as if they've been redesigned to make you 
 feel that there's something new in them. The combat itself is great and even better, it's the best 
 achievement in this game for in DMC 3 everyone complained that it was very hard, well guess what? 
 Capcom have listened to your complaints and made the game less harder than it's prequel, but be 
 warned though, it still isn't really easy, let me put this way: if you played DMC 3 and I mean 
 played it well to the finish then you'll feel comfortable here and you'll feel that this game is 
 fairly easier than the previous one, on the other hand if you're a new DMC gamer then you'll be 
 challenged. Another thing worth mentioning here is the boss fights, where the developers put some 
 really great touches there, there hard to beat and very fun to fight. The puzzles are here just 
 like in other DMC games but there's nothing really hard so it won't take you away from the action 
 for long.
  The areas in DMC 4 are varied and all look great specially the forest and snow fields but there 
 will be a return to the classic cathedrals that appear in all DMC games, but as I said it's very 
 great looking and a joy to walk around and explore.
  The audio and sound effects are very good and the music is great just like in DMC 3 but the track 
 sounds kinda too used, but don't worry because it won't distract you from the action. The voice 
 acting is ok but it should have been better, I mean come on when will we start hearing some convincing 
 lines instead of the corny dialogue and Clished one liners. Specially that after Heavenly Sword's 
 excellent voice acting performances we expect the next generation games to follow it's lead.
  The game is not without any faults, for some platforming sections are really annoying for in one 
 of the early levels in the game you need to hit certain mechanisms called gyroblades across the 
 level to get it to a certain place, which although a new idea it still is not that fun. Other instances 
 the camera issues come along in are when the camera doesn't show you where you need to go or it 
 might suddenly change angles during your jumping in a bad time. Another problem is the section 
 where you need to grab sertain objects to move from one point to another in the air with careful 
 timing or you'll fall and have to do it all over again. Another issue is back tracking, the game 
 makes you travel to all the areas that Nero visited as Dante. The bosses themselves will also face 
 off against Dante, so although they are great to battle as mentioned earlier It still is something 
 we rather have not had. But don't get this the wrong way, I mean all these faults don't make Devil 
 May Cry 4 a boring or bad game, in fact the game has many great features that you'll forgive all 
 the faults and enjoy it.
  The PS3 version and the Xbox 360 version are almost the same, the PS3 has some advantage over the 
 Xbox 360 for you might notice a slightly sharper edges and more color in the PS3 version, but it's 
 really hard to notice and you need to compare the two versions side by side to see it.
  It's nice to sea that the Devil May Cry series still has some life left in it, for although it 
 might show some signs of age, this game is an exciting and worthy addition to the series. Nero 
 is a great and cool new character to play as, Dante is very welcomed with his old and new abilities 
 and weapons (wait untill you see the upgrades) , the story will let you meet new and interesting 
 cast of characters including Kyrie, Nero's love interest, Credo, her brother, Agnus a mad scientist, 
 and Gloria who is a mysterious exotically dressed woman. In addition to short appearances for Trish 
 and Lady. Add to all that some solid and improved combat nice looking environments and appropriately 
 great (although cheesy) music and you've got the best Devil May Cry game ever made, despite it's 
 flaws it shines brilliantly and It's an essential purchase for any action fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darryl_Green
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Since it's previous entry in the seires: Devil May Cry 3 featuring its brutal difficulty and boss 
 fights; fans have been long awaiting for the sequel to arrive and now it's finally here. Devil 
 May Cry 4 as you already know features a new character Nero as the main character of the game alongside 
 series hero and protagonist Dante. 
  The story in the game has to be the most well produced story in the Devil May Cry series yet although 
 it is a bit lackluster in comparison to DMC3. New series comer Nero must find out the truth behind 
 Dante's attack on The Order of the Sword that took place at the beginning of the game, and the 
 sudden appearance of demons all across the city. The cut-scenes are top notch in production values 
 I haven't seen any this good in a long time, most of the time you'll feel like you're watching 
 a movie than playing a game. 
  In terms of gameplay the new Devil Bringer that Nero uses adds a whole new dimension to slaughtering 
 thy enemies in the game. With the Devil Bringer you can grab, pull , and slam enemies around without 
 much difficulty, also using them when you find an openeing on bosses during boss battles is always 
 a hell of alot of fun. When you switch over to Dante midway through the game it'll take a few minutes 
 possibly to get used to the new style of playing especially without the devil bringer but when 
 you do you're going to have a ball kicking more demon ass since you get to use all the styles DMC3 
 introduced with merely just the touch of a button. Nearly all of Dante's moves remain relatively 
 the same as DMC3 with the exception of Trickster which is limted to only one dash instead of the 
 useful doulbe/triple dash and with a slew of new moves, you can switch styles on the fly by pressing 
 a button on the D-Pad. Also good news for fans controls remain unchanged from the last game so 
 if you're still used to the control style of DMC3 you'll manage just fine when you start playing. 
 Also enemies are less of a challenge to defeat in this game which for those of you who hated DMC3's 
 brutal difficulty will have more fun with this game, but for the ones whom rose to the challenge 
 you might want to play Devil Hunter difficulty or Son of Sparda to challenge your demon killing 
 skills more in the game. Achievements can also be unlocked during the game and you can look up 
 other people's stylish scores on the PSN and try to outdo them if you feel like it. Also to add 
 more replay value there are more diffculties, a cut-scene viewer to watch all of the cut-scenes 
 from the game, and a time survival mode to unlock too after beating the game on Devil hunter (Normal) 
 the first time.
  As for graphics DMC4 looks incredible on all fronts and plays smoothly throughout the whole game 
 at a frame rate of 60 fps. The characters also look and act very life-like during cutscenes which 
 adds to greater character realism throughout the game. The lighting effects look gorgeous adding 
 to more exquisite enviornments to look at sometimes you just want to stop and just look around. 
 
  
  Although the game is terrific fun for actions fans there are downsides to the game you should also 
 be aware of. One is the repeativity problem, in which when you switch over to Dante mid-way through 
 the game you must traverse the same areas you did with Nero earlier backwards and fight all the 
 same bosses as well. Another minor downside is occasional camera problems but doesn't occur too 
 often luckily. 
  All-in-all Devil May Cry 4 has to be the best game in the series yet and features great production 
 values and terrific gameplay, so if you're a newcomer to the series or a DMC vet you reallywant 
 to pick this game up this is deffinately one of the best games to hit the PS3 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspultrafreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  It is a wicked game i never got to switching from nero to dante yet ..... it is somewhat not as 
 challenging as i thought it would be...... The devil bringer is probly the thing i like most it 
 makes u able to perform moved and grab enemies from a distance ..... but i guess half way through 
 the game you play as dante and loose the devil bringer thats gonna suck...: ( so far though i would 
 say that this game deserveres a good 9.5 out of 10... the mini clips throughout the game are really 
 good i have a ps3 and the graphics are amazing.. never got to see any other systems, but im sure 
 i will end up seeing them.... so wicked game deffinetly worth buyin, overall wicked. hmmmmmm what 
 else can i say i am only on mission 11 i just got it i read some reviews first and they all said 
 it was a wicked game so i bought it and now im am really glad with my  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the most addicting combat systems ever put into a game. Very In Depth, and very rewarding. 
 The Many Difficulty levels give the game loads of replay value and the Bloody Palace mode, Stat 
 Tracking With Achievements, Online Leaderboards, and the Ability to View all cutscenes at once 
 when you complete the game.
  
  This game has a lot of content, and is surely warranting its 60 dollar pricetag, and a must buy 
 for Action fans, DMC fans, and even RPG fans, there's alot of depth.
  
  The Graphics are awesome, pretty much, that's how you'd describe em, never get a screen tear, glitch, 
 or rough texture.
  
  Cutscenes look like top dollar hollywood performances, amazing action fights and the opening cutscene 
 once you start playing the game will draw you right in.
  
  The Story is the deepest of the series and the most rewarding, you'll really start to like Nero 
 and the other Characters, they all have their own sense of personality and its pretty amazing how 
 capcom managed to do this all.
  
  Yes, it's super repetitive, but the combat system and endless combos, make it never get boring, 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Well this game starts off with a great cutscene and it continues throughout the entire game. First 
 you start off as Nero and he has a job set out to do. I love his moves and the Devil Bringer is 
 just awesome. The regular mobs seem to be quite easy at first but the boss fights is were the difficulty 
 picks up. It almost seems like they are on a different level set from the regular mobs. I have 
 to say the boss battles are epic espcially the last I found the last boss (inside the statue) the 
 hardest of them all. With each boss it seems to me they get harder and harder. I love that about 
 this game. Little more then have way thru you start playing Dante and he is even more funner then 
 Nero. Dante has more moves and styles plus he gets a better selection of guns. The graphics in 
 this game are some of the best on PS3. Now there are mini missions thoughout the whole game which 
 are optional. The camera angle can be bothersome sometimes but not as bad as the one in Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma. This game has a great story, gameplay, and very impressive cutscenes. Then there's the backtracking 
 which is so common in Capcom games so no big surprise there. The other only gripe I had with it 
 is the repeated boss fights. One time ok, twice your pushing it but three times and I had enough. 
 All in all it is still a great game and I recommended it to anyone who owns a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblakeb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  awsome! u can still do the same moves with dante like the others and u still get to have the rebellion 
 from the 3rd dmc. and now u can be nero a kick ass demon fighter that kina has the same damn attitude 
 like dante's. but this bugs me. do u think dante and nero have a relationship? like father and 
 son? i just no they both can fight pretty damn good. but my opinion is i like dante more than nero. 
 nero does have the cool arm but ante is the origional character. the thigs i hate. i hate that dante 
 has to fight the same bosses that nero does and it is a challenge becauseu cant strech dantes arm. 
 but i still kick there ass either way. did u no? did u know that nero was on the bad side till the 
 the 8th or 9th lvl and dante might have a different attitude but that doesnt mean hes bad that 
 just means that hes mean and hes ready to kick alot of whoop ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Devil May Cry series was always known for three things: First, repetition in the beginning 
 of the game. The more you progress, the more moves and abilities you will learn ... thus subtracting 
 the repetition from the game. Second, Cocky and cheezy voice acting. Actually, I don't mind it 
 ... I find it quite amusing. And thus Lastly, that ridiculously cheezy guitar rock music. But, 
 I'm not making fun of it. I'm actually glad they have it, it goes perfect with all the action that 
 is taking place in the actual game. Veterans of the Devil May Cry series will absolutely love the 
 story ... with all its twists and surprises.
  
  Gameplay 9.75 - If you can get past the repetition of the first few levels ... you can appreciate 
 this game to the fullest. Dozens of moves for multiple weapons and firearms. And the devil bringer 
 is unique for all enemies.
  
  Graphics 10 - The best I've ever seen since part 1. The cutscenes are freaking great
  
  Sound 
 9.75 - The same hard cheezy guitar metal rock riffs have returned. And they sound even better than 
 ever!
  
  Value 9.5 - Although short ... but with 5 other difficulty levels, tons of moves to learn, secret 
 missions to complete, and blue orb shards to find ... they sure balance out each other
  
  Overall score 9.5 - buy it ... especially my fellow Devil May Cry bretheren 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The latest in Capcom's Devil May Cry series, DMC4 introduces some new elements but keeps a lot 
 of the styles and conventions that made Devil May Cry popular in the first place. 
  
  The story this time revolves around Nero, a member of The Order of the Sword, a group of holy knights 
 that protects the world against demons. Nero sees Dante, the hero of the previous games, kill the 
 holy leader of their order in the middle of a crowded sermon. After fighting Dante - the story's 
 introductory battle, which ends in Dante leaving with a smart remark - Nero must protect the city 
 from the incursion of demons that have overrun it. The mystery of the occurrences and the truth 
 behind Dante's purpose runs deeper as the story progresses. 
  
  As mentioned, the main character is Nero, not Dante. However, for the most part, Nero is similar 
 to Dante and Vergil - a white haired pretty-boy in a long coat with a sword and a gun. Nero has 
 three main weapons - his sword, the Red Queen, his dual-barrel revolver, the Blue Rose, and his 
 glowing demonic arm, the Devil Bringer. Each has its own purposes and abilities. The Red Queen 
 is used for most of the game's combat. Besides combo attacks and the like, it can also be "revved 
 up" like an engine (the sword's hilt resembles a motorcycle's handle) to increase its damage. The 
 Blue Rose isn't as damaging as either of the other two weapons, but can be used to wear down enemies 
 - particularly bosses - from a distance. The Devil Bringer is used for throws, but also functions 
 as a grappling hook for use in certain areas and against large enemies.
  
  Fans of Dante need not fear, as he is playable as well in parts of the game, using the weapons 
 and styles he possessed in previous games. He also plays like a whirlwind of power. He is faster, 
 stronger, older, and wiser.
  Remember the Thousand Cuts? Instead of being a 6 second move, it is now only 3, so it's twice as 
 fast. I personally think that Nero is freakin awesome, but has nothing on Dante. Dante could kick 
 any hack-n-slash main characters ass.
  
  DMC4 has a lot of callbacks to the old games - moreso than the others do, anyways. The presence 
 of the female leads from DMC 1 and 3 ties connections to those games (the other ones simply acted 
 like they weren't there, similar to Bond Girls) and the introduction of the almost hilariously 
 sexualized Gloria adds a new face to the series. Despite the difference in character styles, Nero 
 and Dante play fairly similar apart from a few differences. This makes Nero familiar to fans of 
 Dante, and Dante familiar to people who have played only this game and played Nero. Finally, the 
 difficulty options are classified as "Normal" and "Devil Hunter", the latter being for people who 
 have played the previous games and are used to the difficulty level established by it. 
  
  The graphics are phenomenal in this game, especially in the cutscenes - this actually leads to 
 some parts where the in-game fighting seems drastically overshadowed by the cutscene fighting. 
 As a whole, the game is very nice to look at, with plenty of cool effects to add to the stylish 
 combat system that DMC loves. The sound is amazing and goes perfectly with the atmosphere and normality 
 of the game, with a rock-and-roll soundtrack during fight scenes, and great ambience when not. 
 On another technical note, while the installation on the PS3 version does take 20 minutes at the 
 beginning, I noticed almost no loading time during the rest of the game - the entire thing was 
 smooth and seamless. 
  
  The gameplay, style, and graphics in this game are all fantastic. Capcom definitely knows what 
 people want from a DMC game, and 4 delivers. The only mitigating factor is, even with the "normal" 
 difficulty level, DMC4 can still get insanely hard at times (outside of combat as well as in it) 
 for those of you who are newbies to the series, but should be easy for any old timer DMC fans, 
 and, as a whole, DMC4 is a solid package with a lot to love, and if you're willing to invest the 
 time and effort it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4 is your basic hack 'n slash action adventure. the forth of a game of the series 
 oddly enough its a good point to start making the devil cry.
  
  ok so your not good at reading heres the SHORT STORY: overall its a good game maby even a great 
 game, fun, you will not get stuck, and its a fine addition to your collection. its certainly worth 
 owning, but its not a must own game try to rent or buy its your choice to make. the question is 
 do you really WANT a game NOW?
  
  i AM not a devil may cry fan or realy a fan of the genra. this game changed my mind. 
  Visuals: 
 Not your typical multiplateform crappy unreal engine graphics it uses its own engine and looks 
 pretty good with them though some of the lighting and foliage look pretty bland.
  
  Sound: Some good over the top sound effects add to the action, but at every fight they blare the 
 same Heavy rock song at you was cool at first but it getts old.
  
  Gameplay: is fairly simple kill monsters with your sword gun or devil arm the to gather up a combo 
 meter which proves you are awesome at killing monsters. it works well and is far from a button 
 masher. the automatic mode (opitional) makes it much easyer so even a novice gamer wont have probelms 
 on the easyer modes
  
  Story: THe story is somewhat interesting. At the begining Dante kills the holy leader guy of a 
 cult you, Nero, are sent to catch dante along the line you discover that prehaps this cult is not 
 so good after all. it takes some turns worth seeing out tell the end.
  
  PROs: fast paced action, well done combo system, you learn tons of combos, Amazing combat, awesome 
 cutscenes, snappy one liners, tells you how far your friends are into the game, blood palace
  CONs: Some what repetitive, typical jappanesse weirdness, not much innovation here, the dante missions 
 suck
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Looks like the old one.
  
  It's hard to say it's a new character when .... basically it's the same character with different 
 abilities.
  
  There doesn't seem to have been much of a stretch from Dante to Nero. Which is probably the most 
 disappointing thing about the game. Otherwise it's amazing.
  
  It's following a theme of Cinematic games, where the story and the voice acting as well as the 
 visuals help build a believable world.
  
  However, some characters seem to be in the game but serve no real purpose. Kinda 'written in' like 
 a friend might do for another friend. When really, there's no point and they don't play a major 
 role in the plot, other than to look extremely sexy and dispatch of enemies in a questionably erotic 
 fashion. Which, frankly, I don't mind at all. But they never let you play the character. What a 
 shame!
  
  So, you only get to choose between two characters:
  
  The guy in the black coat with white hair...
  And the other guy in the red coat with the White 
 Hair.
  
  One has one hell of an arm.
  The other one has more arms.
  
  But they look so similar.
  
  Heck. Even Mario and Luigi have more aesthetic diversity.
  
 
  9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Strife37x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is very, very good and very, very fun. Its a bit difficult but if you're a real gamer 
 you shouldn't have that much of a problem. The graphics are truely next-gen and everything is detailed 
 and looks great. The sound is good and the sword slices and gunshot give satisfying nostalgia (even 
 hearing Dante's Stinger yell) and the music is hella cool. Gameplay provides plenty of variety 
 through the Devil Bringer, Devil Trigger, unlockable abilities, multiple weapons, and different 
 styles. Bashing enemies and hacking and slashing has never been this great. Overall this game is 
 amazing and I throughly enjoyed it. If you have a PS3 or Xbox 360 you should defininitely get this. 
 The story is good for the series and you'll like seeing your farmiliar characters and you'll truely 
 loathe the new villians. Nero, is also one my new favorite video game characters.
  
  *Why all the complaints over the PS3 install? Sure its inconvienient but it DOES lower loading 
 times, and its no big deal. I didn't like it either, but don't let all the complaints stop you 
 from buying the PS3 version.
  Also, all the reviewers saying this is the same old Devil May Cry should stop and think. What the 
 hell did they expect? Was DMC going to go first person or let you start leveling up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilrichy209
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say the game was Fun and fast pace hack n' slash. I enjoyed watching the intro 
 as well as the cut scenes. The game is beautiful running a 60 frame per minute. The controller 
 is very responsive and the voice acting is great, especially Dante. Nero the main character of 
 the game is able to use his devil bringer which is his demon arm he can use to grab demons and 
 plow them on the ground. The game start off with Nero encountering Dante, devil slayer who assassinated 
 Sanctus at the beginning and later on Kyrie , Nero's lover was taken away decided to save her. 
 As the story progress You will encounter demons and some really fun and amazing boss. If you play 
 the previous DMC series, I guarantee you will enjoy this one. Graphic 10/10, Story 9/10, Gameplay 
 9/10, Value 9/10, Overall 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is an action-packed beat em up game by Capcom for the Playstaion 3 and Xbox 360. 
 The PS3 version utilizes the power of blu-ray and HDD space as it is uploaded to the hard drive. 
 The major downside to the game is the install time as you will probably be waiting about 25 minutes 
 for it to complete before you can begin and will become tired of the main theme song when you finally 
 do start. Other than that, the game is simply breathe taking.
  
  It features Nero, a new protagonist in the series, as well as the charismatic son of Sparta Dante. 
 You begin as Nero who with the power of his demonic arm, is assigned to find and confront the mysterious 
 Dante by the religious sect The Order of the Sword. Throughout the first few levels Nero begins 
 to discover some hidden motives by the organization and eventually learns their true agenda. Along 
 the way Dante tells Nero that the organization cannot be trusted and that his possible suspicions 
 could be accurate. But can he be trusted? Of course he can! Nero then determines whom his true 
 foe is once someone whom he values most dearly is abducted. Without going into detail half way 
 through the game you control Dante and continue with the main story arc. 
  
  Throughout your adventure you gain certain color-coded orbs to purchase special moves and items 
 to help you dispose of foes with ease. The moves that Nero and Dante pull off are absolutely amazing 
 and animated very well as there is no dip in frame rate at all. You will perform acrobatic, sword-slashing, 
 gun-toting, demon-possessed moves and will not be disapointed. Graphically the game looks great 
 as facial animations and environments are modeled really well. Character models will not disappoint 
 as the Bosses are huge (making battles feel epic) , Nero and Dante are fluid with all their movements 
 and the fem fatale will catch everybody's eye (to say the least) .
  
  The audio leaves a little more to be desired, but this has always been common to the series. Everytime 
 a foe is present you'll begin to hear the same battle-themed rock music and know it's time to decapitate 
 somebody. The gameplay mechanics are sound as you will pull off all moves at your disposal easily 
 and with little to no trouble at all. There are two difficulty settings (human and devil hunter) 
 and can complete the game within 11 hours.
  
  DMC4 is a good follow up to DMC3 and will provide for difficult moments, but not to the point where 
 you're ready to throw the game out the window. It's leagues better than DMC2 but not as good as 
 the original (which is common for most things) . If you enjoyed any of the first three installments 
 or like pulling of stylish combo moves that are great to look at, then I strongly recommend Devil 
 May Cry 4. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is newest entry in the Devil May Cry series, and it just plain out loud rocks. 
 Now, this go around Dante is not the main character, newcomer Nero, a rookie devil hunter, is the 
 main character. Nero controls almost like Dante, but with a few differences, mainly being his Devil 
 Bringer, a arm that allows him to bring his enemy's closer to him. The Devil Bringer is a great 
 new addition to the game-play mechanics that DMC series has always had, allowing you to create 
 even longer and crazier combo's and allows for some interesting way to defeat bosses (and some enemy's 
 has well) . Now DMC series has never been known for story, so don't expect much. Now, as I stated 
 earlier, Dante isn't the main character, but he does make a appearance in the game and is eventually 
 playable, as you progress through the game. Now on to the graphics, and they are phenomenal, everything 
 looks amazing, from Nero and Dante and their signature trench-coats, to the enemy's and the bosses 
 and the environment as well. As for the music, it's great, theirs nothing better then rocking out 
 to the battle music that plays out while hacking, slashing, and destroying your enemy's. Now the 
 difficulty is a bit of a double-edge sword, since they toned it down, which is good for those new 
 to the DMC series, but may turn veteran's off for a bit, of course once you beat the game you unlock 
 harder difficulty's. Another thing to mention is that when you switch to Dante, be prepared to 
 do some back tracking, but that's something that may bother some people and may not bother some. 
 All in all, Devil May Cry 4 is a great new addition to the Devil May Cry series, it retains the 
 same great game-play from previous installments, has a great new character, while keeping character's 
 from the old games in the series. DMC 4 is possibly the best game in the series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedhades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  THE STORY LINE INCREDIBLE AS YOU FIND OUT THE WHOLE TRUTH ABOUT DANTE'S DOING AGAINST THE ORDER 
 OF THE LIGHT, IN WHICH NERO THE NEW PLAYABLE CHARACTER INFURIATES AND GOES HEAD TO HEAD WITH THE 
 DEVIL HUNTER DANTE, MUCH OF THE STORY ITS WELL DESIGNED WITH GREAT CUT SCENES THAT MAKES THIS GAME 
 EXTRAORDINARY AND THE ALL ABOUT TRUTH AND LIES BETWEEN A ANCIENT AND VERY VALUABLE JAPANESE SWORD 
 THAT BELONG TO DANTE AS THE ROMANTIC AND FRIENDLISH RELATIONSHIP OF KYRIE AND NERO THIS GAME HAS 
 A ROCK SOLID ACTION WITH GREAT COMBOS AND MUSIC THAT IS A NONSTOP ACTION GAME WITH GREAT FRAMERATE 
 ON PS3 AND A MOTION BLURRY TO THIS VERSION OF THE GAME PLUS THE CONTROLLERS ARE AWESOME IN THIS 
 EPIC GAME THAT GOES NEXT GEN WITH A BANG!!!!!! A GREAT GAME FOR THOSE FANS OF THE DMC SAGA AND 
 NEWCOMMERS AND THE ARCHIEVEMENTS ON PS3 WORKS WELL BUT TILL HOME COMES OUT WE WILL BE NOT ABLE 
 TOO SEE IT ANYWAYS GREAT GAME A MUST BUY TRY TO GET COLLLECTORS EDITIONS PACKAGE GREAT STUFF INSIDE 
 THAT BOX WITH BEHIND SCENES AND A BOOKART. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome, even for those who didnt play, earlier Devil may cries, but thats ok, if you 
 dont know the game story well, in the games beggining, when it has to install the game into your 
 hard drive on PS3, while loading, it shows all the images from the 1st DMC to the 3rd, it explains 
 everything about it. So now that we know the game, lets talk about the gameplay, the gameplay is 
 good i like when there are a lot of demons or a big boss, because then i can use all of the power 
 in the sword of nero. The graphics are awesome, well the graphics were always awesome on DMC, even 
 in those old days, got a great news for the fans of DMC, in this serie, you will play with Nero 
 - the new character; And Dante - The legendary Devil hunter=) . Well the game has some minuses, its 
 about the time of the game, its short... When i played on Human dificulty, it took me about 1 day 
 and a half. So now i play on Devil hunter dificulty, its a bit harder, but its fun, when you finnish 
 devil hunter dificulty, there will be unlocked another dificulty and so on. So unlock everything 
 on DMC 4 and only then you have finished the game completely=) I reccommend to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidesnake2004
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  DMC 4.... Well... DMC series who loves it... who lives it.... and who plays it? This is a 4 part series 
 of a game that has been around for a good 7 years now. It still memorizes fans to this day.. and 
 keeps bringing the bar up and up for cutscenes and Graphics... not to mention gameplay.
  
  Lets Roll.....
  
  The Great: New character to play as Nero!!! Not whiny as Raiden on MGS2... but 
 nero is more like a young Dante from DMC3 (but less A$$holeish about things) . He only has 4 weapons... His 
 arm which does Devil Bringer, Blue Rose Revolver, Red Queen Motorcycle Handle Sword... and last 
 but not least Devil Trigger (not like Dante though) . All of this you never need to switch weapons 
 at all, Devil Trigger is interesting and new concept (in my opinion) , and You get used to his combat 
 methods for the first half of the game. Legend Character Dante.. Plays more like Dante from DMC3& (3SE) 
 but this time around some of his moves are more refined plus able to switch different styles with 
 the d-pad including Dark Slayer (after reciving Yamato) . Dante does a great job as a character, 
 voice acting is on the dot, graphics are wise and well done, gameplay is fresh to a point. boss 
 battles are always as crazy as they have ever been... the bigger the better. :D
  
  
  The Letdown: First off.... Dante only played in 7 of his "10" levels, Dark Slayer style i think 
 needed some more moves than the 3 different methods that Dante gets to use when he equips the sword. 
 I wish the Game could have been longer (especially if Bluray can take more content than the HDDVD 
 discs that the 360 uses) Sorry 360 fans... but if i were capcom i would had made a longer version 
 for PS3 just to load the disks to the max capacity..... where was I ohh yea..... Nero could have 
 had some more moves with the Devil Arm (my opinon) i mean... yessss i loved the grab and snatch 
 or the uppercut and downpunch method.... but what about squeezing enemies to a pulp or even charge 
 "slam dunk" punch.... arm goes red for max impact. I think capcom could have had gone all out for 
 the PS3 version with the same budget they put into work for both system versions of the game itself. 
 Lady and Trish barely had any part of the game which also made me a little edgy...
  
  So far i played a bit of bloody palace.... i haven't got far yet since school is in session... someone 
 let me know how the farther levels are. and the harder modes. :D
  
  .. but forgiveness is better than breaking a controller on the floor... because Ones mistake can 
 be learned by others... but bettered with time.
  
  I forgive capcom for, I forgive them for not using all of the memory of the blu ray disk.
  
 
  thanks for reading my review... if you felt like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaatin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  When you start it you get a desire to keep playing and you cant fight the desire, but I would say 
 about little over halfway I could barely keep playing, its like playing the first half of it all 
 over again, not that the first half isnt awesome but it gets as good as it gets around 45% through 
 it, the thing that made me keep playing is the story, its a nice story that got me in the desire 
 to beat the snot out of the final boss! I would say if you love beat-'em-ups then I think you could 
 have alot of fun with this game. For the people
  who did not play the other 3 you should enjoy it just as much, nothing you really need to know 
 to love this story cause I did :D. I for one might not buy
  it for $60 I think you should, 1. wait for it to go down to $35-$45, or if you cant
  wait then 
 you should Really rent this game. Not to hard but pause it when
  you take a break, or like me come into the room with dramatic music and
  a huge GAME OVER on 
 you're screen XD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Gameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is similar to previous games in the series. The player must fight through 
 levels called "missions", occasionally solving puzzles or gathering items. Performance in a mission 
 is graded from D being the bottom grade through C, B, A, and S, SS and SSS being the highest grades. 
 Grades are based on items used, Red Orbs gathered, time taken, and the amount of "Style Points" 
 accumulated.
  
  Stylish combat is the focus of the game which is done through unbroken combos of varied attacks 
 while avoiding damage. The gauge at first is empty, with Deadly being shown after a minimal amount 
 of attacks with Smokin' Sick Style being the highest. The player must avoid attacks enemies employ 
 to keep the the gauge up, often through memorizing attack patterns.
  
  Devil Trigger, a super-state, enables the player to become more powerful with slow health regeneration. 
 Devil Trigger is activated through the Devil Trigger gauge filling from the players either receiving 
 or dealing damage during combat or through certain items. After a minimum amount is filled, the 
 player may enter Devil Trigger at any time. Devil Trigger is first available after Mission 6.
 
  
  
  Dante performing one of his signature moves, the Stinger attackSome changes introduced into Devil 
 May Cry 4 are the presence of two playable characters, Dante and Nero and a slight modification 
 to the shop system. A new currency called Proud Souls is now implemented which are used to buy 
 new abilities while Red Souls are used to buy items. Proud Souls are rewarded at the end of missions, 
 the amount of which varies depending on how well the player performs with S and SS ranks providing 
 the highest amount of Proud Souls. Costs of abilities also increase with the purchase of other 
 abilities, though they may be sold back if the player so desires.
  
  Nero is played throughout most of the game. He starts and ends the game with his Red Queen sword, 
 Blue Rose revolver, and the powers of his Devil Bringer (his magical right arm) . The Red Queen 
 features an "Exceed" Gauge that fills as the player presses the shoulder button. Subsequent attacks 
 are then more powerful than regular slashes, but only until this gauge empties. The exceed gauge 
 can also be filled by pressing the rev button during combos or other moves with exact timing. Nero 
 also has the powers of his Devil Bringer, using it to pull himself towards enemies or vice-versa. 
 The Devil Bringer may also be used for context-sensitive throw attacks, leading to high damage 
 and various effects depending on the enemy. Nero's Devil Bringer also gains new abilities in the 
 course of the game, such as being able to detect secret missions or caches of Red Orbs. Nero gains 
 the ability to use Devil Trigger, which also increases his Devil Bringer's power, even changing 
 his throws into more powerful versions with different animations.
  
  Dante is played through seven missions, taking over about half-way through the game. His gameplay 
 is very similar to that of Devil May Cry 3, with him having access to multiple melee and ranged 
 weapons -- which he gains after boss battles -- and being able to cycle through them freely in combat, 
 being no longer limited to equipping two weapons of each type as he was in the previous game. Dante 
 also starts with his four styles (Trickster, Royal Guard, Sword Master, Gunslinger) , each of which 
 grants him different abilities, but may now switch them at will with the d-pad, unlike in previous 
 game Devil May Cry 3. He also gains the Dark Slayer style near the end of his section. Styles do 
 not level up through experience as in the previous game, but must instead be upgraded in the shop 
 screen in between missions or at statues. Dante can also enter Devil Trigger, though his does not 
 change his attacks to the degree that Nero's Devil Trigger does.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is a title I've waited for since it's announcement. I was a big fan of the previous 
 titles and this one looked to be great, and for the most part it is. The graphics look simply stunning, 
 the sound is good overall, the controls work well, and the story is very good overall. So what's 
 the problem? Repetition and backtracking and LOTS of it.
  
  The game starts you off playing as Nero who has a demon arm. I actually enjoyed playing as him 
 and the demon arm works very well. Without ruining the story, you have 3 main boss fights. After 
 Chapter 11 you than assume control of Dante who definitely controls differently than Nero and takes 
 some adjusting.
  
  Here's the problems with the game. While playing as Nero, there will be instances where you have 
 no clue where you should be going. You'll eventually figure it out but not before adding on 5-10 
 minutes to your level clear time, resulting in a lower grade at the end of the level. This isn't 
 as bad as my next point.
  
  Once you assume control of Dante, you basically play the game a second time through as you play 
 the same levels you did as Nero except in backwards order. There are a few different enemies and 
 you play as Dante instead but it gets old very quickly. Even the boss fights are the same. This 
 is where the game fails in my opinion.
  
  The sound is great in the game. However, my other complaint is that every time you encounter enemies 
 the SAME techno music is played every time. No variation whatsoever. This started to wear on me 
 a bit.
  
  
  The graphics, levels, and characters for the most part look incredible. There is virtually no slowdown 
 in the game, even with tons of enemies. The animations are very fluid and sound. The combo systems 
 work well and there is an automatic combo feature to help those unfamiliar with the scheme. I really 
 enjoy the end of level rankings where you are ranked on clear time, fighting style, and orbs found. 
 You are penalized for things like continuing and using gold orbs, and rewarded for things like 
 completing secret missions (which many are rough) .
  
  Overall, DMC4 is a really solid game. My biggest problem is that I feel the developers took a shortcut 
 and rather than expand the story mode, you simply replay it as Dante. I would have liked to have 
 seen two different character paths instead, rather than a retread. If not for this shortcoming, 
 this game would have been a solid 9/10 but unfortunately it is not. It's still worth playing and 
 a good game, I'm just disappointed in the end result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Guns a blaze and swords brandished, the Devil May Cry saga has returned for its fourth installment 
 in the its long running, stylistic  and mindless  hack 'n slash series. If you've heard anything 
 about this series, then you'll know that it is as unique  with a few minor exceptions  as it 
 is friggin difficult. So the big questions are, how does Devil May Cry 4 fair on the "next gen" 
 level? Does it do anything new, and is it worth playing? Well for the most part, it does a good 
 job of keeping to its roots, and is as enjoyable as the previous installment. However the game 
 doesn't feel like a step forward and overall isn't what you would expect from this series; in fact, 
 it feels much like a last gen game, and it isn't something that takes the genre to the next level.
 
  
  One of the biggest fusses around was the fact that Dante, the loveable sarcastic son of a you know 
 what, wasn't going to be the main character, and in fact, Devil May Cry 4 was going to suffer for 
 the Metal Gear Solid 2 syndrome of having an inferior, less cool and pansy looking lead character. 
 This of course is false; the new character Nero, who seems to bare a sticking resemblance to Dante, 
 is an enjoyable character; even though you'll never really replicate that feeling of playing as 
 Dante, Nero has his own brand of what it means to take out the trash and kick the crap out of his 
 enemies. The duo generally does seem to make the game fun, and for the most part keep it fresh.
 
  
  Truth be told, the other characters, and the story is just as good, but not good enough. Essentially, 
 Dante comes crashing through a ritual ceremony of this special order that believes Dante's father 
 to be their God and blows the brains out of their head honcho, which then ticks of Nero, and becomes 
 the catalyst for the remainder of the story. Throughout the way, you'll meet some cool characters, 
 and some not so cool ones; problem is you don't get nearly enough time with them considering that 
 the story relies heavily on Nero and Dante. Towards the end of the game, you'll also feel like 
 you came out of it empty handed, as you don't get any answers outside of why Dante did what he 
 did, and the true intentions of the order which Nero serves, aside of that, you learn next to nothing 
 else, which is a big kick in the balls. But overall, the story is enjoyable and is definitely a 
 strong point of the game.
  
  Remember the part about sticking to its roots? Yes this game does this extremely well. The gameplay 
 feels like it was stripped of Devil May Cry 3 with slight modifications, and this just isn't what 
 you would expect. Bad camera and an out dated gameplay really hinder this game. Sure Nero does 
 bring a few interesting things, such as his Devil Bringer, and the Exceed system in this Red Queen, 
 but aside from that the general gameplay remains the same. It's difficult to say what it could 
 have needed improvement on, as for the most part, what is there is a polished version of probably 
 the best there is. Perhaps Capcom needs to approach the series with a new outlook for the next 
 installment, because if there is one thing that this game has written all over it, it's "sequel 
 is coming".
  
  Further looking into the gameplay, makes you think this game is unfinished and is lacking in certain 
 aspects. Dante for example, has the same moves as he did in the previous game. While it's nostalgic 
 and fun, it just doesn't feel like it's something that was built for the next gen experience. Level 
 design and boss battles are beaten to death, and make you say "dam not this crap again". You'll 
 literally have to fight some bosses as much as three times! This is only aided by the amount of 
 backtracking which makes the game boring in certain parts, albeit not a lot. It really made the 
 Dante section of the game kind of stale, like it was missing its own path or identity, because 
 all he did was backtrack Nero's journey. The puzzle themselves were repetitive, and overall it 
 just feels like the game is incomplete, because so much more could have been done, but it seems 
 like Capcom was content with polishing what they had to make sure it was as presentable as possible.
 
  
  Speaking about presentation, this is probably the only part of the game where it truly does feel 
 "next gen". The visuals are stunning, and the audio is on par; it doesn't blow you away, but it 
 is extremely consistent, looks great from all angles, and really adds to the intensity and feel 
 for the game. In some ways it feels like Capcom pushed the presentation values as far as they could 
 to make this game stand out. Cut scenes look fantastic, as does in game play; the musical score 
 is great, and the voice work is again fantastic. As far as presentation goes, this game does raise 
 the bar on how the genre should be approached by developers. 
  
  As far as value goes, this game is great, because you can easily find yourself playing it over 
 and over again. It has several modes of difficulty, and a stage survival mode which is also great; 
 coupled with online rankings and achievements, you'll want to keep playing it for quite some time. 
 Even if the gameplay doesn't seem to be up to par with the rest of the game, Devil May Cry 4 does 
 deliver, and is worth it. If you're a fan of the series, fret not, because you won't be disappointed, 
 if you're a newcomer, then this game will welcome you with open arms, and if you're looking for 
 a fun, over the top and stylistic game, then look no further because Devil May Cry 4 is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Irishman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game since I completed DMC3. All I can say is the game was definitely 
 worth the wait. DMC fans will be treated to a fantastic new story that stars of course Dante, but 
 also as most people know a new guy, Nero. For anyone who is a fan of DMC they know Dante is the 
 man, he is a total badass and the complete center of the DMC universe. Pretty much everyone was 
 a little worried that Nero might be just a wimpy, whiney lameass, but rest assured the dude is 
 anything but. From the opening credits (sung by Nero's girlfriend Kyrie) you get to see Nero in 
 asskicking form. For those that have never played a DMC title before you don't need to worry, you 
 can choose a human mode of play that should be fairly tough but not excessively so. The game also 
 starts out with Dante dropping in on the mass Nero and his girlfriend are attending to assassinate 
 the leader of Nero's order. So you start out in a tutorial mode fighting Dante in the church. Don't 
 worry it's a tutorial mode and Dante goes easy on Nero. I thought this was a nice touch; it allowed 
 new comers to get used to the DMC controls instead of throwing them to the demon hoards with no 
 idea of what to do. Each mission progresses pretty nicely with Nero at the helm until about halfway 
 through the game. He takes the lead again for the final missions. Of course you go around collecting 
 the usual red orbs for power ups, but a new currency is added to the game, proud souls. You receive 
 a number of proud souls for the combos and the style of execution you pull off, with proud souls 
 you can buy new combos and abilities. Unlike Dante, Nero never really gets any new weapons; he 
 pretty much sticks with his Devil Bringer arm, Red Queen sword and Blue Rose revolver. The gun 
 is a little slower than Dante's Ebony and Ivory but is still very useful for long range attacks. 
 The Red Queen though is really where it's at. The sword features a clutch like a manual transmission 
 on a car or bike. Rev up the sword with L2 and you give more power to your fuel injected sword 
 to cause major damage to foes and bring up your style meter to S in no time. The devil bringer 
 arm is really a joy to use too; never in gaming before have I played with a weapon that not only 
 brings your enemies toward you but also inflects damage and helps you reach otherwise unreachable 
 places, (think Link's clawshot in Legend of Zelda, but wayyyy more powerful and useful.) There are 
 just so many cool things to do with Nero there are just too much to list here, but just know he 
 is a blast to play and has plenty of variety to his fighting style. Dante, on the other hand is 
 just as ridiculous as ever; he gets his usual styles from DMC3 (gunslinger, swordmaster, royalguard, 
 and trickster) and at the very end of the game, dark slayer. Of course the devil arms make their 
 return too in the form of Pandora (a ridiculous gun) Lucifer (kind of arrows, but it's a hard weapon 
 to explain) and Gilgamesh (fighting greaves.) All of the boss battles are just as memorable as 
 previous games, from Berial (the fire hell demon) all the way to Sanctus (a living statue,) of 
 course they all require different tactics to beat especially since you fight each of them with 
 Nero and Dante. That is probably the biggest gripe people will have with the game, you fight all 
 the bosses as Nero, then as Dante (who actually kills them) then again as Nero in hell (just like 
 in DMC3.) Me, I personally didn't mind the challenge but some players might. The graphics are once 
 again outstanding; they are by far the best I've seen on the PS3. The facial features are just 
 outstanding and you can see every detail on everything from the individual strands of Nero's hair 
 to the denim stitching on his coat. The music and sound is of course typical DMC rockin action. 
 Pretty much everything from the sword swings to the rockin metal score is perfect. I really didn't 
 have a problem with the camera to speak of, it is adjustable in some situations but even when it's 
 not I never found myself getting screwed by the camera. This game while not as hard as 3 initially, 
 is still quite a challenge and most gamers could be turned off by the difficulty, but if you are 
 a hardcore gamer it shouldn't matter much, you'll want to play through it. I haven't played the 
 upper difficulties yet but I hear they are harder even than 3! Pretty much everything in this game 
 was perfect I thought and I couldn't recommend this game more to anyone, whether you are a fan 
 of the series or not, you will enjoy the fighting and the story, which is brilliantly told and 
 acted. Just remember that at the end there is a mode in the final credits where you have to keep 
 Kyrie from harm. If you can do this you get a bonus ending feat. Dante, Lady and who I forgot to 
 mention earlier, the hottest girl ever in a video game; shows she is still the hottest, Trish! 
 Oh yeah and Nero does get a devil trigger. Bottom line, buy this game and start making the Devil 
 cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceansandearth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  http://farm4. static. flickr. com/3161/2290593539_7c003b5ba1_m. jpg,/img 
  Publisher: Capcom
  Developer: In House
  Platform: Playstation 3, Xbox 360
  Genre: Third person action
  Release: 
 8th February, 2008 (EU)
  
  
  Devil May Cry has a history. It is generally recalled as an exceedingly tough game, by most gamers 
 and is not known to be a very casual-gamer friendly so much so that the previous instalment, DMC 
 3 had to be re-released in a Special Edition package with a toned down difficulty. It is however, 
 a darling of the hardcore gamer crowd, who seem to worship the Devil May Cry series (barring DMC 
 2) for it's outstanding gameplay, style and overwhelming difficulty. That being said, what can 
 we expect from DMC 4? Bad news first. DMC 4 no longer stars Dante as the protagonist. Instead, we 
 see a young whippersnapper by the name of Nero at the helm of affairs. The game begins in the town 
 of Fortuna, a place controlled by a group of knights called The Order Of The Sword who worship 
 Sparda, the demon knight as the saviour of all. It is here that we find Dante suddenly breaking 
 into the ceremony hall and kill the leader of the Order. Enraged by this act of villainy, Nero 
 sets out after Dante to confront him and to avenge the death of his leader. This much is known 
 and predictable. What is left for the player is to go through the the twenty odd missions and find 
 out what exactly is going on and 
 
  Controlling Nero is not very difficult. The first mission, which by the way is a fight with Dante 
 serves as a tutorial. Nero as a character starts out with only two weapons, his sword, the Red 
 Queen and his double barreled pistol, the Blue Rose. However, Nero is the possessor of a unique 
 gift, a demon arm, which allows him to grab and bring close objects from afar (read enemies) . This 
 ability, known as the Devil Bringer (DB) along with another ability of Nero to charge up his sword 
 (The Red Queen) , called the Exceed forms the core of Nero's gameplay. The DB tends to be used extremely 
 frequently either to pull enemies from mid-air or the ground to couple up with massive combos or 
 throws. The Exceed system on the other hand is a method of boosting/charging the power of the Red 
 Queen by continuously pressing the Trigger button. The charged up sword can be used to deal out 
 heavier damage as compared to the normal attacks. In DMC killing the enemies will land you with 
 Red Orbs which can be used as a currency to buy items. In continuation with the DMC tradition, 
 you get more points/orbs for killing an enemy stylishly. The style ranks go from D, C, B, A, S, 
 SS and SSS. You have to use a variety of different attacks to earn better style ranks. As you progress 
 through the game you get to buy more and more skills and abilities, both for the weapons and Nero. 
 Unlike previous games where abilities/skills could be bought with red orbs, in DMC 4 you cannot. 
 Red orbs are only used to buy items. To buy abilities/skills you earn what is called as Proud Souls. 
 Now Proud Souls are earned at the end of each mission and the amount of Proud Souls you earn depends 
 upon a lot of factors such as time taken to clear the mission, amount of red orbs earned and style 
 points earned. That being said, DMC 4 allows you to get back all the proud souls you have spent 
 on an ability if you decide to drop the ability. Thus, all abilities need not be bought and brings 
 about an element of flexibility in the game. Nero also has the Devil Trigger (DT) ability. Using 
 DT enables Nero to unleash powerful attacks albeit for a limited time, the time being limited by 
 the amount of Magic energy you possess.
  http://farm3. static. flickr. com/2264/2290597097_3c798c9986_m. jpg
  So you must be wondering, what 
 about Dante? Is he in the game at all? Yes, he is, although in a lesser role and for a lesser duration 
 than Nero. Dante becomes playable after you have completed a certain number of missions with Nero. 
 Now, Dante in DMC4 is very powerful. Unlike the previous game, you have all his styles - Trickster, 
 Sword Master, Royal Guard and Gun Slinger right from the word go, the styles being selectable on 
 the fly. This obviously translates to destructive and stylish combos. However, the moment you switch 
 to Dante you will start missing Nero's Devil Bringer which starts becoming a part of the regular 
 arsenal by then. Unfortunately, Dante's missions are back-treading of Nero's missions. This makes 
 the whole process repetitive. The complaint with the previous DMC has actually been exacerbated 
 to a high degree, that is back-tracking. The only solace you have in back-tracking at all is the 
 fact that you get to play as Dante. Other than back-tracking, the game is plagued by design issues, 
 though minor in nature. At times you will be clue-less as to where to go next, because of the fact 
 that you can actually go back into previous areas and the new area you have to go to is not highlighted, 
 you might be lost roaming around here and there. The other problem you might face is with the camera 
 angles, especially when you exit areas. The camera will suddenly move around 360 degrees confusing 
 you as to which direction you need to proceed in. http://farm3. static. flickr. com/2203/2291391342_05f79be49d_m. jpgThe 
 visuals in this game are in particularly outstanding. The locales, the detail and the lighting 
 make you stop and take note of the beauty surrounding you. What is commendable is that all of this 
 is achieved while maintaining a very healthy 60 frames per second (Fps) in-game. However, to achieve 
 this end the game needs to be installed (mandatory) . It takes 5 GB of your HDD and approximately 
 20 minutes of your time to do so.
  
  The cut-scenes are very well directed and Yuji Shimomura, he of Versus fame, is responsible for 
 bringing you the over-the-top action sequences. That is one thing DMC 4 has not sacrificed; style 
 is plentiful, as well as cheesy dialogues and melodramatic theatricals. This is DMC after all. 
 The sound is again very much DMC, a lot of techno-metal riffs all around that makes for a great 
 mood to slay some demons. The orchestral score in the beginning is excellent and the theme has 
 been given by the popular Japanese band, L'Arc-en-Ciel. The voice acting in the game is top notch, 
 it takes a lot to pull off the Dante/Nero attitude and that has been achieved without feeling out 
 of place. 
  http://farm3. static. flickr. com/2377/2291391548_335e6b8f25_m. jpgIn terms of replayability, DMC 4 
 is decent enough. It gives you six different difficulty modes though you start off with only two, 
 Human (easy mode) and Devil Hunter (normal mode) . In addition, to these there are plenty of secret 
 missions in the game which though are not necessary to be completed; the rewards of beating it 
 are worthwhile. The Accomplishment system and the online leaderboards are also built into the game, 
 which provides an extra element of challenge to the gamer. The real challenge of DMC lies in the 
 multiple difficulty modes and the need to master the game. This is the reason why DMC ranks highly 
 in the eyes of the hardcore gamers. The steps taken by Capcom, in making the DMC4 newcomer friendly 
 will only help in taking the game from cult/hardcore popularity to mass popularity without losing 
 it's originality whilst keeping it's sanctity intact. All in all, this is an excellent game that 
 deserves to be played by action game fans.
  
  
  
  Visual: 9
  Audio: 8.5
  Value: 8.5
  Gameplay: 9
  Tilt: 9
  
  Overall: 8.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiro1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry series has been proved to be a solid, decent series since the beginning of its series; 
 Devil May Cry. After their successful release of their first episode ever of the series, they immediately 
 release their sequel instead, Devil May Cry 2, which turns out to be a disappointment for the fans.
 
  
  Thanks to that mistake they make and the critics received from the fans, Capcom released another 
 prequel of DMC 1, Devil May Cry 3, which turns out to be an extremely challenging and decent game 
 that will make the players beg for mercy. After another successful release of Devil May Cry 3: 
 SE (Special Edition, where Vergil will be playable) , we have taken ourselves to a whole new level 
 of environment.
  
  Enter Devil May Cry 4, where the story of the game took place after Devil May Cry 3 (A real sequel 
 to be presumed) . 
  
  Devil May Cry 4 has taken a new level of evolution... Nero, the Descendant of Sparda, made its debut 
 to our beloved franchise. Who's Nero? Well... Nero is a wild kid who joined an Order that believed 
 the legends of Sparda and worshiped him like a God. Does this means that Nero is one of the worshipers 
 too? I think not, because his opinion is not that of every religious members in The Order of the 
 Sword. He is also somewhat involved into demonic events in the past while trying to protect his 
 childhood friend, Kyrie.
  
  Hence given him the power of the surprisingly-great-add-on for the franchise itself; Devil Bringer, 
 a demonic, yet powerful arm that will give Nero an ability to grab his opponents and thrash, beat, 
 slice, sever as well as smack the holy crap out of everyone in his sight. Devil Bringer also has 
 a power that is somewhat a Devil Trigger. The Devil Trigger figure of Nero shows us a shadow of 
 one of our most beloved character. I won't spoil anything, so see it for yourself. His weapon also 
 resembles a huge storyline of this game.
  
  What else does Nero has besides a powerful kick-arse arm? His trusty Red Queen, a single-edged 
 sword with a handler of a motorcycle on its hilt that fuels red-liquid for the blade to dish out 
 big damage and went crazy with style-revving-ups, as well as his speedy revolver, Blue Rose which 
 can be used as a charged blast-gun-like weapon along with his Devil Bringer to break his enemies 
 guards if fired constantly.
  
  The gameplay is as awesome as ever. Giving the players a new feeling with the new leading man, 
 Nero as well as old-school favorited, our so-ever-loved Dante, the MAN himself. Nero has no style 
 to play however, accept for his Devil Bringer which covers much of that flaw.
  
  Dante however has every styles (with two cheat styles taken out for some reason, Quicksilver and 
 Doppelganger) but has one style that was originally used by his elder brother. What's even more 
 is that you can now switch between styles during mission gameplay, giving you a more strategic 
 feeling and no more will there be any worries for you yo reach impossible areas without Trickster 
 or bashing demons with Swordmaster or Gunslinger style or blocking enemies and do a powerful counter 
 Release. It's all in one package for EVERY mission Dante plays, so chill out.
  
  Adding to that, Dante was playable as the storyline despise the fact that Nero has taken the leading 
 role, which makes me (A Dante fan myself) , satisfied for being a good second leading role once 
 in a while.
  
  The visuals of this game is GORGEOUS. Though clearing the mission quickly is rewarding, but you 
 might still wanna stop or slow down to enjoy the extremely magnificent environment of the game 
 itself which has taken to a next-gen level for games nowadays.
  
  Overall, the game was superb and Nero was a great leading guy with wonderful character needed for 
 a new hero in DMC franchise. The only critique of this game is that the repetitive levels of the 
 game sometimes makes it a bit boring to play when you've cleared the game like 4-5 times. Bloody 
 Palace will also make its return in here so rejoice, Bloody Palace fans! Have fun with Dante and 
 have fun with Nero, both of them are great characters, love them, play them skillfully and with 
 style. You'll have a fun time in DMC4 regardless of whether XBOX 360 version or PS3 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  
  The first teaser trailer was shown at E 2005, depicting Dante traveling through a snow-covered 
 environment, and quickly performing some fast, stylish moves. A more substantial trailer was released 
 at that year's Tokyo Game Show, with a more rugged and older Dante in a city-like setting. These 
 two teasers showed very little detail of the game itself. At the 2006 Tokyo Game Show, a more complete 
 trailer debuted, along with a playable demo, featuring the character Nero.
  
  Images from the March 2007 issue of Famitsu showed Dante as a playable character. A short trailer 
 was released later, displaying the character in gameplay. While Nero is the game's main character, 
 Dante is the supporting character, playable for around the second half of the game, until the final 
 boss. [7] A trailer shown at the 2007 Tokyo Game Show revealed the return of Lady and Trish. [8]
 
  
  A fourth trailer, released on December 17, 2007, revealed more gameplay and story detail, as well 
 as information on new songs for the game, one of which is a new version of "Lock and Load", Dante's 
 theme music from the first Devil May Cry, with new lyrics written and performed by Shawn "Shootie 
 HG" McPherson, the lyricist and lead vocalist on the soundtrack of Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening. 
 Released with the Japanese version of the game and special edition of the North American version 
 is Japanese rock band, L'Arc-en-Ciel, and their new single, "Drink It Down", which is used as the 
 Japanese opening for the game. [9]
  
  A collector's edition of the game was released at the same time. The American version included 
 a DVD of four episodes of the American dub of the anime amongst other extras, whilst the European 
 version only includes a signed artbook named "Art of the Devil". [10] [11] [12]
  
  [edit] Development
  
  In a interview, Devil May Cry 4's producer Hiroyuki Kobayashi, noted 
 that the production team began working with the game using a PC-based engine. [13] Among other details 
 he said that this was the first PlayStation 3 game developed by Capcom, and that making this transition 
 was a "hard step", particulary because no member of the producing team was familiar with the console's 
 capabilities. The game's multi-platform crossover was justified by emphazising the Xbox 360's success 
 in the North American and European markets, labeling the move as "natural". [13] During the production 
 new gameplay options were implemented in order to "keep up with fresh action games", among these 
 the Devil Bringer's ability to bring enenemies towards the characters was highlighted. [13]
  
  Unlike Dante's progress in Devil May Cry 3, Nero was designed to become stronger by upgrading 
 his Devil Bringer ability instead of receiving new weapons after defeating boss chracters. [14] 
 While in development the production team noted several aspects of the game, including that Nero 
 would be one of two main characters and that Dante wasn't going to be the only character from previous 
 entries in the series to appear. [14] Unlike Devil May Cry 3, the game' difficulty would be the 
 same in both the Japanese and European versions as in the one released in North America. [14] The 
 company presented the first demo of the game at a event titled "Capcom's Gamer's Day" where Kobayashi 
 highlighted several of the games features to the public present. [15] But with the team focused 
 in completing the game, no new demo was produced in time for the 2007 E3 Media and Business Summit. [14]
 
  
  [edit] Series innovations
  
  [edit] Next-generation elements
  
  Itsuno said in the Famitsu article that the visuals attempt to deliver a satisfying feel of being 
 in the air, and that the actions of Nero's Devil Bringer could not be done on then-current generation 
 consoles and only on the PS3, [9] though the game has since been slated for cross-platform release 
 on the Xbox 360 and PC. Gameplay visuals, shown at the 2006 Tokyo Game Show, demonstrate this game 
 mechanic in action. Kobayashi has stated in a Game Informer interview that the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 versions will be identical, although he did not comment on the PC version. [16] In a Eurogamer interview, 
 Kobayashi confirmed again that PS3 and Xbox 360 versions would be identical and said that the PC 
 version "would be great, because the same team is working on both". [17]
  
  [edit] Cross-platform move
  
  On March 19, 2007, Capcom announced the game would not be a PlayStation 
 3 exclusive, and would also be released for the Xbox 360 and the PC. In a thread questioning the 
 move on the official Capcom message board, the company's senior director of strategic planning 
 and research, Christian Svensson, responded by saying that they were moved by people's strong feelings 
 about the decision, but that it was the best decision for the company and consumers. [18] Kobayashi 
 stated that Devil May Cry 4 will have no major graphical differences between the Xbox 360 and Playstation 
 3 versions. [16] In fact, he claimed that the contents will be identical, except that "the feel 
 of the controller" may cause a slight difference. [17] Additionally, the PlayStation 3 requires 
 the user to install the game, taking twenty minutes, which shortens the length of the loading screens 
 throughout the game. A slide show is shown during the installation process, which introduces characters 
 from previous games in the series.
  
  [edit] Playable characters
  Nero, the new main protagonist, and Kyrie look on as Dante makes his entry.
  Nero, the new main 
 protagonist, and Kyrie look on as Dante makes his entry.
  
  On September 6, 2006, Japanese video game magazine Famitsu reported that series star Dante will 
 not be the protagonist in Devil May Cry 4. Instead, a new character named Nero, voiced and motion 
 captured by Johnny Yong Bosch, will take the lead. [9] Nero resembles both Dante and his twin brother, 
 Vergil, and is part of the Order of the Sword, a group of warriors who worship Sparda. [19]
  
  Nero's attire consists of blue jeans, a long blue coat, and a red vest with a hood. He wields 
 a revolver named Blue Rose, which has a distinctive under-and-over double barrel, and a decorated 
 single-edged sword called the Red Queen. Nero views Dante as the antagonist, after witnessing the 
 devil hunter murdering members of the Order. [1] Gameplay videos and screens reveal Dante to be 
 a boss enemy in the game. [20]
  
  Nero's right arm seems to resemble a demon's and glows supernaturally, and is the source of his 
 "Devil Bringer" power. He apparently was not born with his arm in this state, and hears voices 
 demanding "more power". Nero also has his own "Devil Trigger" transformation, which consists of 
 a demonic spirit hovering above him. [21] Capcom promotional videos have revealed that the spirit 
 will mimic Nero's actions and that the Devil Bringer moves will change if the Devil Trigger is 
 active while they are used. [22]
  
  Dante, the primary character in the franchise, will also be playable and will have updated versions 
 of the core animations used in Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening, as well as that game's four 
 basic fighting styles of Trickster, Royal Guard, Gunslinger and Swordmaster, which can be switched 
 at will. [23] Game Informer reported that he will not just be an unlockable, but will be playable, 
 as part of the storyline. [16] Capcom promotional videos have revealed that, like Nero and the first 
 Devil May Cry, the properties of his moves will change if the Devil Trigger is activated. [24] Out 
 of the 20 missions available, Dante is playable for 7 of them. Returning weapons in his arsenal 
 include the Rebellion sword, the Ebony and Ivory handguns, and the shotgun, but he will be able 
 to acquire new Devil Arms with the defeat of bosses.
  
  [edit] Gameplay
  Dante performing one of his signature moves, the Stinger attack
  Dante performing one of his 
 signature moves, the Stinger attack
  
  Gameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is similar to previous games in the series. The player must fight through 
 levels called "missions", occasionally solving puzzles or gathering items. Performance in a mission 
 is graded from D being the bottom grade through C, B, A, and S, SS and SSS being the highest grades. 
 Grades are based on items used, Red Orbs gathered, time taken, and the amount of "Style Points" 
 accumulated.
  
  Stylish combat is the focus of the game which is done through unbroken combos of varied attacks 
 while avoiding damage. The gauge at first is empty, with Deadly being shown after a minimal amount 
 of attacks with Smokin' Sick Style being the highest. The player must avoid attacks enemies employ 
 to keep the the gauge up, often through memorizing attack patterns.
  
  Devil Trigger, a super-state, enables the player to become more powerful with slow health regeneration. 
 Devil Trigger is activated through the Devil Trigger gauge filling from the players either receiving 
 or dealing damage during combat or through certain items. After a minimum amount is filled, the 
 player may enter Devil Trigger at any time. Devil Trigger is first available after Mission 6.
 
  
  Some changes introduced into Devil May Cry 4 are the presence of two playable characters, Dante 
 and Nero and a slight modification to the shop system. A new currency called Proud Souls is now 
 implemented which are used to buy new abilities while Red Souls are used to buy items. Proud Souls 
 are rewarded at the end of missions, the amount of which varies depending on how well the player 
 performs with S and SS ranks providing the highest amount of Proud Souls. Costs of abilities also 
 increase with the purchase of other abilities, though they may be sold back if the player so desires.
 
  
  Nero is played through the most of the game. He starts and ends the game with his Red Queen Sword, 
 Blue Rose revolver, and the powers of his Devil Bringer. The Red Queen features a Rev Gauge that 
 fills as the player presses the shoulder button. Subsequent attacks are then more powerful than 
 regular slashes. A second type of rev, Instant Rev, can also be implemented through pressing the 
 rev button during combos or other moves with exact timing. Nero also has the powers of his Devil 
 Bringer, using it to pull himself towards enemies or vice-versa. Context-sensitive throws may also 
 be implemented, leading to high damage and various effects depending on the enemy. Nero also powers 
 up the Devil Bringer throughout the game, such as being able to detect secret missions or caches 
 of Red Orbs. Nero gains the ability to use Devil Trigger, which also increases his Devil Bringer's 
 power, even changing his throws into more powerful versions with different animations.
  
  Dante is played through seven missions, taking over about half-way through the game. His gameplay 
 is very similar to Devil May Cry 3, with him having access to multiple melee and ranged weapons 
 which he gains after boss battles and being able to cycle through them in combat, though he is 
 not limited to two of each. Dante also starts with his four styles (Trickster, Royal Guard, Sword 
 Master, Gunslinger) , though he may switch them at will with the d-pad. He gains Dark Slayer near 
 the end of his section, which requires a double-tap in any direction on the d-pad. Styles do not 
 level up through experience as in the previous game, but must instead be upgraded in the shop screen 
 in between missions or at statues. Dante can also enter Devil Trigger, though his does not change 
 his attacks to the degree that Nero's does.
  
  [edit] Plot
  
  The game opens with Nero hurrying towards the central Opera House where the Order of the Sword 
 is conducting a ceremony, his right arm in a sling. Meanwhile Kyrie, Nero's romantic interest, 
 is beginning to open the ceremony with a song and is disappointed not to find Nero in the audience. 
 She begins her song none the less as Nero encounters several Scarecrow demons on his way to the 
 Opera House; he easily dispatches them without breaking his stride and arrives at the Opera House 
 just in time to hear the end of Kyrie's song.
  
  Following this, Kyrie joins Nero in the audience where she finds Nero has left a present for her 
 in the form of a gold necklace. The High Priest of the Order of the Sword Sanctus beckons the Order 
 members to join him in prayer; Nero is visibly bored by this and is about to leave despite Kyrie's 
 protests when his right arm begins to glow ominously. At this moment, Dante bursts through the 
 ceiling and assassinates Sanctus.
  
  The knights quickly rally to avenge their fallen leader but are easily dispatched by the assassin. 
 Nero, under the impression that Kyrie is in danger, attacks Dante initiating a fight between the 
 two. As Dante gains the upper hand, Nero reveals his demonic right arm named the Devil Bringer 
 and uses its power to seemingly kill Dante by impaling him with his own sword, only to find that 
 Dante survived relatively unharmed. Dante comments on Nero's power before quickly departing after 
 showing Nero that the knights he killed were not human but possessed a demonic appearance.
  
  Nero is charged with capturing Dante and bringing him back to the Order to answer for his crimes 
 by Credo, the leader of the Orders knights and Kyrie's brother. Upon leaving the Opera House however, 
 a demonic horde begins to lay waste to the city. Nero and Kyrie are separated as Nero begins to 
 slay the demons. Nero fights his way into the depths of Fortuna Castle, on the way, the player 
 is allowed to witness a scene revealing that Sanctus has been infused with the soul of a demon 
 to revive him. The player is also introduced to Agnus, the stuttering scientist and mastermind 
 of the Orders demonic power manipulation.
  
  Nero finally reaches Agnus' facility where he is defeated and heavily injured, the broken Katana 
 Yamato responds to Nero and mends itself before flying into his hand. Nero fends off Agnus' attacks 
 with the aid of a spectral blue demon hovering behind him before he collapses in exhaustion.
  
  Agnus flees back to Sanctus and informs him of Nero's new-found power, Credo vows to take care 
 of Nero before while Gloria takes over Nero's pursuit of Dante.
  
  Nero is confronted by Credo who also has been infused with demonic power, giving him the characteristics 
 of an Angel, yet is defeated by Nero. However, Kyrie arrives in time to witness Nero with his demonic 
 arm standing over her defeated brother. Agnus uses the confusion and distraction on Nero's part 
 to kidnap Kyrie and flee. Credo postpones his feud with Nero until he can investigate the situation. 
 Nero then once more meets Dante, his quest to capture him long since forgotten; he wishes to simply 
 pass Dante by. Dante however, wants Yamato, the sword used by his twin-brother Vergil, returned 
 to him. A fight ensues where Dante is victorious; however, he decides to let Nero keep Yamato after 
 the latter has "cooled down". Following this is, it is revealed that Gloria is in fact Trish, Dante's 
 partner in his demon hunting business "Devil May Cry."
  
  Nero reaches Sanctus and the "Savior" an enormous statue which the Order intends to bring to life 
 using Nero and Yamato's power. Using Kyrie as a human shield, Sanctus is successful in detaining 
 Nero. Sanctus reveals that the Savior requires the essence of Sparda to reach full power; he originally 
 intended Dante be used as the core but accepts Nero as a suitable substitute. Credo attempts to 
 rescue the two but is mortally wounded by Sanctus; then Dante arrives and tells Nero give him his 
 sword back. As Nero is absorbed into the Savior, he tells Dante "come and get it."
  
  Agnus uses Yamato to open an enormous Hellgate releasing a multitude of demons onto the city; Sanctus 
 arrives with the Savior and begins to exterminate the demons. Dante, upon hearing Credo's dying 
 request to rescue Kyrie and Nero, fights his way back towards the city, on his way he destroys 
 the three smaller Hellgates used to release the demons.
  
  Dante arrives back at the Opera House and kills Agnus; he then retrieves Yamato and uses it to 
 destroy the largest of the Hellgates before confronting Sanctus and the Savior. After discovering 
 that the Savior is invincible from the outside, Dante drives Yamato into the chest of the Savior, 
 where it is retrieved by Nero. Nero defeats Sanctus inside the Savior and rescues Kyrie; finally, 
 Nero uses the powers of his Devil Bringer to destroy the Savior and Sanctus once and for all. Dante 
 departs after entrusting Nero with Yamato. Nero and Kyrie's tender reunion is interrupted by another 
 demon attack; Nero draws his sword and begins the fight as the credits roll and the game ends.
 
  
  In an extra ending scene, at the Devil May Cry, Trish and Lady bicker over the small reward she 
 has been given, with Lady accusing Trish for having disguised herself as Gloria and delivering 
 Sparda's sword to the Order. A phone call rings, with a customer having another job for Dante to 
 do, and the trio moves out to help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeStrike1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't go so far as to say this is the best in the series. In my opinion Devil May Cry 3 was 
 slightly better and more enjoyable for me. Lets get into this shall we...
  
  We are introduced with a new character to play as from the get go, named Nero. I've seen menacing 
 (lol?) fanboys scream about how much they ONLY wanted Dante (remembers MGS 2 fanboys -_-) . Anyway, 
 I know what makes a good game and Nero was needed to freshen thing up a bit. Dante is still legendary, 
 but he's reached his peak already.
  
  Nero may have freshened things up a bit, but one thing in the DMC series that can get to you over 
 time is the constant hacking 'n' slashing. I know, that is what these games are about, and thats 
 alright, but it does not stop the gameplay from getting repetitive and slightly boring at times. 
 It's the 4th game after all...
  
  Nero brings with him his Devil Bringer, his demonic right forearm, which allows you to grab enemies, 
 bring them towards you, and perform "buster" moves (holds) on them for extra damage. This is something 
 never seen in the DMC series before and gives your gameplay a bit more variety. These Busters can 
 even be used against bosses, usually when stunned, and look awesome. Keep in mind that the Devil 
 Bringer is Nero's greatest weapon overall. You will grow to love it, and maybe even wish for it 
 back when you play as Dante.
  
  As for playing as Dante. No Devil Bringer. Same as the past games, but he has more skills available 
 showing how strong he has become over the years. You acquire a few new weapons along his journey, 
 which are great in my opinion. (Pandora! *drools*)
  
  
  THE "almighty" BAD!
  
  What made the game a letdown to me? Well.... the storyline had so much potential, I really mean 
 that. When I watch the trailers before the game was released, I imagined what the game would be 
 about. I don't lie when saying, I could have written a better story myself from that one trailer 
 I saw.
  
  When you think back over the games story, you realise its basic. Longer cut-scenes were nice, but 
 not used well alot of the time. As I said, the story should have been better. Characters such as 
 Trish and Lady were barely used at all. Bad idea.
  
  The 2nd half of the game is basically about Dante going through ALL the past levels you had just 
 went through with Nero. Alot of backtracking! No joke. Basically he goes to close all the hellgates 
 and finish the bosses Nero didn't kill. Nero killed only one boss. But he had brothers :/ Colour 
 difference! Having a reason for Dante to do all the past levels again doesn't mean it should have 
 been done. You all should really know that you play the game twice, basically, with 2 different 
 characters.
  
  Dantes final mission is original *gasp*. It is a very good boss fight though. Nero returns for 
 2 final missions, and you are done then. ----------------
  
  Devil May Cry fans definitely should play this game, and newcomers might as well give it a go. 
 But please don't over-hype this "good" game, saying its the best. If you honestly haven't played 
 better, fine. Just too many fanboys for most well known games is all :)
  
  TTTTTHHHHHEEEEEE 
  
  
  By the way, who still likes dice after 
 playing this game...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glapsides
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Indeed, I am getting a great kick out of this game. It is on par with Ninja Gaiden I. The action 
 is fast-paced and exciting. You can add new combo moves as you move forward and kick some major 
 ass. Rocking music is awesome in the background when slashing enemies with bombastic moves. The 
 graphics are top-notch except for some retarded ladder-like shadows here and there (like 5% of 
 the game so no big deal at all) . Cutscneses are amazing as well, and they are made of in-game graphics, 
 so you can imagine why the game looks so goddamn beautiful. The look alone makes the game a masterpiece. 
 
  
  It's not a difficult game but you got to be a seasoned gamer to catch on.
  
  The game is worth buying, but no good for rent. If you rent, there is no fun to it in 5 days. Sure, 
 you can finish the game in a day or two at one serious sitting, but that's not what the game is 
 for. It's to play, play and play again. You keep replaying to increase your points that you use 
 to buy powerful combos and superb moves, like a forward thrust in the air or a powerful gun blast. 
 Once you play a mission, you can replay it right away to gather more points to purchase newer and 
 powerful moves, which makes you extra powerful for the next mission. And that is what DMC4 is all 
 about gameplay-wise. 
  
  So, music rocks, graphics stun, gameplay is top-notch, characters are obviously kick-ass, and the 
 story makes it all going. 
  
  I give it a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  First things first, how the hell does Conan get a 7.5 and Devil May Cry 4 get an 8.0?? That .5 
 difference in the score must mean alot. I mean really Conan was abysmal and to think that it was 
 that near in score according to the critics... WOW..
  Neway to the task at hand. Nero's arm has to be the baddest creation in a game since.... well since 
 Dante's ability to go from swordplay to gunplay in the blink of an eye. DMC4 continuously redefines 
 action. The game is fun and action packed. Enemies pick your poison. This game has got it all swords, 
 guns, wrestling moves, great graphics, cool bosses (although fighting them three times is too much 
 and doesn't even suit the story) and all the past DMC characters save good ole Vergil (wish they 
 had found a way to put him in there and no those fake ass lance carrying angels don't cut it) . 
 
  Great replay value, generous difficulty at higher levels, BUY THIS GAME. Is Capcom the best gamemaker 
 i dunno, but they sure know how to compete.
  So how about Devil May Cry 5 allow us to play with Dante, Nero, Vergil, Lady, Trish, and Sparda... that 
 would be great, or maybe let us experience Sparda's journey... we're waiting Capcom
  Great game, third best series of all time in my book after Final Fantasy and Resident Evil, Onimusha 
 comes in 4th... wait 3 of 4 Capcomhmmmm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Games sure do look pretty these days, huh? Some games, like Devil May Cry 4, understand just how 
 pretty they are and do everything possible to show off the visuals. It's even fun to play when 
 you can see what the hell you're fighting.
  
  You probably couldn't tell by looking, the main character is not the series' mainstay Dante. Instead, 
 there's yet another white-haired, trenchcoat-wearin', gunslingin', wisecrackin' demon hunter: Nero. 
 The visual differences between the two are extremely minute, but when players get the opportunity 
 to control Dante again, the gameplay differences become crystal clear.
  
  The game combines a tale of foreboding doomsday, a love story, and Hollywood-caliber fight scenes 
 to form the narrative, and the results are quite odd. For every scene that shows Nero or Dante 
 performing fancy footwork and talking smack, there's another intended to be serious or touching.
 
  
  Problem is, there's almost no context the plot itself. Where is this demon-worshiping church that 
 seems to be isolated from the rest of civilization? Why does every human in the town have a demon 
 form? And where the hell did Nero get this weird arm with demonic power? Capcom hopes that your 
 answer to all of these questions is, Who cares? The cutscenes look awesome.
  
  And do they ever. DMC4 is pure eye candy, from the framerate never dips below a buttery smooth 
 60 fps, to the massive sense of scale in the environments, to the aforementioned cutscenes full 
 of Nero and Dante pulling off impossible feats like loading a six-shooter with one hand and blocking 
 bullets with swords.
  
  Which brings me to the game's biggest flaw: a camera that stays fixed on cool-looking environments 
 when players need control of it the most. It can be manipulated in select areas, but when players 
 can't figure out the positions of the things trying to murder them, the lack of a controllable 
 camera is inexcusable. This becomes especially annoying when enemies begin to throw ranged attacks.
 
  
  On the other hand, enemies that actually fight back are a rare breed in DMC4. Games of similar 
 ilk like Ninja Gaiden suffer from a similarly uncooperative camera, but at least the enemies in 
 Ninja Gaiden posed a threat. Most enemies in DMC4 act as slow walking punching bags. Granted, when 
 players crank up the difficulty, the damage done from a single blow from an enemy is quite large, 
 but on the whole, DMC4's combat philosophy is one of relentless offense.
  
  The series has always rewarded players for stringing together combos on enemies, and Nero exploits 
 that system with a demonic arm that can perform throwing maneuvers, and pull enemies towards him 
 to continue combos. Dante has no such throwing ability, but in exchange, four distinct fighting 
 styles and a bit more speed. Either way, the game ranks the player's style based on the diversity 
 of attack and how often Nero or Dante got hit.
  
  The incentive for good style rankings? More lost souls, the currency with which to obtain new abilities 
 and attacks. Nero feels pretty vanilla at the start of the game with only a few attacks at his 
 disposal, but once players spend lost souls on new moves, and since those moves carry over when 
 starting a new game on a different difficulty, the combat gets more intense and fun the more players 
 sink time into the game.
  
  As expected, the game offers some visually awe-inspiring boss fights, and taking them on is fun 
 and intense the first time. Capcom tradition dictates that the player must fight each non-final 
 boss at least twice, and in some cases more. DMC4 takes the repetition a step further, however, 
 when it forces players to literally retread same ground that Nero did as Dante, only in reverse. 
 The environments and bosses are undeniably cool, but eventually wear out their welcome.
  
  When the camera doesn't get in the way, Devil May Cry 4 is a treat both to watch and to play. The 
 fighting is deep and satisfying, and the series hasn't lost its flair for the dramatic. Still, 
 even in a new generation of hardware, Capcom refuses to abandon its unfriendly and unintuitive 
 camera system. Check it out for the action and visuals, but expect some bouts of frustration along 
 the ride. And some terrible hardcore rock music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Stylishly the best hack n' slash game out for current gen/
  Nero's arm is pretty nifty and creates a new element into the gameplay.
  Bosses are AWESOME!
 
  Lots of replayability.
  
  Cons: Nero isn't the best character ever and isn't cooler than Dante. :P
  Bosses reused a lot 
 as well as some fights.
  Story is better than the other games, but isn't a good story overall.
  Reused stuff here and 
 there.
  
  [Regular Review]
  
  DMC4, first of all, is probably the most easy to get into game of all the series. You'll grow accustomed 
 to the controls quickly and the entire is game is easy overall. For the first half of the game, 
 you'll be playing as Nero. He's cool and all, it's just the amount of work put into him isn't there. 
 
  
  Nero doesn't have another weapon besides his Red Queen and Blue Rose. That's pretty weak... and 
 that is why Dante is still better, because once you get to use him, he has way more variety and 
 weapons to choose from. Nero does have the Devil Bringing though, which is possibly the other reason 
 you should like Nero. 
  
  The Devil Bringer makes you lazily grab enemies from afar, then slamming them into the ground (depending 
 on which enemy you grab) . Almost, ALMOST every enemy in the game has a different action sequence 
 when Nero uses his arm against them. They are all pretty neat and definitely one of the new types 
 of things added into the series.
  
  Your most likely going to use the Devil Bringer more than your gun when playing as Nero. Blue Rose 
 (Nero's only gun) isn't powerful at all and the charge shots are pretty useless since the arm is 
 so helpful. That's why it would have been nice if Capcom added more weapons for Nero at his disposal.
 
  
  The story is kind of... meh at first as you won't be told JACK SHEET until the later missions of 
 what's really going on. It makes me mad, just thinking about it, but once the TRUE story comes 
 into play, then DMC4 will feel a lot different from other games. I just wish they would have told 
 me where Nero gets his arm and why he looks so close to Dante, when in fact it never talked about 
 Nero's past at all. That is why the story is decent... it never tells you everything. (Insert Sad 
 Smiley Face)
  
  Once Dante is playable, you've practically played almost all the bosses, except one. The one boss, 
 I won't mention, is very hard. Well it was hard for me because I didn't know wtf to do. 
  
  Dante is still the best character to use in the game, because of the variety he has as mentioned 
 above. It's alot faster to kill certain enemies with him, vice versa to Nero (because of his arm) . 
 I also wonder why everyone is so stoked with the Pandora weapon you get later in the game with 
 Dante. It's not really helpful... unless you use the rocket launcher. The entire upgrade takes forever 
 to use, since it charges up. Even when using the full evolved Pandora, it's slow as hell. The shotgun 
 is actually helpful in this game for once. Which I didn't expect. :P
  
  Bosses in DMC4 are amazing, I just wish they didn't reuse them. You fight... at least 3/4s of the 
 bosses 3 times each throughout the game, not counting missions you redid for orbs or etc. I just 
 like the way they are handled when using Nero, since the Devil Bringing brings a different element 
 in place when facing bosses. When using Dante, it feels more of a chore then when playing with 
 Nero.
  
  The Mission Structure is practically the same compared to all the other DMC games, except No. 1. 
 The only true difference from DMC4 is that Red Orbs aren't used to purchase Skills anymore. Proud 
 Souls are used instead, which is one of the new features in the game. You only get these bad boys 
 once you've completed a mission, which isn't that enjoyable to get now, since farming for Red Orbs 
 were much fun. But oh well. 
  
  After playing with everything... the Bloody Palace, the harder modes, etc. after beating DMC4, I 
 would still keep the same score that I put for this review. It's just addicting and fun, I just 
 wish they fleshed out more stuff, such as the camera and story. But hey! It's DMC and DMC does 
 what DMC wants! 
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  [Summary]
  
  DMC4 doesn't step up to the plate and reconfigure what we loved already with the DMC Series. It 
 does however add new elements and features that make the game more better, but not innovative. 
 It's still f-ing FUN and hopefully they make a sequel which includes a better story, variety of 
 bosses and weapons, and to make Nero more cooler! If Capcom does this, then we shall be craving 
 this game with UTMOST satisfaction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 for the PS3
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 x3
  Graphics- 10/10 x2
  Sound- 9/10 x2
  Storyline- 8/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value- 10/10 x1
  
  First off this is the 4th game 
 in the the Devil May Cry series, but you do not have to play the others to enjoy this game. This 
 is my first game of the series and nothing confused me, maybe interest me a bit and read up on 
 it like who is Trish and Dante and such, but overall its a solid game on its own. You use a boy 
 name Nero who has a demon like arm and can crush demons and such in seconds along with his trusty 
 sword and gun. Dante is even more insane with his large amount of weapons he can use, I won't ruin 
 what they are, but there preety insane. Each character has there own combo's they can preform, 
 its preety basic in the long run but its a beatem-up style of play and so its what it is. Still 
 it gives you enough different combo's to not make it seem to get old. Graphics are probly the best 
 part of this game, as I thought nothing could beat Heavenly Sword, well not yet anyway, but this 
 game is on par with that game and looks just breath taking. The sound is awesome, but not alot 
 of tracks you would really like, but nothing you will hate either. The main random battle music 
 is like a rock song in the background and is preety good but after hearing it again and again you 
 can get why actually songs arn't normally used in random battles. Still I found the best music 
 to be the plant boss. Storyline is preety sharp and makes you wanna keep going, with lots of cutscenes, 
 but having to replay area's you already did in REAL MUST DO gameplay is not really fun and having 
 to fight the same bosses again and again x3 just through the normal game can be annoying. Luckly 
 at least one of the those fights is with Dante who is different enough to make it seem like not 
 a total repeat. The game overs several modes to choose from and each time you unlock more pictures, 
 and information along with the blood palace stage which is preety much a big stage in the air where 
 you fight a group of monsters and then go to the next stage, basic but can be fun if you just want 
 to let loose. 
  
  Overall- 91/100 or for gamespot 9.0/10
  Killer game and one of the great new games to come out this year that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasacant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game does almost nothing new for the series, sure Nero's arm does change it up 
 a little, but if you've played DMC3 things will probably seem very familiar. Thats not to say there 
 is no difference, if you found DMC3's frustratingly hard difficulty a bit to much there is some 
 good news! 4 not only has toned down the difficulty but if you are continually getting stuck enemies 
 will actually start to get easier. also DMC4 is focused more on offense as opposed to to its predecessor 
 in which you spent a lot more time avoiding attacks.
  
  The boss fights are amazing! I found myself replaying levels just so I could fight a boss again, 
 which is a good thing because during the coarse of the story you will be fighting these bosses 
 several times.
  
  About halfway through the game you change characters from Nero to Dante, and as such you lose the 
 awesome devil bringer which is replaced by Dante's ability to switch through his styles on the 
 fly and his much more diverse range of weaponry he gains during the coarse of the game. This can 
 take some getting used to but soon enough you'll be hacking through wave after wave of Demons as 
 the Legendary Devil Hunter .
  
  Next there is the story, full of the cheesey goodness we expect, no demand from the series. In 
 all seriousness I found the voice acting great and the story at the very least passable.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to fans of Devil May Cry and action games in general, just 
 don't go in expecting anything completely new and you'll have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masa4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best of all devil may cry games, and one of the best ps3 (or any game just about) 
 that i have ever played! The ending to me was kinda sucky tho. Other then that, i think that the 
 graphics and storyline are pretty good and that this game is a must have!!! 
  
  Devil May Cry is back and looking better than ever. I have not yet finished the game as far as 
 the newcomer Nero goes he is a blast to play with. Devil May Cry fans and fans of the hack n' slash 
 genre will be in love with all the asskickery such as Nero's motorbike handle style sword, and 
 the blue rose pistol and the devil bringer. its a joy to drag enemies right to you or use it to 
 cool things to the bosses. Like the angels you fight you take their lances and jab it right through 
 their chest. Some critics hit this game hard for the dialog, I give it lots of credit because this 
 series is based on lots of one liners and smart ass comments and it dose it very well. The difficulty 
 isnt super hard but it still gives you a challenge (im on devil hunter or the one after human) 
 The graphics are superb just the jungle level's shadows look a bit pixlated. The other Negative 
 thing is the camera can get stuck in a bad spot. And one more grip is that when you have to restart 
 from last check point if you used any items after that they are gone or you have to restart the 
 level. But over all it is a great game. Graphics are sweet, game play is still just as devilish 
 as ever, and cut scenes tell a deep story and you should get a laugh at all the wise cracks and 
 one liners (if you are into that sense of humor.) I'd give it
  
  10.0 Presentation
  
  10.0 Graphics
  
  10.0 Sound
  
  10.0 Gameplay
  
  10.0 Lasting Appeal
  
  10.0 OVERALL
 
  (out of 10 / not an average) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XantamSaviour
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Devil may cry 4, is a well known franchise in the gaming world - and DMC4 is no less than a continuation 
 of the great series. Is it the revolutionary masterpiece game we've been waiting for in the series, 
 no.. But is it any good, yes. 
  
  Dmc4 difficulty level has been knocked down a bunch compared to DMC3. Though it still challenges 
 you in some of the boss fights you will encounter in the game. But luckly for those who seek the 
 unhuman diffculty from the past dmc games (besides dmc2) . You can unlock extra diffculty levels 
 as dante-must-die and hell-hard etc etc which defiantely satisfy the hardcore gamers of the series.
 
  
  Dmc4 main character is Nero, you see through his eyes allmost through the whole game. You will 
 play as Dant in the last quater of the game, but it's just mostly backtracking of levels, but 
 playin as Dante is defiantely more satisfying for me personally. But Nero has his moments especially 
 with his devil bringer arm, which adds a nice little twist in the games combat area.
  
  The graphics are great, as we've come to expect from 2generation ps3 titles. Dmc4 delivers in this 
 front both in graphics and visual art. Yet the metal rock theme we've come to expect from dmc-series 
 is still intact with any improvement - the sound effects are decent enough. But the voice acting 
 is a bit lackluster - but in a game like dmc - there's not much time for talking anyways.
  
  Yes, Dmc4 is a game build for newcomers of a series. the difficulty level is not as unforgiving 
 as DMC3 - yes still challenging to a certain degree. You take the role of the young rebellious 
 Nero which puts a new perspective on the whole matter. So anyone who hasn't picked up on the dmc 
 series - dmc4 is defiantly a good place to start. 
  
  But since this is a sequel to a long branch of dmc games. There isn't much innovation about dmc4. 
 Dmc fans will be familiar of the game mechanics of dmc4. The usal orb collecting demon slaying 
 hack&slash aspect are there. Mixed together with some secret missions. But not anything we haven't 
 seen before. But I wished for something extra, something that would truly defind the dmc-series 
 depart from the ps2 era. yet I get the feeling of just a updated HD picture of the game.. and a 
 devil-bringer-hooking arm.
  
  It doesn't mean dmc4 isn't a good game. In fact it is and satisfies fans of the series in most 
 areas. Dmc4 delivers what you've come to expect from the series and that is maybe also the problem. 
 I'm looking forward to see if dmc5 will add something new & creative to the long going series. 
 But in the mean time, dmc4 is a great game, and fans (or new ones) should defintely pick this game 
 up. It has great visual, tons of unlockables.. Dmc4 does the dmc-series proud.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry has been around quite awhile now, and besides the flaw ridden Devil May Cry 2, the 
 series has been an overwhelming success. Though the exciting action and engaging story have always 
 been promising, it has never before reached heights like this.
  
  First off, Nero is just as cool as Dante, and in many scenarios far more fun to play. The Devil 
 Bringer, manifested in Nero as a demonic arm, is an awesome inclusion to the game, and makes combat 
 far deeper. The combos you can pull are just awe-inspiring, especially against boss characters. 
 You will find yourself doing some cool things, an almost clear tip of the hat to games like God 
 of War.
  
  Nero has some flaws though. While his voice acting is incredible, his character is a bit too familiar... he 
 is basically Dante. While I found that the series seems to have finally got rid of cliche insults 
 and put some actual witty ones in, it was disappointing to find that this new character was just 
 Dante in a different jacket. Definitely could have deepened the feel of the game by making him 
 look and act differently, but overall not entirely a big deal.
  
  It is insinuated very early on that Dante is just all-in-all more powerful than Nero, and you will 
 have a chance to test this out. Unfortunately... it just doesn't feel that way. I found that the 
 game got exponentially harder when I took on the demons as Dante, and they were primarily the same 
 ones I had been fighting the whole game as Nero. The Devil Bringer just added an incredibly exciting 
 edge to combat, and you'll find that excitement slightly lacking once it is gone. Boss fights become 
 more old school hack-and-slash, and less about executing awesome combos. I found myself sighing 
 with relief when the controls returned to Nero.
  
  However, Dante is by no means a slouch. DMC made an incredibly intelligent leap by putting all 
 4 of Dante's styles at your disposal at once by placing them on the D-pad. Devil May Cry seemed 
 to just have too many things to work with when you were constantly having to decide what weapon 
 and style to use for a level, and this clears it all up!
  
  By far the smartest move Capcom made with DMC4 is that they stopped using Red Orbs for EVERYTHING. 
 The previous incarnations of the game required you to ration your red orbs between items and skills 
 and updating weapons. This is no longer the case, as there are now Red Orbs for buying items and 
 Proud Souls for updating skills and weapons. Very handy.
  
  The story line shines as the best in the series. No longer do you have to wait until the last 30 
 minutes of the game to feel any connection to what is going on. The hardships you endure seem well 
 worth it as you drive yourself forward to figure out just what is going on with Nero.
  
  And here is another slight hiccup. You never really find out exactly what's going on with him. 
 Sure you get a very general explanation, but it isn't at all expanded on, which is slightly annoying.
 
  
  Overall this game is by far the best thing to happen to the series, and it shows great promise 
 for future installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikeyness_909
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Well, the long awaited Next Gen appearance for one of Capcom's biggest. And it was certainly worth 
 the wait. DMC3 was a worthy finisher for the PS2 generation, despite being infuriatingly hard and 
 challenging at times. Devil May Cry smashes the bar up a few levels and makes by far the best game 
 of the series, even if it's spot in the time line is a little confusing.
  
  So... how about those characters eh? Well in a similar style to DMC2 and Konami's Metal Gear you 
 get to play as two characters throughout the game. Starting with the new comer (and if I may say, 
 one of the coolest and best game characters I've come across) , Nero, and switching to our favorite 
 Devil Hunter Dante around the half way mark and finally finishing off with Nero for the final couple 
 of levels. Nero has a few traits of Dante without being exactly the same, which is great. And his 
 sword is awesome with the Act-Gauge, which with Max-Act skill is truly special and probably makes 
 him better than even Dante. Whom himself is still no slouch with his 4 styles of fighting (Gunslinger, 
 Trickster, Sword Master, Royal Guard) and a new bonus one (thanks to his brother's sword) Dark 
 Slayer which is limited in it's skills but really quite handy at times for taking on large groups.
 
  
  The graphics are stunning and the game play can be pretty intense at times but you get plenty of 
 options for beating your opponents into little red orbs, and with a control system that just feels 
 right no matter what you do you can't go wrong. A slight change though is the upgrade system, no 
 longer are red orbs used for Skills as well as items, but you now get "Proud Souls" to put into 
 skills which are obtained at the end of each level depending on your over all score. The Orbs still 
 remain (Red, Blue, Green, White and Yellow) and yes... the blue fragments are still bloody frustrating 
 to get at times. Speaking of which, secret missions are also still there and they're a mix of equally 
 easy and challenging requirements.
  
  There is of course the matter of things being repetitive... It's nothing major because the rest 
 of the games pros far outweigh it. But you go through the game up to Dante, who then returns along 
 pretty much the exact same path fighting the same 4 bosses... whom you also face in Nero's penultimate 
 mission (19) and Bael can also be found during the first Dice segment before fighting Agnus for 
 the first time on Son of Sparda and Dante Must Die. That said, it is a lot more fun when you have 
 a maxed Devil gauge and your top skills for each character.
  
  Then... there's replay value, and there's a lot. In total there are 6 difficulty levels to get, 
 although only the 4 are included on the Total Rankings list.
  
  Human
  Devil Hunter (these two are available from the start)
  Son of Sparda
  Dante Must Die
  
 
  Then come the tricky ones
  
  Heaven or Hell (where both you and your enemies can die in one hit, including bosses)
  
  Hell 
 and Hell (where you can die in one hit but your enemies are as normal on Son of Sparda difficulty)
 
  
  By that point though, you'll have gotten Super Nero and Super Dante costumes which bestow unlimited 
 devil gauge on them... though don't think that will in anyway make the latter 2 that much easier. 
 It may help on Bloody Palace however, the survival mode. And don't let these "elitist"players talk 
 down and make you feel inferior for using items/devil gauge through the game. Screw them and do 
 what you want I say!
  
  Overall! 
  
  This game is truly awesome and by far the best of the series, it is worth getting whether you're 
 a newcomer or a veteran! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Dante returns in the fan favorite Devil May Cry series for the fourth installment. We are introduced 
 a new character, Nero, and in my opinion his addition really adds a whole new substance never felt 
 in the series before. Nero's controls allow for newcomers to learn much faster than Dante's, although 
 i prefer Dante's arsenal to Nero's. There are great and deep boss battles and character development. 
 Unlike previous games, the story does in fact take center stage in this game. Unlike Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma, i felt that the action more fast-paced and interesting. But there are platforming and camera 
 angle problems that cause way too much of a headache to ignore. Overall the game is one of the 
 best in the series if not the best. There is an amazing amount of replayability and satisfaction 
 to be found. This is a must buy for any PS3 owner. Hopefully Dark Sector lives up to the hype, 
 for it is my next adventure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jealousy-2k8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  
  if your a fan of the series then you must already have this game and aggree with me that its brilliant. 
 if your a fan of the game and dont have it ur an idiot. for many people this isnt really an ideal 
 review as this is the first dmc4 game ive played. so hopefully you can undersand where im coming 
 from.
  this game was so good on apearance that as soon as i new about it i wanted it and that can tell 
 you for someone that hasnt ever played dmc this game must be good to attract me to it. the new 
 main character kicks ass wih his devil arm and really makes gameplay interesting. the graphics 
 are sweet and theres endless fun in the game to have. although when u play as dante however i missed 
 nero instantly and if ur a fan of dante you will probably too but without going into much detail 
 of the game. despite some of the faults this game has i couldnt see them because i was blinded 
 by how sweet this game was so for me i would have put a 10. but i have to honest this game is a 
 must buy or at least a must rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgsmike85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok we all know that the DMC series has a history of being a cool slashing shoot'em up wild kill 
 feast but even though this game continues the history onto ps3 its none the less fun in case you 
 don't gotta clue what I'm talking about its fun nice weapons guns and bad guys really cool when 
 you play as Nero when the bosses stumble to catch a breath run up to them and press O you do some 
 massive and cool attacks a must by for ps3 owners classy and cool only gave a 9.5 because I was 
 really feeling left out because a online co op with Dante and Nero would make this the best game 
 on ps3 i mean the option for a online co op mode is not far fetched two friends and a lot of demands 
 man that would be fun the only other bad thing I can think of is that there aren't many bosses 
 about really lemme count ok errrrrrrrm I think there was about seven that isn't to bad you might 
 be saying but when you have to kill the same one over and over it gets a little like you want to 
 shout wtf are you doing this guy again common I killed him twice already but even with that its 
 still one of the best on ps3 and my fav out of the whole series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I knew Devil May Cry 4 would be a great game, even before it came out. As soon as i got my hands 
 on the demo, I knew i was right. This game is full of new things, like a character, story, and 
 weapons. Right away you start out with a pretty nice scene, and it only gets better from there. 
 For most of the game you'll be playing with Nero, who is an awesome character and fun to play with. 
 Also you learn about his history and the cult he is in called The Order of the Sword. You also 
 can play as Dante, which is what i was waiting for particularly. Dante's fast pace and strength 
 is awesome to play with, especially since you have to go back Nero's steps. Overall, the game is 
 a great one, with great cut scenes, controls, and areas. The bosses are fun to fight, and the story 
 is solid. If your a devil may cry fan, you have to buy this. Even if you aren't, you could love 
 this game. With the game telling you about the story as its installing, its a great way to catch 
 up on the series if you're new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog_129
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  If one was to formally compare devil may cry 4 to it 's predicessors:
  
  
  THE BAD!:
  
  1. You could say the boss fights are repeated too much
  
  2. It's too easy
  
  3. There 
 are less weapons
  
  THE TRUTH
  
  1. This is the longest devil may cry to date, but it is the first to allow continues for newby 
 players. Before yellow stones were required.
  
  2. The enviroments are the largest and most emersive out of any beatem up to date. Unfortunatly 
 this means that some of the enviroments must be replayed in order for Devil may cry 4 to heat the 
 shelves on time
  
  3. The boss fights are the best ever in terms of complicity and timing. Again they are repeated. 
 
  
  4. Nero is a whole new character tottally different fighting style. This in combination with Dante's 
 ability to switch styles on the fly means that no fight is ever the same.
  
  5. Finally the story. This is the only devil may cry with an actual proper story, but if you are 
 not paying attention during the cut scenes you won't know what's goin on.
  
  ?How does the order get hold of the sword sparta? Trish hands it over so she can infiltrate them. 
 
  
  My final grade as a hard core devil may cry fan is 8.5 it's almost as good as the third and comes 
 off as a great sequel.
  
  remember everything in moderation that includes gaming!
  
  :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Capcom has done some pretty amazing stuff in the past, but they top it all with Devil May 
 Cry 4.
  
  DMC4 is probably the best of the four games. It makes good use of the PS3/X360 hardware with its 
 amazing graphics, which is the biggest improvement from DMC3.
  
  The voice-acting is easily the best Capcom has to offer in a video game, which, for some of you 
 who have lots of experience with Capcom's games, might not be saying much. I'm sure everyone remembers 
 the infamous "LIIIIGHT!" scene from the original Devil May Cry, right? You'll be pleased to know 
 that there's no more of that nonsense here. Nero and Dante, while still very distinct from each 
 other in personality, have plenty of kick-ass lines to deliver, and they are delivered quite well. 
 As usual, Dante has his fun by mocking his opponents to an excessive degree, which often turns 
 out to be quite funny. Nero, on the other hand, gets his kicks out of verbally assaulting his enemies 
 with nasty language (nothing too nasty, mind you) . Both actors pull off their characters quite 
 well.
  
  The music and sound effects in DMC4 are good, but certain aspects could have been better. Nero's 
 fighting music is great, but the problem is that, unless you're fighting a boss the music is the 
 same every single time, and you start to wish for a little mix up. Dante is the same: his fight 
 track rocks, but it never changes. The background music, while hardly ever noticeable since you'll 
 be engrossed in your visually stunning battles 90% of the time, is good.
  
  Story-wise, DMC4 is awesome. The story will keep you completely engrossed from beginning to end, 
 and you will most likely enjoy every character that comes along. And, fans of the series will be 
 pleased to know that a bunch of your favorite characters will make an appearance, including a cameo 
 from one of our favorite villains that most people will not immediately recognize. I won't spoil 
 anything, since, if I and a collection of others are correct, the plot of the next DMC may hinge 
 on it.
  
  Okay, on to the gameplay. What can I say? It's amazing. The combat takes the fast-paced action 
 of DMC3 and streamlines it. Both Nero and Dante have an excellent selection of moves to choose 
 from, and they look great on-screen. When you switch from Nero to Dante, you won't find any repetition 
 in the combat styles. Each character feels distinctly different, especially with Dante's selection 
 of styles, and that's something that multiple-character games don't pull off frequently (DMC2, 
 for example) .
  Many have complained about the repetitiveness of this game, and of how you must fight certain bosses 
 up to three times. Honestly, I find that Capcom pulled this off quite well, and it doesn't feel 
 much like repetition. The second time you face off against the very, very cool bosses of DMC4, 
 you're playing as Dante instead of Nero, so the fights are, in a way, completely new and different. 
 Then, when you fight a select few bosses for a third time, you are back as Nero, and Capcom chose 
 only the best bosses for a third encounter. Also, you do indeed go through all the same environments 
 when you become Dante, but the levels are far, far from repeats. For one thing, you actually move 
 through them in the reverse direction, and your objectives are always different. The environments 
 are just so gorgeous to look at, so why wouldn't you want to traverse them multiple times?
  
  So that's DMC4 for you. It's a rock-solid action-adventure game that has plenty to offer fans 
 of the series and newcomers (although newbies should play DMC and DMC3 first for the story if nothing 
 else) . With four unlockable difficulties and a revamped Bloody Palace, you'll be enjoying this 
 game for a long, long time to come. (because the final difficulty, Hell or Hell, is quite literally 
 impossible to beat!!!)
  
  Happy slaying, all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omislash1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Fun to play and this game stays true to its form at all times. The graphics are stunning. The music 
 is very well done, you can tell this was a high dollar production. Starting out as Nero was a nice 
 change from the old DMC games, he offers alot of new moves and the Devil bringer is the greatest 
 weapon in a game since the BFG in Doom. When the switch comes back to playing as Dante there are 
 a few surprises and new weapons at his disposal as well. This game also offers a lot of cut scenes 
 that really get you into the story, as far as everyone saying it is kinda cheesy, "so what "have 
 you played the other 3 games in the series? The only boring aspect of the game is fighting the 
 same bosses three times each, if this game took 2 years to make then spend another year with the 
 character designers and writers. Hence the 8.5 score.
  
  There is a lot of replay value to this game as well, the harder difficulty modes offer a long life, 
 and adding achievements to the ps3 version is a definate plus. 
  
  Good= stays true to the DMC leagacy, created by mistake as a possible RE game.
  
  Bad= Repetitive 
 boss fights
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robinhoodlum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  I can be very short about the new adventures of Dante (and the new character Nero) . The makers 
 of this game did their best to give us a hell of an adventure, and they succeeded! What i find 
 a real shame is that the flaws in de earlier games are still there. Still bad camera action and 
 too much backtracking. I also wonder why they did so much effort to put a new character in the 
 game. I think everyone likes Dante and i think it could not been so hard to let Dante grow the 
 demonic arm in any other way. The moves are a bit repetitive and outdated. Also it is frustrating 
 to fight the same boss over and over again. I think they could have find a better balance in that. 
 It is not that i don't like this game and i am sure i will play it again someday, but they have 
 could done better.
  I hope they will make a part 5, with just Dante and some new moves and better camera action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anewperfectday
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  With stunning graphics and an excellent storyline, it brings back great memories and fulfillment 
 to the DMC series. With Nero possessing some sort of demonic power, you're called back to save 
 the world from demons once again but in a new style! Nero resembles the Sparda's family traits 
 as he aggressively enters battle to save the life of his loved one.
  
  As for Dante, he still remains badass as ever with arrogant personality and deadly demonic skills. 
 Nero's style of fighting becomes very addicting when you've master the EX gauge (timing the L2 
 trigger after each attack perfectly) and the enemies seem to crumble before your feet in no time! 
 Without giving thought of the L2 EX gauge, you might be enjoying DMC just as much.. but not as much 
 as I've enjoyed it. :)
  
  You're missing out if you consider the bad reviews because people wouldn't understand the beauty 
 of remaining a DMC fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adija
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The story of Devil May Cry 4 is set in and around the coastal town of Fortuna, which has an interesting 
 tale by itself: it's governed by a militant theocracy known as The Order of the Sword, and protected 
 by a group of Holy Knights. The people of the town worship the demon knight Sparda as a god and 
 savior. During a ceremony in honor of their deity, Nero, a young knight, sees Dante crash through 
 a window and slaughter the leader of the Order, as well as many of his friends. While he doesn't 
 know who Dante is or why he's attacking them, Nero wants revenge for Dante's actions. What follows 
 over the course of 20 missions is a quest of revenge and betrayal, as well as salvation and sacrifice, 
 as Nero hunts Dante down across the land.
  
  Apathetic and dismissive of authority, Nero is a younger, more angst-filled character than Dante's 
 older, wiser and more sarcastic outlook on the world. However, he's just as skilled as the Son 
 of Sparda, with a wide range of abilities to support him in combat. The first, and perhaps most 
 obvious element, is the Devil Bringer, his demonically-enhanced right arm that allows him to project 
 an energy arm ahead of him. This allows Nero to grasp distant objects, which he'll use to reach 
 new areas or scale heights, as well as grab, throw and punch opponents. While this can be used 
 to start or extend obvious combos, perhaps one of the most intriguing elements is that the arm 
 responds differently when used against each opponent in the game. For example, players will grip 
 and throw some creatures by their tails, while others may be pulled apart or even used as weapons 
 against their allies. This can be factored into players' plans when using Nero's primary attacks 
 in battle.
  
  Showdown at the Fortuna Corral. Nero has access to both projectile and melee strikes thanks to his 
 unique weaponry, the Blue Rose and the Red Queen. The Blue Rose is a double-barreled pistol that 
 allows Nero to fire powerful blasts at distant opponents. While slow to fire, the power of these 
 blasts is quite strong, and can eventually be charged-up to provide even more punch. His more devastating 
 attacks come in the form of the Red Queen, a motorcycle throttled, gas-infused sword that can be 
 revved-up to add additional strength behind each combo or blow inflicted on an enemy. This boosting 
 of the sword is known as the Exceed system, and allows Nero to charge the sword up three times, 
 turning the blade red hot with energy and lashing out with fiery blows. 
  
  The Exceed system is one that can take a little getting used to. Continually pulling the trigger 
 to rev the sword doesn't work nearly as well as slow, consistent pulls, which boosts the gears 
 of the blade more. It also drops Nero to a slow walk as he reaches behind him and revs the motor 
 of the Red Queen, which can be tricky to pull off consistently in the midst of battle, particularly 
 because it leaves you open to attacks. While you can work on your timing after an attack to instantly 
 charge up the blade, you won't always nail it, so the difficulty of this move is rather high. However, 
 there's another, more pressing issue with the Exceed system, which is that you don't need to use 
 it at all to quickly and efficiently eliminate the monsters within the game. Thanks to the strength 
 and power of Nero's various combat skills and combos, you're better off eliminating your opponents 
 with standard attacks than spending the time to charge up your blade. 
  What's more, Nero will eventually gain access to a Devil Trigger, which allows him to project the 
 demonic entity that inhabits his arm behind him. Not only will you regenerate lost health, you'll 
 significantly strengthen sword strikes and gunshots. While the duration of the devil trigger is 
 limited by the amount of magic power that you have available, the attacks that you can make are 
 much stronger than anything that the Exceed system can provide, which makes the optional battle 
 tactic somewhat useless by comparison. This is exacerbated when you realize that you can purchase 
 additional magic power and decrease the speed of the magic drain by purchasing enhancements.
  
  Just like other DMC titles, you'll be evaluated at the end of every single mission on how quickly 
 you complete the stage, the number of red orbs that you collect, and how stylishly you eliminated 
 demons in the game. Style, of course, is the most important of the three, since you'll continually 
 be evaluated in battle on the variety of your attacks. This ranges from D (for Deadly) to SSS (for 
 Smokin' Sick Style) , and are only mildly degraded if you rely upon the same strike or are hit in 
 the course of battle. These three classifications provide you with a final grade for that mission, 
 which translates into proud souls. These can be redeemed for new abilities and skills, just as 
 red orbs can be redeemed for new items at Divinity Statues.
  
  
  
  So what if I look emo? There are two cool aspects to this system. The first is that while you can 
 quit a mission at any time, you'll still receive a certain amount of orbs and proud souls for your 
 progress. Like previous DMC titles, orb farming is a key facet of the game, and you'll wind up 
 constantly trying to amass as much as possible to help you along your way. This could be either 
 through playing secret missions, or playing a stage over and over to just collect what you can. 
 The second feature is that you can always return any skill or ability that you don't use, receiving 
 a return on your investment towards something that you will want to use. Obviously, this encourages 
 a significant amount of replay of missions and levels to collect as many abilities and items as 
 possible, especially to make the game easier to fight through with either Nero or Dante.
  
  Yep, Dante eventually does make an appearance within the title as much more than a plot device. 
 He does take over as a playable character, and brings with him some of his considerable talents 
 from DMC3. Dante wouldn't be caught dead without Rebellion, his large sword, and Ebony and Ivory, 
 his twin pistols. Ebony and Ivory are much faster than Nero's Blue Rose, and lets you blast away 
 with quick bursts of gunfire at enemies, and they allow you to charge up their blasts for stronger 
 shots. For harder shots, Dante can use Coyote, his sawed-off shotgun to knock monsters down. However, 
 while these weapons are particularly strong in battle, it's their use within Dante's weapon styles 
 that helps define his combos and his battle abilities.
  
  This just ain't your fight, Dante. Dante retains his four styles from DMC3: Trickster, Royal Guard, 
 Sword Master and Gun Slinger. Unlike the previous title, you can choose to switch between styles 
 on the fly instead of having to select one at the start of a mission. For example, you can start 
 one combo in Sword Master, switch to Trickster and evade an attack, and finish off a monster with 
 Gun Slinger. This allows you to string together some stylish attacks, particularly if you get the 
 timing down on each style's moves. Dante also has access to his Devil Trigger as well, so you can 
 quickly eliminate monsters or bosses with a concentrated use of this spiritual energy.
  
  However, there are a couple of downsides that you'll find when it comes to Dante. The first is 
 that he doesn't have nearly the same kind of focus that he's had in previous games. His play time 
 isn't nearly as long as that of Nero's - it's more like 30% compared to Nero's 70%, which is somewhat 
 disappointing. (Before you ask, no, you can't take him through Nero's sections of the game.) This 
 disappointment extends to other characters, like Lady and Trish, who feel like more of an afterthought 
 than an addition to the game itself. What's more, the change almost feels abrupt; you'll be relatively 
 used to playing as Nero after a while, and suddenly find yourself switching over to Dante, which 
 will force you to readjust your tactics and moves. It doesn't hamper or wreck the gameplay by any 
 means (and I'm not saying that one of the characters is better than the other; I'm sure players 
 will quickly establish their own favorites) , but it is a significantly noticeable change in the 
 way that you approach battle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Devil May Cry game, and I must say it does not disappoint. The initial install 
 gives you a nice recap of the story so far, which I happened to not pay too much attention to. 
 For a hack n' slash game I wasn't expecting too much story, I am more into Role Playing Games in 
 that department, but I must say Devil May Cry's story keeps you immersed. Early reviews I heard 
 of this game that were that it was more of the same, Devil May Cry 3 with a new coat of paint. 
 Well having never played another Devil May Cry game I don't have anything to compare it to, but 
 for hard for Devil May Cry fans, this game won't disappoint. Game play is great, there are tons 
 of combos, tons to unlock, different fighting styles. It's very fun. And for the newcomers like 
 myself, the fighting is something fresh, easy to get into, but complicated as well, as there is 
 numerous different techniques and skills to master. As for that coat of paint, it's beautiful. 
 Easily one of the best looking games out. Crisp clean graphics, nice backgrounds, and colors stand 
 out beautifully. This game has the whole package.
  
  The kicker is in replay value. I am not one big on playing games over just to 'relive the experience' 
 and what not. But this game gives you reason to go back and replay levels, as points you earn can 
 be used to cash in on skill ups and abilities. And the way the replay system is implemented is 
 perfect. At any point you can go back and replay any mission, on either difficulty. A very nice 
 touch.
  
  Overall this game is amazing from top to bottom. The only thing keeping it from being a perfect 
 experience, is the fact that nothing is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Having been a fan of the series on PS2, I was really looking forward to the first PS3 installment 
 of the series - and having expected more of the same (albeit refined) I wasn't disappointed.
  
  The game does deliver a particularly surprising element in the form of the main character. 
 Instead of the ever-present anti-hero Dante, now the player follows the adventure of through the 
 eyes of Nero. Nero is a young, stubborn and smart-mouthed youth with a twist - he has a demonic 
 arm known as the Devil Bringer. This may put a few fans of the series off, but I assure you, Nero 
 is just as much fun to kill demons with as Dante was, and there's not too much reason to fret as 
 you do get to control the legendary demon hunter through some of the later stages of the game.
 
  
  Nero is a part of a religious group known as the Order of the Sword, which worships the legendary 
 Sparda. However, as the story unfolds, you will find out that this organisation isn't quite as 
 it appears to be.
  
  The graphics in DMC are cutting-edge and are some of the best you will come across on the PS3 as 
 of yet. The characters, demons and environments are all very well designed and compliment each 
 other tremendously. The boss characters stand out in particular and the cut-scenes are beautifully 
 polished. The only thing weighing the graphical side down is the lack of variety. You are forced 
 to replay your way through some maps several times and backtrack your way through entire environments 
 with Dante, having already played through them at least once with Nero.
  
  In the sound department, there is also a little drawback. Although the music is fairly fitting 
 to the situation - a metalesque soundtrack does go well with the action sequences, though it is 
 the same track for every time you run into a hoard of blood-thirsty demons, which can get repetitive 
 at times. It has to be said that the voice acting is pretty decent throughout, something that comes 
 as a surprise from Capcom (i. e. Resident Evil!) .
  
  On to the gameplay aspect of Devil May Cry 4... 
  
  First and foremost, the DMC series is known 
 for its fast-paced, adrenaline-surging, reflex-demanding, over-the-top, demon-slaying action. And 
 I'll be quick to note that DMC4 does not disappoint! Nero is a great addition to the series and 
 you will quickly come to appreciate his Devil Bringer abilities. The attacks and combos that are 
 possible with him are awesome to execute and some require solid-reflexes (although the Automatic 
 mode does make performing combos much easier) . The controls are a little difficult to master, but 
 after a few missions the player will feel right at home dragging demons around and smashing them 
 into each other and the floor.
  
  Dante controls slightly differently to Nero, and suddenly switching from Nero to Dante in the story 
 takes some getting used to, as I'm sure you will miss Nero's Devil Bringer at first as it will 
 have been the staple of your fighting style. Dante's abilities build on the style-switching from 
 DMC3, however, you are able to change styles on-the-fly using the D-pad. As you defeat bosses, 
 each character is given either a weapon or ability in order to aid them through the subsequent 
 missions. You will also come to appreciate the rather ridiculous Pandora's Box which Dante acquires 
 following one such boss fight.
  
  The plat-forming can become slightly annoying at times and some of the puzzles seem to take a bit 
 too long and you will crave for another demon-slashing fest when completing some of them.
  
  The difficulty is just right here, as the Human and Devil Hunter modes (which you begin the 
 game with) are both relatively easy in comparison to the frustratingly difficult DMC3, however, 
 further difficulty levels are unlockable, which means more replay value and also hardcore gamers 
 will be tested. Aside from more difficulty levels, there are secret missions to find and complete, 
 combos to unlock and hidden orbs to be found throughout the game to keep you coming back. And if 
 that isn't enough to keep you trying to better your previous mission score, your progress is posted 
 against all others online, so you can see how you compare to the world's best, and perhaps even 
 be up there with them yourself!
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is an awesome action game, and fans of the series will enjoy this latest addition. 
 The repetitive music and settings are simply small blemishes on what is a truly enjoyable video 
 gaming experience. I would advise all those you are into the action genre to at least give this 
 a try, it will be worth it (even if its just for the observably lesbian snow demons!) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolfatman1234
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 lets you use the new character Nero and his powerful Devil Bringer. This game is 
 really awesome and Dante is still a badass like always. This games takes place after Devil May 
 Cry 1 and before Devil MAy Cry 2. The game is what to be expected by Cap-com. The controlling and 
 the brand new Devil Bringer is totally a new feeling of combat. This is what we call a Superb game 
 and is at the moment my best playstation 3 game. Recommended for everyone with a PS3/Xbox360. You 
 will start playing as the new character Nero and later on the game you will play as Dante. Devil 
 May cry 4 features a new way to change styles for Dante. You can change styles with the D-Pad and 
 the difficulty is very hard on the highest mode of DMC4. Difficulty Ratings: 5/10 Overall
  
  Buy the game its totally AWESOME and worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_church
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This is My review for The New devil May Cry game. First I want to say I loved the game and it stays 
 true to the devil may cry style. At first you might think playing as Nero is a bummer because everyone 
 wants to play as the trash talking smart ass Dante, but Nero kind of grows on you. Somethings I 
 liked about this game was visually stunning, it was also easy to get right into it. The story is 
 well thought out and is easy to understand. Another thing I love is the fact that if you watch 
 the very beginning before the main title it get you soo pump to play the game. Some of the things 
 I didn't like was it's way too long, I could figure out how Nero gets the Demon arm, the upgrading 
 lack's alot, if you don't know what your doing for the secret missions you boned, switching from 
 Nero to Dante can be challanging, the bosses are so hard to beat and sometimes it nearly impossibe. 
 So In conclusion, it's not a go out and buy but if you enjoy the devil May cry series, you love 
 it, if you just getting into the games, I suggest going back to Devil May Cry and playing from 
 there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  After Devil May Cry 3, I wasn't sure I would be able to get back into the series. I loved the original 
 Devil May Cry, as it stood as one of my favorite action games for a few years, until the release 
 of the original God of War. DMC3 proved a bit too frustrating for me as a boss midway through the 
 game drove me crazy. So I didn't pay all that much attention when news of Devil May Cry 4 started 
 to come out. After awhile I did look into it, and downloaded the demo upon its release. I was very 
 impressed at how enjoyable the demo was. So much so that a purchase was likely. And I am very glad 
 I did purchase it as Devil May Cry 4 is a very good action game, not as challenging as DMC3, but 
 it is just as enjoyable.
  
  As far as Devil May Cry time line is concerned, DMC4 takes place after the events of the much maligned 
 DMC2. Yes Dante still is apart of the game, but DMC4 focuses much more on newcomer, Nero, who just 
 so happens to look a little like Dante. Nero is a member of the Order of the Sword, a religious 
 group that reveres the legendary Dark Knight, Sparda (yes Dante's father) , as their God. Things 
 pick up as Dante arrives during a ceremony and apparently murders the Order's leader. Nero steps 
 up to face Dante, unaware of who he is and why he's here. This is where Devil May Cry 4 begins, 
 with a showdown between Nero and Dante, which serves as the tutorial mission. Nero is then charged 
 by the Order's military leader, Credo, to hunt down Dante which is where all the action begins. 
 If you've played Devil May Cry before, you'll know what to expect, if you haven't, you'll run into 
 plenty of action, some light platforming and puzzle solving, and some epic boss fights. DMC4 doesn't 
 disappoint, as the action is as stylish as ever, and just as much fun.
  
  The basic controls as well as game play vary little in DMC4. As noted, Nero takes the spotlight 
 here, and he controls very similarly to Dante, with one exception. Nero has a demonic arm, capable 
 of picking up enemies and grabbing enemies from a distance. This adds an extra layer to Devil May 
 Cry's combat, as Nero also has the Sword + Gun combo that Dante sports. The default controls are 
 still the same, X jumps, [] shoots the gun, triangle swings the sword, R1 is the enemy lock-on, 
 L1 activates Devil Trigger and O is your special button, which for Nero uses his arm, called the 
 Devil Bringer. 
  
  Like in the previous DMC games, defeating enemies drops Red Orbs, your currency which allows you 
 to purchase healing items. Finishing missions provides you with Proud Souls, the other form of 
 currency in DMC4. Proud Souls are used to upgrade your weapons and abilities, like getting Air 
 Hike (double jump) , sword combos, a longer reach on Devil Bringer's grab, etc. What is really nice 
 is that the Proud Souls are 100% refundable if you happened to purchase an ability you never use. 
 Also nice, a little over halfway through the game, control switches over to Dante, at which point 
 all your proud souls are refunded for use for Dante, and whatever health and Devil Trigger upgrades 
 you've purchased. Dante controls exactly the same as in DMC3, the only exception being the four 
 styles return as switchable styles, still Swordmaster, Gunslinger, Royal Guard and Trickster, by 
 pushing a direction on the D-pad. O is then context sensitive based on which style he's using. 
 Once the switch occurs it is jarring, as you've gotten accustomed to using the Devil Bringer in 
 your combos, but Dante does offer more possibilities with the 4 styles, as well as more weaponry. 
 Nero uses the same sword and gun throughout, whereas Dante begins with his trusted Rebellion and 
 Ebony & Ivory, and acquires two new melee weapons as well as a new firearm.
  
  DMC4 plays out over 20 missions, with 13 for Nero and the other 7 for Dante. As I stated before, 
 the overall flow of the game will be familiar for those who've played DMC previously. Unfortunately, 
 even though repeat areas and bosses appear in the previous games, it is even more apparent here 
 as you'll fight through the same areas as both Nero & Dante, but you'll also fight the same bosses 
 as Nero & Dante, with the added bonus of fighting the same bosses a third time as Nero again. That 
 is a little too much repetition for a 10-12 hour game. Still, the areas are not that difficult 
 to navigate through so the frustration level there is low, and the bosses are fun to fight and 
 offer a reasonable challenge on the toughest initial difficulty level (Devil Hunter mode with Automatic 
 off) . The bosses you fight are just as epic as ever. The normal enemies you fight can be just as 
 annoying as ever. All in all though, the game play is still a blast and just as good as previous 
 DMC entries.
  
  Graphically everything looks really good. The character models look very nice, the enemies all 
 look distinct and nasty, and the bosses look fantastic. The areas you'll visit are also nice and 
 have the proper feel. The Devil May Cry series has always sported some nice visuals and DMC4 continues 
 that trend. On the audio side, the voice acting is fine as always. In combat you get the now standard 
 metal music, becoming the standard it seems. The audio side is still good and won't make you mute 
 the TV at all.
  
  Once you beaten it once, harder difficulty levels are unlocked, just as usual, and like in DMC3, 
 the Bloody Palace is also unlocked after finishing the game. I was able to finish DMC4 without 
 having to replay many missions, only a couple, for farming purposes. It is still challenging yes, 
 but its not nearly as difficult as DMC3. I found Nero to be a pleasant diversion from playing as 
 Dante, as I was not a big fan of the styles in DMC3, but once Dante became playable, I loved it, 
 and had a hard time using Nero again. The way styles work in DMC4 is better than in 3, in my opinion. 
 The only real complaints I have are with the repetitiveness, does become a bit much when you have 
 to fight the same bosses a third time, and the story doesn't explain why Nero has the Devil Bringer 
 and why he looks so much like Dante. Even still, its a fine story with some great moments and cut 
 scenes.
  
  Overall, Devil May Cry 4 is a very worthy addition to the Devil May Cry series. It may not be as 
 tough as its predecessor, DMC3, but it does sport all the terrific action the series is known for. 
 Two very good playable characters, lots of demon slaying, great boss fights, and a pretty good 
 story round out a worthy addition to the Devil May Cry series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I love the entire Devil May Cry series; Devil May Cry 3 showed a newfound heart within its gameplay 
 that wasn't quite present within the others. It not only was the funnest in the series gameplay 
 wise, mostly because of the added styles, but it easily had the most powerful story of the 3. Devil 
 May Cry 4 improves on pretty much everything in the series, bringing the incredibly fun combat 
 system to new heights, changes a few things that are commonplace in the others, adds a much more 
 captivating and alive story, and commits to a presentation that is nearly unmatched in gaming. 
 
  
  STORY === 9/10
  
  The story in this game isn't incredibly large, lengthy of in-depth, as is typical with many great 
 storylines, but still manages to capture something that all of the previous games in the series 
 fail too. It is a great story, executed in an even better fashion. 
  
  The game introduces a new main character, Nero. He resembles Dante in many ways; in fact, a newcomer 
 to the series may not even be able to tell the difference between Dante and Nero at first. Apart 
 from being visually similar, they both hold similar characteristics within their persona. Nero 
 has many of the things that we have come to love about Dante the most, primarily the arrogant-teenage 
 attitude which they both love to display. The story displays just the right amount of arrogance 
 in the face of danger, along with sarcasm and a touch of seriousness to really bring characters 
 in this fourth installment to life. 
  
  The story brings a much more powerful tale of love than has been told in any of the previous installments, 
 residing between Nero and Kyrie. You will see this love blossom and grow; though it might be somewhat 
 cliche, it is enjoyable because of the realism of the emotions that are displayed. You can almost 
 feel Nero's emotions thanks to the execution, voice-acting, and music. All together, the story 
 is excellently played out, and gives it a satisfying appeal that is typical of much longer, in-depth 
 storylines.
  
  GAMEPLAY === 10/10
  
  There is one word that describes Devil May Cry 4's gameplay - Unmatched. This is probably the funnest 
 game I have ever played. After replaying the first 3 Devil May Crys all within a few weeks of the 
 release, I must admit that I was fairly embarrassed by the failure I encountered at the beginning 
 of this game. It wasn't particularly difficult, it was just the adaption to Nero that slowed my 
 progress at first. 
  
  Nero comes fully loaded with his own sword, the Red Queen, as well as handguns and a sacred addition 
 to gameplay - the Devil Arm. You will find this an invaluable addition to tactics that you may 
 have become used to with Dante. The Devil Arm is a priceless piece of weaponry which allows you 
 to snatch enemies from afar as well as grasp them and give them a good beating. As if that weren't 
 enough, it will let you execute supercombos, which can often be very entertaining to watch, against 
 bosses throughout the game. Overall, it offers a good new variety to the good and old variety you've 
 played.
  
  The boss fights are the definite highlight of this game. Most of them will be extremely large, 
 even larger than you have become accustomed to throughout the series. They will all require strategy, 
 not hack'n'slash, but anyone that has played either 1 or 3 should catch on quickly. As has been 
 said in many other reviews, the main downside is that you will have to fight these awesome bosses 
 more than once, often several times... but don't fret, the repetition isn't as terrible as it may 
 seem, and differences within each encounter will help to quell the pain.
  
  About halfway through the game, you will temporarily take control of the fabled Dante, and trust 
 me - I had a blast with it. Unlike Devil May Cry 3, you can seemlessly switch between the four 
 styles Dante possesses, which will allow you to bring together incredible new combinations of attacks. 
 In addition, you will unlock some cool new weapons for Dante which help offer a new level of diversity 
 to combat.
  
  The gameplay in this game is simply astounding; even minutes after finishing the game, you will 
 feel the urge to start playing missions again, just to pull together awesome combos. The gameplay 
 in this game is not one that will disappoint, and should be enjoyed by any fans of action.
  
  PRESENTATION === 10/10
  
  This game is presented better than perhaps any other next-gen 
 game. The graphics are beautiful, and even somewhat of an art form. Enemies are highly detailed, 
 and awesome to look at. Environments are always pleasant to look at, and give a good feeling to 
 the gameplay. The cutscenes are more abundant and incredibly well done. The characters all seem 
 very alive, and have very distinct personalities. The visual presentation of cutscenes is near 
 flawless, and the voice-acting is superb. 
  
  Music greatly adds to the experience here too. Like previous installments, the typical metal music 
 will add further fun to the gameplay. It makes it all the more fun when you slice enemies to pieces. 
 There are also other well-done songs throughout the game. Several songs lean towards the more emotional 
 appeal, which the story is glad to reinforce. 
  
  As beautiful as the graphics and cutscenes are, there are barely any load times throughout the 
 entire game in the PS3 version; the ones that do exist are between 1 and 2 seconds. The graphics 
 are incredibly fluid and realistic, and never present any framerate problems or screen tearing. 
 Overall, there are few games that have such an unprecedented level of presentation, and Devil May 
 Cry 4 dominates in this appeal.
  
  REPLAY VALUE === 9.5/10
  
  DMC4 may not have online play, but you will WANT to replay the main game and missions for further 
 achievements. There are several difficulty levels for you to play through and master throughout 
 the game, each of which bring new levels of fun. There are achievements to unlock, as well as a 
 theater mode which allows you to re-watch cutscenes that you have unlocked throughout the game, 
 either individually, or in a continuous role, similar to a movie. 
  
  Devoid of online play, DMC4 DOES have online leaderboards which allow you to see how you compare 
 to the best in the world on each individual mission as well as overall. If you don't like competing 
 which Asian masters of the game, you can switch to be ranked just against your friends, and duke 
 it out to see which is better.
  
  DMC4 offers a lot of replay value for the buck, more than probably any other game out there that 
 doesn't have an online multiplayer mode, as well as many that do.
  
  TILT === 10/10 
  
  This is a series I have grown to love in a very short amount of time, and this latest installment 
 has proved even better to me than any of the previous ones. The trailer for this game alone completely 
 captivated me in every aspect possible - the gameplay looked amazing, bosses incredible, and it 
 introduced a story that was unforgettable. The game delivers in all of these aspects.
  
  STORY === 9/10
  GAMEPLAY === 10/10
  PRESENTATION === 10/10
  REPLAY VALUE === 10/10
  TILT 
 === 10/10
  
  BOTTOM LINE === 9.7/10
  
  DMC4 does a lot, but most importantly, it does everything right. It improves upon almost everything 
 we have come to love in the series. Though there are minor frustrations within it, such as certain 
 minigames that may get frustrating, the game pulls together an excellent combination of story, 
 gameplay, and beautiful art-worthy graphics to deliver an unforgettable experience that is simply 
 a blast to live through. This is a game that should not be missed, and easily one of the best next-gen 
 games that has been released thus far.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CIAF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Although DMC4 is not as good as Ninja Gaiden, it is still worth 60 dollars.
  The plot was quite well developed. There are so chessy lines like "if the kid screws up, i'll just 
 have to kick his ass" the voice acting is still A+. As for the stage variety, don't count on it, 
 by the time you get pass half of the game, you will have seen everything. Not that to say that 
 the environment is stale and repetitive. Although the environment get recycled, you wouldn't put 
 it to much thoughts, because the enemy always do something new. This draw the feeling of stage 
 repetition away. The main high light of the game is probably the gameplay (mainly fighting) . DMC 
 3 was famous for having cool looking fighting style and DMC 4 is no exception. It looks amazing 
 when you link up one combo after. All in All this game is probably one of the must buy for the 
 ps3.
  
  Story 10/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Sound 9.8/10
  Graphics 8.5/10
  Overall 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino_zero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry is unlike any other game out there ever since its first release and impacted the 
 life of extreme combat gaming. Devil May Cry; from the beginning, explains the story of a half-human, 
 half-devil hybrid man name Dante, and doing business by killing demons that he pledged to himself 
 after his mother was killed and twin brother was corrupted. Oh, and didn't I mention that his father 
 is a legendary dark knight named Sparda, a devil who turned on his own kind to save the human race 
 2000 years ago? Anyways, the main point of the game is to pursue what ever disturbance there is 
 in the human world and track down by killing countless demons in your way and solving brain-tickling 
 puzzles; in order to proceed further in the journey. In this case, Devil May Cry 4 offers the sleek 
 and stylish attack combos that can be obtain through collecting red orbs from killing demons to 
 increase your arsenal of sword-play and kick ass guns. However in this game, there tend's to be 
 a bit of repetition in the combos after a while; when trying to learn new combos and such. And 
 the puzzles tend to bring down the pace of the game, but are still just as fn as the previous titles. 
 And now for the visuals; Devil May Cry 4's visual are dramatically appealing for its next-gen capacity, 
 its beautiful, its realistic, its appealing. It is so realistic, its textures of the environment 
 is breath taking, making it look real, as well as its shades. Devil May Cry will definitely appeal 
 to all Devil May Cry fans and to all who are new. It may start to feel repetitive after a while 
 with the fighting, but sooner or later the techniques will be obtained to make the game less repetitive 
 and more moves to show off to your friends. 100% recommendation!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vergil_lives
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Game looks great; the controls are very responsive and it has an immersing story. I really do miss 
 the gothic feel that the original had to it but this is alot more light hearted and Dante is alot 
 less serious. ( If you have played the original you'll know why ) The new main character really 
 will grow on you if you have been a fan of Dante. He is much like Dante in DMC 3. The action is 
 flawless allowing you to pull of limitless combos. There are many ways to powerup your character 
 and unlockables so there is replay value. To be honest though even if the fighting wasn't so great 
 ( which it is ) I'd still enjoy playing through because of the interesting characters, beautiful 
 visuals and immersing story.
  
  geeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeee eee eeeee eeeeet thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis 
 gaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa ame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  So far i am pleased with DMC4, though I am sort of lost as I dont know the whole story, just the 
 outlined version from the hd install screens.
  
  
  So far I am on Chapter 4.
  
  The game is kind of hard to control at first, as you can only do one skill and the Grip move with 
 the demon hand, but I have managed some high combos (couple of atomics) . 
  
  I cant write a full revivew as I have not gotten through the game but i will base it on what I 
 have seen so far.
  
  Graphics are nice, sometimes its a little glitchy but nothing big.
  
  the controls are hard to get used to at first, i usually end up shooting when i want to attack 
 with the sword xD or using the claw when i wanna jump, so i still have to work on it a bit.
  
  the music is awesome (think GoW but more apocalyptic church like) . Though my tv kind of sucks 
 are much of the high octaves are scratchy.
  
  The mobs are just right in diffiuclty but the bosses are hard.
  
  Burial was slightly hard, 
 he almost had killed me till i saw the green orbs all over the ground (health orbs) .
  
  All in all, im am still etting used to the controls so the game is going to be interesting xD.
 
  
  going to be getting the first 3 to get the back story straight.
  
  So far DMC gets a 8.7/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legslikelinford
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I have waited since completing DMC3 for this game and it was definitely worth the wait. As a massive 
 fan of the series I was uncertain about the shift in limelight from Dante to Nero, but after getting 
 to grips with controlling Nero I was very fluent in my attacks. 
  The devil bringer arm is an excellent addition to the series allowing for a non-stop battery on 
 multiple opponents, although I would have liked to have seen more abilities with it, maybe as an 
 addition to the pre-set buster throws, there could have been additional button combo's much like 
 Dante's style attacks, but all in all the arm is a very welcome addition.
  As for Nero's sword the Red Queen the combo's look nice and gave me a sense of satisfaction when 
 I annihilate a particularly aggravating enemy with a barrage of attacks from the un-lockable combo's. 
 The exceed system is a great way of powering up attacks, allowing you to deal out even more pain 
 and torment, with the ability to fill the exceed meter by tapping L2 during an attack, you to keep 
 the meter full the whole time your attacking, this does take some getting used to but once you 
 have mastered it it's easily done.
  The blue rose is Nero's double barrelled pistol capable of firing two shots almost simultaneously 
 while lacking in rate of fire when compared to Dante's ebony and ivory it makes up for it with 
 more punch. Not a weapon I used much but that's probably because I prefer the up close and personal 
 approach.
  Dante does make an appearance as a controllable character at mission 13 through to mission 19 I 
 think, and my personal opinion is that this wasn't long enough the weapons you start with are the 
 rebellion sword and ebony and ivory as per usual but this time you start with the shotgun as well 
 whereas previously you had to collect it. Controlling Dante feels much the same as the previous 
 titles but with a slight change in some button combo's. The major change in Dante's controls are 
 the ability to change fighting style as you please by pressing a directional button this can even 
 be done mid-combo which can make for some interesting attacks and combo's especially when coupled 
 with a change in weapon (once found) .
  As for Dante's new weapons I didn't get on with them much and I still prefer rebellion and E+I 
 over the additional weapons but that's not to say they are bad weapons or bad ideas, it's just 
 probably down to how I prefer playing the game. 
  The levelling up system has been changed this time round and instead of using red orbs for everything 
 now they are limited purely for the purchase of items. As for levelling up skills, now you need 
 to collect proud souls which are awarded at mission complete screens the number of proud souls 
 awarded are affected by your progress through the game and your mission rank. This is also an idea 
 I prefer over the previous titles as I believe it makes acquiring skills and items easier.
  During game play i noticed that no longer does the use of vitality stars or devil stars detrimental 
 to your rank although they stop you from getting a no item bonus but they don't count against like 
 the gold orbs or continues.
  I did notice on a couple of occasions some frame rate issues on one occasion i burst a large number 
 of breakables in one go resulting in lots of orbs on screen and as they appeared the frame rate 
 slowed down.
  
  All in all this game was and is very much worth the time and money I've put into it. I recommend 
 it to newbies and veterans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  So, there is a new Devil May Cry out. It introduces a new character and forces you to play as him 
 for the majority of the game, this kind of tactic would make most fans of the series want to avoid 
 the title altogether. Those fans should be kicked in the face. This is perhaps the best action 
 game (in terms of in-game combat) that I have played in this console generation. The new character, 
 Nero, is actually a solid character that compliments Dante very well, and while his style may not 
 seem as deep as Dante's (due to the lack of being able to switch between various styles of combat 
 and weapons) I would say it feels just as rewarding and he feels like a stronger character.
  
  Let's get down to business here, though:
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  
  The visuals are great, 
 the animations are smooth, the enemies are rag-dolls. Everything about the action in the game is 
 phenomenal and the cut scene directors really need to transfer their talent to Hollywood action 
 movies. The only beef I have with the visual presentation is the fact that the camera angle can 
 screw you over in combat from time to time.
  
  Controls (10/10)
  
  Controls like a dream. From a technical stand-point, I have no complaints with the controls of 
 this game. From a gamer standpoint, the controls feel natural and intuitive. Nothing negative here 
 at all, in my opinion.
  
  Presentation (10/10)
  
  The sound, the cinematography in the cut scenes, and the horribly cheesy dialog are all here again 
 and it all works for the game as well. If you never played a DMC game before, be prepared to be 
 picking you jaw up off the floor with the massive amount of awesome that permeates from this game. 
 Veterans from the series can rest assured that the game packs the same punch as its predecessors.
 
  
  Overall (9.5/10)
  
  The gameplay, control, graphics, and fun factor of this game is phenomenal. if you didn't backtrack 
 through half of the game and the camera angle didn't screw you at some points, I would have given 
 it a 10. Also, if you have never played a Devil May Cry game, this one will hand you head to you 
 on a plate with its difficulty. If you beat the original DMC 3 (not the special edition version) 
 then you will have very little trouble smashing around the bad guys in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadeoffunk7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  The renowned though inconsistent Devil May Cry series has witnessed a considerable evolution in 
 action games since its inception seven years ago. Back then, in the relatively early days of the 
 PS2, the run-around-and-kill-everything formula was enough for gamers provided the graphics were 
 decent. Now, with the latest generation of gaming platforms allowing for so much more complexity, 
 gamers have begun to demand more. A game like Heavenly Sword, for example, would have amazed action 
 fans had it been released two years earlier; for its time, it was too short and too simplistic, 
 in spite of having three weapon modes, two playable characters, marvelous voice acting, and gorgeous 
 graphics.
  
  Devil May Cry has also had to evolve. With the 2003 follow-up, DMC2, the series floundered, as 
 the short and simplistic design failed to add anything interesting. Learning from this, Capcom 
 upped the ante with 2005's DMC3, which added more cut scenes, more weapons, more fighting styles, 
 and increased difficulty. Dante was back and better than ever, and so for good reason, fans have 
 waited anxiously for PS3 and Xbox 360's take on the devil hunter.
  
  I dare say most of those fans will not be disappointed. If it's fast-paced stylish action you're 
 looking for, DMC4 serves it up in droves. The battle system and fighting styles for both main characters 
 offer enough variety to give the game serious replay value. Aside from the two significant flaws 
 of gratuitous back-tracking and a less than amazing story, the game is nearly flawless.
  
  Gameplay
  
  In a word; marvelous. This is, for my money, the most fun game in the series and 
 the most satisfying. With a whopping six difficulty levels, it can hardly be argued that the game 
 is too easy or too hard. With over 20 missions, many taking upwards of twenty minutes to complete, 
 the game is hardly short by action genre standards either.
  
  Most importantly, it's just damn fun to play. Nero, the new protagonist on the block, boasts some 
 sick swordplay skills and the all new devil bringer which makes the game feel a bit too easy at 
 first. With the ability to snatch enemies from a distance, carry and throw them around like ragdolls, 
 and even perform cinematic 30%-life-gauge-depleting special moves on bosses, you'll enjoy Nero's 
 devilish right arm. As in the other games, you will have the ability to use a form of currency 
 to buy new combos and abilities for your gun (s) , sword, and the devil bringer. Even better, skills 
 that prove useless or don't fit a situation can be refunded and the currency used for different 
 skills. As stages can be played over and over again at varying difficulty levels, it is possible 
 to power-up your character without waiting until the end to see the truly awesome skills. Add to 
 this, the return of the devil trigger and the all new Exceed system, which allows players to charge 
 up sword attacks to create new combos, and you have more than enough options to keep your style 
 gauge overflowing.
  
  Dante is back as well, with all four styles from DMC3, only now, he can switch in the middle of 
 battle or mid-combo even. Ebony and Ivory and Rebellion are back with some new tricks and a few 
 new weapons. All together, Dante isn't as diverse as in DMC3, though he is certainly more complex 
 thanks to his ability to use all four styles. Dante's controls may seem a bit clunky at first, 
 but with practice, I actually found his stages to be much easier than Nero's. While some have criticized 
 DMC4 for not having enough Dante, I think this is unfair as it ignores the awesomeness of Nero. 
 After four installments, I think it is fair game for a series to try a new protagonist. There is 
 enough Dante here to keep fans of the older games happy, and Nero is actually a pretty cool character. 
 People didn't complain when Solid Snake wasn't in Metal Gear Solid 3 (though some did complain 
 about his absence in MGS2, but that was more because Raiden was about twenty notches below Solid 
 Snake on the badass scale)
  
  As I said, the difficulty may seem way too easy at first for those who conquered DMC3. Rest assured 
 that by the time you hit Dante Must Die or the Heaven or Hell difficulties, even hardcore fans 
 will be sweating. The first three weren't too hard for me, but the three "elite" difficulty levels 
 are a treat for those seeking bragging rights. Like Ninja Gaiden, the highest difficulty levels 
 are so absurdly frustrating that I would be honored to just watch someone complete it.
  
  My one gripe, which I share with many other reviewers, is the lack of new stages for Dante. The 
 game requires way too much backtracking, which gives Dante's entire section a tacked-on feeling. 
 The environments are gorgeous, but there just aren't enough compared to the PS2 games, even. This 
 problem is related to the general writing and story shortcomings.
  Story
  
  One of the game's weakest elements is its plot, and it influences the backtracking problem. The 
 game begins with some amazing cinematic scenes introducing Nero, Kyrie (Nero's love interest) , 
 and Dante. After Dante murders Sanctus, the head of a religious organization simply referred to 
 as "The Order," Nero is sent to get revenge. The first twelve stages or so proceed swimmingly, 
 with Nero tracking Dante and the Order's diabolical plans gradually unfolding. It's the switch 
 to Dante that highlights the weaknesses in the story.
  
  First of all, the characters are not very well developed. Nero's love for Kyrie is unconvincing, 
 Kyrie herself is one-dimensional (her brother is murdered and she never even acknowledges it) , 
 and much of the plot seems improvised. Even by action game standards, it's pretty shallow stuff. 
 There are times when you wish the writers had stopped worrying about making the characters look 
 cool and had instead worried about making them say something of consequence.
  
  Whatever the heck is going on, by the time you play as Dante, the game has nothing to offer except 
 five missions of the exact same stages Nero went through with, even more shamefully, the exact 
 same bosses. Why exactly you are fighting them again is not totally clear, though it isn't the 
 last you'll see of them; during Nero's final mission, you'll have the chance to fight them all 
 yet again. It's not exactly painful because the boss fights are a lot of fun, particularly on higher 
 difficulty levels. It's just not terribly original.
  
  Graphics
  
  DMC4 is a fine-looking game. The environments are detailed and well-designed, the characters have 
 are beautifully drawn, and the atmospheric and lighting effects are stunning. Whether you are dashing 
 through a snowy mountain, a tropical jungle, or a castle courtyard, everything is sharp and authentic 
 and significantly improved from DMC3. The in-game engine and cut scenes look almost identical, 
 though the latter are definitely polished a bit. Regardless, DMC4 continues the playstation's three-system 
 long evolution of making games look increasingly cinematic. Back in the days of FFVII, the FMV's 
 were the eye-candy while the standard character models were little more than polygon arrangements 
 with distinct colors. The eye candy in DMC4 are the fights, particularly against bosses. You'll 
 wish there were more of them because they just look amazing. This game shows that the PS3 is finally 
 coming into its own as the true next-generation gaming machine.
  
  Sound
  
  I wasn't as impressed with the music as I wanted to be. Fight music sounds exactly the same as 
 DMC3, and there are only a couple of good original songs. The opening theme is fantastic, and much 
 of the creepy atmospheric religious background music works well. The voice acting is also spot-on, 
 with some great dialogue writing. Nero gives Dante a run for his money when it comes to egging 
 on bad guys. Much of the audio is straight from the earlier games with some minor changes. The 
 physical sound effects are all excellent. I just wish they had put more into the music.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Devil May Cry 4 could have been a grand slam, but instead it's a solid double 
 with two RBI's. The two points come from the generally excellent graphics and sound and the near 
 flawless gameplay. The misses are the weak story and repetitiveness. Delaying the game another 
 six months or year even to make new environments and bosses for Dante would have really been worth 
 it. Had Capcom taken the time, they would have had a near system-seller given how much fun the 
 game is in spite of the problems. Overall, it's an improvement over DMC3, but it lacks some of 
 that chapter's drama and charm, and it isn't Nero's fault; I'd actually like to see him come back 
 for the next installment. Hopefully, DMC5 will offer more substance in terms of plot and variety 
 of bosses. For now, DMC4 will more than satisfy fans of the series and is great addition for any 
 action gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suthisak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I have played this excellent edition to the Devil May Cry series, a splendid game that those who 
 are good at games would enjoy. Many speculate that the combat and overall game play is boring, 
 this is entirely false. Those who make this ridiculous claim are obviously sorry gamers who wouldnt 
 know the meaning of the word COMBO if it was the tutorial, and by the way a combo is not wildly 
 swinging your sword by pressing one button all day. for those who are in fact good at games, or 
 at least at this one, use a variety of combos and find the game rather exhilarating and fun. And 
 for those who believe the game is boring attempt the secret missions for a little more excitement, 
 and beating the game once on easy or normal does not entitle one to judge this game. I would recommend 
 this game to skilled gamers and not mashers who believe they can get the full experience by just 
 jamming their finger onto one button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Originally developed as Resident Evil 4, Devil May Cry exploded onto the scene in 2001 brandishing 
 a giant flash filled syringe which it proceeded to jam into the unsuspecting action game genre. 
 Devil May Cry was a hack and slash game overflowing with style and substance; it was a game with 
 so much impact that it resulted in countless pretenders springing up in an attempt to emulate what 
 it had achieved, while some gained just as much notoriety the majority found their way the local 
 video game bargain in no time.
  
  Capcom continued the series by taking 'style' too literally in the underwhelming Devil May Cry 
 2 and followed this up with the stellar but infuriatingly difficult Devil May Cry 3.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is the first in the series to appear on the current generation of consoles but 
 does it make the leap into the next-generation guns-a-blazing or does it trip on its leather coattails 
 and fall flat on its face?
  
  There has clearly been an effort to make the story interesting in Devil May Cry 4 and it pays off 
 despite the fact that it ultimately takes a back seat to the gameplay. While the story isn't pushing 
 narrative in games forward it does remain interesting enough to keep your thumb from hammering 
 the skip button every time a cut-scene starts, but then again that may be down to the breathtaking 
 choreography and the occasional appearance of a sexually charged femme fatal.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 takes a risk from the outset by benching the series' charismatic demon slayer Dante 
 in favor of Nero, now while this may seem like a bad idea it doesn't have much of an impact on 
 the game since you are given control of Dante for a number of missions towards the end of the game, 
 that and the fact that they are essentially the same person both in terms of their looks and their 
 personality. Nero is blessed with the smart mouth and corny one-liners that Dante incessantly puts 
 to use in the series.
  
  The story is simple; Nero is part of the Order of the Sword, a religious group who worship Sparda, 
 the demonic father of Dante. Halfway through a heartfelt religious sermon Dante crashes through 
 the ceiling and impales 'his holiness' on the sharp end of his blade. Nero is sent off to bring 
 down Dante but things start getting complicated when Nero's girlfriend is kidnapped for the Orders 
 nefarious purposes.
  
  Although DMC4 is far more serious in tone than its predecessors it retains the crazy sense of humor 
 found in all of the previous games. DMC4 is over-flowing with personality, this is usually felt 
 through the eccentric supporting characters, be it the incredibly risqu Gloria and her open policy 
 on clothing, the mad scientist Agnus and his cinderblock of a chin or the lesbian fairies (seriously, 
 you can't make this stuff up) , needless to say that there is never a dull moment.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is developed by Capcom so it won't come as a surprise to hear that it's one of 
 the prettiest next-generation titles on the market. Throughout the course of the game you'll trek 
 through a variety of different environments ranging from rustic cathedrals and sinister metallic 
 underground labs to beautifully lush forests. The great textures and beautiful lighting help create 
 environments bursting with life and personality. Unfortunately the visuals are let down by the 
 horrible shadows, many of the environments contain moving light sources such as flickering candles 
 or swaying chandeliers, this means that the shadows cast are usually in motion which transforms 
 them into jagged eyesores which are impossible to escape, indoor environments are filled with tables, 
 chairs, lamps and an array of other furnishings, outdoor environments have dynamic architecture 
 and an abundance of trees and other foliage, all of which cast these hideous shadows.
  
  The character models on the other hand bear no such faults, every character and enemy is extremely 
 detailed, some disturbingly so. It's a joy to see the gothic aesthetic of Devil May Cry in gloriously 
 high-resolution.
  
  Along with the detailed models the bosses in DMC4 are given a huge sense of scale, Nero and Dante 
 are often pit against foes that make them look like very tiny fish in a barrel. The grandeur of 
 these minions of hell is sullied by the repeat performances they are forced to endure, you'll fight 
 most of the bosses at least twice, they just aren't as breathtaking after you've already handed 
 their asses to them multiple times.
  
  One of the lesser talked about features of the Devil May Cry series is the great sound, sound effects 
 aside the series has some strangely atmospheric music, the gothic rock soundtrack from DMC3 returns 
 alongside some welcome remixes of tracks featured in DMC1. By and large the music is great to listen 
 to, with the exception of the track that plays during Nero's battles, after a certain point the 
 vocals become mind numbingly annoying so it's a welcome change when Dante's DMC1 remixes kick in.
 
  
  The previous Devil May Cry games suffered from a severe case of 'more of the same' and DMC4 is 
 no different, if you've ever played any of the previous games you'll feel right at home, unfortunately 
 even the linearity rears its ugly head once again.
  
  There are two major changes to the gameplay both of which are courtesy of Nero's Devil arm, this 
 demonic arm has the ability to reach out and grab enemies from afar which provides a simple and 
 approachable way to link combo's, with a few well timed presses of a button even casual players 
 will be able to chain combo's together like a pro.
  
  The second gameplay change is Nero's ability to rev his sword like a motorcycle, while not as significant 
 as the Devil arm it does provide the opportunity for dedicated players to take combat deeper, rev 
 your sword at just the right time and you could change a run-of-the-mill sword swipe in to a devastating 
 fuel-injected slash. Other than this the immensely deep combat gameplay remains fully intact.
 
  
  About half-way through the game you are given control of Dante, series vets will feel right at 
 home with him, even more so since his different styles are mapped to the D-pad allowing you to 
 switch between them on the fly, although it is possible to pull of crazy combo's using his various 
 styles it isn't nearly as easy as with Nero, this is probably something the hardcore DMC players 
 will invest some time in.
  
  Dante packs some serious power, so much so that playing through the same areas and bosses is a 
 breeze, it's unfortunate that he's buried so deep in the game, it does however give the game replayability.
 
  
  Dante has one of the greatest weapons in video game history, a briefcase called 'Pandora', this 
 briefcase has the ability to change into a variety of totally over the top weapons, with a few 
 inputs it can be transformed from a mini-gun to a rocket launcher and if you stick with it, eventually 
 an insane flying rocket shipthing, it has to be seen to be appreciated.
  
  The combat areas are separated by some platforming and the occasional puzzle, the puzzle elements 
 and platforming usually take advantage of Nero's arm, the grab ability is used to swing from point 
 to point, while this might stir some feelings of Capcom nostalgia it isn't nearly as fun as it 
 sounds, Nero doesn't actually swing from one point to another, it's more a guided leap from point 
 A to point B.
  
  The biggest problem this game faces is the same problem that every other game in the series has 
 faced; the stubborn camera angles.
  
  Capcom seems to be a fan of the fixed camera and while it does create some dramatic angles it usually 
 ends up making platforming frustrating and combat unnecessarily difficult.
  
  Don't be surprised if you find yourself battling enemies behind some protruding architecture with 
 the camera making no effort to give you a better view.
  
  The camera also sucks what little fun the platforming has left in it right out, during Nero's swinging 
 areas the camera has trouble keeping up with the movement of the character, this means that you 
 can't target the next grappling point and instead Nero will end up latching back onto a previous 
 grappling point and throwing you right to the bottom again. While the archaic camera does detract 
 from the overall experience it isn't to a large degree.
  
  Overall Devil May Cry's transition to the newer generation of console is an undeniable success. 
 The most surprising aspect of Devil May Cry 4 is the fact that Nero is just as much fun to play 
 as Dante, ditching the star of the show in favor of a new character usually goes wrong but In this 
 case Capcom have pulled it off. The high production values, great storyline and an array of eccentric 
 characters make for the best action game experience yet.
  While it does have some minor flaws these are more than made up for by the stylish and extremely 
 deep combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  The first teaser trailer was shown at E 2005, depicting Dante traveling through a snow-covered 
 environment, and quickly performing some fast, stylish moves. A more substantial trailer was released 
 at that year's Tokyo Game Show, with a more rugged and older Dante in a city-like setting. These 
 two teasers showed very little detail of the game itself. At the 2006 Tokyo Game Show, a more complete 
 trailer debuted, along with a playable demo, featuring the character Nero.
  
  Images from the March 2007 issue of Famitsu showed Dante as a playable character. A short trailer 
 was released later, displaying the character in gameplay. While Nero is the game's main character, 
 Dante is the supporting character, playable for around the second half of the game, until the final 
 boss. [9] A trailer shown at the 2007 Tokyo Game Show revealed the return of Lady and Trish. [10]
 
  
  A fourth trailer, released on December 17, 2007, revealed more gameplay and story detail, as well 
 as information on new songs for the game, one of which is a new version of "Lock and Load", Dante's 
 theme music from the first Devil May Cry, with new lyrics written and performed by Shawn "Shootie 
 HG" McPherson, the lyricist and lead vocalist on the soundtrack of Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening. 
 Released with the Japanese version of the game and special edition of the North American version 
 is Japanese rock band, L'Arc-en-Ciel, and their new single, "Drink It Down", which is used as the 
 Japanese opening for the game. [11]
  
  A collector's edition of the game will be released at the same time. The American version will 
 include a DVD of four episodes of the American dub of the anime amongst other extras, whilst the 
 European version only includes a signed artbook named "Art of the Devil". [12] [13] [14]
  
  
  Playable characters
  
  Nero, the new main protagonist, and Kyrie look on as Dante makes 
 his entry. On September 6, 2006, Japanese video game magazine Famitsu reported that series star 
 Dante will not be the protagonist in Devil May Cry 4. Instead, a new character named Nero, voiced 
 and motion captured by Johnny Yong Bosch, will take the lead. [11] Nero resembles both Dante and 
 his twin brother, Vergil, and is part of the Order of the Sword, a group of warriors who worship 
 Sparda. [15]
  
  Nero's attire consists of blue jeans, a long blue coat, and a red vest with a hood. He wields a 
 revolver named Blue Rose, which has a distinctive under-and-over double barrel, and a decorated 
 single-edged sword called the Red Queen. Nero views Dante as the antagonist, after witnessing the 
 devil hunter murdering members of the Order. [1] Gameplay videos and screens reveal Dante to be 
 a boss enemy in the game. [16]
  
  Nero's right arm seems to resemble a demon's and glows supernaturally, and is the source of his 
 "Devil Bringer" power. He apparently was not born with his arm in this state, and hears voices 
 demanding "more power". Nero also has his own "Devil Trigger" transformation, which consists of 
 a demonic spirit hovering above him. [17] Capcom promotional videos have revealed that the spirit 
 will mimic Nero's actions and that the Devil Bringer moves will change if the Devil Trigger is 
 active while they are used. [18]
  
  Dante, the primary character in the franchise, will also be playable and will have updated versions 
 of the core animations used in Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening, as well as that game's four 
 basic fighting styles of Trickster, Royal Guard, Gunslinger and Swordmaster, which can be switched 
 at will. [19] Game Informer reported that he will not just be an unlockable, but will be playable, 
 as part of the storyline. [20] Capcom promotional videos have revealed that, like Nero and the first 
 Devil May Cry, the properties of his moves will change if the Devil Trigger is activated. [21] Out 
 of the 20 missions available, Dante is playable for 7 of them. Returning weapons in his arsenal 
 include the Rebellion sword, the Ebony and Ivory handguns, and the shotgun, but he will be able 
 to acquire new Devil Arms with the defeat of bosses.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Dante performing one of his signature moves, the Stinger attackGameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is similar 
 to previous games in the series. The player must fight through levels called "missions", occasionally 
 solving puzzles or gathering items. Performance in a mission is graded from D being the bottom 
 grade with C, B, A, and S and SS being the highest grades. Grades are based on damage taken, items 
 used, Red Orbs gathered, time taken, and the amount of "Style Points" accumulated.
  
  Stylish combat is the focus of the game which is done through unbroken combos of varied attacks 
 while avoiding damage. The gauge at first is empty, with Deadly being shown after a minimal amount 
 of attacks with Smokin' Sick Style being the highest. The player must avoid attacks enemies employ 
 to keep the the gauge up, often through memorizing attack patterns.
  
  Devil Trigger, a super-state, enables the player to become more powerful with slow health regeneration. 
 Devil Trigger is activated through the Devil Trigger gauge filling from the players either receiving 
 or dealing damage during combat or through certain items. After a minimum amount is filled, the 
 player may enter Devil Trigger at any time. Devil Trigger is first available after Mission 6.
 
  
  Some changes introduced into Devil May Cry 4 are the presence of two playable characters, Dante 
 and Nero and a slight modification to the shop system. A new currency called Proud Souls is now 
 implemented which are used to buy new abilities while Red Souls are used to buy items. Proud Souls 
 are rewarded at the end of missions, the amount of which varies depending on how well the player 
 performs with S and SS ranks providing the highest amount of Proud Souls. Costs of abilities also 
 increase with the purchase of other abilities, though they may be sold back if the player so desires.
 
  
  Nero is played through the most of the game. He starts and ends the game with his Red Queen Sword, 
 Blue Rose revolver, and the powers of his Devil Bringer. The Red Queen features a Rev Gauge that 
 fills as the player presses the shoulder button. Subsequent attacks are then more powerful than 
 regular slashes. A second type of rev, Instant Rev, can also be implemented through pressing the 
 rev button during combos or other moves with exact timing. Nero also has the powers of his Devil 
 Bringer, using it to pull himself towards enemies or vice-versa. Context-sensitive throws may also 
 be implemented, leading to high damage and various effects depending on the enemy. Nero also powers 
 up the Devil Bringer throughout the game, such as being able to detect secret missions or caches 
 of Red Orbs. Nero gains the ability to use Devil Trigger, which also increases his Devil Bringer's 
 power, even changing his throws into more powerful versions with different animations.
  
  Dante is played through seven missions, taking over about half-way through the game. His gameplay 
 is very similar to Devil May Cry 3, with him having access to multiple melee and ranged weapons 
 which he gains after boss battles and being able to cycle through them in combat, though he is 
 not limited to two of each. Dante also starts with his four styles (Trickster, Royal Guard, Sword 
 Master, Gunslinger) , though he may switch them at will with the d-pad. He gains Dark Slayer near 
 the end of his section, which requires a double-tap in any direction on the d-pad. Styles do not 
 level up through experience as in the previous game, but must instead be upgraded in the shop screen 
 in between missions or at statues. Dante can also enter Devil Trigger, though his does not change 
 his attacks to the degree that Nero's does.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeslyLikesMetal
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is NOT a crappy game. In fact, I would have to say its more like an enhanced version 
 of Devil May Cry 3 - and that's not necessarily a bad thing. As much as I would like to say it 
 meets the standards of the almighty first game, it doesn't quite make it. Sure, it has the jaw 
 - dropping visuals, and some nice slice n dice sound fx to match. It's also as in-depth as the 
 3rd game was, with the option to pretty much customise the way you fight (as Nero and Dante) . I 
 also, however, suffered ALOT of repetition, and it different ways.
  
  Firstly, the back-tracking. Some might say this is better than the usual linear experience the 
 DMC series has put on, but I would disagree. There was nothing more annoying than finding a key 
 item or finishing a boss, only to find that you have to travel back the way you came. Mind you, 
 although the game does implement a map system, it's not very helpful. A goal marker would have 
 been nice. I know first hand the DMC series is all about action, not exploration. 
  
  Secondly, the enemies. A bit of variety would have been nice. Even when you play as Dante in the 
 second half of the game, you still fight the same waves of enemies, not to mention the Bosses.
 
  
  Last but not least, the soundtrack. While some might not regard this as a big issue, I did find 
 it incredibly annoying how the SAME TERRIBLE TUNE would play during fights while playing as Nero. 
 I seriously had to turn the BGM volume down, I couldnt take it anymore.
  
  Some minor bugs aside, this is still an awesome action game. I would recommend it for fans of the 
 series. Those that are new to Devil May Cry, I would recommend waiting for Ninja Gaiden 2 to come 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmannaseer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  The Devil May Cry series has been known for its' over the top, stylish guns, hack and slash game 
 play and the latest in the series is no different. In devil may cry 4 the gamers have been introduced 
 to a new character (Nero) . This was a risky move by the developers as the fans of the series were 
 skeptical of not having Dante in the lead role. Even though Nero was a great introduction to the 
 series, he could not replace Dante for future devil may cry games. Nero has some cool abilities 
 and my favorite was the Devil bringer. Nero has a demon arm that grants him demonic powers to raise 
 hell on the demons of the dark world. Nero is not much different from Dante, he too is half human 
 half demon, and they both even look almost the same except the age difference, Dante being the 
 older one. The game has a decent story line that keeps you involved with some great voice acting. 
 But the story leaves the gamers inquisitive about how Nero got that demon arm. The game play is 
 as cool as always, you see some new weapons and abilities for both the characters. Nero has his 
 demon arm which allows you to grab the demons and raise havoc on them and you can also use this 
 arm to bring demons to you or getting you closer to demons which are bigger in size. Nero can also 
 charge his sword, the sword charges up to three bars and in addition you can also increase the 
 levels for more damage. Dante on the other hand has been given some sleek new weapons which you 
 haven't seen in any other game but I will not spoil the funs for you, I recommend you play the 
 game and find it out on your own and trust me you won't be disappointed. The graphic are great 
 too but considering the power of the next Gen consoles they could have been much better, the levels 
 of the game are relatively small and the developers have not really made full use of the background 
 environment. Devil may cry 4 is a great game and is hell fun to play from the start to the end. 
 But the problem is that it does not stand out as some of the other next Gen games available. The 
 developers of the games in future should find innovative ways to redesign this series while keeping 
 the concept stylish game play in mind. Developers in Capcom did it with resident evil 4 which is 
 the best in the resident evil series. The same way the developers should get back to the concept 
 board for devil may cry 5. But for all the gamers, devil may cry 4 is still a great game and a 
 must have on all the consoles it is available on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomnia37
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first DMC game I have played and I have to say I see why it is popular!
  
  The gameplay is very fun and addictive. Playing this game reminds me back in the day when I would 
 play a fun/addictive for hours none stop to the point my hands hurts and an inprint of the controller 
 was left on my hand.
  
  Visually the game looks great but the camera seemed outdated considering it was mostly fixed angels. 
 But this wasn't a big problem since most fights took place in open areas where you could reset 
 the camera behind you.
  
  Additional to the gameplay was buying new skills, you could also refund your proud souls to buy 
 other skills.
  
  As fun as DMC4 was there were some things that got in the way. I understand that the devs didn't 
 want to make this game way to repetitive so they added some puzzles. IMO I loved the fighting so 
 much I would not mind doing that from beginning to end! But the puzzles weren't too bad.
  
  With regards with the puzzles there were also some really annoying parts of the game such as the 
 laser dodging part as well as the forest part where if you went the wrong way you would end up 
 back in the same place.
  
  ***SPOILER ALERT****
  
  
  
  
  I wish we had more time to play as Dante and I was also hoping Virgil would have been a playable 
 character once again.
  
  
  ***END SPOILER*******
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall if you love fun action games that you can pick up and just 
 get into it DMC4 is a must have!!
  
  I hope theres gunna be a DMC5 where there are at least 3 playable characters......... Nero, Dante 
 and Virgil............ and maybe Trish and/or Lady. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rei64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Dante is back with his latest adventure and this one us sure not to disappoint even the most die 
 hard DMC fans . this installment has 6 difficulty levels and a new character to draw in fans old 
 and new. 
  
  Devil may cry 4 is set around a group called the order of the sword. the people of this order and 
 the people who follow them, worship the demon Sparda as a god. Any Dmc fan worth his guns knows 
 that Sparda , the father of Dante, is not a bad guy and that he really is a valiant hero. but despite 
 that, the guys in the order don't seem to be as up right and truthful about their operations. you 
 start off as Nero a member of the holy knights which seems to be the army of the order. thats the 
 surface story and as you begin to scratch at it things only get better. also since this game has 
 about 120 mins of cut scenes there you will find an ample supply of story.
  
  Nero plays a lot like Dante but where Dante has his styles that are pretty much preset, Nero's 
 moves and abilities are like one big custom "style" you can upgrade his sword if you like sword 
 master more or his guns if you like gunslinger more Etc. 
  
  From then on its just more DMC the major change here is Nero. this game gives you pretty much more 
 of the same action and great story, a wide array of difficulty levels and your monies worth in 
 replay value with modes likes bloody palace (survival mode) and a slew of other unlockables.
  
  If you were on the fence as to whether or not to buy this game then please allow me to give 
 you the final push, Buy this game. if you are new to the series and your afraid of getting lost 
 in all the back story you have missed then don't worry because there is not a lot of mention of 
 previous story points in this game and what ever is mention is explained very well.
  
  In the end this game is well put together and is a must buy for anyone who enjoys hack and slash 
 beat em ups.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The legendary demon hunter Dante is back! and his looking to slaughter some demons
  
  Devil May Cry 4, the latest installment in the Devil May Cry series, welcomes us to an all new 
 demon hunter, a member of the order of the sword who swore an oath to annihilate all demons..... Nero!
 
  Nero along with his sword 'Red Queen', his gun 'Blue Rose', and his demonic arm, are used throughout 
 the first half of the game. Nero delivers a different style of gameplay compared to Dante, he is 
 able to charge up his blade using it's motrocycle handle, when charged Red Queen releases a flammable 
 liquid over the enemy when Nero attacks, but this only lasts for a limited time. he is also able 
 to grab the enemy and do a variety of different techniques with his demonic arm.
  
  Throughout the second half of the game you begin playing with the legendary Dante. Armed with 'Rebellion' 
 and 'Ebony & Ivory', Dante is a fun character to play with. Although for some Dante may take some 
 getting used to (after getting used to Nero's demonic arm then changing characters all of a sudden) , 
 his skills and abilities will keep you playing.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 has some breathtaking graphics that really improve the games quality and deliver 
 some amazing cut-scenes. The games gameplay is also amazing; it will keep you playing the game 
 even after you have finished it. Every Devil May Cry game has an amazing soundtrack and Devil may 
 cry 4 doesn't disappoint, the games music is amazing, and it delivers some great sound quality.
 
  
  So i would reccommend Devil May Cry 4 to all of those people out there that are either into their 
 supernatural fighting games or love a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatGameGod
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Here's the thing: if you go into DMC4 with expectations about fairness, checkpoints, structure 
 and rewards that you've got from God Of War, you're going to end up all hurt and confused. Most 
 games these days tend to hold your hand all the way through, never making you play the nasty bits 
 more than once and usually making sure you've got enough health to have a fighting chance at any 
 boss. Devil May Cry is not like that. It'll throw a million demons at you because it wants to, 
 put in half a dozen arbitrary fights in a 30-foot stretch of map, force you to survive for ages 
 on a tiny sliver of health... and then give you a D at the end of the level because you weren't 
 doing enough combos. Insecure types should look elsewhere. There are bits in DMC4 that you'll absolutely 
 love, and bits that you'll hate. There are plot twists that are jaw-on-the-floor stupid and dialogue 
 so bad it almost breaks the entire so-bad-it's-good continuum. You can't wait to see what happens 
 next... and then it slams in a two-hour chunk of unrepentant busywork in the middle of the game's 
 final fight. It's sort of like talking to a crazy tramp who suddenly says something hidden and 
 profound and you think you've underestimated him and decide he's a philosophical genius... and 
 then he goes back to ranting about the government trying to poison his dog and you realise you're 
 wrong. Sometimes DMC4 just gets lucky. 
  
  Devil May Cry is not like that. It'll throw a million demons at you because it wants to, put in 
 half a dozen arbitrary fights in a 30-foot stretch of map, force you to survive for ages on a tiny 
 sliver of health... and then give you a D at the end of the level because you weren't doing enough 
 combos. Insecure types should look elsewhere.
  Devil May Cry 4 doesn't care about you. It doesn't even particularly like you. If it was your girlfriend, 
 it'd stay out all night and never call, drink gin and dye its hair pink, invite you to see its 
 band and then flirt with other boys right in front of you. It's going to do whatever it likes, 
 and it isn't bothered what you think of it. But you've got to admit, sometimes that's sort of hot.
 
  Fear resonates in the underworld as a new protagonist crosses paths with a familiar hero who seemingly 
 inexplicably slaughters countless people. Long ago the Dark Knight Sparda awoke to justice and 
 rebelled against the dark emperor, to wage a one-man war to save humanity. Thousands of years later, 
 a religious organization worships this renowned savior and has taken it upon themselves to rid 
 the world of all demons. Residing in Fortuna, a castle city on the coast, this "Order of the Sword" 
 has an elite group of "Holy Knights" dedicated to carrying out this very creed. Rising among the 
 ranks, a young cynical warrior named Nero witnesses Sparda's legendary son Dante slaughter countless 
 "knights". Has the renowned devil hunter turned his back on mankind? What does this encounter mean 
 for these two individuals and why has destiny brought them together? In Devil May Cry 4, players 
 control the formidable Nero who comes to grips with his newly found power as his beliefs and allegiance 
 are tested. Continuing the legacy of fast paced action synonymous with the series, Devil May Cry 
 4 pushes the envelope of excellence even further with the inclusion of a new combat system that 
 incorporates Nero's "Devil Bringer". This new feature has players delivering overwhelming damage 
 to enemies with non-stop combos, while gaining new power for Nero's right arm.
  So its an pretty cool game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydannie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Let's Just say That the only DMC game I ever played before this sequel wasthe original. Now Having 
 not played the others and skipping them to DMC 4. I have gone back to play the earlier games. Starting 
 of course with DMC 3. What Can be said about this game? well for starters is one reason to own 
 a PS3 (unless you have 360, go get it for that) The game looks and feels amazingly well. The story 
 is enjoyable and the ourageous cut scenes will keep you entertained. It is a bit on the easy side. 
 but of course you can switch it to hard mode. This game was good enough to make me go back and 
 revisit the franchise there for buying the 5th aniverssary collection for the ps2. if you dont 
 want to buy it. at least it deserves a rental. it is great fun. and you will be playing this for 
 hours after you have beaten it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm the fan of "Devil May Cry "series. The graphics on "Devil May Cry 4" is great. But the main 
 problem is the story & game play. Devil May Cry 4 is only have a beautiful body but inside is empty.
 
  
  The story is the problem on this game. Why Nero got a Devil Arm?
  I think they use Dante is better than Nero. And that can't bring the fresh to the game. They also 
 got the same look & personality (White hair & joking) .
  
  Repeating boss fight is the rule of Capcom now. That make me feel boring. And feel no passion of 
 the game maker.
  
  I feel this game is a half-product.
  
  Bad:
  1. Story is not related to the series. Not a main story of it.
  2. Nero is nothing special. Also 
 same as Dante. Why need to change?
  3. Boss repeat to fight. Have to fight 3 times in the game. That make me feel boring.
  4. Switch 
 to Dante, U play the same thing again. Boring.
  5. Trish & Lady is only appear a few scene. They're cool, right? Waste it!
  
  Good:
  1. The 
 character design is great.
  2. Graphics is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DravenLaVitt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the DMC games, and NO, this one didn't let me down. I'll admit, human 
 mode is frighteningly easy and devil hunter isn't that challenging but past those two modes and 
 it gets kind of difficult, although still nothing compared to DMC3 in which it is almost impossible 
 in Dante Must Die mode : (
  The graphics are stunning, whith brilliant colors and amazing building designs, even though, I 
 still managed to get lost once or twice but I've never been good with those d*** maps.
  It's true, Nero is no Dante, but he's still a strong, fun character to play and his arm is quite 
 a nice touch, making the "special" moves look very trippy. And even if you don't like Nero, you 
 still get to play Dante later on anyway, so there shouldn't be much whining about that. There is 
 a lot of entertaining, witty dialogue and the story is rather engaging and easy to follow. The 
 characters are designed well, and it looks as if the creators put quite a lot of thought into them. 
 The boss battles are different from the next and the villains change frequently so its not just 
 some lame repetition.
  This game is nothing but fun, and if you ever get angry it's nice to sit down and kill a bunch 
 of little monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunal_wahi_ea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Devil may cry is one of the best games in 2008. the story is really good and interesting. The sound 
 is exxcellent, especially when u you stab a demon. The graphics are so good that you can clearly 
 see when angus stabs nero with a blade. Also when dante and nero kill the monster. The graphics 
 are also intense when dante gives nero vergil's yamato. o i forgot to mention nero has spardas 
 blood. for my full video review please go to
  
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=n-B1HRMkVsI
  
  thanks for reading this.
  this is very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very veryv CRAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  D. M. C. 4 i took a chance with the Game, I did try out D. M. C. 3 when it frist came out a few years 
 ago and the Game was to Hard so i gave up, But with D. M. C. 4 the Challenge is about right Human 
 mode is easy, Hunter Mode is about right, Frist off the voice Acting is Tops in my view loved it 
 and All the Charcters in D. M. C. 4 loved them all went very well with the Game and story, The Boss 
 Fights are Awsome over the top in my view , The Boss Berial is Great, And the Smart off Remarks 
 and little funnies in the Game are Great, Last Boss Awsome like from God of war Games. The Music 
 is good the Power Arm of Nero is Awsome and all the Upgrades you can do is Great and all the Killer 
 Moves are Nice to watch and pull off. Online Leaderbord is very nice over all well worth 59.99 
 so go out and buy D. M. C 4 you will have Great Fun i sure did, Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 has been a game i have been waiting for for sometime, and one of the games i bought 
 a PS3 for (originally) . To start off, this game looks and plays excellent for the most part. The 
 combos you can pull off for both Nero and Dante are really nice.
  
  You start off the game with Nero, as many of you already know. The first mission teaches you the 
 basics of combat against Dante. Why they made a tutorial the first mission beats me, and its a 
 really stupid choice in my opinion. Anyway, after that you go through a series of 19 more missions 
 before you beat it.
  
  Another good point are the weapons for Dante. I was skeptical of Pandora, but after playing with 
 it, it truly is a great and versatile weapon. The Lucifer is a great weapon as well, and one of 
 my favorites. While the Gilgamesh seems like a tacked on Ifrit+Beowulf, it is a totally welcome 
 addition. I believe it plays way better than those other two. And Yamato, this is the most tacked 
 on weapon. Theres nothing really good about it.
  
  You cant upgrade it, and it only has about four moves. I also want to point out the fact that Dante 
 did indeed seem like an after thought on this game. They did add bloody palace, but a choice of 
 playing with Dante for the whole game would be great as well. Nero is a great character, but him 
 and Dante are so different, you don't want to spend your time with Dante playing JUST BP.
  
  Overall, it is a good game with a lot of promise, but to some (like me) you may feel cheated 
 from capcom but may not know why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off Devil May Cry has had a long run of success with many fans of the series. I for 
 one did not get into the whole story line of the games but they were definitely fun. Devil May 
 Cry 4 has a lot of story behind it, but you do not have to play the previous games to understand 
 this game. Although it is belived to take place as a prequel to part 2 but after part one of the 
 series. You can play it as a first timer, the difficulty is very fair , unlike its previous games, 
 and the graphics are what I would say are fair too. as for fun of the game play its a 9 for sure, 
 the things that Nero your first charecter you use can do are just out of this world, with the power 
 of his devil arm he has many abilities. Dante which is the main charecter of the whole series is 
 also your other playable charecter, but does not come into play untill the second half of the 10 
 - 20 hour long play time of the story. The game is not extremely long and should take 11 hours 
 to beat, but using Nero and Dante will make it go by really fast from all the excitement. The art 
 work of the charecters in this game are quite superb, especially the female charecters, the designs 
 of the small villains are quite weak and feel very similar and repetitive from previous games, 
 although boss villains are excellent with a fair challenge on hand. The story behind this game 
 is a bit confusing for it doesn not tell you who Nero really is, leaving an opening for a sequel, 
 If you are looking for a fun game this is the one to get, for the fights with your villains are 
 a lot of fun with all the fantastic sword slinging that you can do. If you want a story well, me 
 personally i have not been crazy about the devil may cry stories, but it definitely has a history, 
 its up to you whether you want to say if it is interesting or not though.
  You dont have to be a huge fan of the series to play this game and you will still enjoy it, but 
 who knows maybe it will hook you, and if you are a fan of the game then im sure you will appreciate 
 all the work capcom has put into this game unlike its previous story on dumari island with lucia. 
 in part two, but thats another review lol. anyways Devil May Cry is a definite 9.0 on my scale, 
 for its fun and design ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercer52
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  all flash no substance , been there done that , disappotinting , are all words that discridbe DMC4 
 to me , i mean it seriously had some awsome graphics , at the cutscenes , the graphics is the same 
 when playing but the animation is sooooooooooooooooooooo old and not updated , and you get bored 
 of all the jumping and sword swinging and gun shooting cause it aint really that exciting in the 
 first place , i swear to go i cant complete this frickin game , its just so ,,,,,, emmm , .. unpleasant 
 , cause there is alot of great moves in the cutscenes but the moves you do in realtime arent even 
 close , 
  
  and the freakin stupid puzzles , this game was so disappointing , i mean i never really played 
 the old DMCs but even thou i exepected more from capcom , i whould discridbe this game as old school 
 , and not in a good way , i mean the menus ( and the effects on the menus are a whole diffrent 
 horror story ) , the effects , the moves , they look like they came from a 90s game , i mean if 
 they just updated it it whould have more fun , and it could have look a thousand times cooler 
 
  
  Disappointing , DO NOT Believe all the hype 
  Repetive , the moves , the kiils , the puzzles all same old same old
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is gooood its just as good as dmc 3 and 1 . But this game has beeen expected for about 
 a year and its finally out. the story of DMC 4 is good makes u wanna play . The new mechanic of 
 the devil bringer makes the game more exciting and especially the ability system where u get pure 
 souls makes u want to gain all the abilities. and the gameplay for DMC 4 is probably better then 
 dmc 3. BEcause dmc 3 was actually a hard game even tho my grades werent up to par (B) . If u play 
 dmc 3 then ur prepared for this game. but they give u 2 options of human and devil hunter. which 
 one is easy and other is normal. The graphics an cutscense are beatiful and i jus have a 480 p 
 tv if i have a 1080 p i would be in heaven. The fluidity of the game play makes it so good to get 
 into the game. the voice cast is awesome for this game the script can b eehhhhh sumtimes but other 
 times it gets u hyped up cuz nero the new character. im on level 9 and and im takin my sweet time 
 this game is goin into my game library as the best next to assasin creed. also you play dante with 
 the new controls and now able to switch styles without going to the divinity statue which has endless 
 combos. But ull likely like to play as nero more cuz of his devil bringer an rev up sword . this 
 game has every thing for a dmc fan an ppl from ninja gaiden will appericiate its action and story. 
 and also if they have a dmc 5 with nero itll keep the devil may cry series alive like resident 
 evil series capcom has never upset me . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kongousou_ha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Devil May Cry 4 that hasn't been said already. It's amazing. The backdrops 
 for this game are breathtaking and the amount of detail put into each is just jaw dropping. The 
 gameplay is even better. The controls are smooth and seamless, letting you hack and slash at your 
 command and with the exceed system, the style and power of your combos becomes even greater with 
 a rev of your sword. Also factor in the DevilBringer, Nero's Demon arm that can snatch enemies 
 from across the plain and perform devastating throw combos on boss enemies, and you've got yourself 
 one bad-a$$ recipe for action. What I found most impressive however, is that regardless of how 
 much I LOVED using Nero, I LOVED using DANTE EVEN MORE. When you first get to use Dante I'm sure 
 you'll be as excited as I was to see his revamped movesets, his new look, and his kick a$$ new 
 weapons. As everyone would agree, PANDORA is all I have to say. Not to mention switching his styles 
 MID COMBAT and the addition of some welcome new moves to the classic four styles. This game also 
 has a great story line and pays homage to one of the characters I've been wanting to see come back 
 for the next gen pretty well ( I won't tell it here though, maybe you can figure it out in the 
 story when you play =P) . (Although it's no consolation for ACTUALLY seeing this character whip 
 ass) .
  
  I'm a hardcore DMC fan (although I've only played part 3 and seen part 1 in action) and I can say 
 that I loved DMC3 so much that I must have played it through 6 or 7 times at the very least. I 
 can say NOW, that I'm going to be playing DMC 4 10-20 times over and that's just for now. Nevermind 
 when I need to get my fix again in the future. This game is a masterpiece and is definitely the 
 best in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleJ823
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  I am new to the Devil May Cry series but, in my opinion, I prefer a game to not have the missions 
 as Devil May Cry 4 has. I feel it would be much smoother if they got rid of that aspect of the 
 game. Another aspect I would fix up are the secret missions. For the most part when you find them, 
 the level of your player is a little to low and would require a person to come back at a later 
 date to complete that mission. I feel that should be changed a little also. 
  On the other hand, the graphics and cinematography of this game are top-notch. WIth my HD set up, 
 its like I am watching an animated movie at the theaters. The gameplay besides the mission stoppages 
 is very good, as well. I am playing the devil hunter difficulty and find it challenging but yet 
 not impossible to play. I like how it becomes more and more expensive to buy items to make the 
 game much more difficult, instead of the usual overload of items by midway through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry was a saga was born and grew in PlayStation 2, nevertheless the fourth delivery makes 
 debut in 360 Xbox and PlayStation 3, and it does taking advance from the technical characteristics 
 that allow these platforms of new generation. This fourth episode is a really "pretty" game, with 
 very elegant animations and movements and with a difficulty much more fit that its previous chapter. 
 
  
  Probably in quality terms it is located thirdly, after brilliants first and third deliveries and 
 in front of the insolvent second episode. It is therefore a game to consider, as much for the followers 
 of the Devil May Cry saga like for the new players who approach a game of these characteristics 
 for the first time. 
  
  What to hope of this Devil May Cry 4? A prettier version, someway easier and with more variety 
 than its predecessors. It is the best one of the saga? Certainly no. In spite of being an excellent 
 game it is far from the surprise that its supposed the first delivery and of the incommensurable 
 rate and sense of "timing" with which this one was equipped.
  
  From the brilliant combats against hordes of enemies to the majestic Bosses, everything in Devil 
 May Cry 4 is a gigantic adrenalin unloading. A title to destroy everything and all without greater 
 complications, worrying us about the weight about the script, almost nonexistent, or about the 
 necessity to draw up to tactics or wise approaches. 
  
  The first adventure of Nero is action by action, with a devilish speed and, like so, a new triumph 
 of the Hack and Slash genre in general and of the Devil May Cry saga. The Devil Bringer weapon 
 is awesome, it will help us to climb and swing in a pure God of War style. Other new improvement 
 is that we can change the fighting style of Nero in real time breaking the mechanic of the game.
 
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is a brilliant new episode of the demon hunters series, and offers the habitual 
 doses of the most spectacular action that Capcom have get use to give us. The game makes use of 
 the technological advances of the new generation consoles to improve its general aspect, and incorporates 
 some concise added improvements and in gameplay terms. Although in essence it is "more of the same" 
 this does not repel absolutely in his quality, and is a very recommendable title for the lovers 
 of action, gothic style and visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  There might be a new character but the gameplay remains the same. Nero is the newest character 
 in the series and he holds up well. His moves are amazing and his devil bringer is quite helpful 
 for the inexperienced. But nothing to worry about; later on in the game you get to use the fan 
 favorite Dante. Dante feels the same as DMC 3 but the difference is that you will get to change 
 styles on the fly. Visually this game is amazing. The backgrounds and characters look great. The 
 best place is the forest because that is where the visuals become really stunning. Gameplay can 
 feel a little repetitive especially if all you do is button mash and hope for the best (even some 
 veterans might feel the same) . The one downside to the game is that to some it will feel a bit 
 short, to others though it will feel just right. Overall this is a great game and all Devil May 
 Cry fans need to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Review Summary: 
  +Incredible combat 
  +Incrdible graphics 
  +Great cast of characters 
  +Imaginative enemies 
  +Great dialogue 
  +Challenging 
  +Fantastic 
 new character 
  +So good you'll watch them again & again cut-scenes 
  +Dripping with cool 
  
  -Recycled environments 
  -One of the worst last levels ever 
  -Recycled 
 bosses 
  
  What a refreshing & brilliant little game. 
  
  The aim of the game is basicaly to get from point A to point B & kill everything that gets in your 
 way in the coolest & most stylish way possibe. In a generation full of open worlds & promises of 
 game changing moral decisions that fall flatr on their face its so refreshing to get one that just 
 shoves you in a linear level & tells you to get on with it. 
  
  This also extends to the difficulty. I played it on Demon Hunter mode & it was pretty damn difficult. 
 Ive been hearing this is easier than DMC3, being someone who thought DMC3 was too easy this worried 
 me. However I died more in the first few missions than the whole of DMC3 so i can say this is not 
 true & thank God. Its been ages since I played a game that was a actual challenge & didnt hold 
 my hand all the way through. But its never unfair. If you button mash & just go into every battle 
 waving your sword around blindly you will die many, many times. It forces you to switch tactics 
 & learn different moves. It makes you play well & put thought into battles. It also has the hardest 
 boss battle ive had in a long time - fighting against Dante, my God its hard. But if you die its 
 always your fault for fighting sloppy or not having quick enough reactions. 
  
  Next the presentation & graphics. In a word - superb! It has some truly jaw dropping vistas with 
 scenery extending naturelay & beautifuly as far as the eye can see. A particular highlight being 
 wlaking to the exact of a cave into a forest - the light beams just shining through the entrance 
 - Beautiful sight. All the character models are expertly rendered & move incredibly smoothly. It 
 has some of the most imaginative & cool creatures to fight against too. The framerate never drops 
 & the camera is fantastic - only costing me a tiny amount of health or a loss of direction on the 
 odd occasion. The cut-scenes are also superb - as fantasticly OTT as ever & great to watch. It 
 has a surprisingly good story too which does leave you playing on to found out what happens next. 
 Each character also has more personality & charm to them then most games manage in their entire 
 cast. Each retaining the magical 'so bad its good voice acting'. Especialy when Dante reaches the 
 opera house in the 2nd half. I was almost crying from laughter. Its brilliant. 
  
  Next we've been given a new main character to play with - usualy something to be terrified of. 
 But Capcom have created another great character in Nero. they havent gone far from Dantes character 
 at all which helps - he just looks like a younger brother wearing a slightly different jacket. 
 Big differnces are in the combat though. The first is teh exceed techinique. You have a split second 
 moement with every attack where you can tap the L button & it revs your sword up in a blink so 
 the subsequent attacks are more powerful & quicker. Each of these subsequent attacks can then be 
 chained into revs attacks too & requires some great skill to get the timing correct, but is the 
 only way of getting SSS style rankings. But the main difference comes in his Devil Arm. One of 
 his arms is hugely powerful & can stretch, pull enimies towards him (or him towards them if they 
 are big) & also throw them. This works fantasticaly well & presents whole new combo opportunities 
 as you knock a enemy miles away & then just snap them back to you in a instant for more slicing. 
 Brilliant fun to use. 
  
  It also creates some spectacular scenes against bosses. If you can get a good enough combo on a 
 boss you can stun them. Then if you get close you can perform earth shattering throws with his 
 arm. Just wait until you see him casualy throw a monster the size of a building with ease. Its 
 a great spectacle. 
  
  You also realise how attached & debendant you become on this when you take control of Dante halfway 
 through. It feels like youve lost your right arm (which is kind of true) & requires some serious 
 brain rewiring to get used to not being able to snatch the enemies back. Dantes move set is largely 
 unchanged form DMC3 & he still has the 4 types of combat that can be switched on the fly. But once 
 i'd rewired my brain to this & picked my chosen fighting style I was pulling off combos I could 
 only have dreamed of with Nero. The fact you can also gain new weapons & switch these on the fly 
 too creates some mind boggling combos possibe. Also just wait until you get the Pandore Box - BEST 
 WEAPON EVER! All this makes Dante the superior character IMO. He also has a coolness about him 
 that Nero lacks, especialy in cut-scenes. Nero is like a shouty, young kid. Dante is wise & just 
 effortlessely cool. 
  
  But Dantes section is also where the problems show. Capcom have been incredibly lazy with this 
 game. You basicaly fight through every section youve just done with Nero - you even fight all the 
 bosses again. Although the change in character, normal enemies, style & the slight change location 
 appearence (imagine the difference being switching between light & dark world in Zeldas) does make 
 this bearable & Dantes unique fighting style does make it feel new. In fact it feels so new & different 
 that I forgot I was basicaly in the same locations. What is confusing though is that Capcom keep 
 throwing new & imaginative creatures to fight but gave you the same bosses. It kind of fits with 
 the story but i would have mutched prefered some new bosses & the new enemies show they werent 
 short of ideas. 
  
  Even so I think I would have still given it 9/10. However it throws on of the worst final levels 
 in history at you (not Halo Flood levels bad, but bad) & it forces you to fight almost every boss 
 again one after the other. This leaves a very sour taste in the mouth just as you finish. & unlike 
 the re-used scenery & fighting bosses again for the sake of the story with the freshness of a new 
 character. It is unforgivable & some very sloppy work from Capcom. 
  
  Just fell short of classic status. A damn shame. However dont let this put you off it is still 
 a fantastic game everyone should play through at least once, or at least until that final level.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeross
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Being that I've only played any of the other DMC titles for a couple hours each, I figured that 
 I should finally invest some money and buy this one.
  
  Right off the bat the graphics and sound effects jumped out at me. My 5.1 dobly digital surround 
 sound and 55" LCD TV were a perfect medium for this beast. The graphics are a 10, with only a couple 
 scenes in the entire game experiencing a slight hic-up in frame rate and never happening during 
 the actual game play, this game is beautiful. I found myself getting hit during some of my combos 
 just because I would get lost in the beauty of it all. The sound effects fit this game perfectly, 
 with every swipe of the sword, and shot of the gun echoing throughout my family room pulling me 
 into the game, losing myself in the fantasy.
  
  The pacing of the game play is just right, with the only exception being the first Berial (giant 
 flaming demon) fight being a little difficult just because you haven't had a chance to buy any 
 new moves for Nero yet. This game can get frustrating at times, where I just couldn't figure out 
 how the heck to beat a couple bosses when they hit "phase 3". But it is well rewarding to beat 
 them. I've played through the Devil Hunter difficulty, and for the most part it was just the right 
 amount of pain. It wasn't so hard that I wanted to quit, but wasn't so easy that I was able to 
 breeze through. Many continues were used on my trek to beat it on Devil Hunter.
  
  This is a high action, fun game with awesome cut scenes. However, it is repetitive, which is both 
 good and bad. You will fight a few bosses THREE times, which is one too many in my opinion. I was 
 actually happy to fight them twice, because once you fight them as Nero, and then you will fight 
 them again as Dante. Due to the different fighting styles of Dante and Nero, it was like a completely 
 different fight, and it was fun to switch the way I fought them. Backtracking from the HQ all the 
 way back to the beginning was a little much, but in terms of the story it made sense. So take the 
 good with the bad I guess.
  
  The only reason I put the difficulty rating as Hard, is because there are still 4 more difficulty 
 settings above Devil Hunter. Devil Hunter in of itself is a Medium difficulty at best, but I can 
 only imagine how much harder this game is going to get.
  
  Anyway, if you are looking to have some fun beating the crap out of things, yelling at the screen 
 when you SWEAR you jumped out of the way of a giant frog trying to eat you, and you love watching 
 beautiful cut scenes with just the right mix of drama and satire, do yourself a favor and buy this 
 game. Newcomers might get more enjoyment out of this game just because Dante is a secondary character. 
 I loved it, and anyone looking for some fun will get a kick out of this game too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshirouhitsuga
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is the sequel to the first Devil may cry and it definetely lives up to its reputation 
 of being one of the most intriuging action games in video game history. Well the first thing that 
 you will notice is the fact that dante is no longer the main character and takes the backseat to 
 newcomer Nero who is technically a younger version of Dante, but don't fear dante fanboys/girls 
 he is definetely still in the game though not playing as and important role as nero he is definetely 
 in the game and probably cooler than ever. I won't spoil the story but I can tell you it's exactly 
 what you can expect from Devil may cry's creative thinking and excellent storytelling. The voice 
 acting is pretty good but there are some corny lines every now and then but when there is a well 
 phrased line the extrordinary voice actors nail it. Graphically the game is quite a thing to marvel 
 at but the are some flaws in outdoor areas when you come across shadows which can look pretty dang 
 awful sometimes. As far as difficulty goes the game easy difficulty is much easier than the mindblowing 
 difficulty of the third installment Devil may cry 3 but once you get to higher difficulty's it 
 can prove to be just as frustrating as Devil may cry 3's difficulty and sometimes it can be even 
 harder. Overall Devil may cry 4 lives up to the series reputation and is a clear cut contender 
 for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mendoza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Well Devil May Cry 4, such a great experience. The graphics are just about perfect. I couldn't 
 believe a DMC game could look so amaziing and stay that way throughout the fast-paced game. Truly 
 an experience EVERY action game lover should play. The controls are perfect and the presentation 
 of the Devil Bringer is amazing. I mean, you have to see what Nero is capable of with his DB arm. 
 The "finishing" moves are really cool and even COOLER when you are in DT. The new character does 
 a great job with the voice acting, so does everyone else. Nero is amazing to play with and the 
 best to play throughout the DMC series in my opinion. The long-lasting experience is just breath 
 taking. To sum it up, EVERYTHING was perfect EXCEPT the story and certain characters. For the story, 
 it was really well done, almost, but not quite. There are numerous plot holes that can only be 
 filled by your imagination or a obvious sequel. Like for example, how did Nero get his arm? Dante, 
 Lady, and Trish were "unfinished". They didn't play much of a role in the story and that was a 
 bit disappointing, voice acting is still beautiful. The dialogues are very good too, and for the 
 first time, this game actually made made me laugh a lot. There were some very funny scenes.: D And 
 i was a bit disapointed since Vergil wasn't in the story, he would have sparked things up a bit.
 
  Although the bonuses were a bit disapointing for some DMC fans, the replay value is still great. 
 Lots of blood, sweat and tears have been shed playing the tougher difficulties, but it was all 
 worth it after i got a special costume. There is a lot to talk about in the replay value, but i 
 won't get into that. You may thing this game is really hard, but it is also newbie-friendly that 
 offers somewhat a challenge without making it too easy.
  
  There is a lot more to talk about that, but you can read a few reviews to find them. Overall, this 
 game is almost flaw-less. A MUST-BUY (you see that? MUST-BUY) game for action lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + One of the best looking games available
  + New mechanics fit right in with an already compelling fighting system 
  + Nero is a great new 
 character, worthy of following Dante's footsteps
  + And speaking of Dante, he is cooler than ever
  
  Cons
  - While the game is graphically 
 impressive, the shadows don't hold up as well
  - The camera can put you in quite few binds
  - Features some of the most annoying puzzles ever in the series
  
  The Devil May Cry series 
 started with a big bang when it was originally released on the PS2. After tripping with Devil May 
 Cry 2, the series recovered quite some ground with Devil May Cry 3 and its Special Edition. Now, 
 Devil May Cry 4 has arrived, and it offers and incredibly polished and balanced experience for 
 newcomers and veteran hunters alike.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 tells the story of Nero, a young and reckless knight for the Order of the Sword, 
 a cult worshipping the Legendary Dark Knight Sparda. While not on the best terms with his fellow 
 compatriots, he is none the less respected because of his prowess at exterminating demons, and 
 his close relationship with both Credo, the captain of the order, and Kyrie, the captain's younger 
 sister, whose relation is a little deeper than just close friends. While attending a ceremony, 
 several knights of the order, as well as their supreme leader are murdered by none other than Dante, 
 the renowned devil hunter and son of the Dark Knight. Ordered to pursue and apprehend Dante, Nero 
 soon stumbles upon a dark plot, where the lines are blurred, and friends will be found in the most 
 unexpected places.
  
  While most of the story is fairly well written and as over the top as any Devil May Cry title, 
 some aspects of Devil May Cry 4 story might end up as a little vague. However, you'll be entertained 
 all throughout and will care for the events going on, thanks to its larger than life protagonists. 
 Nero is a great new character, able to carry the burden of starring in a series known for its charismatic 
 devil hunter Dante. He is a younger, angrier and more impetuous version of the cool, collected 
 and wisecracking Dante. And even with a reduced role, Dante still manages to shine through and 
 show the players what it means to be a legendary devil hunter. The supporting cast, both returning 
 and new alike, work well with the leads.
  
  Story aside, Devil May Cry has always been about fast and frenetic action. And Devil May Cry 4 
 doesn't disappoint. This is by far, the fastest, edgier and polished battle engine ever featured 
 in the series. Players, who were worried about Nero not living up to Dante's skills, fear not, 
 as Nero packs a mean punch. Nero, just like Dante, can dish out damage by combining sword attacks 
 with gunplay. Nero has an equivalent for all of Dante's sword attacks, as well as some unique ones 
 to him. And while Nero's Blue Rose, his trademark double-barreled revolver is not as fast as Dante's 
 guns, its still quite the powerhouse. Nero's uniqueness comes however from his newly integrated 
 Devil Bringer. This demonic arm allows Nero to perform a variety of cool looking throws, as well 
 as bringing opponents to him, which helps when maintaining your stylish meter. The Devil Bringer 
 also doubles up as a platform element, as Nero can use it to pull himself up to designated points, 
 as well as bringing items to him. This new mechanic integrates itself quite well within the system, 
 and is a blast to use.
  
  It's no secret that about halfway through the story, you'll take control of Dante. And while there 
 is no Devil Bringer equivalent for him, Dante is more powerful than ever before. Not only is Dante 
 stronger and faster than Nero, he also has quite an array of moves and an arsenal of weapons his 
 younger successor lacks. Dante fights utilizing his style system first introduced in Devil May 
 Cry 3, and now he can switch them by quickly tapping on the D-pad button to which each style is 
 assigned. This allows for some incredibly cool looking combinations of moves, which in turn offers 
 a good amount of ways to tackle any particular situation. You can also switch Dante's guns and 
 devil arms while you play as well. Playing as both characters is fun and quite often intense. The 
 only drawback to the combat sections is the camera, whose preset locations can sometimes blind 
 you from your enemies, and you can't always control the camera. 
  
  The objective in combat is to dispatch your foes in as stylish ways as possible. The more stylish 
 you are, the more red orbs and proud souls, which are used for items and abilities respectively, 
 you'll earn. You want to keep and eye in the style meter and satisfy it as best as you can, for 
 having multiple items and skills later on will save your life, specially since the enemies are 
 pretty challenging for the most part.
  
  When you are not fighting, you'll have to explore some pretty big locales, raging from a castle 
 to forests, to snowy plains and more. There is some platforming involved using Nero's Devil Bringer, 
 and while these are not very frequent, they can be a little frustrating due to the bad camera angles 
 the game gives in some spots. There are also some puzzles to solve, and unfortunately, the puzzles 
 in Devil May Cry 4 are quite possibly the most annoying ever seen in the series. Another slightly 
 negative aspect that arises while playing through Dante's portion is that he will mostly backtrack 
 trough previously explored areas, offering little new areas. This is compensated in part by removing 
 all puzzles and focusing on the fighting. While the exploration is certainly weaker than the combat, 
 it certainly is not horrible or of-putting by any means.
  
  Graphically, Devil May Cry 4 is a beautiful game. Be it the incredibly detailed and superbly choreographed 
 cut-scenes, to the combat itself, the game is great looking, fluid and just a marvel to behold. 
 The art design compliments its entire technical prowess as well. Characters, be it from humans 
 to monsters, its excellent. The one flaw the game has is the shadow rendering, which looks very 
 polygonal and is downright ugly in some levels. This is only a small discrepancy however and not 
 something that will ruin the rest of the game. The best part is that the game consistently maintains 
 the frame rate, no matter how hectic the action is.
  
  Sound wise, the game hits it big as well, with great sound effects, fitting music and good voice 
 acting for the most part. Nero is voiced very well, and Dante is as charismatic as ever. The battle 
 music is the sore thumb in the sound department, not only being very bland in comparison to the 
 rest, but also very repetitive.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is by far the most polished sequel in the Devil May Cry series, and one of the 
 best games so far in this generation of consoles. Its combination of over the top action with style 
 is as good as ever, and the inclusion of Nero forms a sturdy bridge for those new to the series, 
 while effectively introducing them to the soul of Devil May Cry, Dante himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4
  ---
  Note: This Review May Contain Spoilers.
  ---
  
  Story: 10/10
  Devil May Cry 4 had the best story line out of them all. The introduction to Nero, the new protagonist, 
 was really well done. Right off the bat, you get to fight Dante as the game leads you through a 
 tutorial. Dante then leaves and you are ordered to go capture him. The story then leads through 
 a bunch of interesting locations and great story twists.
  
  Music: 10/10
  I LOVE the music in Devil May Cry, I always have. Devil May Cry 4 is no exception. The battle music 
 for both Dante and Nero is incredible, the opening theme, Opera show, and ending theme were also 
 really well done.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Wow, this is one of those games that takes to a really long time to beat, because you are standing 
 around looking at the environmental graphics for hours. The waterfall scene was by far the best 
 in the game. The forest and castles also are really really well done.
  
  Gameplay: 10+/10
  10+! Wow! Yes the gameplay in Devil May Cry 4 is THAT good. With amazing combos 
 to endless power ups, Devil May Cry has stuff that will take you beyond just the normal play time 
 for a game. As always, DMC4 has a variety of different difficulties making for replay value. The 
 boss fights are amazing... but they got a little repetitive since you have to fight each boss on 
 three different occasions. The enemies give you a good run for your money the majority of the time.
 
  
  Overall: 10/10
  Devil May Cry 4 is defiantly worth picking up. The special edition comes with four episodes of 
 the Devil May Cry anime, which is definatly worth watching, but I don't really think it is worth 
 the extra twenty bucks. Stick with the normal version unless you got the extra money to spend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjgamer03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It has been some time since i wrote a review and from now on, i will review games the right way 
 instead of overrating them all the time. 
  
  Devil May Cry 4, such a great experience. The graphics are just about perfect. I couldn't believe 
 a DMC game could look so amaziing and stay that way throughout the fast-paced game. Truly an experience 
 EVERY action game lover should play. The controls are perfect and the presentation of the Devil 
 Bringer is amazing. I mean, you have to see what Nero is capable of with his DB arm. The "finishing" 
 moves are really cool and even COOLER when you are in DT. The new character does a great job with 
 the voice acting, so does everyone else. Nero is amazing to play with and the best to play throughout 
 the DMC series in my opinion. The long-lasting experience is just breath taking. To sum it up, 
 EVERYTHING was perfect EXCEPT the story and certain characters. For the story, it was really well 
 done, almost, but not quite. There are numerous plot holes that can only be filled by your imagination 
 or a obvious sequel. Like for example, how did Nero get his arm? Dante, Lady, and Trish were "unfinished". 
 They didn't play much of a role in the story and that was a bit disappointing, voice acting is 
 still beautiful. The dialogues are very good too, and for the first time, this game actually made 
 made me laugh a lot. There were some very funny scenes.: D And i was a bit disapointed since Vergil 
 wasn't in the story, he would have sparked things up a bit.
  Although the bonuses were a bit disapointing for some DMC fans, the replay value is still great. 
 Lots of blood, sweat and tears have been shed playing the tougher difficulties, but it was all 
 worth it after i got a special costume. There is a lot to talk about in the replay value, but i 
 won't get into that. You may thing this game is really hard, but it is also newbie-friendly that 
 offers somewhat a challenge without making it too easy.
  
  There is a lot more to talk about that, but you can read a few reviews to find them. Overall, this 
 game is almost flaw-less. A MUST-BUY (you see that? MUST-BUY) game for action lovers.
  
  PS: Take a minute or two looking around and checking things out in the environment, I can almost 
 assure you that your eyes will be 25% more wider and a lot drier without blinking after a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew0313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Devil May Cry series is one of the most influential franchise to date. Its over the edge and 
 fast paced action has been the crowning basis of how we look at hack-and-slash titles today. Without 
 this series, we wouldn't have such titles as God of War and many others.
  
  WIth Devil May Cry 2 being a let down and Devil May Cry 3 having been the one to get the franchise 
 back up to its feet, the next installment surely was the one that finally got everything else back 
 into the public spotlight since the first game.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 marks the first series game in our current generation of consoles, releasing for 
 both the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360. The game stars a new main protagonist, Nero, a tough as nails 
 young man who bears a resemblance to both Dante and his brother Vergil and carries one intimidating 
 demonic arm. And tagging along in the mix is the franchise's flagship demon hunter, Dante.
  
  ~Graphics:
  The graphics are sharper than they could be, truly evolving from past installments. 
 All running at top frame rate, both off and on screen activities run smoothly even with all the 
 flashing and bashing attacks happening. The jaw dropping cutscenes return from Devil May Cry 3 
 with memorable fight scenes that'd make you want to watch happen over and over again.
  
  ~Gameplay:
  Everything we've come to know about Devil May Cry is still here. Now, the game is 
 divided upon two distinct characters (no comparison to Devil May Cry 2) Nero and Dante taking up 
 their own respective fractions in the plot. 
  
  Nero plays it alot of key differences, one is that he may not have any alternative weapons but 
 his tricked out sword, the Red Queen, makes up for everything. With the Red Queen, Nero can access 
 the EXCEED system which allows you to literally rev up your sword to power up and create a varying 
 arsenal of attacks.
  
  But Nero's most powerhouse feature is none other than his demonic arm, the Devil Bringer, with 
 it, you can rear, tear, pound, and even suplex any enemies that comes blocking your way. Context 
 attacks even allow you to pull off different moves on different enemies and bosses themselves. 
 Best of all, Nero's Devil Bringer attacks are one of the most satifying attacks you can ever pull 
 of in the whole game.
  
  He may have taken a seat down this time but Dante still doesn't disappoint, afterall, this is his 
 game. All of the key skills from Devil May Cry 3 have been remained intact with some upgraded features 
 that shows demons a new meaning of pain. 
  
  Dante's best feature above the rest is obviously the new instant style-switching. To past players 
 of the series, Devil May Cry 3 was the one that introduced the style system but changing is only 
 available in-between mission. Now you're able to switch just about any moment and alongside Dante's 
 new set of arsenal, opens up nearly limitless combo oppurtunities.
  
  In the end, the game indeed takes the franchise into a whole new league. With new characters, new 
 adventures, new plotlines, and larger than life bosses, the Devil May Cry series surely shows premise 
 with the future at hand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited Devil May Cry 4 is here. What is new about this game is that you will be able 
 to play as Nero, a human with a demonic arm that can pull off some sweet combos and moves with 
 his blue rose gun. First the graphics look really next gen and the cut scenes are really well done. 
 The boss fights are amazing and they are creatively done. Combos are now easier to pull off in 
 this game and more moves are available for Dante and the story kept me interested through out the 
 whole game. Now the only problem that I have in the game are the shadows. Through out parts of 
 the whole game, the shadows sort of become blocky and out of focus and they should have fixed it, 
 but other than that it is one of my favorite games for the ps3 and another thing good about it 
 is the replay value. You can unlock some artwork, costumes, and a higher difficulty setting for 
 it. Overall I think Devil May Cry 4 is a great game and everyone should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squallzxyz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Very few things can describe how much I have enjoyed playing Devil May Cry 4. I guess the only 
 thing that I can relate it to is DMC3 which was also a very fun game. It has a new character which 
 is obvious to those familiar with the DMC series. The game also has some different playing mechanics 
 which I found to be a noticeable change but welcome.
  First off DMC4 pretty much reinvented its characters and how you play with them, for one, Nero 
 has the distinct hack-and-shoot formula that is signature to the series but also has some attributes 
 that are completely new, I originally thought this would be a let down but found it to be a very 
 welcome surprise. Nero varies heavily from the playing style most DMC fans have grown accustomed 
 to, for he doesn't have interchangeable fighting styles but just a single style, which is the only 
 way I would've wanted it even if I had a choice. The Devil Bringer (Nero's arm) adds a new element 
 to the game which allows you to choose your fights even more than what the targeting system allowed. 
 Also the Red Queen (Nero's sword) has a cool excel system which allows you to decimate your opponent 
 with a few hits. The excel system has a lot going for it since you will have new combos and stronger/longer 
 attacks but I personally found the Excel system to be more of a slapped on feature which I found 
 easier to neglect than to use except for certain instances. 
  Dante, this time around, still has his 4 unique fighting styles which look even more impressive 
 than they did before. The major change with Dante is that you have access to multiple fighting 
 styles which can be changed on the fly, each individual style can be upgraded through 4 levels 
 of varying usefulness. He still has Rebellion (his sword) , Ebony & Ivory (dual pistols) , and Coyote-A 
 (shotgun) . Dante is far more powerful than Nero is, once you are able to play as him it will be 
 somewhat disappointing ever having to go back to Nero.
  One final change from what has become the norm for the series is that you no longer use Red Orbs 
 as your universal currency to purchase items, upgrades, and styles. Instead red orbs are exclusively 
 for items. you are awarded Proud Souls after each mission, which are used to purchase new abilities 
 and upgrade weapons instead of the Orbs. They seemed rather scarce in my play through so I found 
 them to be more of an annoyance than having to stockpile orbs.
  The Game has an awesome story as always and I did enjoy the unique bosses as well as the hilarious 
 ways Nero uses the Devil Bringer to decimates bosses when you grapple them (think of Kratos from 
 God of War and how he tears things to pieces) . The story line can be a little cheesy and the... 
 physics of female characters are overdone but in spite of, the story was a driving force to play 
 through the game other than how enjoyable the combat system is. Speaking of which the weapons and 
 skills are just plain awe inspiring, by the time one starts to get just a little old you obtain 
 an all new skill or weapon with more flash and style than the one previously. In a way just the 
 weapons and skills themselves seem like enough to battle through to the end.
  The controls to the game are top notch rarely have I felt so immersed and acted so instinctively 
 in a game. Sometimes the camera would have a fixed position to display the grand scale of something 
 but those instances were few and far between, camera control is left to the user for a majority 
 of the game so all the people who claim it to be a problem are either unable to adapt to the simple 
 design or are talking about boss battles where the camera does its best to stay on the enemy, which 
 has more than once caused me to change from sprinting away to charging head on to what was an otherwise 
 dodged attack.
  The Graphics aren't necessarily top of the line, they are a huge leap from the previous entries 
 but are far from shoulder to shoulder with today's best. The character voice acting is better then 
 most games I have played and that is saying a lot for the large amount of cut scenes this game 
 has.
  Overall for those who are a fan of the Devil May Cry series this is a must have, for those who 
 enjoy beat'em up games like Ninja Gaiden, God of War, Heavenly Sword, etc. this is a must play, 
 and anyone who just enjoys games where you start to feel like a bad ass a few minutes in and enjoy 
 the feeling the whole time through this is a absolute must rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  If you have played through the Devil May Cry series on PS2 you'll know whats gonna happen in this 
 one, story takes place after Devil May Cry 1 and a few peiceses from Devil May Cry 3. Set in a 
 Catle town called Fortuna a group knowen as Order of the Sword practices a religion so mysterious, 
 no outsider would know about it. The Order of the sword fought to protect mankind. They revere 
 the demon warrior Sparda as their God, and thir hatred of all the other demons run deep. Your main 
 charcter is not Dante this time you play as Nero quite alot who is apart of the Order but recently 
 had a minor injury to his right shoulder but he finds out that his arm has Devil Power. When you 
 first start playing the game you see Dante assassinating the Holyness and your saying What!!!!!! 
 becuase people thought that Sparda turned evil but he doesn't the story gets more intering after 
 halfway through the game. Nero has to go on a journey fight Demons and tracking down Dante and 
 also protecting Kyrie who is Nero's lover it's mostly about love near the end.
  
  Gameplay works the same as Devil May Cry 3 but as Nero you can use Devil Bringer where you can 
 grab eneimes or sloving puzzles in the game and also doinbg special attacks during boss battles. 
 Playing as Dante looks the same as Devil May Cry 3. Pending on what difficulty you want to play 
 on Human for beginniners or Devil Hunter for those who live to tell the tale, or Son of Sparda 
 mode which is hard mode. Also stylish is still the same in the series. There is also Bloody Place 
 which is Survial mode and Online Ranking which is your total score or score in each level and you 
 can view your friends score too. But the online Ranking which I heard is only on PS3 not 360. Becuase 
 DMC fans weren't happy that it was on Xbox 360.
  Graphics and sounding look brillient and the cutscenes wre pretty wow feels like your watching 
 a good movie and the gameplay graphics were quite slick, loads of slashing and killing.
  
  As a Devil May Cry fan anathor great game to play and a good story thinking is there going to be 
 a Devil May Cry 5. Once you beaten the game once you can go through it again and again, should 
 keep you busy for months. There's not many PS3 games out at the moment but Devil May Cry 4 is somthing 
 to slash your way through specially if you wanted to see Dante doing somthing crazy and the history 
 of Sparda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Some people just dont get it. They dont get the wonderful humor that is DMC. They actually have 
 the guts to complain about DMC4s cheesy dialogue and over the top cutscenes. They are actually 
 complaining about the female characters that are as over the top sexy as Dante is over the top 
 cool. My opinion is that Devil May Cry 4 is one of the funnist games I have ever played, and I 
 mean that in the pure "humor" sense of the word. The cutscenes are completely soaked in the best 
 fighting coreography I have ever witnessed and the most wonderfully cheesy dialogue I have ever 
 listened to and you can do nothing but love it. To hear the line "I wish you had noticed me a little 
 earlier, now my coat is all burned" from Dante while hes sitting on the tail of a burning demon 
 with one foot on top of the tail, trying to get the huge demons attention is awesome combined with 
 the technometal that is slowly building up in the background as the demon gets enraged and Dante 
 jumps off the tail. The coreography of the cutscenes are so good I feel the movieindustry should 
 take a look at the game the next time they want to make cool actionscenes. Theres actionscenes 
 in this game that just make you literally laugh out loud. Well, if you remember the cutscenes from 
 Devil May Cry 3 you already know what im talking about, only this time they are accompanied by 
 breathtaking HD visuals.
  
  DMC4 is also an extremely beautiful game, and I just dont mean technically. The opening intro with 
 the new playable character Nero running down the street slashing up demons on his way to not miss 
 his girlfriends operaperformance in the church almost want to make me cry. The clear, wonderful 
 vocals of his beloved Kyrie singing the most beautiful operaserenade my ears have ever heard are 
 filling my room with emotion while you catch glimpses of her standing in the church singing and 
 Nero hacking and slashing his way through hordes of demons is really the best introducion this 
 game could possibly have. Theres also alot of cutscenes showing Neros emotions for his Kyrie very 
 openly and the love grows while you play the game. The contrast between the extreme coolness and 
 the extreme romance and deep feelings shown works very well.
  
  Alright. So DMC4 is a hack n slash oriented actiongame from the producer of Resident Evil 4, Hiroyuki 
 Kobayashi. The man is a genious when it comes to making stylish, intimate action, awesome cutscenes 
 and superb story, because yea, DMC has a story you actually care for this time around.
  A religious order in a small coastal village are trying to wake up a god. Nero has some kind of 
 demon arm that he isnt sure why he has or what it is and the game starts off with Dante putting 
 a bullet through the head of the Orders high priest for some reason. Neros beloved Kyrie gets dragged 
 into this mess, the powers of Neros arm awakens and Dantes motives becomes more and more clear 
 as Nero sets off to find him after the assassination. And who is the mysterious Gloria and how 
 does it all tie together with the legend of Sparda and the legendary sword Yamato.
  The story actually goes way deeper, feautures a guest appearance from Lady, a trip back to Dantes 
 Devil May Cry club and unravels alot before the final confrontation and it suprised me by being 
 interesting the whole way through.
  
  You play half the game as Nero. This young, smartmouthed kid with white hair and a trenchcoat, 
 much like a young Dante. Only Nero has this Demon arm that he can use to grab enemies or objects 
 to pull himself through the air. This arm, combined with swordcombos serves up some insanely satisfying 
 combat where you launch an enemy up into the air, pull yourself up after him, hit him with a long 
 sword combo, the pull him back up to you, hit him again, slam him down into the ground, pull yourself 
 off to a flying demon next to you keeping yourself airborne, hit that flying demon, drag yourself 
 off to the next flying demon, hit it, then drag yourself back to the first one .e. t. c It serves 
 as a huge help when it comes to juggling enemies and keeping yourself airborne. It also serves 
 for grabbing enemies and throwing them in different cool motions and it has a huge role to play 
 versus the games many bosses. Almost in every case you are supposed to weaken the boss until you 
 can get a good hold on it with your demon arm. This will trigger an insane combo where Nero grabs 
 the boss and do some crazy stuff with him/her/it taking away a huge chunk of health from it. Nero 
 dosent have any "styles" tho. No "Swordmaster" or "Gunslinger". Nero is a bit easier to play compared 
 to Dante and serves as a good warmup for the 2nd part of the game.
  
  After half the game you switch and start to play as Dante and it feels like DMC3 all over again 
 but with an older, wiser and more calmed down version of him. Nero has taken over the impatient, 
 childish part while Dante always remains cool and calm and often calls Nero for "kid". Dante has 
 his standard sword, guns and 4 fightingstyles wich can all be upgraded with points you collect 
 over the course of each mission. You also gather red orbs just like before that you can use to 
 buy items to help you along the way.
  Overall the combat with both guys are extremely satisfying. DMC4 really shows how combat in this 
 type of game should work. Combos are stringing together to form beautiful fights that feel like 
 they are rocking your world even without rumble in the controller. The combat feels hard, dynamic, 
 fast and very very fun. I cant help but feel sorry for previous games of this type on the PS3 because 
 this game makes them all look like pathetic attemps at making great combat. Combat dosent get more 
 satisfying than in this game and its what drives you forward.
  
  DMC4 is the most streamlined version in the series so far. Everyone can now find their difficulty. 
 For some reason some hardcore fans think this is a bad thing but play through the game once on 
 the "hard" difficulty and youll unlock even harder modes. On the other hand you can chose "human" 
 when starting a new game and you can enjoy the game start to finish without even dying if thats 
 your thing. You can even set the game to pull off "Automatic combos" for you so just just have 
 to buttonmash to see this huge array of supercombos. Theres really no reason to miss out on this 
 great actiongame now.
  
  The bosses are some of the most satisfying bosses since the classic NES & SNES days. I cant even 
 begin to explain the adrenalinerush that kicks in after the "bossintro" cutscene when a superb 
 technosong kicks in and makes your subwoofer cry. This huge thing stands in front of you and starts 
 to load up its first patterns of attacks. When you manage to get a couple of really good 4 or 5 
 hit combos off on it you feel so good about yourself you wanna drop the controller and go "YEA 
 BABY YEA". When finishing it & seeing it die in a spectacular manner I almost feel like its the 
 best game ever, every time. Saying to myself "did I just pull those insane combos off" "Did I just 
 beat that? WOW"
  
  When it comes to its presentation, DMC4 gains as much bonuspoints as you can get. The presentation 
 in this game is flawless. The visuals are stunning. Some of the environments are on par with the 
 best looking stuff I have seen in videogaming, inclusing a djungle that was almost on par with 
 Uncharted. The characters animate so beautiful it even blows these superanimation-games like Uncharted 
 away and dont even get me started on the characterdesign. One word. Awesome. Every character is 
 designed to be the coolest videogame characters ever and almost everyone are. Every piece of clothing, 
 every weapon they carry, and all the little details like leatherbracelets and sunglasses makes 
 me totally fall in love with the character design. They really have unique personalities that really 
 shines through. Before playing the game I almost felt like Dante and Nero were the same person. 
 Now, after finishing it, they couldnt be more different. Now I dont think they have any deisngfeat 
 in common except the hair. Trish is one of the coolest digital women you can lay your eyes on and 
 its a real shame she only appears in 2 or 3 cutscenes total.
  
  The music is a bit more widespread this time around. You have your standard technometal that kicks 
 in when theres enemies spawning and you have a unique track in the same genre at every boss. Then 
 you have this beautiful classical scores with violin, stunning operavocals and so much emotion 
 you want to cry. In some occasions theres these superepic tunes that sound like they were picked 
 straight out of a Hans Zimmer soundtrack. All said and done the soundtrack is perfect except from 
 the fact that you get pretty tired of the tune that plays exacly the same way in every monsterspawn 
 battle.
  
  Very sadly not everything in DMC4 is perfect tho. First of all, yea... theres backtracking.. and 
 yea, backtracking sucks. The game is so bad at telling you where to go in some instances I actually 
 managed to backtrack myself back to the start of the game after playing for 2 hours. And the thing 
 that really bothers me is that its actually possible to do so. The game dosent tell you "Hey, stop, 
 youre going in the wroooong direction dude". The minimap dosent help you either. No little arrow 
 or pointer as to where you are supposed to be heading. There are some parts of the game where you 
 end up running around confused in circles thinking "ok, thats it, Im checking an online guide right 
 now". As if this wasnt enough the whole 2nd part of the game, where you play as Dante is the exact 
 same stages as the first part of the game, the only difference being that you are backtracking 
 your way back to the beginning of the game again instead of going forward. So Half the game is 
 you, completing the same stages you have already completed for 5 hours but in reverse order. This 
 is very unfortunate. It would have been more fun to play levels unique to Dante or if they would 
 at least have thrown in some unique stuff for Dante to do on the levels.
  
  Another thing that I cant let go is the camera combined with the unprecise jumping controls. The 
 camera can really work against you sometimes. More often than not you can adjust the camera but 
 I really shouldnt have to adjust it in every room I enter.
  
  The most important thing about this game tho is that is so much "cooler" than pretty much anything. 
 Every designchoice was made towards the vision to make this the defenition of the word COOL and 
 when it comes to cool looking action theres really nothing that matches DMC4. The attention to 
 detail in cutscenes, characters, battles and combos are so well made towards this vision. And to 
 anyone that actually complains on cheesy dialogue, over the top crazy actionscenes or women with 
 sexy clothes: Get over yourselves & get a sense of humor while youre at it.
  Even tho I backtack way more than I want to I couldnt stop playing because I wanted to see the 
 next cutscene and I wanted to get to the next battle, and that feeling never ever fades and I really 
 did not want the game to end. Im goint to ramp up the difficulty and get another playthrough before 
 putting this game on the shelf, and this time I know where to backtrack! I am being a bit generous 
 with the score here but theres so much in this game worth saluting it weighs up some sloppy designchoices. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strikepheonix5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game clearly earns the dmc series a spot with all the other top hack and slasher games. 
 
  
  Gameplay-The fighting system near to a masterpiece. It allows inexperienced gamers to hack and 
 slash all they want and it allows true gamers to unleash awesome and tricky combos. The combat 
 system is very detialed and offers a lot of combat options ,unlike alot of hack and slashers. As 
 you progress through the story players will be able to purchase more moves and abilities. By the 
 time u earn all the additional moves, you will have alot of options of attacks. Players will most 
 likely wont be able to unlock them all on one play through so this can help will the replayability. 
 Some enemys can be really easy and some can be really hard. Boss fights are very awesome to play. 
 Every boss is unique and present a different challenge. There usually pretty hard but they feel 
 very rewarding once u have beaten them. They are probably are the best boss fights in series and 
 is probably some of the best bosses in the hack and slash genre. Its nice how many difficulties 
 there are and will let any gamer always recieve a challenge. I felt the gun for Nero is a little 
 to weak is not really useful, but the devil bringer is truly an awesome addition. It allows players 
 to have non stop combos. The devil bringer's coolist ability is its ability to grab enemies from 
 a distance and bring them to you. Both Nero and Dante rule and both offer different types of fighting 
 styles. Once and a while the camera can be a problem, but the camera will never be a problem during 
 almost all combat situations. Puzzles are really simple and due a decet job of varying the game 
 play. Luckly there are not that many of them. Overal the combat is crazy fun and fast and has alot 
 of depth.
  
  Story- Well.. the story is pretty good. I mean its not even close to mgs story standards, but its 
 clearly above the average game story. The theme is mostly "More then meets the eye". Its mostly 
 about deception and does a decent job of implacing it. Theres a love story that includes Nero. 
 He has to save the girl he loves from the main bad guy because he he holding her captive. The story 
 does have a little more depth than I say, but I dont wont to spoil anything for people.
  
  Presentation- The graphics are beautiful. Capcom did a real good job here. One graphic problem 
 is that some of the shadows objects display are pretty ugly. Only in some scenes is problem noticible 
 in. The art style is real nice and uses the same gothic style in the rest of the series. Enemys 
 look awesome and truly look like evil demons from hell. The music is still the traditional heavy 
 metal present in the rest of the series and almost has no change in it. The charactor dialog can 
 be corny and dramatic at times, but the actors did a nice job with the script the writters gave 
 them. For some reason I like some of the corny dialog. I guess I got used to it.
  
  Replayability- You will get alot out of this game if u buy it. It has achievements ,yes u heard 
 me the ps3 version has achievements. They can only seen by your friends who have the game. The 
 allow you to play with Dante and Nero over many difficulties. Once u beat the game u can play with 
 Dante and Nero on any level. There are secret missions hidden in each level and they present a 
 good challenge. There is a good amount of unlockable content available in the game. Upgrading both 
 Nero and Dante fully can take a while. Ur charactor upgrades will stay with ur charactors and will 
 never reset back to the beginning charactor status, so this means u can keep ur upgraded charactor 
 through our all the difficulties.
  
  This game is a clear buy if u like killing demons in a very painful and fast paced manor.
  
 
  I give it a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Where to start...
  WOW What a game. I have not yet completed it thought but i am about halfway through (I think) but 
 i still know how well it plays. 
  The story is incredible and will have you guessing at every turn, and wanting to watch more. The 
 Cut-Scene graphics surpass Heavenly Sword's previously unprecidented level with ease, and the entire 
 game looks great, with bright colours in the Forest sections, and dark, gothics colours and environments 
 in such places as the castle.
  The Boss Fights on this game are truly epic, and create an incredible "I cant ****ing believe I 
 just killed that" feeling when they are over. 
  The sound and music througout the game is immense and creates a real world around the protagonists. 
 
  Talking of which, the main characters, both of which are playable, Nero and Dante - the main character 
 from the other 3 DMC games - have very different skills, mainly based around Nero's right arm, 
 the "Devli Bringer" which, as you have probably guessed, contains Demonic power. 
  Nero can use this is a number of ways, flinging his foes left and right and then pulling them in 
 using the "snatch" ability, then thowing them up and slamming them back down with "buster". You 
 might think that this sounds an easy way out and a simple way to play the game, but in the Boss 
 battles it cannot always be used to hurt them, but using snatch you can dodge their attacks by 
 climbing up them. 
  Dante does not have a demonic power, but his sowrd "Rebellion" is an incredibly powerful artefact, 
 passed down to him from his father, Sparda. 
  His pistols are much more useful than Nero's "Blue Rose" revolver, and look to be a black and a 
 white pair of desert eagles, named "Ebony & Ivory". 
  They fire at a much increased rate to Nero's, and are more powerful. 
  Overall, this is one of 
 the most fun and diverse games that i have played, and in Collectors Edition guise comes complete 
 with a metal tin and a book of exclusive artwork. 
  Fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drac96
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Gamespots review of 8 I couldn't believe it. At the point I read the review I 
 was not yet halfway through the game. The first half you play as the new Character Nero. His devil 
 arm adds all new depth to Devil May Cry. It's really fun to use, which is not what i was expecting 
 at all. Like every Devil May Cry game with the exception of DMC2 it had an amazing opening cinematic, 
 and the rest that followed were awesome as well. They flow very nicely with the story. The difficulty 
 level seems to me like it is on a lower setting than the rest of the games. However then halfway 
 through the game it takes a turn in the sheer awesomeness. This is the point when you switch characters, 
 and are Dante. Now as awesome as Dante is, I felt wierd going back to his play style. To top that 
 off they literally recycled multiple levels Nero had to go through exactly. The only difference 
 were a few harder monsters, and random barriers. Most of the bosses you gight with Dante are the 
 exact same ones Nero defeated earlier. This does not stop the game from being addicing. I still 
 find the story to be amazing, and the controls are easy to pull off. This game could have been 
 near perfect if they had decided not to recycle numerous levels, and add in the backtracking. 
 
  
  Overall if you are a fan of the DMC series you'll love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diaz429
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome if you like destroying demons with a great number of combos. Getting 
 more combos will keep you playing the game over and over. Also getting special abilities will be 
 fun to use once you get them. Also the battle palace is a good thing to use your abilities on to 
 smash on enemies. This game has many things to keep you busy. Especially with all the achievements 
 you'll want to get. The switch over to Dante might make your controls different, but it is not 
 as bad as it sounds. You get used to his controls in your first mission with him. Nero's Devil 
 Bringer is the best essential in the game, i believe. The Secret missions though range from simple 
 to impossible. It also depends on who your playing that you can complete the mission. This game 
 in all of its glory is fun as HELL, killing demons with a superb number of combos. Buy this game 
 if your interested and never played a devil may cry before. I suggest you try the Demo though first 
 to see if you like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironwulfen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  I tried the demo. I bought the game. I was pleasantly suprised.
  
  Yes, I am a total newcomer to the Devil May Cry series, and even though I've heard many good things 
 about the games, I still had not tried any of them. So, when I saw there was a demo for DMC4 on 
 Playstation Store, I thought that now was the time. I downloaded the game, installed it, and started 
 playing immediately.
  
  It was not very long, but the game was really fun to play and it looked fantastic! Soon thereafter 
 I checked the release date and booked a copy from my local EB Games store. I fetched it from the 
 store on the release date and I went home to play. 
  
  The game starts with it needing to install around 4gigs of game data onto the hard drive and, needless 
 to say, it takes quite a while, but for the newcomer the wait can now be used possitively; Namco 
 has included a resume of plot developments of the earlier games, so that the newcomer and the veteran 
 alike can be informed/reminded of the previous events which have led up to DMC4. It takes about 
 one third of the time, which the ps3 uses to save the game data, to see the aforementioned feature 
 and afterwards it will be shown again and again, untill it's done saving to the hard drive.
  
  After the saving had be done, I got to dig into the good stuff. The game starts out with a 
 nice tutorial which pits you, as the main protagonist, Nero, against Dante, from the previous DMC 
 games, in a one on one fight. There are quite a few cutscenes which split the tutorial into parts, 
 which helps the story progress even though it's a tutorial. You will soon have an insight into 
 the basic controls and you're now ready to go on further. 
  
  I won't tell anymore of the plot, as that would be ruining the experience, but the game is a blast 
 to play and it has taken some effort for me to put it aside and come here to review the game... 
 So all I can say right now is that the game is the best game I've played for quite some time and 
 I think it is a must buy!
  
  Gorgeous, fast-paced, tricky and just awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid0112
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to buy this game. I stood in Best Buy for 30 minutes staring at the game wondering 
 if I should buy it. I bought it and began playing it that day. I have not been this impressed with 
 many PS3 games in awhile.
  
  1) The graphics and sound rock.
  2) Very cool story line.
  3) The fighting is awesome. It is not too hard but hard enough. Even the end bosses - they are 
 somewhat hard but impossible to beat. I have to give the game credit for that. I can't stand games 
 that are moderately hard through the levels of play and then the end boss is nearly impossible 
 to beat (i. e. Heavenly Sword) . Also, there are several style in your fighting that you can do which 
 allows one to mix things up a bit when they fight - not leaving them to kill enemies the same way 
 through the entire game. The weapons that are used are really cool too.
  4) Opposed to what GameSpot said as a negative - about the mini puzzles you have to solve in the 
 game - I would have to say while I dislike lots of puzzles in games, these are not too hard which 
 allows the player to move along quickly to some more fighting action.
  5) Overall, I just think this game rocks. Games are made to be a means of entertainment for us 
 and this one has certainly done the job for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reckeweg
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Its so nice what your expectations for a game and the game itself arrive in balance. That is just 
 what we have here with Capcoms latest entry into the Devil May Cry franchise. The very first thing 
 you'll notice is how absolutely gorgeous the game is. It is truly a beautiful work of art. I think 
 Capcom knows this too because the theater mode will basically let you watch all the cutscenes back 
 to back like a movie. You can see every item, monster and weapon up close to look at all the fantastic 
 detail. 
  
  
  You start off the game as newcomer Nero a Dantesque looking fellow wih attitude to match. Now I 
 knew right off the bat if Capcom didn't pull this character off the game was going fail. I am glad 
 to say that Nero is everything he was hyped to be. The Devil Bringer mechanic brings a whole new 
 style of combo pain. 
  
  Your basic game mechanics are still the same. You have various colored obs that allow you to shop, 
 heal, and so forth. The tight control over the character is great. The same camera control problems 
 are there since the first game but now thats part of its charm. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianLittrell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. Great graphics, grea story, great voice acting & just amazing artistic 
 value. This game deffies what this series. Nero brings a great sense of wit to the game and just 
 makes this game great. The story flows well, the puzzles keep it fresh and the bosses are spectaculer. 
 The music is top notch and the charecter design is phenominal . I rerommend this game to anyone 
 who loves perfection! This games has all the elements to close out for a sick ending. Capcom is 
 back on the map with this and I appreciate there desire to continue to better themselves over and 
 over. yaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa! IT RROOOOO OOOOO OOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOOOO OOOOOOOO OOCCCCCC CCKKKK KKKK 
 KKKK KKK KSS SSSSSS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall_g
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, and I hope I can make this right. So I brought the DMC4 yesterday and 
 so far I played 5 chapters and I'm enjoying this game so far, and here's what I have to say about 
 this game:
  
  1  Gameplay: the normal fight is solid, 100% offensive, marvelous, addictive and it can bring 
 a lot of fun for those who had experienced the other dmc series. The boss fights are the best at 
 this game and not hard as the other ones which bring more excitement and joy to fight them. The 
 puzzles are simple to understand and it's not hard to get lost because the linearity is the rule 
 of this game. We still have upgrades to make to Nero and his abilities and secret missions, which 
 is pretty cool wasting some time to with that. I really like it. 
  However there are some issues about it like the camera problems, or the failing control to jump 
 platforms or using the Nero's Devil Arm that sometimes can be annoying. 
  
  2  Graphics: good quality, however I believe that could be better like putting more real physic 
 at the game and more interactive scenario where the player can use more objects to strike down 
 the demons and stuff like that, not to mention the shadow quality where we can see some problems 
 between the light and the shadow that does a bad effect, but it's not that bad. However the look 
 of the characters and the cutscenes are still amazing.
  
  3  Story line: Not much to tell, it's sequel of the DMC 2, and I hope I can see more of Dante's 
 life, Nero and Sparda. More than this I need to see more about it so far it's always great learning 
 more about the DMC.
  
  4  General look: all I have to say that Capcom made a good move to conceive this game. The action 
 scenes are amazing, the fight choreography is marvelous and I believe that's better than a lot 
 of action movies that we have seen from Hollywood. The voice actors done a good job and the script 
 are not bad all, the soundtrack sounds like 90's style and still it's great to hear them. 
  
  In the end I believe that DMC 4 is a solid game, but still the Capcom needs to improve more 
 about it, like to put more gothic scenarios, more interactive gameplay because most of times it 
 can be a little repetitive smashing, shooting and slashing demons all the way, and then they could 
 make fight choreographies where the player could use a single button push in order the character 
 to make his special move (well it's just an idea and it can work, like the other games we have 
 seen so far like RE4, Indigo Prophecy, Heavenly Sword) , and put some extras like to control Trish 
 and Lady in extra missions or something like that, it would be great if that kind of things can 
 happen in a possible DMC 5. 
  
  But in short, I'm enjoying playing DMC 4 and it's a game to stay in heart for a very long time 
 and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chain_Strike
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  ok let me start out by saying holy crap this game is SOOO FREAKING AWESOME! 
  
  graphics: wow.... just wow the visuals and cutscenes are wonderful. never seen a PS3 game look SOOOOOOOOO 
 WICKED! 
  
  gameplay: *bounces around the room* you know back in DMC3 when you could only have one style at 
 a time and have to switch it at a divinity statue? WELL NO MORE NOW YOU CAN SWITCH BETWEEN DANTE'S 
 4 STYLES ON THE GO!!!! just think of the amazing combo's you can pull off. and cant forget about 
 teh amazing devil bringer (its for nero) i dont want to spoil anything. youll find out for yourself. 
 
  
  sound/music: its awesome need i say more?
  
  replay value: pfft you can play this game over and over again to your hearts content! higher difficulties, 
 harder enemies/bosses. its AWESOME AND A HALF! oh and im a vet and even on normal it gave me a 
 challenge. and that doesnt happen to often. :D so dont expect this game to be easy.
  
  all in all dont rent this game buy it! if your into hack n slash games like this with an awesome 
 story and making STYLISH COMBO's during gameplay. 
  
  but in the end its your choice and your judgement to what you think about this game. i think its 
 better then perfect! this game DESERVES AN 11!
  
  well thats all for now! until next time! ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Xavier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Short review:
  Very pretty,
  but this game goes nowhere the previous haven't gone as far as combat is concerned, and since combat 
 is essential to a game like this, it is massively flawed because of it.
  To all of those who were expecting a serious next gen update to their favourite series, they will 
 be disappointed. Amazing graphics do not save this one from what it truly is, and that is, a last 
 gen game with a current gen graphics make over.
  The storyline is also flawed, it has this whole "who cares" aspect about it, it's just not engrossing 
 in any way, and the new character, Nero, is no Dante, simple as that. 
  I have enjoyed DMC games in the past, but, this one really let me down, I purchased it the first 
 day it hit the shelves, but, regret that, wishing I had simply rented it, I had some fun, but not 
 near enough to justify the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Rick
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2005 of E3 when Capcom show DMC4 demonstration video and finally TGS 2005 with rugged dante 
 city like, that is the main reason why i bought PS3 just for this game. I purchase my DMC4 at gamestop 
 for Collector's Edition along with prima guide book then i got home i have to wait 22 minutes install 
 my hard drive after 22 minutes is up then i have finally play DMC4 the longest wait game since 
 2005 it was feel like i was in Fortune (the game setting) Nero is awesome character much like dante 
 but different moves nero can perform devil bringer but dante don't. The setting of this game take 
 place in Fortuna take place after both DMC1 and anime the main protagonist is Nero and Dante is 
 supporting character which you can play with him after you done playing Nero at the end of mission 
 11. Dante's moves look identical as DMC3 but different devil trigger the stinger attack look aggressively 
 the style moves u can perform in D-pad button anytime you want too even you jump u can perform 
 too, well that's it for now i can't tell you too much spoil you have to play the game for find 
 out.
  
  Graphics: True Next-Gen for PS3 and Xbox 360, beautiful much realistic in Fortuna town, Castle, 
 Jungle and Order of the Sword HQ if you OWN HDTV up to 720p with good HD cable.
  
  Gameplay: Fun, non-stop action, true hack and slash game, Excced gauge wasn't bad but is powerful 
 deliver bigger blow for powerful enemies and boss.
  
  Value: Well if you got either PS3 or Xbox 360 you won't miss out this great game. Highly Recommend 
 you buy this game IF you are a hack and slash or any DMC fans out there.
  
  Thank you Capcom for all your hard work been paid off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebook07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  
  Long ago the Dark Knight Sparda rebelled against the dark emperor and waged a one-man war to save 
 humanity. Thousands of years later, a religious organization worships this renowned savior and 
 has taken it upon themselves to rid the world of all evil. Residing in Fortuna, this organization 
 is known as the "Order of the Sword," and is made up of an elite group of "Holy Knights." One day 
 a young knight named Nero witnesses Sparda's legendary son Dante slaughter his fellow warriors. 
 Has the renowned devil hunter turned his back on mankind? What does this encounter mean for these 
 two individuals?
  
  In Devil May Cry 4, players control the formidable Nero who comes to grips with his newly found 
 power as his beliefs and allegiance are tested. Continuing the legacy of fast paced action synonymous 
 with the series, Devil May Cry 4 pushes the envelope of excellence even further with the inclusion 
 of a new combat system that incorporates Nero's "Devil Bringer." This new feature has players delivering 
 overwhelming damage to enemies with non-stop combos, while gaining new power for Nero's right arm. 
 With the PlayStation 3 system's advanced graphical capabilities, high definition visuals and intricate 
 detail come to life as players explore new and exotic locales. Amazing visual effects and dynamic 
 action coupled with a complex storyline, provides the very cool, slick and stylish attitude that 
 only a Devil May Cry game can deliver
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Devil May Cry series is one that has had its ups and downs. The first Devil May Cry was an 
 innovative tribute to past action games and one of the first thoroughly enjoyable 3-D action games 
 of its time. It had style and substance. It is still copied off of till this day by big name action 
 series including the famous God of War and the game by which all 3-D action games are measured. 
 Devil May Cry 2 was a gravely disappointing sequel that left fans astonished that they could mess 
 something up that bad. It had no style, the action wasn't nearly as well done, and the story wasn't 
 slightly as enjoyable as the first game. Devil May Cry 3 was a return to form for Capcom and also 
 a prequel to the first Devil May Cry. It had its style and substance back and then some. It had 
 more options for which to mess around with than basically the first two games combined. It was 
 also brutally challenging leading Capcom to release a Special Edition with a toned down difficulty. 
 So where exactly does Devil May Cry 4 fit into all of this?
  
  Devil May Cry 4 takes place after the first Devil May Cry, but before the second. A cult group 
 know as the "Order of the Sword" is having one of their meetings with which new main character 
 Nero is attending after being late, thanks to being attacked by demons. After Kyrie, a new character 
 that Nero is in love with finishes her song she was singing, the sermon starts. Nero's devil arm 
 starts to glow and all of a sudden Dante, the main character of all the previous Devil May Cry 
 games, jumps through the glass ceiling and starts raging havoc on all of the attendees. Nero and 
 Dante have a heated battle, which neither really wins, then the Order of the Sword orders Nero 
 to hunt down Dante after he leaves. From there on out there will be some twists and turns that 
 happen as you play, but it isn't anything out of the ordinary storylines of Devil May Cry. There 
 are many new characters to meet, and also a few from past games that series fans will definitely 
 remember. The cutscenes throughout the game are very impressive with some very visually pleasing 
 action sequences that you would likely see in a big-budget Hollywood blockbuster. Nero is a very 
 serious character with a wise crack sense of humor. Dante on the other hand just comes off as cheesy 
 most of the time, especially in one scene where he decides he wants to tango. It definitely is 
 cringe worthy, but most of the others scenes carry along the story nicely.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, if you have played Devil May Cry game before, then you will know what 
 to expect here. Nero is the new main character as mentioned before, and he controls quite differently 
 from Dante. He is slightly slower, but has many combos he can pull of thanks to his "devil bringer", 
 his demon infested arm. He can grab enemies that are close to him and slam them into the ground 
 as well as snatch them from across the stage and pull them toward him. These are both very handy 
 in pulling off stylish combos. Nero also has something new called the exceed meter, where you can 
 rev up his sword to do more damage. While you are executing the basic hack and slash combos, you 
 can press the L2 button right after Nero attacks with each sword swing and the exceed meter will 
 automatically fill up. It is definitely a very hard timing to pull off, but one that brings in 
 more damage to the enemy. Also, while you have the exceed meter filled up you can execute more 
 powerful versions of the other moves Nero has in the game. After about half-way through the game 
 though, you do get to play as the series veteran Dante, who controls almost identically like he 
 did in Devil May Cry 3. He is fast and ferocious, but also feels somewhat limited in Devil May 
 Cry 4 compared to the previous game. Nonetheless he has some very impressive weapons at his disposal 
 with which you can master to get your stylish combos off. He also has 5 different styles that you 
 can now switch on the fly with the D-pad, making combos easier to pull off.
  
  Most of the gameplay throughout the game is simply hack and slash your way through some enemies 
 to unlock the next door in a series of rooms while throwing in a traditional puzzle and some platforming. 
 The puzzles and platforming, much like in previous games, can be tedious and unnecessary at times, 
 but nothing that will ruin the experience or make you want to quite the game. Hacking and Slashing 
 through waves of enemies gets repetitious in most other action games, but thanks to Devil May Cry 
 4's stellar combat system, this isn't the case. Boss fights are always at the end of a level, and 
 definitely the highlight of the experience, although not every single mission has a boss fight 
 in it. They are challenging, but not impossibly difficult like in Devil May Cry 3. Just like in 
 the other games, there are secret missions scattered throughout the level, but alot of them you 
 can't do until later after you have gotten the right weapon or move to use in them. At the end 
 of every mission you are ranked based on your performance, just like in the past, but what is different 
 is that you get "proud souls" based on your performance. Proud Souls are used to buy all of your 
 moves and skills with Nero and Dante, so you get rewarded with a better performance. You can also 
 unlearn a skill and get all the souls back if you don't like the move and want to try another one. 
 Red orbs are still in the game as well, but they are only used to buy items this time. Many series 
 fans will appreciate not having to make a difficult decision of either buying a healing item, or 
 taking a risk and buying a skill and hoping they don't die later because of it. Just like Devil 
 May Cry 3 though, you can replay missions at any time. 
  
  In Devil May Cry 4, for the first time in the series, are achievements that show you your accomplishments 
 while playing through the game. They vary from getting so far in the game to pulling off some smokin' 
 stylish combos. While not something completely necessary, they are appreciated nonetheless because 
 most of them are rather hard to unlock and most won't bother with trying once that have played 
 through the game and finished their business .There's also leaderboards you browse through to see 
 how you rank up with other Devil May Cry fans. 
  
  The presentation in Devil May Cry 4 is right on par with the other games in the series, in terms 
 of technical prowess for their respective systems. Devil May Cry 4 is up there as one of the most 
 beautiful games for the next-gen systems so far. Each environment and characters looks stellar, 
 in spite of repeated environments and somewhat look a-like characters. The voice-acting is also 
 superb with some great performances from all the characters. The music is the generic rock music 
 you have heard in the last 3 games, so you know whether or not you dig that sort of thing. Either 
 way, if you are looking for a beautifully crafted action adventure game, Devil May Cry 4 is definitely 
 a good choice.
  
  Devil May Cry 4 is definitely going to be praised as the best game in the series by its many fans, 
 and I would agree. The Story doesn't completely satisfy because they don't go over Nero's connection 
 with Sparda, but it is still the best story in the series so far. Nero is also a fantastic new 
 character that many will cling to. The action is also quite frankly the best in the series thanks 
 to Nero being a fresh new character and the fact that Dante gets some really sweet weapons that 
 outdo anything in the previous games, even if he doesn't get as many. The level design and the 
 overall scheme of the gameplay could probably use a facelift if they decide to do another installment, 
 but Devil May Cry 4 is still the real deal. Anyone with a PS3 and a liking for action games would 
 do well to pick up Devil May Cry 4. They will surely be satisfied with the 12 -15 hours it takes 
 to finish the game. And if they couldn't get enough of that, then there is some sure replayability 
 in this game with the achievements and abilities you can unlock, as well as the new difficulties 
 thrown their way when you beat it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  To put things straight, I have never played a DMC game until now. Big wow. And based upon this 
 outing, I'm not sure wether I'd want to or not. 
  
  See, DMC4 has a rubbish plot, terrible dialogue with mind-grating one liners that are cheesier 
 than Roland Rat's fungal nail infection, and such reptitive sword smashing accompnied by dull, 
 annoying puzzle you will grit your teeth to dust, that the most half of the game is nothing as 
 special as people have made it out to be.
  
  Cutscene may look handsome but Dante and Nero to spurge out some right rubbish and I fail to be 
 in any shape or form involved in the plot, it's a bit naff really.
  
  Puzzles are not great nor fun not brain-stretching you to Kawashima's standards. One "puzzle" involves 
 you smacking the buzz blade thing, and it spins down the corridor and stops. Hit it again and it 
 does the same. Until you hit it for a 25tth Gizzilionth time and it stops and opens a door or a 
 lock or something. It takes ages and is boring. 
  
  Another puzzle involves a dico-dancingesque puzzle floor which involves moving stuff about aswell 
 and that's hardly what I'd call a thrill either.
  
  The problem with these puzzles are it kills the pace, infact it kills it so much it's in a coma. 
 The sowrd play is average with the fantastic combos build and so much momentum and excitement and 
 actaul thrill, that when your faced with a scene that looks similar to Saturday Night Fever, your 
 stomach sinks with disappointment.
  
  one other thing that does slightly dampen the entire experience is the fact you play the story 
 through three times. Each level thrice. OK so the boss battles are fun and you mind them as much, 
 but there is a lot of empty corridors and repetitive slashing to be done again.... then again. 
 
  
  However, on the other hand, combos are highly satifying, Nero is a brilliantly balanced character 
 with one hell of an ace pistol, boss battles are immense and the graphics are beautiful, that the 
 game is worth playing just for those aspects alone.
  
  Boss battles are immensely scaled to gargantuan proportions. They are bloody huge. the hell hound 
 one with the massive flaming monster devil thing, sorry don't know its name, looks stunning. If 
 you have an HD TV you are in for a treat and playing as Nero and Dante fighting this thing gives 
 you two different approaches and skills, making it of a varied interest.
  
  Combos are easy to build up and look spectacular once intiated with razzle and dazzle and both 
 characters carry with them alot of flair and style. Both of whom can be customised and upgraded 
 adding a slight RPG element and tactics to proceedings.
  
  For example Nero can upgrade his Devil Bringer, a neat trick whoch lets you grab enemies n throw 
 them and stuff but its also implemeted in these lame Ratchet and Clank "Swingshot" rip-off sections, 
 which sees Nero hopping from spot to spot. Not as greatly dones as R&C as the camera is absolutely 
 shocking in these parts, but none the less a welcome addition.
  
  The difficulty isn't bad it does pick up momentum sooner rather than later and those expecting 
 a slow ease in might be shocked at the abruptness of this.
  
  Overall, it is hard to recommend DMC4 to everyone, like me, if you're a newbie to the series you 
 may find it all a bit hammy and in your face with crap dialougue and rubbish puzzles, but the veterans 
 of the series will get a kick out of it and find a satifying addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cazual_Thought
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  DMC 4 was nothing short of a beautiful game. Nonstop action, beautiful graphics, great music, and 
 witty humor make this game a must buy! New character Nero is a great addition to the DMC arsenal. 
 Feuds between Nero and Dante make a good match up. (but in my opinion Dante would own)
  
  The game itself was very solid I would say a job well done by CAPCOM. Adding some God of war in 
 game play movie action (only with Nero) was a great touch. Finally going back to the old hot headed, 
 demon slaying, damsel saving, and humorous Dante we all know and fell in love with. Plot was good. 
 Hoping on another chapter.
  
  Game play was user friendly. New Demons, New bosses, New moves
  
  What more is there to say?
 
  
  All and all this was a great game. Defiantly one to put in the collection.
  
  Looking forward to another DMC hopefully in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pestilence
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  That is a very strong and debateable statement, I know but there is no debate that Devil May Cry4 
 is absolutely gorgeous. Come to think of it, the other Capcom game that I have - Lost Planet - 
 is a graphic wonderland as well. 
  
  Games aren't pictures, and we don't just sit around and look at them; we play 'em right!? Right. 
 So, well, how does DMC4 handle? Let me put it the way Jim Carrey said in Ace Ventura Pet Detective..."ehhh 
 like a glove!" DMC4 is button mashing nirvana with combos galore some learned, some bought, some... well 
 you get the idea - more and more become available one way or another througout the game. They are 
 a little cumbersome to try and remember in the beginning but you will get the hang of it and actually 
 it becomes second nature to know which combo to use and when. Trust me I have never played a DMC 
 game before so if I can get the hang of it you can too.
  
  I am about 6 hours into the game and am thoroughly enjoying it so far. Some of the environments 
 are recycled which I don't really understand, and I'm not really that into the story that much 
 - I want action! - hey if I wanted story I'd play Mass Effect, but the fighting is fun (Boss battles 
 especially) , there are lots of cool things to discover, both playable characters bring unique fighting 
 moves to the game, the voice acting is great, and I already told you about the graphics. Also the 
 framerate doesn't suffer at all, it flows very smoothly which is hard to do with great graphics. 
 
  
  All in all I give DMC4 a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfouad
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  well the game is great i played it for 10 hours continuously and i m gonna mad and fan of this 
 game!!!!
  amazing graphics and having super combat very great story and new characters specially neo !!!!!!
 
  well i gave it 10 out of 10 !!!
  its difficulty is just right !!!
  well i cannot describe this game because it is hard to describe !!!
  the gameplay is better and 
 the missions are just right but not better than dmc 3 missions ! !
  well overall the game is perfect for me and for everybody!!!! 
  i will hope in future that dmc 
 makers will give more time to develop great game that is dmc 5 i hope dmc 5 will be the best in 
 series dmc 4 does not make the same best eniviornment that dmc 3 made dmc have great boss fighting 
 that dmc 4 lose it!!
  i think they have to look on that because the whole game is depending on fighting !!!
  so that 
 is my littile review for this great game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_rebelin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  i had been waitin for this game for lik yeaons the day i had finished its 3rd series i was seriously 
 left beggin for more and more.
  
  the one thng i lkd is the 2 new characters u hav in the game 'Dante' and 'Nero' its a nw thng but 
 seriously its smthin which truly makes the game worth spendin all tht dough u have.
  
  while nero has tht devilsh arm of his, its still a real class to play wit ante its just tht his 
 style and attitude is wat truly gives the game a life , direction and hell yeah it makes it real 
 sexy to play along. it smtimes suh a leasure just to watch the cutscenes wit dante in them ( i dn 
 mean i dn lik al the cutscenes its jus tht dante's style is too damn good to be ignored.)
  
  all the good thgs bout game fail to cover up its falls. one thng bout the game is tht most 
 of the cutcenes feel lik a drag of the old ones and there ain't much of a new element which has 
 been added to the gameplay it really bugs u whne u feel tht its just the same thng only in a nw 
 box.
  
  at the end its a great game an seriously deserves to be played even though u can't nominate it 
 for the game of the year in any catagory. but still a must play for hardcore gamers ad devil may 
 cry fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angkawsw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  If you guys remember how original DMC on playstation 2 and how hard and rewarding DMC 3 is, DMC 
 4 is a mixtture of both series and greatly enhancing all aspect, you can expect more rock n roll 
 style action mixed with good storyline and ass kicking. 
  
  With tons of new contents such as new playable characters Nero and how original his play style, 
 DMC 4 is a must have for action lover and DMC series fan. With new graphic engine, this game delivering 
 a stunning 72op HD graphic, good music and great voice acting. 
  
  For the storyline part, CAPCOM manages to wrap up the story in an interesting way, and by allowing 
 us to play both Nero and Dante it gives us a nice changes to avoid boredom. The other amazing contents 
 such as allowing us to undo/redo skill points seriously a good idea, because it give us a lot of 
 things to mixed and match skills without afraid taking wrong skills and messed it up that we have 
 to reload the game, it also gives player more freedom to change the skills during mission totaylor 
 our needs.
  
  Overall, DMC 4 is highly recommended for those who like acttion game, beat em up or casual gamer 
 who simply love a great game. It is also a good investment since PS3 and XBOX 360 game library 
 is really thin in amazing action title. Last but not least the downside of this game is the more 
 frustating challenges you'll find in higher difficulty, player needs a patience and need to repeat 
 mission over and over again to overcome advance level challenges, but thats just a minor downside 
 compared to amazing contents this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waltercell
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  It seems this year i will be playing a lot of part 4 of videogames... MGS4, GTA4, the awesome COD4 
 and now DMC4.
  
  This gameplay is SUPERFUN, specially when you are fighting huge bosses.
  Defeating huge bosses is a very special feeling and when i don't get awesome final stage bosses 
 in videogames it pisses me off.
  
  The combat is VERY NICE, ryu hayabusa you better do it well on ninja gaiden 2 because i had more 
 fun with this one than with ninja gaiden 1.
  Basically because it's more stylistic and you feel more of a badass.
  
  Cutscene are done by 
 the guy behind the ghost in the shell stand alone comlpex series scenes.... nuff said they'r soooooo 
 cool to watch, the only game with cooller ala hollywood cutscenes is metal gear series.
  
  Graphics are stunning and sound is correct.
  Characters are very nice done and likable.
  
 
  I'm having a blast playing this, this is FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Let us get this out of the way as quickly as possible. The fact of the matter is you would have 
 to be mad not to pick up Devil May Cry 4. Let's start with the bad. The camera angles can be cumbersome. 
 That's it. That's the bad. Get ready for the good. Dante. Need I say more. Remember DMC 3, were 
 he could fight better than he could when he was older. Yeah, well, he's even better now. Fighting 
 styles are back and better than ever. Also there's some new guy who strangely looks a lot like 
 like Dante and Vergil. Nothing special except for that arm. Boy, you don't want that arm to get 
 a hold of you. Though slower, Nero can deliver some beautiful combinations due to the effectiveness 
 of the Devil Bringer. Do you know what even comes close to matching the intensity of the "John 
 Woo" style cut-scenes? I'll tell you. The damn Boss fights. They are really something to write 
 home about. The whole argument about "getting repetitive" is full of malarchy. If Gamespot is going 
 to give this game an 8.0 for repetitiveness, they better lower the score for a certain platforming 
 game. Nintendo, I'm looking your way. With all that said and done, it would be a blasphemy to deprive 
 yourself of this game if you or a friend own a PS3 or an Xbox 360. This might be the third sequel 
 but, like good wine, this series only gets better with age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  dmc4 is the best game ever made and heres y.
  
  gameplay: best ever. the action is very stylish and intense and just extremly fun. every level 
 is perfect and every boss battle is amazing fun. playing as both dante and nero is a blast 2. u 
 get loads of weapons which r extremly fun to use. this is the best gam ever ever made and every1 
 should pick this masterpiece up. the game isa just so perfect i dont know wat evlse 2 say .every 
 battle is intense and stylish and actiony and the adventure is fun 2. plus the best storyline ever 
 10/10
  
  graphics: 1 best ive seen all the creatures are detalied and look amazing. everything is good and 
 the levels look amazing. everything about the graphics is perfect. 10/10
  
  sound: best music in an action game ever. the music is great and everything sounds so real.
  
 10/10
  
  value: ill be playing this game 4 lets just say fORVEVER well maybe not that long but longer then 
 ill play any other game. best replay value yet 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  SORRY
  but come on people this is not Perfect or SuberB
  
  BAD
  most of the lines are corny! sometimes its comfusing!
  disappointment sequel!
  elements are 
 not! 
  A lack of originality the orbs he collect reminds me of god of war!
  Tons of annoying bad looking shadows!
  
  GOOD
  the fighting system its 100% offensive! insane 
 combat
  Great boss fight totally saved by its combat!
  New active style combat system incorporates Nero's Devil Bringer, which lets you instantly switch 
 between styles and weapons
  story - 8
  design - 8.3
  gameplay - 8.2
  
  overall 85
  i know most of you will reply and defend this game against my review but this is what i felt and 
 saw when i played the game so yea don't message me just press disagree underneath this review ok? 
 i don't wanna argue with you guys
  
  and lol sorry capcom i still want your resident evil 5! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  With Nero as the new protagonist, DMC may seem lacking at first, but that's definitetly not the 
 case. Snatch is easily the best ability I've seen in a long time. It's even better than I expected. 
 I have few words for now, as I'm still in utter shock from this game's pwnage. If you think it's 
 a fun game with Nero, just wait until you get Dante; he's basically a God compared to the demons.
 
  
  For the serious review...
  YOU MUST INSTALL QUITE A LENGTHY BIT OF DATA BEFORE PLAYING!
  Gameplay: Basically everything 
 you've come to expect, but with tons of extras that are worth exploring, but too numerous to mention. 
 The only problem with this game is the vast amounts of puzzles.
  Graphics: Redefines next-gen. Period.
  Audio: I still love this music, but it might not be an 
 improvement for all. The sound effects are top-notch, with dialouge done by some of the best voice 
 actors I've heard in a long time, (Matt McKenzie [mispelled] as next DMC protagonist?) including 
 the voice of Ichigo from Bleach as Nero, and the same VA as Dante from DMC3.
  Overall, I highly reccommend DMC4 to any fan of action games, and if you're not, you're just not 
 as hardcore as the rest of us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonleader33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  This game is one you will spend many hours going through. The opening scene alone lets you know 
 that your in for one heck of a ride. The gameplay if a little different then the others. The Death 
 Bringer makes combos look really nice. You can unlock all kind of fun stuff. At the end of the 
 mission your total score is evaluated and then you receive your souls which you can use to unlock 
 new skills for your sword, gun, and death bringer as well as your basic ability's such as running 
 jumping and dodging. The story is pretty good and Solid. Some of the dialogue from a couple cut 
 scenes are horribly corny but what game dosent have some now a days? If you never played the series 
 before there is an auto option that will help you with your combos. For those who injoy a challenge 
 the harder difficulty is for you just be careful though as if you get stuck you cant switch the 
 difficulty. You have to start a whole new game and go from there. This game is simply great and 
 you wont be upset at this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuvBunnyRabbit
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  DMC veterans:
  
  Very addictive if you've already played through the rest of the series, it is also easier to pick 
 up obviously if you have played previous DMC. The replay value in these types of games is amazingly 
 infinite until you absolutely annihilate it on the very toughest of difficulty. That seems like 
 a great goal!!! Go ahead and pick this game up innediately!!!
  
  DMC noobs:
  
  I would definately advise anyone who has not tried this series yet to grab up this game and just 
 play! There is a mild learning curve, but it is very fluid controlability. As in the previous games, 
 the controls are simply supherb and very easy to master once you get the hang of it.
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Absolutely glorious on HD. Very creative scenery, although I am only half 
 way through the first playthrough, but so far I have no complaints and I don't think there will 
 be any either.
  
  Storyline:
  
  So far so good.
  
  Nero:
  
  Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UC_LHK7777
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 is an enjoyable 3rd person action game in-between all these first person shooters.
 
  
  It's fast, it's fun, and it's visually impressive. You start of playing as Nero, a new-comer to 
 the DMC franchise who has his own motives and has his unique story perspective in the DMC universe. 
 His gameplay is also different than Dante's which adds a fresh perspective to the game's design. 
 After around 13 or so missions, you switch over to Dante and he can switch both styles and weapons 
 on the fly, leading to insane combos and attacks. The story also does deliver with gorgeous cutscenes 
 and a soundtrack that is very intense. The game has a multitude of difficulty levels for everyone, 
 so it will appeal to many people. Check this game out!
  
  This is a game fans and newcomers should look into! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxhell04
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game's not that great. Its a renter at best. The graphics are mediocre at best and the game 
 play is rather boring. Sure if you are a fan of the series you will no doubt love it, but new comers 
 will find it rather boring. The camera angles are horrible and leave you wanting for more. The 
 attacks are also not that great. Your shot attack is useless and does no damage and your close 
 range is many times over powering. The boss battles are notably well done and graphic wise the 
 only high point. The background is well drawn but after playing something like Assassins Creed, 
 you will be spoiled and nothing else This game's not that great. Its a renter at best. The graphics 
 are mediocre at best and the game play is rather boring. Sure if you are a fan of the series you 
 will no doubt love it, but new comers will find it rather boring. The camera angles are horrible 
 and leave you wanting for more. The attacks are also not that great. Your shot attack is useless 
 and does no damage and your close range is many times over powering. The boss battles are notably 
 well done and graphic wise the only high point. The background is well drawn but after playing 
 something like Assassins Creed, you will be spoiled and nothing else can compare. I don't recommend 
 this game unless you're a die hard fan. 
  
  Sure by default the graphics are better and many improvements have been made. OF course, its on 
 the Xbox 360. With so many other great games out there though, the standard has gone way up. If 
 this game was released years ago when Xbox 360 was new, it would have been great. It is over shadowed 
 by many other great games to be considered good.
  can compare. I don't recommend this game unless you're a die hard fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Devil May Cry series than you'll know what to expect. For those of you who 
 are new to the series and if are a fan of Ninja Gaiden Sigma and God of War than you'll be interested 
 in this game. 
  
  For the new people you'll be playing as this new character to the franchise named Nero. He's like 
 a younger version of Dante who has been the main character for the first 3 Devil May Cry games. 
 They start you off at a church while a seminar is going you'll get a very violent interruption 
 by the one and only Dante. As soon as you start off the game you'll be jumping right into the battle 
 from the start. After you think you've defeated Dante you noticed he's not human and he's one of 
 you. He gets away from you and it's your duty to track him down and bring him to justice. 
  
  If you're played the game before you'll know that one of the best things about the Devil May 
 Cry series is the combat system is has deep as ever. It feels so satisfying to do the combos. Nero 
 plays a little different from Dante being the fact that he has a devil possessed arm called the 
 devil bringer. He also is equipped with a double barrel hand gun like Dante and has a revved up 
 sword. The more you charge it the harder your blows are. 
  The Graphics in the game are just as amazing as the controls and combat in the game. It's just 
 what you would've imagine how it would look on a next gen console. Dante looks so detail and just 
 how you would imagine how he'll look if he were a real person. The cutscenes are just as amazing 
 to look as the graphics are in the game. 
  
  You'll have 2 different difficulty levels to choose from and be careful which one you choose the 
 first could be a little too easy and the second choice could be a little more frustrating as you 
 get a further into the game so choose wisely. I'll also be playing as most of the areas in the 
 game twice from different views as you'll be playing with Nero AND Dante in the game. Dante will 
 of course be sporting all his previous powers from Devil May Cry 3 and it's going to be a little 
 awkward switch between both Dante and Nero at first. 
  
  If you're a fan of the game you'll definitely love this game and will be playing it again once 
 you unlock the harder difficulties after beating it once. If you're new to the series and have 
 played games like God of War and NG Sigma than you should definitely want to check out this game. 
 Trust me you'll love it and won't regret purchasing this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 great game but I had hope for something more.
  
  Well this is a really good game and I can't get enough of this but there are some flaws.
  Ok 
 lets begin. The graphics are great is one of the best looking games I seen on the ps3 all the affects 
 are great and there is no major slow down and that's good. Next the sound the sound is fantastic 
 and the voice acting is top notch, the game has some great voices now the game play, it's great 
 but perfect but it feels a bit repetitive at times and some boss and environments are over use. 
 From that I think is a great game that every one should buy or at lest rent. The thing that makes 
 the PS3 version better than the xbox 360 is that you can install the game and because of that there 
 are barely no loading times.
  Wow this game is Awesome!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildact
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Seriously i don't know but this game is UNBELIEVABLE why did the reviewers have such hate for it?... i 
 don't understand its 100% worth my money.
  
  This game sucks you in so badly and the combos is just amazing the graphics is really good but 
 the thing that makes it really fun is the boss fights i mean even though i cant beat them sometimes 
 I'm still having fun i don't even care if we have to start the mission all over its worth repeating 
 because you learn moves on the way.
  
  Difficulty is good sometimes it gets pretty hard (this game is a lot harder than NG) but i never 
 get stopped by that because i always like a challenge.
  
  all i can say now is if you have 360/ps3 buy this game or you will miss out even if you haven't 
 played dmc1 or 2 or 3. don't let reviewers stop you from playing a fantastic game (well other than 
 1up they gave it a good video review)
  
  so excuse me now I'm off to play DMC4.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Going threw the demo was like walking in heaven. Outstanding graphics, enviroment, gameplay, everything 
 made my jaw drop and left me wanting more. As soon as I began playing the demo I got the feeling 
 that I was in the game due to the outstanding graphics and enviroment. The gameplay remains partly 
 the same as every other DMC game which allows us to began kicking ass straight away. The new character 
 addition Nero is refreshing and won't dissapoint as Dante's "replacement" in this game from what 
 ive seen. I can see myself playing this game over and over, it is one of the only games I have 
 ever said this about. Who wouldn't want to fight Berial on Hard/Very Hard or beat the crap out 
 of even more difficult demons. Capcom never ceases to amaze me by providing more and more DMC games 
 either on the same level as the previous or better. My continuous thought threwout the demo was 
I am going to buy this game as soon as possible" and you should to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdool
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Dante is not the main protagonist in DMC 4 and this feels awful but the game still rocks. The new 
 story is way better than DMC 2 and more interesting. The game play will not make you feel the way 
 you felt when playing the 1st DMC game but it is a "worth the wait" type of game. Nero is as arrogant 
 as Dante was in the 1st DMC and this for sure is a good point to add to the game. What can I say 
 about boss fights? They are awesome, I already reached the 2nd one - was playing it since 00:00 
 till 12:00 today - crazy me.
  
  Nero's devil hand is a great addition to the DMC game play. Dante will be playable after finishing 
 some missions - why?? - and I hope to unlock him soon after i finish this review. Nothin' more 
 to say about the game. Don't waste more time, just go buy and play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andretgv
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  This was the best game of Beat-'Em-Up i have ever played this game is perfect for the new players 
 of the series and the old players of the series
  
  I love this game, is my favorite game and i hope that the capcom do a Devil May Cry 5 even better 
 LOL loved all in this game the new style of fight of Nero the story the bosses this game is just 
 perfect This game deserve a 10 on the Board
  
  This are the type of games that the players need to have on his shelf I am a fan of this game since 
 the first of the series and i hope that capcom never stop doing this game
  
  I think that is the best Beat-'Em-Up ever made
  
  the combos are better then ever if you want 
 to start playing dmc series now is the time , with the devil bringer, red queen and blue rose and 
 the graphics better then ever , this turns the game very amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is a masterpiece that fascinates every action games player ---the game play is entertaining 
 and enjoyable whilst the story is engrossing. You could take out the enemies with a range of skills 
 and weapons as well. 
  
  In addition, if you don't want to press the L2 button all the time when playing as Nero, you could 
 enable the automatic function, which makes your continuous exceed attack much easier.
  
  In mission 12-18 , you play as Dante, the skillful Devil Hunter whose father was the legendary 
 dark knight . On your way ,you will obtain several weapons after you have finished the boss battles. 
 Unlike Nero, Dante does not have a devil bringer , he features five styles though. Thus you could 
 finish your every mission using different battle skills as you like.
  
  The difficulty of the game is just right. You could play the Human difficulty at first if you are 
 not adept at playing action games. After you have mastered
  to finish your mission without taking damage, you could try the "Sons of Sparda" or even the "Dante 
 must die" mode.
  
  All in all, if you own the PS3 or Xbox 360, do not hesitate to get the game. 
  My advice, however, 
 is that you should choose the PS3 version if it is possible to do so : the controller of PS3 suits 
 the game very well . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimruuk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  The whole new "not Dante" concept still sucks in my humble opinion. Dante should still be lead 
 protagonist. They could of made Nero's story a second gameplay feature but taking out Dante Lowers 
 my respect for Capcom. However this doesn't affect the fact DMC4 has Outstanding Gameplay, It is 
 my own opinion which keeps me from enjoying the story more than I should. But looking past the 
 fact Capcom Sold out a Sony Exclusive game to 360 and Pc, It is still a game worth playing. It 
 wasn't as great as I was hoping but It still deserves prais for the fact It is fun and one can 
 get much joy out of smashing the sh*t of fugly demons and use them as skateboards.
  
  I personally, am still waiting for this year's "Game of the year" GOW3. Can't wait to slay some 
 gods and once again wield the Blades of Athena, TO WAR!! If the Titans win I'm up 20 quid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry .. from the tittle name we know how good is this game going to be.... Juz starting 
 from the 1st cutscene a am suck into the story .. it is very addictive... Each character is vibrant 
 and fully good character design .. with good emotion face to thier movement .. this is wat they 
 had done from the previous DMC series... With good choreographer and good story .. this game is 
 a blast.. Last start the review...
  
  1st is the gameply.. everyone know this is a hack and slash game .. get from point A to point B 
 ... it doesnt mean it is bad .. with all new combo and style .. u will not stop doing the skil 
 till u get SSS rank .... with the new character NeroDevil Bringerit is inovative and usefull 
 in all situation .. However user will not play much of Dante in the game as the story is more about 
 love between Nero and Kyrie .... user will get to use Dante in the third quatre of the game ...
 
  
  2nd is the Boss fight .... DMC series is famous for its hard to beat boss like wat ninja Gaiden 
 hav done.... but DMC4 boss is freaking huge and still fit into ur TV... it doest happen anytime 
 bout the camera control as u can adjust it wit the R3 button or shake ur controller to return back 
 to the original camera view....
  
  3rd is thier network .. dont think is about fighting against ur fren but it actually juz upload 
 ur skill point for other to impress u .. U gain medal as u complete the game in certain condition 
 like getting 10000 red orb or get a SSS rank....
  
  The bad thing bout this game is sometime the loading is quit long for wat PS3 system. i don know 
 bout Xbox360 get the same problem or not ? It loading data system is sometime quit long for a game 
 like this and for PS3 owner it took about 20-30 min of start download data which make me wait so 
 long to start when the 1st time u put the disc ...
  
  To end it is a very good hack and slash game where i recomen for people who love to button smashing 
 to do style to impress ur girlfren or boyfren ... show them how u kick a$$ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
