-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dirt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/cmr07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Six distinct racing disciplines.
 Enjoyable mix of arcade and simulation driving.
 Gorgeous-looking tracks, and cars that deform and break apart very nicely.
 Tons of offline races to play through.
 The PS3 version's frame rate maintains a steady 30 fps with very few dips.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cars have something of a floaty feel to them.
 Multiplayer options are like a cruel joke.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,100 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Sep 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a graphical showpiece, DiRT is an unbridled success. It also happens to be an entirely enjoyable 
 rally racer. 

  Released a few months back on the Xbox 360 and PC, DiRT provided a new direction for Codemasters' 
 preexisting Colin McRae series of rally racing games. The game had a lot more in common with Digital 
 Illusions' RalliSport Challenge series than the Colin McRae games of old, in that it put a greater 
 emphasis on a variety of off-road racing disciplines, as opposed to sticking hard and fast to traditional 
 rally racing. Boasting some of the most impressive visuals ever seen in a racing game (despite 
 its erratic frame rate) , and likewise a fun, arcade style of gameplay, DiRT was a blast, whether 
 you were an old Colin McRae fan or not. Now the game has come to the PlayStation 3 with the fun 
 intact, and with a stable frame rate to boot.  

           The game already looks phenomenal, but when you combine that with a smooth frame rate, 
 you've got something special.      

  There have been plenty of driving games of late that have been visually impressive, but very few 
 live up to the visual fidelity displayed by DiRT. This game is a technical achievement in car design, 
 track design, and damage modeling. To begin with, the cars are beautifully rendered, highly detailed 
 models that are as fantastic to look at as they are to destroy. Damage modeling is one of the most 
 impressive aspects of the game; you can lose bumpers or doors, break glass, tear up the paintjob, 
 and roll your ride into a crushed, deformed mess. Tracks are equally beautiful and destructible. 
 From the rain-slick tarmac tracks of Japan and the dusty backroads of Italy to the muddy, gravelly 
 countryside of the UK, DiRT nails every environment wonderfully. The game also uses lighting to 
 fantastic effect, not just to emphasize how shiny and reflective the cars are, but to give each 
 track an individual atmosphere. Driving around desert mountains in the washed-out haze of late 
 day is an amazing sight to behold, for sure. And if you feel like tearing up these tracks, you 
 can bust through fences, barriers, bushes, and anything else not held to the ground with concrete. 
 All the while, dirt, mud, or gravel will kick up against and often stick to your car, making the 
 game's namesake seem entirely appropriate.  

  One of the big complaints about DiRT on the 360 and PC was that it simply didn't perform very well. 
 The PC version looked choppy on a near-constant basis, and the 360 version had a tendency to tank 
 pretty badly during multicar races. On the other hand, the PlayStation 3 version is nearly flawless 
 in this regard. The game maintains a steady 30-frames-per-second rate for the vast bulk of the 
 game, and the few scattered dips in performance are very brief and hardly noticeable. The extra 
 time between releases seems to have benefited this version a great deal.  

  The quality of the presentation doesn't begin and end with the in-game graphics either. Even the 
 menu system is immaculately built. It's hard to describe it, except to call it a bunch of floating 
 boxes with selectable options that zoom in and out as you select them. Even the loading screens 
 are cool because they display real-time statistics on your game, such as your favorite tracks or 
 vehicles, your average speed, and even your favorite driving surface. Menus are usually a forgotten 
 element of a game unless they're specifically bad, so the fact that DiRT's are notable for how 
 good they are says something.  

  Audio is not quite as immediately impressive as the visuals, but it is great all the same. Engine 
 noise is probably the best aspect because each car has a definitive and unique sound to it that 
 feels just right. Crashes and other racing effects are also excellently produced. The soundtrack 
 isn't licensed, but the instrumentals that play over the various menus and replays are quite solid. 
 The only damper on the category is your codriver, an obnoxious, bro-sounding dolt whose dialogue 
 sounds like it was written by a nonnative English speaker and whose only reference for the language 
 was reruns of  Saved By the Bell . Lines like "Smooth and steady; I'm Mr. Smooth, and you're Mr. 
 Steady," and "Yeah! We won the championship! I'm so  stoked !" are funny once, but then they're 
 annoying from there on out. At least he gives you some good info on the tracks before you race. 

           This ain't your daddy's rally racing game.      

  Once you've snapped out of the trance that DiRT's fantastic presentation tends to lull you into, 
 you might remember that this is a racing game and that you do actually have to play it. It's a 
 good thing it's a fun one. The game includes six different racing disciplines, which consist of 
 rally, rallycross, hillclimb, CORR, crossover, and rally raid varieties. If you don't know what 
 half of those are, don't fret. The game does a good job of easing you into the game's style of 
 racing, with both some rather simple early races, as well as an explanatory narration by extreme 
 sports maven and current Rally America champion Travis Pastrana.  

  Granted, even if you've never jumped into a CORR race in your life, DiRT isn't exactly a difficult 
 game to grasp. You're racing down a course by yourself, trying to get the best time possible, or 
 racing against other cars, buggies, or trucks on dirt and tarmac tracks. Most of the differences 
 in gameplay come from how the various vehicles handle. There is obviously a big difference between 
 driving a speedy Mitsubishi FTO and a massive racing big rig (yes, they actually have those) . But 
 even with all the differences among disciplines, the racing is always easy to pick up and play. 
 DiRT has a decidedly arcade-driving sensibility that makes all the vehicles relatively easy to 
 race with from the outset. Once you've gotten a feel for how all the different cars and tracks 
 feel, you can simply crank up the difficulty, which in turn makes your opponent racers much more 
 adept, and also leaves your car far more open to terminal damage. On the highest setting, all it 
 takes is one good front-end collision to send you packing.  

  As realistic as the damage incurrence can be, the rest of the game definitely maintains an arcade 
 mentality. Nearly all the vehicles have a decidedly floaty feel to them, one that seems to overcompensate 
 for nearly every minute turn of the analog stick. It's not unmanageable or anything, but it's far 
 from realistic. By the same token, the game's physics are often a bit silly, especially in wrecks. 
 That's not an insult by any means because the exaggerated physics lead to some absolutely spectacular 
 wrecks in many cases. But there are some eye-roll-worthy moments where you'll see a car tilt from 
 lying on its side all the way back upright for no good reason or drive sideways up a cliff to land 
 back on four wheels.  

  Floaty feel and wonky physics aside, DiRT is still a great deal of fun to play. Once you get a 
 feel for the controls and up the difficulty a bit, the racing can be intensely challenging, addictive, 
 and immersive. It's especially immersive if you happen to take in one of the game's two exceptionally 
 good cockpit camera views. There's a zoomed-in view and a view that's a bit further back. Both 
 views give you a great sense of being in the driver's seat, even going so far as to let you look 
 around inside the car via the right analog stick. Not enough racers do the cockpit camera that 
 well, and DiRT is worth lauding for doing it especially well.  

  As fun as the racing can be, it wouldn't be worth much if DiRT didn't offer up plenty of ways to 
 experience it. Fortunately, it does the job. Apart from being able to take part in single races 
 and events, as well as a series of championships, consisting of multiple races each, DiRT also 
 has a lengthy, involving career mode that has you working your way up a literal pyramid of events. 
 Winning races earns you points, which unlock new tiers of the career mode and cash, which you can 
 use to buy new vehicles or liveries for said vehicles. With more than 60 career events, nearly 
 50 vehicles to unlock, and more than 180 liveries to buy for those vehicles, that ought to keep 
 you busy.  

           It would be nice if the multiplayer actually let you play the wheel-to-wheel races.   
    

  The one feature that DiRT skimps badly on is multiplayer support. There is multiplayer, but just 
 barely. Only two disciplines -- rally and hillclimb -- are available to play in multiplayer. But wait, 
 aren't those the two disciplines that don't have you competing directly against other cars? You 
 bet. Essentially, you're dumped into a lobby with potentially dozens of other players, and from 
 there, you vote on which track you want to play. The available list to vote on is always random, 
 and there's no option to pick a different car or even search for a lobby with specific cars/tracks 
 available. Once you're in a race, it's merely a time trial against all the other players. You can 
 see how you're doing in the real-time standings, but that's all. While the Colin McRae series has 
 never been known for great multiplayer support, the total lack of online racing in a game that 
 debuts several wheel-to-wheel racing types is a gigantic tease and really disappointing.  

  That said, the multiplayer support is really the only thing about DiRT you can call truly disappointing. 
 On every other front, DiRT delivers a racing experience that's a lot of fun to play, as well as 
 visuals that are an absolute joy to watch. The PS3 version's inclusion of a steadier frame rate, 
 slightly better audio quality, and support for the Logitech G25 force feedback steering wheel helps 
 define it as the best of the bunch. If you already picked up one of the previous releases of the 
 game, there's not enough new content here to make this version worth your while. But for those 
 who missed out on DiRT the first time around, this is the definitive version to get.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Grizzel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics. All the enviroments are amazing. Exspecially when you reck, your 
 car actually feels the collision instead of getting back on the road at full speed like nothing 
 is wrong. Customizing your cars for each track is great for experienced players. Also the level 
 you want to play on and difficulty are there right before you enter a race. They could have added 
 trophies to the game though. Making you have some type of reward for beating every level on the 
 hardest level. Some of the cars in the game are pointless though. Some just plain out suck. Overall 
 it is a great game... havn't had a chance to play Grid, but I'm looking foward to dirt 2. Maybe 
 they will have some sort of multiplayer besides the online gameplay. Online really didn't give 
 you anyone to race. Pretty much should have just left it out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikosk8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I think this is great for two reaseons one of the reasons is that the carrer is so long, it's like 
 a thousand races to complete and thay never the same as the last one I think in terms of durability 
 the game is great and another reason for I THINK THAT THE GAME IS AWSOME is that the graphics are 
 very real I can say this because I have one huge plasma and I think that i'm raly in the game. 
 I never tried the online game. I received the game like 2 week ago and I dind't finish I'm not 
 eaven close to the midle of the game realy the game is huge please if you are reading this tell 
 me if it is good an one more time sorry for my bad english I'm portuguese PORTUGAL RULES PORTUGAL.
 
  
  I think you are rising up rigth now to buy the game because if aren't I I I don't know what I do.
 
  
  Good Gaming
  
  SKATE 4 LIFE B*#*#$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabbler43
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:53 am PT
Review:  DIRT is an awesome game. It offers many different tracks and varieties of races for the enthusiast. 
 The one problem I have is that only one person can play at a time -when are the developers of PS3 
 games going to give us a platform that allows multiple players in one game, on one console, with 
 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 controllers? Rock Band has done it and has been wildly successful. Guess why? 
 More than one person can play at the same time! I would like to see that happen in a lot of games. 
 Side by side careers would also be good -do the developers think that only one person plays each 
 game that is purchased? Maybe even races/tournaments between user profiles? Obviously that would 
 cut into sales, but in the long run, I think it would work out better for everyone...
  
  Other than that, DIRT! is a great starter game for the PS3. The graphics are awesome, and so are 
 the sounds - the game is totally immersive. It does take some practice, it is not meant to be a 
 casual game, but it is a fairly good simulation. Friends who have never played any kind of video 
 game will get pretty frustrated. But with some practice and some determination, it can be a LOT 
 of fun. The career mode gives everyone a broad range of levels to compete in (5 levels from rookie 
 to pro) , and a vast number and variety of races to participate in - from CORR dirt truck racing 
 to high powered hill climbs, from street races in the hills of Japan to outback tracks in the wilds 
 of Australia. There is something for everyone here, as long as your goal is to be the best and 
 the fastest.
  
  This was one of the first games I got for the PS3, and we were disappointed with the crashes - 
 if you want destruction this is not the game for you. But we still love it for the variety and 
 for the realism.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradleyBeast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  A great "driving game" to say the least, but beware if you are used to side-by-side racing, or 
 a NASCAR fan for example (I am both) .
  The game is laid out well, allowing easy movement from screen to screen as far as options and settings 
 are concerned, and things like track selection. The game is setup on a "tier" system if you will; 
 begin with only a couple tracks available, and as you progress more open. Pretty simple.
  The game is visually Awesome, although it is held back in some aspects, like free-roaming off of 
 the tracks for example (if you are run too far off course, the game automatically resets you back 
 to where you went off) .
  My two gripes are minimal at best:
  
  *Very little side-by-side racing except for the CORR series. Many of the off-road tracks are you 
 "racing yourself", trying to beat your best time or one required. This doesn't take away from the 
 experience, but I personally like trading paint with my competitors.
  
  *Very little CORR racing. At the risk of being too redneck-ish, I love the Championship Off Road 
 Racing circuits, but you are very limited to how many races you can enter. And, as I mentioned 
 above, these races are the only ones that incorporate multiple vehicles.
  
  I myself have a pretty killer wheel/pedal setup at home that includes a custom-built platform that 
 accommodates the peripherals and a comfy chair; my point being that switching between pavement 
 to dirt can be more challenging than one may realize. All in all, a great game. It sure isn't flat-track 
 racing, so rent it before you buy it if you're an avid "driver". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDEATHCALIBUR
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It's not a driving simulator like the Gran turismo's (which I love) but is 
 just a fun racing game that beats alot of the new racing games. There new title GRID wasn't that 
 good and completely lost the realism they had with DIRT and was a complete dissapointment. My only 
 problem with this game is Travis Pastrana being the narrator for the whole game. Just a very irritating 
 voice that I would rather not listen to. The wrecks are awesome. Theres nothing like hitting a 
 tree doing about 120mph. And the selection of levels and cars will keep you busy for a long time. 
 It has a nice feel for speed as well. When you hit 130-140mph it feels like it. You almost grip 
 the controller tighter it looks so nice. Split screen multiplayer would have been nice. But the 
 online makes up for it. I will enjoy it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  When I saw the movies in gamespot i thought that this could be the best Rally game ever... but 
 boy I was wrong.
  For starters the graphics are shady... the images are not bright and not well defined... they are 
 blury. PS3 Games are not supposed to be blury! They are supposed to be well defined, bright and 
 consistent.
  The gameplay is weird. It is to easy to keep the car on the road. I drive, so I know how the manueverability 
 in high speeds, and specially in the Dirt, it is very hard to keep the car on the track! I am amazed 
 how Colin Macrae let this game go out like this!! Unbelievable.
  Another point is that when you wreck your car, the game stops imediately. You cannot even finish 
 to watch the hole accident.
  The cool thing about the game is the main menu screen... cool way to present your options and stuff.
 
  I bought the game and 3 days later I sold it! Overall score a 5. Dont buy this one... you can 
 give a try renting it only! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Codemasters really know what they're doing. They know a good thing when they see it, and they know 
 how to implement their own personal touch as well as how to envelop the player into the game.
 
  
  They've secured pole position with the game DiRT. Wonderful tracks and landscapes, tricky spots 
 for maneuvers, excellent handling and mechanics alongside rewarding/entertaining overall gameplay.
 
  
  From the opening menu you know that this game has a level of refinement that most games (in any 
 genre) lack. From the smooth layout to the atmospheric sound design, you are immediately immersed 
 into the game's realm of racing.
  
  My only qualm would have to do with the level of customization offered to the individual gamer. 
 Which is to say: there's not all that much or at least, there's not as much as I had hoped for. 
 But! That isn't where a game's total sum of strength should lie so that's not a terribly distracting 
 aspect.
  
  All in all, DiRT provides any racing fan with a game through which they'd swear they smell exhaust 
 fumes in the air. And for the casual racing gamer, you are provided with a game to develop and 
 hone your own particular taste for the racing genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathanLawson91
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that you'll notice with Colin McRae: DIRT are the impressive visuals that put the 
 game on the right path from the word "Go". Each and every car is beautifully designed with a good 
 selection of liveries to choose from for each vehicle. The same must be said for the tracks. The 
 landscaping is a work of art and driving around them is simply a pleasure. Codemasters pretty much 
 ticked all the boxes here.
  
  However, perhaps too much time was spent on the visuals and not so much on the physics. Vehicles 
 have a "floaty" feel to them and you never really feel like you're gripping the surface and that 
 you could simply fly away at any moment. But rest assured, this doesn't detract from what is a 
 solid rally racing game.
  
  Overall the game is an enjoyable experience that has grown on me. I was slightly worried where 
 they were taking this series when they announced they were taking a more off-road approach with 
 DIRT but they managed the switch reasonably well and thus keeping everything we enjoyed about the 
 previous games intact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  it should be clarified that DiRT is a solid looking game. It sports some good texture work in the 
 environments. The grass and road look pretty convincing, but once the game's blur-filter kicks-in 
 when you increase speeds, their details won't be very noticeable. What's impressive about the engine 
 is that it doesn't load a single object in the environment when you're racing, and that means not 
 a single pop-up to be seen. Now, there seems to be some draw-in with the road, as the road texture 
 sharpens up a few feet in front of your car. The mip-mapping effect is hardly noticeable, but it 
 is there.
  When it comes down to it all, DiRT is the rally game hardcore enthusiasts have been waiting for. 
 It's not a game I'd recommend to the casual Need for Speed fan, but it certainly is something fans 
 of the sport and of the Colin McRae franchise will enjoy greatly. DiRT is plenty deep, and has 
 a bevy of race modes, tons of tracks, good replay value, in addition to some pretty solid car customization. 
 Not all is super, though; as the online experience is lacking, the visuals have some sore spots 
 here and there, and gamers will have to dig a bit in order to obtain the cars they really want 
 to roll around with. Other than that, DiRT is still a fine example of a proper rally game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Good racers really are uncommon on this generation, which is why, although I found it very shallow 
 and frustrating, DiRT is a breath of fresh air. It tries nothing new, and doesn't have a lot of 
 game modes, but its graphical polish, and excellent physics do make it worth while.
  
  Let's start off with the good, since there's a lot of it here. Graphically, DiRT is an unmatched 
 powerhouse. The cars look absolutely incredible, and they shine absolutely perfectly in the gleaming 
 sun, or in the soaking rain. They also show mud and dirt when they do get dirty. The tracks are 
 all entirely destructible, and will deform as cars drive over the mud, signs will smash through 
 windshields when run over, fences will crumble, and overall the tracks show immense detail without 
 the slightest form of pop-in on the main road. The backgrounds also look great. Each tree has individual 
 leaves and branches, which is an immense feat. Unfortunately, the trees do pop in as you draw near 
 them, which isn't a big problem, but it is completely noticeable. Oddly enough, the Xbox 360 version 
 runs miles worse than the Playstation 3 version. The Ps3 version runs constantly at 30, even during 
 multi car races, but the 360 version will tank to about 5 or 6 during these parts, and it becomes 
 unbearable at times. The textures and lighting are still comparable on both versions, so Xbox 360 
 fans don't have anything else to worry about. The extra time spent on the Ps3 version payed off, 
 however. Overall, whichever way you look at DiRT, it does look simply incredible.
  
  As a racer, DiRT does get the job done really well. Every car handles really well, on every track. 
 The controls are very smooth, and simple, using the left trigger, for both reverse and brake. Acceleration 
 is also a breeze, as most vehicles seem to be propelled by rockets. It's a very accessible racer, 
 and is a blast to play for the most part. The variety to the tracks is pretty cool. There are straight, 
 high speed desert courses, and there are slow, winding mountain trails. Overall, most parts are 
 fun to play through.
  
  The first person view is absolutely great. The dashboards look good, driver animations are realized, 
 you can move your head, so you can see your feet, or even your co driver. Smash into a tree, and 
 see the car door rip off, or roll your car, and watch the windshield smash, and your co driver 
 get whiplash are all really cool, and add to the level of immersion.
  
  But, with the good, there must come the bad.
  
  If you have a lack of patience, then you will 
 crash a lot. After awhile, the game begins to feel like a trial and error game. You will get 96% 
 through a course, and then smash into a tree, and have to start the race over. The inability to 
 fix your car in between races during an event can make you scared to reach high speeds. The way 
 I remedied this is just settling for 3rd or 4th, instead of trying to go for it all. This is like 
 being a real driver, considering being alive is more important than winning, but there is such 
 a thing as too real. If you reach this point in career mode, you can turn the difficulty down if 
 you so wish.
  
  There's great detail that goes into a rally racer like this. The whole ordeal make you feel like 
 you are an actual professional rally racer, which is greatly integrated into the whole feel of 
 the game. First off, you have a co driver with you on most races, and he'll use a numeric code 
 to tell you the track ahead. It can be tricky at first, but once you figure out the code (the lower 
 the number, the tighter the turn) , then he can be really helpful in getting through a course unscratched. 
 Before each race, you can edit you vehicle's performance, by changing the ratios of all sorts of 
 things, your tires, suspension, etc. It's not quite as deep as something you'd find in a full sim 
 racer, but what's here's pretty good.
  
  I wish the sound quality was as good as the graphical presentation. The sound isn't poor, but there's 
 nothing that really stands out as great. Everything is pretty good, and Travis Pastrana does a 
 great job of navigating you through the beautiful and innovative menus. The soundtrack is catchy, 
 but the number of songs is limited.
  
  Career mode is where you'll spend most of your time. There are 10 tiers, all with several events 
 containing a few races. There are several kinds of races, spanning across real and original tracks 
 across the world. There are road tracks, dirt tracks, mud courses, and my personal favorite, desert 
 courses. You will have the chance to race on each many times. You get cash. More cash when you 
 do good. The only thing you can buy with this cash, is new vehicles. The selection of cars is pretty 
 good, with over 70 cars in total in the game. Each handles differently, and you'll want to get 
 your hands on as many as you can.
  
  The main problem with DiRT, isn't its frustrating races, but it's actually the lack of game modes 
 and features. The customization and immersion are very deep, but aside from the 70 or so events 
 that will take you about 15 hours to complete depending on your skill set, there isn't much else. 
 The replays are great, as you can slow time, speed up, change camera views, and other cinematic 
 things. The problem with this is that the game insults and teases you with the lack of being able 
 to save the damn things. There is no split screen multiplayer, and the online is only a time trial 
 you can do, and compare your time with other racers. There are no car on car races, and it's disappointing 
 big time.
  
  What IS cool about the online part of DiRT, is the time tracking. The world record is actually 
 by somebody in the world connected to Xbox Live, or Playstation Network. It's really cool, and 
 again adds to the immersion level, making DiRT a great online community, despite the actual multiplayer 
 flaws.
  
  DiRT is a more than capable racer. It's level of frustration, and lack of game modes, are outweighed 
 by it's great immersion, graphics, and actual racing. If you have enough money for a new game, 
 and you have a need for speed, and want something pretty to look at, then look no further than 
 DiRT. If you have no friends, then the issues I stated probably won't bother you at all. Most people 
 do, and that's why I didn't give it a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Storyline:
  - Dirty Rally Racing. No Story.
  
  Graphics/Physics:
  - Dirty and filthy have never looked so good. Graphics are fantastic and extremely realistic for 
 racing standards. Sometimes a bit too much bloom or glare.
  
  Sound:
  - Sound quality is great and has realistic value. Rich quality in the car sounds and impacts.
 
  
  Environment/Maps:
  - Maps are at times a little rigid with the sharp turns, but most of the maps have great quality 
 in the which adds to the fun factor.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting:
  - Engine tends to cause the game to randomly lag or tank out, seems to happen during menu and other 
 random times during gameplay
  
  Interface:
  - Cars have a floaty feeling to them. I didn't expect to have this much fun with dirt rally racing 
 or off-road, lets just say I was wrong with my expectations. This game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Dont argue with this game, its almost good in every way ,you know it
  
  Graphics are one thing, but this gameplay and experience are amazing. I flipped my car in the game 
 and it was so real I got dizzy and damn near feel out of my chair! That is how immersed you can 
 get in this game.
  
  There are a lot of cars and trucks of all types you can get in this game. And like with Gran Turismo, 
 there are a ton of tweaking options to where you don't understand some of them. But no worry, on 
 basically every part of the game, there is great dialogue that explains tweaks, different vehicles, 
 tracks, and everything else. 
  
  It is so real. If you have a light wreck or just graze something, just a small amount of damage 
 or a small piece of the vehicle might fly off. But when you wreck hard, you can lose the entire 
 body of the vehicle!
  Basically what I'm saying is that the damage is accurate. 
  
  This is "next gen" in every sense of the word. Every aspect of the game has lots of detail put 
 into it. Again the voices are great. It is mostly Travis Pastrana talking you through things, but 
 in certain rally events and on other features you have another guy that talks as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - Dirty Rally Racing. No Story.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9.5 - Dirty and filthy have never looked so good. Graphics are fantastic and 
 extremely realistic for racing standards. Sometimes a bit too much bloom or glare.
  
  Sound: 9 - Sound quality is great and has realisitic value. Rich quality in the car sounds and 
 impacts.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps are at times a little rigid with the sharp turns, but most of the maps 
 have great quality in the which adds to the fun factor.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Engine tends to cause the game to randomly lag or tank out, seems to 
 happen during menu and other random times during gameplay
  
  Interface: 9 - Cars have a floaty feeling to them. I didn't expect to have this much fun with dirt 
 rally racing or off-road, lets just say I was wrong with my expectations. This game is great.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Dirt and Filth have never looked so good. I started playing with low expectations 
 and this game proved itself worthy. I was expecting this to be worse that the TOCA series, but 
 I thought it was actually better. Dirt and Off-road rally racing turned out to be quite alot of 
 fun. The handling of every car did seem to be a bit floaty but I only had problems on a few tracks 
 with it. Occassionally I did get annoyed with a particular track or two, specifically the 2nd of 
 Tier 1, so early in the game for one of this challange. The game lots of fun and certainly worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewSweeney
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Well here comes another Colin McRae racing game and for once its good!!
  Dirt has brilliant tracks, from the tarmac tracks of Japan to the dusty backroads of italy and to 
 the muddy countryside roads of the UK. It has a large variety of cars and all of them have at least 
 400 horsepower under the hood.
  Dirt has brilliant graphics, every car has their unice sound and nearly every part of your car is 
 destructible so if you just want to smash your car its great fun. There are tons of offline races 
 for you to enjoy and the includes of six different disciplines. 
  There are only a few bad things about dirt such as the cars feel very lite, you dont get the feeling 
 of going 100 mph down a mountain road.
  I would advise you to rent it first to see if you like it and if you dont like it buy GTA IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I was hoping to pick this game up on discount, but then the game became hard to find, and when 
 I found a copy I grabbed it. The reviews have all been good except for one bad review on the Internet. 
 Unfortunately, one comment that was made turned out to be too true. The vehicles look too floaty. 
 I do not know what other racers do to prevent this, but I have the distinct feeling that the vehicles 
 are going around the tracks Wipeout style a few inches off the ground. Also, the much praised graphics 
 are what I would call OK, but just OK. I admit, my point of comparison is the breathtaking Motorstorm. 
 Dirt got better reviews for depth and variations, which are all deserved, but after playing a game 
 like Motorstorm, Dirt has the look of "one more racing game". I am not going to repeat other good 
 things about the game, which are all true, nor am I going to give the game a bad score, just not 
 a spectacular score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Oh my... video game consoles are getting better... video games are getting pathetically boring.
 
  
  Just like resistance fall of man, this game is so lame that I did not even care to finish it. the 
 moment the 1st race started, I already knew that this game is a letdown. From the sound to the 
 gameplay, it is the same, old, NES era, racing game with good graphics. Not to mention the repetitive 
 annoying sound of the menu (a girl moaning?) 
  
  Man.... ca'nt some company make a good game these days?.... They have a better, more powerful consoles 
 now, so why, copy the same old racing gamplay and only boost it with graphics? Game developers 
 are getting lazy, they are entirely focused on the graphical aspects of the game, and make money 
 out of it.
  
  There is nothing new to this racing game, let me rephrase, there is nothing more to enjoy with 
 dirt, just buy something else, its better to clean your Super NES and play Mario Cart, its far 
 way more enjoyable!
  
  
  GTA IV... the only remaining hope for the PS3 gamers? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Simply put this is the best racing game on the PS3, and one of the most enjoyable i have ever played. 
 The game is a masterpiece. 
  Graphics: Gorgeus. True there isn't much dirt to talk about, but the cars, the tracks and the views 
 are splendid. The pices in the car seem to have their own physical properties aswell. Mud flaps 
 flap around and damaged panels with vibrate and move with the car. Even the menu screen is a looker 
 with its 3D design.
  Gameplay: awesome and fun. It might not be very realistic but the speeding through a village and 
 drifting round a tight corner is great fun. The cars behave just like you want to: the will accelerate, 
 turn, brake and drift just how you want it. And with five difficulty settings you can set the one 
 for you so that you will be challenged yet not frustrated.
  Sound: also spot on. The sounds of the car are great. You can hear the turbo whistle as it burns 
 in the engine. Pieces clank and tap as the car jumps and rattles. And the tires make different 
 noises deppending on how many tires are sliding or on what surface they are on.
  The number of tracks is very decent aswell and each one enjoyable, with its own quirks: tight corners, 
 narrow streets, reduced visability, mud, asfalt, dirt, gravel, etc... 
  A must buy for any racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Thug
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is great , nice choice of cars and is actually so perfect in terms of racing, driving feel, variety 
 and setting that i cant say much about it exept PERFECT! Theres a slight number of flaws in the 
 game, like the lack of rain/snow, muddy (lookin and feeling) MUD, and the d*mn automatic reset 
 that puts you right back on the track whenever you get off the track and oftens ruins great crashes. Multiplayer 
 lacks a head to head/ split screen.. which ruins the whole multiplayer experience. The one thing 
 i could really do without is the Big Rigs and RAID racing (for the huge Vans) witch really, really 
 is boring and annoying. Did i mention the lack of real DIRT ? there's no such thing as wet and slippery 
 mud who normally makes you feel that satisfaction of feeling like a true rally racer and who normally, like 
 in previous colin mcrae games, gives you that virtual ''my car is derrrrrty cuz I took my ride in 
 heavy mud like the bad-ass rally racer I am'' feeling.
  
  Overall, i'd say it's pretty much the best racing game on the PS3 , feels like a Colin Mcrae classic 
 with a Gran Turismo touch. Graphics and sound are off the hizzle for **** deformations are great 
 and realistic, the tracks are perfect, Cars look and feel great .It will please the rally maniacs 
 like the average racing fan, but arcade-racing fans will found the game difficult because it really 
 feels like a simulati, on and not like a ''pedal to the metal'' arcade racer. Every turn must be 
 planned and you must listen to the co-pilot commands after a while because looking at the map will 
 distract you and hurt your time. Wonderful Experience. Quiet Addicting. P. S TO CODEMASTERS ... Next 
 game, please incorporate weather changes, MUD, and let us ride off the track when we fall off and 
 let us enjoy our crashes to the maximum. NO RESET PLEASE. and please.. please.. please... take the 
 Big Rigs and Vans outta here, YA HEARD! Oh, and unlockable videos, pictures, cars, tracks or whutevev 
 would be a nice add. Oh yeah, please add Lebanon to the countrys list too! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MestreDiglet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Colin Mcrae games since.. well since ever! I had my windows 95 and i already 
 played them. This Christmas i got a PS3 and my sister gave me DiRT i was intrigued by the game 
 because i hadnt played a Colin Mcrae game in a wile. 
  I tried the game and i was shocked by the lenght of it, the career mode is HUGE! there are tons 
 of diferent cars for diferent grounds and on top of that it has a great online multiplayer! 
  Not only this but something that i hadnt noticed in Colin Mcrae's games the graphics are pretty 
 amazing! and so i give this game 8.5 because even though its lenght online multiplayer and the 
 beautiful cars and graphics it is only rally not like gran turismo that has everything but it is 
 definitely the best rally game ever and if you like Colin Mcrae's games I know you will like this 
 one a true MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When pre-ordering this title I could tell that it was going to be a great game as it was part of 
 the Colin McRae franchise which has never let me down. However, I didn't think it was possible 
 for the series to get as good as this!
  
  The career mode is totally engaging and thankfully took me weeks to complete instead of ending 
 after 2-3 days like most other campaigns/story modes. As you play, you climb a ladder of races 
 which start out easy and get pregresively more difficult. Also, different races and vehicles are 
 unlocked - one race you could be driving a big-rig, the next a citroen C4 rally car. The best thing 
 about the races is the amazing car models (which damage superbly) as well as the tracks themselves 
 which look very lifelike.
  
  There is multiplayer in this title which is OK but nothing to shout about which is the only reason 
 why it didn't get 10/10 from me. Congratulations Codemasters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACIDUKILL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Where to start ,I have to that I was never a big fan of rally racing games and took a big change 
 purshacing Dirt. But I must say this game really changed my mind about rally games it was excellently 
 put together with great cars beautiful tracks excellent menu options and very addictive game play. To 
 start off in career mode you will start from the bottom and work your way up acquiring new stages 
 new cars and money with at some events you will have to us to purchase cars with. You can set your 
 difficulty level from rookie all the way to pro this will change the difficulty of your challengers 
 and the amount of damage your car can take, witch is a hole different aspect on it own the damage 
 modelling on this game is revolutionary where you can even see small cracks on you bumpers and 
 your car will get nice and dirty during a race. You can choose different racing disciplins from 
 career mode to rally world. It lacks a lot on your on line multi player option and with no offline 
 multi player options is a bit disappointing but a great single player makes Dirt definitely worth 
 while. PS3 version has a great frame rate witch does not drop at any time during the game unlike 
 its counter parts. All in all I really enjoyd Dirt and would recommend it to any racing fan or any 
 new comers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  The long running rally driving series of the late Scottish hero finally hits PS3. There's a wide 
 range of cars in many styles, old and new. Career mode has lots of difficulty settings, from very 
 forgiving to utterly merciless. 
  
  Highlights include: Hill Climb events, the mad sprints in a mega fast car. Mainly a straight line 
 with the odd turn, but the sense of speed and danger is incredible as any bump could send your 
 hurtling off the track. The short tarmac stages are the most accessible and fun of the events.
 
  
  The decision to have Travis Pastrana doing voice over work on the menus is annoying and bizarre 
 as he is more know for his motorbiking than rallying. Codemasters should have enlisted McRae (game 
 was completed before his death) or at least his old co driver Nicky Grist.
  
  The handling is a perfect balance of arcade and simulation. There's no two-player mode, but online 
 multi-player is very smooth with up to 100 racing together with split-times updating continuously. 
 A worthy tribute to a rallying great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaCC
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Why is it that I can't really feel the pulse when I play Dirt? It's got more or less everything 
 you can ask for in a rally-game; a good set-up of vehicles, challenging tracks and adrenaline-generating 
 speed. But still there's a constant feeling that something is missing. And I think the answer is 
 to be found in the name of the game - Dirt! The game is simply too clean, too touched up! I do 
 admit the squeaky clean set up makes it a beautiful game, but I never really feel that I'm in there, 
 submerged in the mud. And that is another aspect that is noteworthy - the cars do have a floaty 
 feeling to them. I can't really "feel" the car grabbing on to the surface or sense the weight of 
 my massive truck climbing that hill. And it gives the handling a sloppy, wobbly feel. And then 
 there's the speed. It's definitely fun to blast down a straight or twist and turn through a forest 
 in super-sonic mode, but I do miss the technical aspects ever-present in previous CM-games. It's 
 just gone to much arcade for my taste. 
  
  But, despite all this slagging off, it is a beautiful and most entertaining game. I do hope I'm 
 too harsh in my judgment because I've only played the game with a Sixaxis. Hopefully I will change 
 my mind and that magical feeling will present itself when I sit down behind a steering wheel with 
 force feedback. 
  
  Whatever the case, I won't continue playing Dirt because I love it and can't be without it, but 
 I will continue playing it because it's a whole lot of fun.
  
  Additional remarks: I have now played Dirt with a force feedback wheel and - unfortunately - the 
 game hasn't grown on me. Sure, it is still alot of fun, but I just never feel connected to what 
 is happening on the tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigglespot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Having had such tyre ripping fun with the demo I popped onto amazon and picked this badboy up to 
 see just how deep this game really was.
  
  It's pretty deep. Like the abyss. So many races and so many cars. This is the best rally game for 
 a console that I've played. Great graphics, tweakable setup and replays.
  
  There are many niggles with this game that I could cite, but I won't as this would detract from 
 the point, which is, that Dirt is simply a great game and well worth the money.
  
  I was suprised that the the voice-over guys (who are particularly annoying at times) weren't scottish 
 and in particular the voices of McRae and his co-driver. I appreciate that this is now not a possiblility 
 due to McRae's untimely death.
  
  The presentation is fast and elegant. The ghastly loading times of Motorstorm seem to be highlighted 
 by this game which although leaves you eager to start your next race, doesn't see you getting up 
 to make a cup of tea and file your tax return while you wait.
  
  It istn't actually that dirty. I don't really like the choice of vehicles for the off-road stages. 
 Would have been better having some real off-roaders instead of the strange and overly bouncy 4x4 
 oddities available
  
  There's a lot in this game so I'm scoring it higher that everybody else for value. How long you 
 stick at this before popping Motorstorm back in for some fun (and music - which is missing from 
 Dirt) . 
  
  To sum up : great graphics, great racing, great value for money, no Colin McRae other than the 
 title : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceSilverPSP
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  DiRt is a really sick game. I tried it at Future Shop and it was just ming boggling. It looked 
 so real. The vehicles controls seemed so real. I would probably feel like I was the driver if i 
 played first person. The racing is so cool. I can't wait until I buy the PS3. DiRT is gonna be 
 the very first game I'm going to buy. It just felt so real. If my dad didn't call me to come, I 
 probably would have stayed in the store until it closed. This game is really cool. Off-road racing 
 is taken to the limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong_viking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae DIRT is a brilliant rallygame, I just love the rallyparts! The other car-classes which 
 is not related too normal rally is fun, but it's not as good as the rallycross and the rally races. 
 I don't feel the control in the semi-trailer compared too the rally car.. I know it's an arcade 
 game, but I think that they've done the rally part pretty realistic... it's a good balance between 
 arcade and simulation.
  
  The graphic is amazing and it sounds good as well! The steering is okay with det sixaxis, but I 
 prefer too use mye logitech G25! The G25 together with DIRT is a real match!
  
  There are 5 difficultes as well, so it's a real challenge and it takes time to be good! I must 
 say I love this game, even I did'nt like all the car-classes that much. The career mode is brilliant 
 and it takes time to reach the top of the pyramid!
  
  And finally R. I. P Colin McRae 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthRaiden
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 version of this game is incredible, I just loved it in every way possible, the graphics 
 are great, gameplay is really addicted and fun, volume is nice to when you hear the engines roaring 
 in the dirt, theres a lot of cars and tracks for you to never get bored and different kinds of 
 ways to race, so if you own a PS3 then you should get this game because if you don't you will never 
 know what your missing on. If you like Sega Ralley Revo you should get this game because it is 
 sort of like Sega Ralley Revo except much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zype2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical about DiRT. So I downloaded the demo and fell in love with it! In fact, 
 I spent a lot of time on the demo trying to beat my own Personal tmes. Needless to say, a week 
 later.... I bought the game. There isn't much new to say that hasn't been said already. The tracks 
 and roads looks and feels as if you are acually there! The hair pin turns and many of the curves 
 make the game intense in a good way. To this day, I am not sure if I like the solo or racing other 
 cars better? That is another great thing about this game. Sometimes I feel like racing against 
 other cars, other times I want to only focus on the road. You will notice that the devolopers have 
 spent a lot of time in this game. For the first time, the loading screens aren't boring, it brings 
 up your stats in style. Another thing about this game that is rare with racing games. It is actually 
 fun to watch your replay! The damage that your car takes is very realistic, and the damage of the 
 course as well. The only problem I can find is the online mode. But it really isn't that bad. My 
 closing coments are simple. If you enjoy driving and racing games, this is a must own! It's fun 
 and extremly addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony-rules
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  hey gamers downed the demo it rook forever . so i start up the game. im unpressed all this time 
 downloading and it was int that good the handling kinda sucks. but it would have bean better if 
 they used sixaxis . and i don't like racing games that much but this game is not worth buying. 
 download the demo first. it was a good thing i did because if i would have bot it i would have.... 
 lets just say i did'ent like it thats it gamers buy for know (check out my profile! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! !! !! !! !) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobone711
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  HOLY ****
  best racing game every
  the damage is craaaaaazy and the graphics are rediculous
  the gameplay doesnt even matter cuz 
 i could just stare at it all day
  
  but anyway the game is great. the learning curve isnt too bad and it really gets intense when you 
 switch to inside the car view. its not too hard, just hit the apex and the car will pull you threw 
 every time.
  listen to the navigator and you will do fine in the rally events.
  i havent played online multiplayer yet, but i assume its good.
  
  GREAT GAME in every way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I would say I'm a casual fan of racing games, I always like to have them in my game arsenal anyhow. 
 At the time I bought my ps3, I could only afford 2 games. I wanted one racing game and one action 
 game. This was the racing game and since I had not ever played a ps3 game before, I had to buy 
 it based off of the fact that it has the best rating here of any racing game. Motostorm sounded 
 cool, but this one seemed more down to earth, more like a Gran Turismo but with more dirt and less 
 asphalt. But it was even more than that.
  
  And I have since played my other game, and have played a good dozen demo's. After seeing some other 
 games, it made me realize just how good this one was. Graphically, it is something to behold, and 
 doesn't suffer the performance issues that it does on the xbox 360 and PC. Nope, it runs a smooth, 
 very smooth, 60 fps.
  
  Graphics are one thing, but this gameplay and experience are amazing. I flipped my car in the game 
 and it was so real I got dizzy and damn near feel out of my chair! That is how immersed you can 
 get in this game. Really easy to pick up the controller and by the time you quit you wonder where 
 your day went!
  
  There are a lot of cars and trucks of all types you can get in this game. And like with Gran Turismo, 
 there are a ton of tweaking options to where you don't understand some of them. But no worry, on 
 basically every part of the game, there is great dialogue that explains tweaks, different vehicles, 
 tracks, and everything else. But what is cool is that you can push a button for the help dialogue 
 so it doesn't keep getting repeated over and over again. The racing is very real, racing physics 
 are as good as a Gran Turismo, but I think the controls are even better with the pressure sensitive 
 L2 button for the gas.
  Also, unlike a Gran Turismo, you can go over a cliff and get stuck. You can flip the vehicle, you 
 can ride on two wheels barely maintaining your balance for seconds at a time. You can catch serious 
 air as well. Anything that could happen in real life happens in this game.
  Which brings me to the damage. Again unlike a Gran Turismo, if you are a sucky driver you can damage 
 your car gradually, or slam into a tree and total your vehicle ending the race.
  
  It is so real. If you have a light wreck or just graze something, just a small amount of damage 
 or a small piece of the vehicle might fly off. But when you wreck hard, you can lose the entire 
 body of the vehicle!
  Basically what I'm saying is that the damage is accurate. If just one front corner of your vehicle 
 bumps into something, then just that part of the vehicle will be damaged.
  Also, damaged parts or missing parts due to damage can and will impact performance and aerodynamics.
 
  
  This is next gen in every sense of the word. Every aspect of the game has lots of detail put into 
 it. Again the voices are great. It is mostly Travis Pastrana talking you through things, but in 
 certain rally events and on other features you have another guy that talks as well. This is the 
 guy that talks to you in 2 person (in the same car) races and he gives you the heads up on how 
 sharp the turns are ahead, how long until you get there, ect.
  
  There is lots more I could get into, but if you are even just a casual racing game fan like myself, 
 or a die-hard racing fan, or hell even if you don't like racing games you will love this one.
 
  If this is an early next gen game, I can't wait to see what the PS3 brings us in the next couple 
 years!
  Yeah, rent it to see if you like it, but I have a feeling you will have a hard time finding things 
 wrong with this game. And you can learn the controls in this game in 2 seconds. Gas, Brake, Reverse! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SicBMX84
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I have noting bad to say about this game. I'm a racing guy, I love all types of racing from Formula 
 1 to Nascar to Moto GP. Dirt is worth playing, because it just fun. AI great, the looks of the 
 game look great. It feels good and when you drive on dirt it self the game feels easy to drive, 
 but some tracks are fast and I mean fast. One track I got in the top world top 10 times. I play 
 both the 360 and Ps3 verson and both look, feel and play the same. I just like the PS3 verson because 
 I'm much better racing on the PS3. If you love racing, get this game or rent it, but the game is 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pauloz2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Now here's a game that simply delivers everything that it's supposed to. i have played this game 
 every minute that i can and i love it to pieces, the graphics really do take the biscuit; at times 
 looking like reality and when you get to experience the replays you'll just keep watching for hours 
 (i recommend watching the pikes peak replay visually awe inspiring) ! The handling for each car 
 is unique, and exactly as they probably should be, the crashes are also something that Codemasters 
 can be proud of!
  
  All in all this game is a true masterpiece, and one that Colin McRae would have been proud of....
 
  
  Colin a true legend in the eyes of many, we will miss you.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChimpanzeeUK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is the latest in Codemasters long-running series of rally racing games inspired by the late, 
 great Colin McRae. This is undoubtedly the best in the series yet with over 40 vehicles to unlock 
 with a selection of over 150 liveries (paint-jobs) , several different types of races, and loads 
 of tracks and events.
  
  Normally, a games menu system isnt much to write home about. Not so with DiRT. This is probably 
 the nicest menu system I have ever seen in a game. It looks beautiful and works excellently. On 
 many of the menus, you can hit the triangle button (Y on the 360) to hear a description of the 
 event, vehicle, stage or vehicle set-up which is very useful, especially when you first start playing. 
 Finally, once youve selected your event and vehicle, you are entertained with some interesting 
 (and sometimes worrying) statistics about your playing habits while the game loads. These include 
 your total time spent driving, longest time on two wheels and longest distance without crashing.
 
  
  From the main menu, you have the choice to enter Career mode, Rally World, Rally Championship or 
 Multiplayer mode.
  
  Career mode takes you to a pyramid of more than 60 events made up of Rally events (where you race 
 a solo point-to-point course with a co-driver  fastest time wins) , Hill Climb events (similar 
 to rally events except you dont have a co-driver) , Rallycross events (head-to-head races with 
 multiple cars on half-dirt/half-tarmac circuits) , Crossover events (where you race one other person 
 on the same track but with two different start/finish lines and you cross-over at the mid-point 
 in the track the fastest person around the entire course wins) and Championship Off-Road Racing 
 (CORR) events (head-to-head races against multiple opponents on a dirt track in buggies and racing 
 trucks) among others. Each tier is unlocked by collecting points with the ultimate goal being to 
 get to the top of the pyramid and complete the final event. Each event is worth up to 10 points 
 of which you are awarded a certain amount depending on how well you do in the event (10 points 
 for 1st place) . The very meticulous (or unemployed) among you will ultimately attempt to gain 10 
 points in every event, although (I am told) this isnt necessary to reach the top tier. You gain 
 money for each event you gain a podium position on. How much money you win depends on your position 
 (1st, 2nd or 3rd) and the difficulty you select. This money is used to buy vehicles required to 
 take part in subsequent events.
  
  A nice feature of career mode is that you select the difficulty before each event, not at the beginning 
 of the game. This helps avoid those hours spent with a pot of Polyfilla filling-in that hole that 
 your SIXAXIS made in the wall. If you cant complete an event in Professional mode, just switch 
 it down to the ProAm setting. Youll get the same amount of points, but earn less money.
  
  Rally World is your pick-up and play area. Here you can choose to play any type of event with 
 the huge array of vehicles you have unlocked in Career mode. If you need a break from the pressure 
 of life in the fast lane, heres the place to hone your skills and just have fun before continuing 
 your journey to the top of the pyramid.
  
  Rally Championship is where you can return to your Collin McRae roots. There are a variety of rally 
 events to choose from here and is the ideal place to work on your driving skills before going online 
 to see how well youre doing against other players from around the world.
  
  The main area where DiRT isnt such a success is in multiplayer mode. The only online functionality 
 the game has is the ability to compete with other players in a time-trial scenario, not head-to-head 
 racing. Your time is uploaded to an online leader board where you can see how you stack-up against 
 other players. The only other area of the game that I can think to mention in a not so positive 
 tone is your sometimes irritating, always cheesy co-driver. Smooth and steady. Im Mr. Smooth 
 and youre Mr. Steady. Shut up! If anything, Im Mr. Smooth!
  
  The developers are very proud of the damage modeling system theyve developed for DiRT. And rightly 
 so! For the first time, vehicles are deformed AROUND objects that they plough into! Gone are the 
 days where youd hit a brick wall at 80, dent your bumper and bounce off in the other direction. 
 Your car may actually end up considerably shorter by the end of the course. And the environment 
 is just as deformable as the cars. Stone walls, fences and Armco react very convincingly and all 
 under their own physics. All this results in collisions which are sometimes disturbing realistic 
 when played back in the games replay system.
  
  The replay controls in DiRT are simple but effective. Youve got the standard toolkit (pause, rewind, 
 fast forward, slow-motion, etc) and also the ability to select from a number of camera angles. 
 Watching a replay of your car clipping the side of a rock and barrel-rolling seven times down the 
 dusty track also provides the perfect opportunity to take in the stunning scenery that surrounds 
 each stage. It also gives you the opportunity to admire the immersive, crisp 5.1 surround sound 
 that both the replays and the game itself are presented in. The stunning surroundings and sometimes 
 chilling realism his makes for replays that are just as satisfying and entertaining as the race 
 its self.
  
  Due to its radical departure from previous games in the series, maybe this game will not be so 
 popular with the Colin McRae purists. But DiRT is a brilliant start to the next generation of Colin 
 McRae games. Whats to come in future games in the series, we can only imagine. Codemasters are 
 obviously proud of their latest McRae masterpiece which can now stand as a worthy tribute to the 
 man himself. Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Multiplayer: 5/10
  Longevity: 7/10
  Fun: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackboy3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  i like this game its cool i used to play it i think on ps2 but i upgraded to ps3 and the WII After 
 a two-year break for the series, Codemasters Studios' designers have created a reinvigorated McRae 
 experience. The new Colin McRae title goes beyond the series' point-to-point rallying to deliver 
 the most diverse selection of extreme off-road competitions. Sensational gravel, mud and dirt racing 
 events from the world over include perilous Hill Climb and collision-packed Rally Cross events. 
 International rallying competitions are also featured, with official cars on tracks based on real 
 roads and locations around the globe. The title also expands on beat-the-clock racing and includes 
 events with multiple cars on track to satisfy anyone who wants to push their on-the-edge driving 
 just that bit further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adawg42025
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is great but if you suck at racing games dont try cause you will suck but if you like 
 a challenge like i do then you love this game dont cheat yourself give this one a good run it aint 
 no ridge racer 7 this **** tight i seen a lot of bad reviws for this game and i think people must 
 be trippin cause is a must buy i think if you give this a real chance i think you will deffintly 
 get into this one what is up with 100 word minium make strech this a half mile long for a game 
 review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quad_a1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  My condolences to the McRae famly for the loss of Colin McRae and Johnny McRae.
  
  I've been a Colin McRae purist since CMR 02' and compared to the previous games of this franchise... 
 this game is totally different. The name of this game screams 'DiRT', even the intro video shows 
 beautifully rendered dust trails kicked up by the cars... but seriously... I see NO DIRT AT ALL. 
 There isn't even any proper dirt accumulation on the cars as seen in the video. I personally hate 
 arcade racing games, but I kid you not... the dust trails and dirt and muck accumulation on the 
 cars of Motorstorm are way better than this game. Even the dust trail graphics of CMR 2005 Plus 
 (PSP Game) are better than CMR DiRT. You also can't choose the type of weather you want, likewise 
 the type of tire compound or tire cut, instead... they have a very complicated car setup (even 
 for die hard racing fans) in this game. I have to admit... although the crash dynamics, particle 
 and lighting effects of this game are superb, Codemasters shouldn't have amputated the original 
 features of this otherwise fine WRC Series. This game would have been twenty times better if Codemasters 
 had involved Colin McRae in the development. So if you want to buy just another racing game... 
 go ahead, but if you are a Colin McRae Series fan... you will be dissapointed.
  
  I love the idea of driving or racing on twisty switch-back roads and dream to be a rally driver 
 someday. Colin McRae was my inspiration and role model. I am going to really miss The Flying Scotsman. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wixar
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  At first let me assure you that I know what I am talking about when it comes to this series. I 
 have played every installment of the game since the original except CMR3 and CMR2005. And it leaves 
 me wondering: Where is the dirt in Colin McRae DiRT?
  
  I will start by telling you what I liked, for example the environments wich look awesome and how 
 the cars look while they are driving, with the suspension working over every bump in the road. 
 I especially liked the buggy racing, as you can really see all that at work in there. Rally racing 
 is quite enjoyable and so is hillclimbing (though the difference is basically limited to having 
 no co-driver) . Racing the pickup trucks is nice too.
  The damage system is the best i have ever seen and the well made replay mode lets me see the car 
 fall apart again and again. Now the unfortunate bad things about DiRT.
  First:
  Where is that dirt? Almost nonexistent! Take the dust for example, it looks right until a few meters 
 after the rear wing of the rally car and then it just drops off.
  Here is what dust looked like in CMR 4
  http://moddie666. dyndns. org/colin04. jpg
  Of course 
 the dust looks nicer in DiRT but there is just not enough of it.
  And the way dirt builds up on your car is a joke at best, the car gets dirty after a few turns 
 and stays that way until the end, i would really have liked slow buildup of dust or dirt on the 
 cars. And rally cars should not look shiny at the end of a stage in australia!
  
  Next the weather effects, they look nice and realistic, but there is no raining and no snowing 
 (no snow whatsoever) . The wet tarmac looks way too shiny when there is no sun to shine on them. 
 There is also no night racing.
  
  The cars don't feel right on the track if you have played any of the previous CMR games. If I wanted 
 arcade I would have waited for Sega Rally.
  
  I long for the days of CMR 1 where I could race at night, and I particularly remember a dirty jungle 
 stage in indonesia, with a vicous thunder storm to drive through!
  
  All in all CMR DiRT is a solid game and visually stunning, but not what I would have expected from 
 the NextGen Premiere of CMR.
  
  gameplay: 6
  graphics: 9
  sound: 6
  value: 5
  tilt: 4
  ------------------
  overall: 6
  
  greetings
  /moddie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Espen-S-R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  14 sep. Ebgames released the game and i vent to the game shop to bye it.. CMR dirt takesrally driving 
 to another stage.. whit up hill racnig, buggy racing and more you vill take the new Rally game as 
 a mutch cooler game than the others. First i think the game was verry like Motorstom because the 
 offroad racing, but i like MS verry good so the new CmR is verry cool too..
  The carrer mode is a verry long way to go, you must driwe true germany, sweeden and manny more 
 contrys.
  It's verry many difrent cars to race whit, ewery car group has a spesiality. some cars has WERRY 
 big spoilers and are god att down/upp hil racing, and other cars are like real rally cars.. if you 
 know what i mean.
  
  the difficulty is not easy to say her, because there is easy levels, normal levels or hard levels 
 at the carer mode.. the driving feeling is on a good way verry realistic, whit real damage, real 
 rally car sounds and real whether you vill get a verry god racing feeling, i like the realistic 
 damage verry good..
  
  Online gaming on CmR is verry hevy.. up to 100 players can race on same time, i think it is verry 
 vild..! 100 players from over the world are racing yeah i like that!! So from my own words i vill 
 say this is allmost the best rally game so far, go in the store and bye it if you want, you vill 
 have gaming for days og weeks :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roozbeh007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  DiRT is an excellent follow up on Colin mcRae game series. if you enjoyed playing the last series, 
 you will love this one as well. graphics are superb and game play and control are pretty fair. 
 online game play could've had more options, but still is enjoyable and the voting system for the 
 next race is a great feature. after all this is a great game for any rally fan. the only problem 
 I saw with the game was the fact that there were so many adjustment options for your car which 
 makes you a little confuse specially if you are an average driver. I think it's a little too much. 
 but again, if you get used to it, you will appreciate these little tweak options as they will help 
 you to beat your opponents by milliseconds. if this is the first time you are going to play a rally 
 game, do not expect similar vehicle control experience as in a street or track racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  I recieved this game the day mcrae died sadly.
  Hope the franchise will long continue, find out why i hope for that.
  
  First off, the thing 
 that strikes you most about this game is the presentation.
  The graphics have to be mentioned, they are the most amazing graphics i have yet to see in any 
 racer, at times it looks real. The amount of on screen detail is amazing with very minimal pop 
 up, the speed at this game runs is extremely fast with a full 30fps speed rate. The game looks 
 best and most realistic when played either in the bumper cam or the cockpit view. This is where 
 i believe you have better control behind the wheel.
  The cars are detailed very well with full damage etc but the handling is in a different league 
 to past colin mcrae games and the handling is very loose and like your driving on ice so this is 
 why i choose the views i mentioned as it seems more realistic.
  
  The games menus are also very safisticated and clean, easy to navigate and simple to use. However 
 the writing on them can appear rather small and hard to read at times.
  
  The pace of the game is very good with a points system and also different levels of difficulty 
 to suit your own style of progression. earning more money for the higher difficulty makes more 
 of a challenge but also earns you more cars more quickly.
  
  The sound from the narator can be cheesy but the pace notes are very well spoken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samim21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is crazy I don't know why anyone wouldn't like it it has good online play and it definitly 
 deserves a rating higher than 9. The only thing that could be better in the game is the multiplayer 
 it just needs an offline one and it would be better if it had more real cars with better paintings 
 but other than that its a sick game. I think it would be better than gran turismo if it had those 
 things. Anyone who doesn't like it is a hater or jsut doesn't like racing games period. If you 
 don't have this game go get it. its worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav13
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I'de rather eat dirt then play this game. Graphics are good gameplay is SAD!! Cars dont feel right 
 on the track, alot of unrealistic characteristics.... Idea is good with multiple race types it 
 just doesnt seem to come together very well. It is a nice try at a gran turismo style game but 
 those are very big shoes to fill. More time is needed to go into this game to make it a competitor, 
 such as more realistic physics, sounds and sense of speed. However, I did like the different style 
 of camera veiws that you are able to select when driving the cars.
  Well, Im out, peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worldcupiran201
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Dirt, to me, was just a waste of money, no fun at all, hard to steer, no WOW factors, and just 
 not fun. One of the major reasons why i dont like dirt is because it is in the dirt roads, there 
 is no action or anything to keep you looking at the screen. Dirt is a game, MAYBE worth renting, 
 dont waste your money. The Graphics of the game are amazing though, I felt as if i was really in 
 the of the desert racing a car. I would give the gameply a 2 and the graphics an 8, but overall 
 a 3.5. I dont recommend buying this game, all my friends bought it, they are slowly realizing how 
 bad it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk_csharp
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I've played many racing games and this must be the best racing game i've ever played for years. 
 Not just it's beautiful but the gameplay is fantastic and it handles very well if you know how 
 to set up your car properly. I'm playing this game on the PS3 now and i've played it on my PC (Dell 
 XPS) but the PS3 version kicks ass. It's so much better than the PC version and it looks better. 
 I had framerate issues on my expensive PC, but the PS3 is just fantastic, no framerate issues whatsoever, 
 and it just looks gorgeous. When compared to Motorstorm, it seems so much better especially on 
 the driving and gameplay side, maybe it doesn't have that dirt effect but Motorstorm seems a bit 
 boring after a while and the gameplay just gets too repetitive. Nothing comes close to DiRT. Maybe 
 Sega Rally, but from videos that i've seen it doesn't impress me much. What a game, now i can say: 
 Money well spent . :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Colin McRae, well, I've played three of them. Out of the 5 previous ones. 
 I suppose that doesn't make me a fan. But I do enjoy them, even though I am absolutely rubbish.
 
  
  So then, why have I just splashed out a load of money to buy the new game, the day it came out, 
 in a limited edition steel package? Well, it's simple, THEY ARE FUN. Just that. They're fun. Simple.
 
  
  And that really sums up DiRT, it's fun. Not many other words actually describe it. Maybe, tricky, 
 techinical and beautiful, but mainly fun.
  
  I mean, you get in a car, and trash it, while laughing your head off at how rubbish you're doing. 
 What could be more fun? Seriously?
  
  The graphics are excellent, the gameplay is strong, and the whole idea of the game works, hich 
 it should, seen as it is in essence, the same game it was when Colin McRae Rally came out. Just 
 better.
  
  So where does that leave us? With a perfectly formed game, that has been moulded over years, by 
 criticism.
  
  Comparison with MotorStorm:
  
  It's going to be hard to beat. MotorStorm is the killer racing game, so how does DiRT compare?
 
  
  I assume you have MotorStorm, as you should have if you're looking for a rally game on the PS3. 
 MotorStorm is an extreme racing game, with huge potential, and very few drawbacks. It was a step 
 in the dark for Evolution, but one they don't regret. DiRT isn't like that. It's an old game, so 
 if you liked the old Colin McRae games, you'll love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelex1978
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. Nice graphics, a lot of options and cars.
  
  The mulitplayer on-line is nicely set up. And all scores and time that you set are uploaded to 
 the network so that you can see how good you are compared to the world.
  
  But the game is missing one essential thing. A off-line multiplayer option.
  You cannot play 
 with a friend who is visiting you. Like in other games in the genre you can start a championship 
 in which you can start together. This is the only minor point of this game. But for me it is an 
 important failure for this game.
  
  Let's hope that codemaster changes this in a next version or maybe in an update which we download 
 from the PS network.
  
  regards,
  Jelex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  I'm just gonna throw it on the table: Colin McRae DiRT is the best racing game on the PS3 yet. 
 With beautiful graphics, fantastic gameplay and great dept make this one of the first must-buys 
 on Sony's fourth system.
  It is just my favorite game, alright, almost. Oblivion is still unbeatable at this time. Unfortunately, 
 that stupid 'click and slide to rate' system from GameSpot is stupid. I would like to give it a 
 9.6, but that's not possible. Stupid Americans... Well, if you're a fan of the CM series, or just 
 a rally game fan, or just a racing fan, or just a PS3 owner, you should probably check out this 
 one.
  
  PS3 Top-Five
  1. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
  2. Colin McRae DiRT
  3. The Darkness
  4. Heavenly Sword
  5. Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
