-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disgaea 3: Absence of Justice
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/strategy/disgaea3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid, consistently funny story.
 New gameplay changes make this the best Disgaea yet.
 Even after you've finished the story, there are dozens of hours' worth of things to do.
 Geo blocks add a puzzle element that makes you approach each level differently.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Somehow turns your PS3 into a PS2.
 Still features an absolutely atrocious camera.
 Less accessible than ever for someone new to the series.
 Not enough Prinnies, dood.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 579 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NIS America
Developer: Nippon Ichi Soft.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pure, unadulterated fan service for the Nippon Ichi faithful and strategy RPG enthusiasts, though 
 outsiders may find it incomprehensible. 

  The Disgaea series has long been a bastion of excellence in the realm of strategy role-playing 
 games, and though Disgaea 3: Absence of Justice is no exception, it's beginning to show its age. 
 Despite a great deal of minor gameplay tweaks, the series as a whole seems adamant in staying the 
 exact same as it always has, which is immediately evident by its PlayStation 2-era (or worse) sprite 
 graphics. That said, Disgaea 3 delivers what is undoubtedly the best combination of zany story 
 and strategic gameplay seen yet in the series, and it's a fun and entertaining game that will keep 
 fans hooked for dozens of hours.  

  Mao (not THAT one) is not your average scholar. As the number-one honor student in the Netherworld 
 Evil Academy, his day is spent ditching classes, experimenting on other students, and being lazy. 
 In the twisted world of a demon school, honor students like Mao do everything but earn good grades, 
 whereas delinquents like his rival Raspberyl enjoy donating blood, striving for a perfect attendance 
 record, and performing acts of charity. Mao's latest obsession is Super Hero Aurum, a legendary 
 warrior of love and justice who traveled from one netherworld to the next to defeat their overlords 
 before mysteriously vanishing 200 years ago. After "researching" all of the anime and manga he 
 could get about Aurum, Mao becomes convinced that he must become a hero himself to gain the power 
 necessary to overthrow his father, the overlord of his netherworld. All of this happens because 
 his father accidentally stepped on his SlayStation Portable video game system and caused Mao to 
 lose four million hours' worth of progress.  

            Monster units can now magichange into powerful weapons for other characters to wield. 

  Of course, being a demon with an evil quotient of 1.8 million, he intends to become a hero as dishonestly 
 as possible. With the help of his creepy butler Geoffery, Mao tracks down Almaz von Almadine Adamant, 
 a self-proclaimed hero who has infiltrated the academy to defeat the overlord himself, and promptly 
 kidnaps him to steal his title. Of course, things don't work out quite as expected, and so Mao 
 sets off on a quest that involves an insane home-economics teacher, a gentlewoman fond of giving 
 ridiculous orders to friend and foe alike, a rookery of explosive demonic penguins, and the true 
 meaning of opening one's heart. In case you hadn't figured it out yet, Absence of Justice is truly 
 out there even for the Disgaea series, which is well known for being absolutely absurd. Be prepared 
 for self-referential in-jokes and fourth-wall breaking like none other, and keep an eye out for 
 parodies of everything from Super Sentai to  American Idol . Disgaea 3 is in many ways pure fan 
 service, and if you count yourself as one of developer Nippon Ichi Software's faithful, you will 
 be hard-pressed to find a more entertaining game. If on the other hand this is your first entry 
 into the world of Disgaea, or you simply aren't a follower of anime, you may find yourself treading 
 in unfamiliar waters.  

  This time around, the Netherworld Evil Academy serves as your base of operations, and within its 
 ever-changing halls you will seek medical attention at the nurse's office, buy new weapons and 
 armor at the school store, and even enter the world of your heart at select points to consult or 
 do battle with your various subconsiousnesses. One major new addition is the Evility instructor, 
 who for a price will teach you weapon skills, magic spells, and powerful passive abilities called 
 Evilities with which to customize your units, greatly streamlining the character growth process. 

           Homeroom replaces the dark senate, and it's just as absurd as ever.      

  The dark senate makes its return as the homeroom, and by attending -- if only for a few moments before 
 ditching -- you can change assigned seating and enroll units in clubs, both of which affect battle 
 performance. You can also recruit transfer students, request the formation of new clubs, ask for 
 better items to appear in the school store, and more, though most major actions have to be approved 
 by the school board, which can prove troublesome because demons are an understandably fickle bunch. 
 Luckily, Mao's not above handing out bribes, taking over the school PA system to trick board members 
 into thinking they're voting for something entirely different, or even beating his detractors into 
 submission.  

  Once you've had your fill of the academy, it's off to the battlefield, where the bulk of your time 
 will be spent. For the most part, the combat engine in Disgaea 3 is identical to its predecessors. 
 As ever, combat is turn-based and you'll be deploying your units onto an isometric grid from a 
 set base panel, positioning them, and unleashing an impressive array of attacks and special moves 
 on your enemies. Nevertheless, this isn't to say that nothing has changed. Battlefields are larger 
 than ever before, special attacks can be combined to create entirely new ways of inflicting pain, 
 and monster classes can transform into powerful weapons that grant new skills to their wielders. 
 Adjacent friendly units still have the potential to unleash team attacks or share spells, but homeroom-seating 
 arrangements and club memberships play a great role in determining how likely they are to occur 
 or if they're even possible.  

  The single most game-changing new feature found in Absence of Justice are the geo blocks: giant 
 colored boxes that add a puzzle element to each level that they appear in and require some unique 
 and highly strategic approaches. Geo blocks grant bonuses or penalties to anyone standing on top 
 of them, but they can be destroyed in whole groups if you're able to toss a like-colored one next 
 to another -- but the trick is that connected geo blocks can't be lifted up or otherwise moved. Clearing 
 geo blocks is almost always a priority, given that most are a huge impediment to your success and 
 clearing them will make your life easier, as well as do significant damage to enemies perched on 
 top of them.  

           Geo blocks can make you approach a battle entirely differently than normal.      

 
  If you're finished with or want to take a break from the main story, there are plenty of other 
 things to do, including revisiting old areas for extra experience and exploring the Item World 
 and the all-new Class World. The Item World, which is quite literally the secret land hidden inside 
 your items, lets you fight your way through progressively difficult, randomly generated dungeons 
 to make your gear more powerful. The Class World is very functionally similar, but you are battling 
 instead for the chance to increase the stats of one of your units in a variety of ways, and each 
 floor is completely full of geo blocks. Disgaea 3, as with its predecessors, leaves you with no 
 shortage of things to do at any point, and with the potential to level your characters into the 
 thousands so they can dish out damage by the millions, you may find yourself tweaking your characters 
 for a long time to come.  

  Disgaea 3 features an excellent soundtrack and the English voice acting is top notch (Mao in particular) , 
 though if for whatever reason the English voices aren't your thing, you'll be pleased to know that 
 the original Japanese dub can be activated at any time. Graphically, however, it doesn't fare so 
 well. Absence of Justice has ostensibly taken the series into the next generation on the PlayStation 
 3, but its lackluster graphical performance begs to differ: Outside of the polished, high-resolution 
 menus, there is absolutely no reason that it couldn't have appeared on the PS2. Battles still float 
 ominously over featureless gradients or still art backgrounds, cutscenes feature absolutely no 
 animation (with the exception of the beautiful anime title sequence) , and character sprites are 
 pixelated, ugly, and look downright out of place on the much sharper and cleaner terrain. Even 
 more absurd is that some of the larger levels actually suffer frame-rate problems, and that the 
 absolutely atrocious camera is back and now features a new, even less useful way to show you troop 
 placements.  

  Graphical complaints aside, it's indisputable that Absence of Justice has perfected the series' 
 five-year-old formula and provides the best Disgaea experience yet. Fans of the series will enjoy 
 its self-referential humor and solid gameplay, though outsiders will likely have difficulty enjoying 
 the more esoteric in-jokes and find the often poorly explained combat system incredibly complicated. 
 But if you've got the time and the patience to figure it all out, you'll find an incredibly deep 
 and rewarding game that will keep you hooked for hours.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lobert124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Disgaea really doesn't takes itself seriously with some funny cut scenes and some great battles. 
 Although some of the battlefields look large and have lots of enemies, the game really isn't that 
 challenging. One of the best things about this game is the characters. Their feelings, their emotions, 
 and their quirky looks stick with you till the very end of the story. There are many different 
 endings which are fun to go through, and if you are a fan of the previous series you are probably 
 aware of the crazy leveling. But in this game, the levels are just as insane but the damage that 
 you can give max out at 999999999999. So the battles that take place will have some great looking 
 moves. But the problem with this game is that it looks like it was meant for the Playstaion 2 and 
 the camera are still as bad as ever. But if doesn't put you off it is a great game with the new 
 blocks that add a new way to approach a situation. All and all a pretty good game and the best 
 part about this game are the prinnies dood! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game from start to finish. First I'd like to say I'm new to this series but I had 
 no trouble learning how to play it and it's not as difficult for newcomers to get into as the Gamespot 
 reviewer said.
  
  The story is quite entertaining and humorous, although it took a while for the characters to grow 
 on me. The main character is a juvenille demon named ''Mao'' and he is upset with his father about 
 something, and Mao wants control of the ''Netherworld'' for himself. The Netherworld is a place under 
 the Earth's surface where demons and strange but colorful characters and monsters live.
  
  However, problems arise in the Netherworld with the seniors wanting to take control of it, and Mao 
 and his group try to stop them, and you'll discover some plot twists.
  
  The gameplay involves you take a turn to perform actions with your characters and the CPU does 
 the same. You win simply by eliminating all the enemies on the level. As you would expect there's 
 the move, attack, defend functions, as well as skills which can be spells or special moves and require 
 mana but some are quite powerful. When certain characters are placed next to eachother they can 
 perform a double or triple team attack but it only uses up one character turn.
  
  You can level up your characters to an insane level 9999! On the final chapter, the enemies won't 
 even be over level 100, so to make things fair, in some stages you're either heavily outnumbered, or 
 some of the bosses have very high defensive stats so your most powerful attacks won't do much damage 
 on them.
  
  If you wanted to, you could spend alot of time levelling up to make your characters almost Godly 
 and the game a breeze, or you can just pace yourself normally and do the normal levelling up you'd 
 do any RPG and keep the game challenging but winnable and win the game in alot less time.
  
  For more variety the geo blocks create colored zones when your characters or the enemy characters 
 stand in these colored zones it increases or decreases certain stats. So occupying or avoiding these 
 colored zones can be crucial. You can order one of your characters to throw another one of your 
 characters so they can travel a distance quicker or they can get to areas that would be inaccessible 
 if they were unassisted. You can throw enemy characters so they land in an area where they're more 
 vulnerable to your attacks.
  
  What made this game so enjoyable for me was the characters.
  
  -Mao is so mean and arrogant 
 and c*cky and over confident, but it looks so funny because he's so small but his ego is 10 times 
 bigger and he even likes to brag to adults and much more powerful enemies how he's going to defeat 
 them. Mao even sexually harasses female students and is proud of it.
  
  -Almaz is learning to be a demon, but he has a much more compassionate personality than Mao, and 
 he is also more mature and smarter.
  
  -Geoffery is an old demon and a butler for Mao and teaches Mao alot of what he knows.
  
  -Mr 
 Champloo is a home economics teacher and is the tough guy in the group (although Mao acts tougher, Mr 
 Champloo is actually tougher) even though many of Mr Champloo's high powered attacks are related 
 to cooking techniques and blend with martial arts.
  
  -Sapphire is a princess from the human world.
  
  -Raspberyl is a childhood friend of Mao and 
 unlike other demons, she likes to turn up to class and do her homework.
  
  -Asuka is a female ninja and a very powerful fighter and she is a bodyguard for Raspberyl.
  
 
  There's more characters to learn about but I'll let you discover them for yourself. There's also 
 a touch of romance in the story, but it doesn't feel tacked on, it's quite cute and builds up well.
 
  
  The graphics are IMO the game's major flaw. Now, I LOVE anime style graphics and have no problem 
 if they are on a next generation console, but these graphics are PS2 quality and do not take advantage 
 of the PS3's hardware. If the game's makers wanted to use old school style graphics to keep the 
 authentic Disgaea feeling, fine but they could have made made the graphics sharper and polished 
 and the graphics look abit fuzzy.
  
  The music can be quite charming, and in between missions you hear a Japanese song sung by a female 
 singer and it sounds quite nice as it has a theme that sounds like something sung at a bar. And 
 for the more deeper or emotional story events, the music can have a more deeper, sensitive feeling.
 
  
  The voice acting matches the characters well, and they speak with good expression. Mao is so adorable 
 and funny because he is so small but he tries to act tough and bad.
  
  The only negative things that really annoyed me were if you lose a mission you have to start all 
 the way from the beginning again and some of the missions are quite long. And the game can be difficult (in 
 the later stages) if you don't do alot of levelling up.
  
  Overall-It's a very enjoyable turn based strategy game/RPG for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the Netherworld's "Evil Academy", where demons are trained to become evil! well sort 
 of at least.
  The third game in the Disgaea series introduces us to a new cast of characters, a number of gameplay 
 elements, and a quirky story that easily rivals that of its predecessors.
  
  If you're not familiar with the Disgaea series, whole series is based demons in the Netherworld 
 somehow manage to become "the good guys" in their own twisted ways, even as they intend to be pure 
 evil. 
  
  You play as the role of Mao who becomes upsess of being a Hero instead of being an evil genius. 
 But Mao who is also the Overlords son in the Netherworld but with Mao being upsess with videogames 
 and comic books. So Mao decides to beat his dad, to become a Hero and be the new overlord in the 
 Netherworld. 
  But in the Netherworld Mao becomes the "No.1 Honar Student" in Evil Academy. But he also joins 
 up with his self-proclaimed friend/enemy/ rival Raspberyl "or Beryl for short", as well as a hero 
 wanna be from the Human world named Almaz who thinks the princess is being held kidnapped by the 
 Overload, Mao discovers through his research that the only way to defeat his father is by obtaining 
 the power of a hero.
  
  Gameplay= If your new to the series the gameplay for Disgaea 3 is easy to get the hang of controls 
 but will be choosing the moves and attacks before ending each turn for character you have on the 
 battlefield. If you have played through the series there is a few changes in gameplay. You can 
 also buy abilities by using mana points from each battle where you can buy or upgrade your skills/attacks 
 which can do more damage on enemies in the battlefield.
  
  Your characters can move certain steps in each turn and can attack or use skills if you're near 
 enemies. Also new to Disgaea 3 which is called "geo-panels" (which determine various effects on 
 coloured squares on the battlefield) is not controlled by tiny pyramids. 
  You can throw them and destroy the geo-panels/blocks, which will do some damage on enemies and 
 dispel there abilities on the coloured squares if there standing on them "e. g.: a green panel boosts 
 50% on attacks who ever is standing on them on the battlefield". 
  
  Another new feature in the series is "Magichange" where a monster-type demon cannot throw and lift 
 objects, so instead they have been granted the ability to "Magichange." Using Magichange the monster 
 becomes a weapon that another party member can use, which can heightened strength and some abilities 
 exclusive to that monsters Magichange form. 
  
  Graphics and Sound= The strangest thing about Disgaea 3 is that the graphics during gameplay make 
 it feel more like a Playstation 2 game but slightly brighter visuals. If you have played through 
 the series on PS2 the graphics look totally similar but if this was on PS2 as well the graphics 
 would look fine overall. 
  The best thing about Disgaea 3 is the still character portraits that appear during dialogue cut-scenes. 
 The anime-style charcters are detailed and beautiful.
  
  Music in Disgaea 3 makes it fee; more like one on Tim Burtons but in Japanese specially the opening 
 before the main menu shows up. But very remarkable it has a lot funky music some calm, some quite 
 punkish and fantasy type and also fun to listen too. Voice acting is mixed in a bag it can make 
 you laugh through out story for Disgaea 3, but you can change it to Japanese voicing if you don't 
 like the English voicing for Disgaea 3 which you can do in settings at any time.
  
  Overall= Once you've beaten the game which can take you more then 20 hours, there is still a lot 
 of things to do in Disgaea 3. You can also go through item world where you can go through each 
 floor to what ever item you want to use which can help you level up your charcters. 
  The only thing I found annoying was through out the game and I'm sure you'll probably say the same 
 thing which is the annoying camera where it can really be a pain in the neck through out gameplay. 
 
  
  If your new to the series it's worth picking for your PS3 since there isn't many RPG/Strategy games 
 at the moment which I'm sure that most people are still waiting for Final Fantasy XIII or White 
 Knight Chronicles for there PS3's. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  In the third installment of the Disgaea series, Nippon Ichi decides to put a little spin on things. 
 That would mean that we would get to see all new faces, new modes of gameplay, new maps and so 
 fourth... That's not to say however that the Item World, senates and prinnies won't make their 
 appearance in the game, just that in some way or another they will be altered.
  
  Similair to the other games, you are a son of an Overlord, and intersetingly enough, you will be 
 able to fight this Overlord early on in the game... or his hands at least. This time around, you 
 will be in control of Mao... pronounced 'Mow' no Mayo. Anyhoo, Mao is the number uno student of 
 the Netherworld, and knowing how the Netherworld is, one could only imagine what the number one 
 student could be like. Well, let's just say he hasn't showed up to a single class... *phew* that 
 must be exhausting!
  
  According to Mao's "research" (aka any form of Manga, Video Games and Anime) a hero is someone 
 blessed with the powers able to defeat an Overlord, provided that they stand for Love and Justice. 
 Unsure exactly what this strange concept of Love and Justice might be, Mao decides to find a hero 
 and extract the information... Maybe even steal his title *hehehe.* Naturally, Mao finds his target, 
 Almaz van something something and thus our story begins.
  
  Overall, Disgaea 3 has a very simplistic storyline to it, and it's characters seem very childish 
 for their age... (cough cough, 1500+.) However, that's not all too bad. Everyone has a bright personality, 
 brilliant dialogue is what makes this game come alive. That and it's incredible gameplay. On your 
 action list you will have everything from throw-an-exploding-penguin to team combo attacks. Imagine 
 doing 18,000,000,000 damage to a helpless humam size walking mushroom! Yes, you can do that kind 
 of damage in this game... Heck, you can surpass level 100, 200... 700.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Disgaea formula, Disgaea is the kind of rpg strategy game that is 
 based solely on a storyline, but unlike Fire Emblem and games of that nature you can do more than 
 just buy weapons, armor and items. In Disgaea, you can sculp your dream team of killer thieves 
 and demonic magicians. This time around, you can enter school in your homeroom create new characters 
 (for a price,) appeal to a board of ed., form groups etc. As of right now, Disgaea 3 isn't trophy 
 compatible, but you can purchase the add-ons.
  
  Overall, Disgaea 3 sets the mood for a new era of rpg games. One that makes you think beyond the 
 grid. Stay Awake! Beware of geo blocks. Fortunately, Disgaea 3 is not based off of previous game 
 storylines, thus it is easily accesible to new-timers. Hope this helps! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tn1nja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  If your craving for something that absorb most if not all of your free time, try disgaea 3. This 
 is the third installment in the highly over-looked game series. Maybe because it has a name that 
 nobody understands that turns people away? But anyway if you like rpgs, and no nothing about the 
 series, then that isnt a problem, it has nothing to do with any of the first two games of the series 
 that came out, so if your new to the series you can just jump into the game. But alittle warning 
 if you do, the graphics of this game isnt the best of the lot. But that should nearly keep you 
 from playing this game, Like i say, graphics doesnt make the game, GAMEplay makes the game, this 
 is one fun game to play. The story is full of fun and laughs, and will even make you ponder about 
 the things you thought you knew, as the game normally breaks the forth wall, normally stating that 
 infact there in a game, as one of the secret characters wants to be a main character in a video 
 game. But back to gameplay, where this game accels at, for a rpg fan course. This game will normally 
 suck atleast 100 hours of your life if your a rpg fan, as your units can level up to level 9999. 
 Not only can your units level up, your items can level up as well. This game can be considered 
 the Best over-looked game on the ps3. If you dont like spending hours level grinding a character 
 or dont like waiting a turn for your character to kill somebody, then this isnt your type of game. 
 I wonder why people dont play this game, maybe it has something to do with the nearly unprouncable 
 name or the anime like characters? I think its maybe because gamers like to play the same fps games 
 over and over again?-cough- halo gears of war -cough-
  Just kidding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millgiass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  SUB FULL REVIEW
  
  I've beaten most of what there is in this game, minus a few tings.
  1. I still haven't beaten Baal, even once.
  2. Haven't finished all the Dark World
  3. No Land 
 of Carnage yet.
  
  BEGIN
  Story: The story line is a fairly good story by RPG standards. It's got a few cliche' moments but 
 that is to be expected about anything. I'll skip over the story in general because you either know 
 it, or it would be spoilers for you. But I must say the story is the best Disgaea to date. That's 
 my honest opinion. And even though I thought the first one's story would never be dethroned, it 
 has been. It's long and hearty in the story despite being a couple episodes shorter than Disgaea 
 1 or Disgaea 2, it FEELS longer.
  
  Characters: The moment I ran into those Latino Boars the Vato Bros. I knew I was in for a treat 
 as far as the cast. You can expect the same insanity you've become use to. I cannot really point 
 out a character in this game that actually got on my nerves. I thought for sure Master Big Star 
 was going to irritate me but he's actually quite tolerable. The cast is strong and dynamic, it 
 was very good but not quite as good as the cast of Makai Kingdom.
  
  Music: The sound track is done reasonably well. There are many tracks I like. However... There 
 are some in this game that make me want to pry my eardrums out with a screwdriver. When you hear 
 the Tutorial music you'll know what I mean. However the theme that happens when you fight the Overlord 
 or the Super Hero/Baal is very good! However because of the more irritating tracks it's getting 
 a lower score.
  
  Voice Acting (English) : Top freakin notch. Even the in battle voices are a vast improvement over 
 Disgaea 2. Personally though I think Beast Masters & Cheerleaders should have their voices swapped. 
 Some of the things they say in battle are really... well odd. Like Marona for example is always 
 talking about noodles and such. I think she's hungry. No voices are really horrible. But the one 
 I think could use some improvement on is Salvatore in the story. But since she's not really a main 
 character I'll let it pass.
  
  
  Game Play: The game play is classic Disgaea style with tweaks all over the place very fun to play 
 but does grind on the patients after awhile. But thats to be expected with anything that has grind 
 in it.
  
  Innovations
  
  The class world system: It allows you to buff up your character's aptitudes it's like nothing they've 
 ever previously included and it's extremely handy in that sense. However the downside to it is 
 you HAVE to use it to learn a lot of skills. This can make gaining your basic weapon skills much 
 more difficult than in the past titles. Quite irritating at first because of the mana costs of 
 everything. One thing that is definitely annoying is that the ultimate skill trainer is on the 
 last level of the dungeon (After clearing all the geoblocks) And most of the time he doesn't show, 
 so you could be looking at a long period of time before you get all the skills you want.
  
  Geo Blocks: They add a 3D aspect to the puzzles in the game that Geo-panels couldn't. They dissolve 
 when they touch one of the same color, which can sometimes make a puzzle easier. However at the 
 same time it can also make things more difficult as there is much more clean up to do. In the item 
 world the puzzles are pretty much simplified. Now you are able to stack all the different colors 
 up on top of each other and the clear on the color of the bottom cube. Whack the bottom cube out 
 and they all explode completing the puzzle.
  
  Special Move Combination: Love this one, when moves combine not only do they gain more power but 
 this also moves the flow of battle along quicker.
  
  Level Spheres: Oh god yes... the best addition to the game it takes a lot of the stress out of 
 getting your gear leveled.
  
  Reverse Pirating: It is sometimes difficult to get anything done in reverse pirating, especially 
 in the higher stages. The levels are rather large and sometimes certain things you may want are 
 difficult to access however if done right this can be an invaluable feature to your experience, 
 hauling in tons of items, specialists, and level spheres you otherwise would not have had.
  
  Multi-Pirate attacks: This can be a mess if you get jumped by a lot of pirates that are stronger 
 than you, but it cleans up the nightmare many players had about pirate hunting in Disgaea 2 because 
 multiple groups of pirates can attack you at one time.
  
  Skill boosting; This is a give and lose type of thing. No longer does leveling up your skills add 
 new dimensions to it like extra attack zones instead you must boost it with Mana. This boost increases 
 the effectiveness of the skills allowing it to do more damage or have a better success rate. However 
 if you pump it too much you can find yourself having a crippling SP cost to use the skill this 
 is very bad for long fights. So it's good to mix it up, having some uber pumped skills, and others 
 not so pumped. Lower level characters it is harder on. But for example you can have a single attack 
 costing over 3000 SP. And once you upgrade thats it you can't downgrade it again. It should also 
 be taken into consideration enemies who have buffed skills have deceptive power.
  
  Post Game: Unlike in the others post game is actually divided into it's own little story, I think 
 this makes it more enjoyable as it has it's own arch and everything.
  
  Dark World: Dark world has completely changed as we know it, now it's just a series of mind bending 
 puzzles. However they aren't too difficult for someone with their head screwed on right. GONE is 
 the Dark Sun, however some of his most annoying effects are present in the form of Geo cubes.
 
  
  Manual Tower Attacks: Unlike Disgaea 2 you can actually choose the tower attack you want. Simple 
 eh?
  
  As you can see there are a lot of innovative things they are trying to do with this game. Most 
 innovative of all is the Downloadable content coming soon. I say they added more features to this 
 one than they did Disgaea 2 vs 1.
  
  Brokenness:
  
  As always NIS somehow seems to overlook some things. There are some points where the game actually 
 slows down. It's been claimed that it slowed down in larger item world stages but I have yet to 
 see that happen. The only time I've seen any slow down was while I was inside the classroom. The 
 full 64 character class room mind you, but it's very noticeable.
  
  And the most important part of this broken state. It's called a Puppy Paw Stick. It's innocent 
 enough from the looks of it, 20% chance to steal an item upon death of the enemy. However theres 
 a serious flaw that must be underlined.
  
  Within the class world there are enemies known as dropouts that are identical copies of the character 
 whom you are within. They possess all their equipment as well. A thief has a 0% chance to steal 
 from these clones and NIS even removed the fact you can be cloned because of the puppy paw stick. 
 (At least I think so.) However they overlooked the drop outs getting stolen from with the puppy 
 paw stick. This allows you to steal items you've already leveled and duplicates their specialists 
 as well, which allows you to very easily multiply the specialist level until you reach it's maximum. 
 While it's a relief for people with large armies it's unarguably broken allowing you to amass so 
 much power in a short period of time that it utterly butchers the replay value. Who wants to do 
 a 100 level item world for a new powered up item when you can simply do 10 levels of class world 
 and potentially get it in minutes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilkyRay
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about a game this deep? First of all, it wouldn't be right to judge this game 
 in any other way but as a whole. Why? Because I think this game would definately score lower when 
 I would look at all aspects of the game separately. 
  
  For instance: graphics... Players who know Nippon Ichi know that they prefer gameplay over graphics. 
 This shows. The backgrounds are great, worthy of Playstation 3, the characters and monsters in 
 the game however are still simple 2d sprites, which I think is a great decision. Why would anyone 
 like to see a 3d version of Laharl or Etna or any other character? The retro vibe they give in 
 their current look is just great. In the end though I think most players would be a bit disappointed 
 that Nippon Ichi did not make more of an effort to get more out of the PS3's capacities.
  
  The music and sound effects as well as the voice acting in the game either strike you as charming 
 and fitting to this game or as bloody annoying. Thankfully though, you can pick the song you want 
 to hear eventually and switch between English and Japanese voice acting. Both are excellent in 
 my opinion.
  
  The story of Disgaea 3 isn't the usual RPG epic save the world or universe from the ominous threatening 
 demon / power driven madman / insane scientist or whatever. It breaks down as a simple though very 
 enjoyable story about a student demon who wants to take revenge on his dad, the overlord for trampling 
 his Slaystation with over 4 billion hours of savegames on them. (major plot twists and surprises 
 ahead.) The story unfolds in a charming way, with a lot of humor that we got accustomed to since 
 the very first installment of Disgaea on Playstation 2.
  
  To describe the gameplay in one paragraph would not exactly do justice to this game, because there 
 is just so much to do... Level your characters to insane heights (level 9999, no typo!) , unlock 
 new and hidden moves, unlock new character classes, improve your weapons, 8 different endings to 
 obtain, which require you to try a lot of different playstyles throughout the game. (if all else 
 fails, try losing...) And let's not forget about all the post game stuff to unlock, like extra 
 playable heroes from other Nippon Ichi titles and a face off with the legendary overlord himself; 
 eater of worlds, destroyer of universes; Baal! This all provides a great replay value for this 
 game.
  
  Newcomers to this game will almost surely feel overwhelmed by the sheer possibilities of this game. 
 Fortunately there are a lot of players active on the Gamespot forums who are willing to help you 
 tweek your performance and get you where you want to be in no time.
  
  All in all I think this game is almost a perfect example of what turn based strategy should be 
 like. Minor flaws like the absence of trophies and the dated / retro graphics should not keep you 
 from playing this game if you're a fan of the genre. If you're not familiar with the genre, this 
 is the best game to try if it suits you. Do not let the overwhelming content keep you away from 
 this pearl of a game. This game deserves to be played hundreds of hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaner_bimmer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Iv'e had an old friend play Disgaea 2; while he played it i was highly intrigued, problem is its 
 the type of rpg you own and never really beat. I say that because it is so involving. That, and 
 for me it plays right up my alley with its satire and general hate for all things good. haha, evil 
 will win cause good is dumb. (spaceballs quote)
  
  This game by no means for the casual rpg fan, which i enjoy for just that reason. but at the same 
 time it allows for high demand of your attention. The graphics dont do this game justice. and i 
 believe that this game could have benefited from additional fixing. but it is ok seeing how an 
 rpg of this caliber comes out every so often.
  
  Only other grievance is the shoddy battle controls. it seems out of place for sony controller be 
 it ps2 or ps3. If i may speculate, i think the traditional rpg has outgrown the limitations gaming 
 has thus far imposed and i cant help but await the latest to see if this problem is truly addressed 
 or patch and fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechsiao
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are typical disgaea graphics. It hasn't improved much given that PS3 platform allows 
 much room for improvement. The background song gets irritating after long hours of playing if you 
 are a perfectionist into completing the game with buffed equipment. This does not help added by 
 the fact that Mao's voice is sharp and irritating at times.
  
  The storyline is very beautifully written. The game mechanics are splendid and allows room for 
 personalisation, giving uniqueness and authenticity. The game mechanics if applied to online games 
 would have been a success but grinding long hours into something that you solely enjoy is pointless 
 i believe. Item customisation aside, a lot of strategy is needed to complete a stage other than 
 using brute strength. However, the effort put into increasing the stat of an equipment is undermined 
 by stat gain through levelling the character itself. Also, since more powerful equipment would 
 have more powerful monster stages to clear in the item world, this would suggest that stat increase 
 of powerful equipment would be little. Levelling is the way to go instead. So what's the point 
 of putting in a level worlder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duskmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  well, i expected more, but the classic disgaea-ish gameplay made me play all the games once again, plus 
 this one has a well, i'd say that i'd give the story a 8 out of 10 because it wasn't so great or 
 deep, but well, it became my favorite one in the series after some time, and i really liked the downloadable 
 content, like having adell in your party and such, but i think they made this one a little easier 
 than the others, since i recall disgaea: hour of darkness or afternoon of darkness as the hardest 
 one in the series (or atleast for me) there new features like the geo-block, which was fun, and stuff, but 
 what i liked the most, were the endings yes, as always this one had multiple endings like the laharl 
 ending and such, so it was a great game, a MUST get for any fans of the series or RPG fans, and well, to 
 those new to the series, well, you should get it, it's good, and you MAY like it, though i can't say 
 you will like it for sure, but oh well, really good game, it'll be my favorite for looooong time, and 
 i'll never forget it, just like disgaea: HoD.
  it's really epic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  being new to the series i was not optimistic, but playing a few hours the story reels you in. first 
 off, you have to be an rpg fan to start off because this game does tart off slow. but maybe that's 
 for a reason,. newbie's like me will appreciate that and they teach you strategies on how to play 
 the game. however a game like this, their is a lot of strategy so all the training might piss you 
 off.
  
  once you pass that, on to the story. some demon kid wants to destroy his dad cause he destroyed 
 all his video games and memory cards. demons.... what else can i say. stupid as hell but keep going 
 into the story, it gets very interesting.
  
  newbie might get turned off. the game came at the right time but by now too many game will be coming 
 out to recommend this game. pick it up in feb or march when nothing is out and your hung over from 
 all the great games that have come out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diving_devil46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  If you are glancing at this review then chances are you already know what Disgaea is about at least 
 in some manner. You have probably also already read enough of the story so I do not wish to spoil 
 it any further for you hence keeping the comments relatively Generic.
  
  Disgaea 3 is exactly what most people are claiming it to be; it is the best installment of the 
 Disgaea series in terms of features and the new aspects really help to stir up the combat more 
 than some people are making out.
  
  The puzzle element that has been enhanced dramatically since the prequel means that you are now 
 essentially playing two games rather than one in a lot of cases. On the one hand you are playing 
 a crazy and insanely fun turn based rpg, and on the other you are playing something that resembles 
 Boom Blox. The puzzle element really forces you to think beyond the typical rock, paper, scissors 
 aspect of what these types of games typically boast.
  
  I like it a lot but if people are honest some higher rez sprites would have been nicer. The graphics 
 don't spoil the game by any means but I hope for number 4 they actually do rework all the character 
 models as if they don't update by then; it will look very dated in deed.
  
  Bottom line; if you like this series or this genre then go play this game. Please don't let the 
 graphics put you off as it is even better now than it ever was.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinc3ntVal3ntin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  You know, when I bought my PS3, the first thing that came to my mind was gamer revolution. I expected 
 games with graphics and intensity like MGS4, or from what previews I made out from the upcoming 
 FF. I admit, I felt deep shame losing the Tales series to the 360. That blow was enough to make 
 me feel a sickness in my stomach that only Disgaea 3 could serves as a remedy for. In neoclassicism, 
 we see a literary age emerging as a tone for society. Here, we see the gaming world imitate these 
 very principles. Geinus, I love how this game retained PS2 qualities. You know, we must expect 
 greatness in all aspects when it comes to PS3, but this might be one of few exceptions. With that 
 being said, this is the prime and most elite of all exceptions. I always get so into these games. 
 Makai Kingdom, Pantom Brave, Disgaea 2... these were games I was used to for PS2. I admit, I never 
 got around to Disgaea. But regardless, Nipon Ichi and NIS America are strategy RPG geniuses. I 
 am so glad to have these men working already on a new Makai title.. 
  
  Anwyays, I hope this isn't the last Disgaea. I highly doubt they'll stop now. The series reminds 
 me of Brett Favre, in the sense it's so original but so purely awesome. With the production of 
 the best Disgaea yet, aka Brett Favre taking the Packers to the suber bowl last season- there's 
 no way the series will just quit now. It can't retire, and I suspect we'll see another Disgaea 
 title for PS3. 
  
  You know what's awesome about these creators. They always blend and mend and mix and throw different 
 characters from different RPGs to make guest appearances or enemy bonus fights. It makes it feel 
 all connected in a relationship mutually established. I love it. But really, you don't even have 
 to have even heard of the series, or the genius masterminds behind it. If you play this game as 
 a first timer, you'll fall in love at first sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Disgaea is back with another great entry. It has the same elements that make the game "great," 
 interesting gameplay, wacky characters, comedy, and Prinnies!
  In Disgaea 3 there's so much to do, basically so much it can take over 100 hours!!! (if you want 
 to do a 100% game completion)
  There's also a wide variety of classes and a huge level cap to keep you going... and of course the 
 crazy story-line. 
   goods:
  Crazy story
  Very funny
  Addicting and interesting gameplay
  Game can last over 100 hours
 
   bads:
  Outdated graphics
  ------------------------------------------------------
  Overall this is a definite must buy especially 
 for SRPG  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W1ckedGo0se
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  It starts out as a very weird game to anyone that has never played a SRPG or an Anime game, but 
 if you can get into that style of game its great. The story can seem weird and confusing if you 
 don't pay attention, but if you can pay any attention to it, its great. 
  
  The gameplay is basic, but its still a very well made battle system. There are so many things to 
 do in this game. 
  
  The game can be played in many different ways; you can play straight through the story with very 
 little leveling/grinding, your can grind your level up to the max and max out your stats to insane 
 numbers, you can play a happy medium with some leveling but with out being able to get anywhere 
 near beating the final boss.
  
  Finally the cast of characters will leave laughing the whole way through the game. There are plenty 
 of unforgetable quotes that make this game a tribute to fans of the series. 
  
  If you have a PS3 and are looking for a good single player game with a great story, this is the 
 way to go... Saddly this game has no multiplayer, but you should be able to pull just as much time 
 out of its single player as you would be able to out of the multiplayer of many other games... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Disgaea 3 is, at first, a very simplistic game. You initially take the role of Mao, an evil genius, 
 and freshman at Evil Academy, a school where just about everything is the opposite of that of one 
 of our regular schools. Honor Students are those who never go to class and disobey all of the rules. 
 Not only that, but they receive praise for their act's. Delinquents are those who have perfect 
 attendance and respect curfews. Almost every char. except for Almaz, a wannabe hero, and Princess 
 Sapphire (who enters the game a little later on) are demons. Almaz and Sapphire are the only humans. 
 Due to a misunderstanding, Mao steals Almaz's "Hero" title, not noticing the "Wannabe" portion, 
 and soon becomes determined to remove it. I'll leave the rest of the story, and all of it's great 
 humor, for you to figure out, so on to the actual review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a more lenient version of Final Fantasy Tactics (FFT) , if you've ever 
 played that, in the sense that you aren't required to assess the distance of attacks before you 
 move. If you make a mistake, you can simply undo an action and re-input commands. Players may utilize 
 up to ten units to defeat enemies and collect items. You start the game out with some units, many 
 of which will become obsolete rather quickly. I personally recommend creating a mage, I went with 
 a Blue Skull, other than the Red Mage you start with. Also, make a Heretic to replace the Healer 
 you're given. Heretics can actually fight back, in addition to healing and buffing. The sense of 
 humor really keeps the game moving along, even at the more subtle moments. For the most in depth 
 gameplay info, watch a gameplay video.
  
  Audio: Disgaea 3 has a great soundtrack. In addition to some past tracks, they've added some original 
 ones (as to be expected) . If you're a fan of Japanese music, and the fact that you're playing Disgaea 
 insinuates that you are, you'll enjoy the opening especially. The music always suits the situation, 
 regardless of how serious that may be. The sound effects are particularly run-of-the-mill, however, 
 not that that matters really. As with most of the rest of the game, the best way to experience 
 everything is to play the game, and if you're a fan of RPG's, you should be all means buy this 
 game.
  
  Graphics: I'll say this once, GRAPHICS ARE THE LEAST IMPORTANT ASPECT OF ANY GAME!!! Regardless 
 from the fact that this game has PS2, possibly even low-end PS2 sprites, I promise that that won't 
 take away from the fun.
  
  Overall: If you're a fan of RPG's, and/ or have even the slightest sense of humor, you'll most 
 likely enjoy Disgaea 3. Not that anyone will actually read this, but there's my review of Disgaea 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpman_Z
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  How do you follow up a hit sequel? If your answer is more of the same, then you'll love Disgaea 
 3. The same entertaining storyline quirkiness and Strat/RPG gameplay remains largely unchanged.
 
  
  It's still difficult to get resolutions passed. The old use crappy items to bribe the senators 
 (this time around they're teachers) technique won't work this time. Different classes prefer different 
 types of bribes.
  
  If you're a fan of Etna, Laharl, and Flonne, they're unlockable characters but not at all crucial 
 to the storyline. For the most part, this story is all new. The new characters are fun and extremely 
 well-voiced. Mr Champloo, a home-ec teacher parodying the chef Emeril, is pure hilarity! 
  
  Instead of leveling individual skills by using them over and over, you use your mana points 
 to purchase and upgrade skills. It puts more of an emphasis on beating baddies and gathering mana 
 points and is probably the single biggest change to the format. You'll find there's never enough 
 mana to buy skills, pass resolutions, and reincarnate if you use that method of play. I often rationed 
 out who was going to kill what bad guy so I could appropriate mana points that way. 
  
  Another aspect to note is that there are a lot of storyline characters that join your squad. They're 
 pretty much the best characters to use so you'll find yourself with an abundance of characters 
 by the middle of the game and not enough time to deploy and use them all. If you want to level 
 up or use all the characters, the item world is still crazy and always pure random fun. 
  
  Disgaea 2 was the only game that I ever beat and then went back immediately afterward to play through 
 all over again. This game is similarly good. Princesses, demons, uppity butlers - It's all gravy. 
 Get lost in Disgaea one more time. It's a helluva way to blow 40+ hours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It has old-school 2D graphics, so graphics whores wont be impressed 
 with this game. 
  
  The entire game is built around the demon Mao trying to become a Hero (a demon wants to become 
 a Hero?) yes, a demon wants to become a hero! 
  
  Why you may ask? to defeat his dad (the overlord) of course, for crushing his video game system 
 and all his games (in which he spend 4 million hours playing!) The game has a total of 8 chapters, 
 all of which have multiple missions in them to do all of which are very, very fun.
  
  The game also has alot of pretty good humor in it, which will keep you laughing until the very 
 end of the game.
  
  Throughout the game, you acquire multiple allies.... excuse me, servants which will help you try 
 to acquire your goal, as well as thwart other evil dooers plans.
  
  The combat for the game is turnbased, which really if good to know (with all this "real time" crap, 
 its nice to see a good combat system every now and again) and the battles can become pretty fierce 
 and keep you on your toes trying to stay alive.
  
  The game also has no (yes I said no) install at all!!! (which is very good, because of all of these 
 other games that have installs, some of which are mandatory)
  
  Overall, you'll have a blast playing this game, there simply isnt anything you cant like about 
 the game, the game is purely awesome.
  
  If you only have a Playstation 3 and have been searching for a good RPG to play on it, look no 
 further, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kna3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  HUMOUR, HUMOUR, HUMOUR & again HUMOUR. It is a must for this game. Either you like japanesse voice 
 acting or not, cause you can convert it to English, this game can make you laugh or at least put 
 a wide smile on your face in both languages. The cartoons in this game is very good, & has a way 
 in it that you can feel the characters are trying to apply there voice acting & there faces into 
 a theatrical way. Which is very interesting to watch. The game has a fair strategy difficulties 
 in it, & has a very interesting extra stuff that be addictive in someway . Being evil, & ave a 
 buy out some people with bribes.. its good to do some evil stuff from now & then, but still not 
 rowing the story. A new things that can be done from the other side of the normal stories (being 
 at the evil side) , which is cool by the way. The only thing that was kind of a shock, at least 
 to me is the Graphics. I thought at first it was a mistake, unbelievable .. i think it was a risk 
 to take. From my part after playing couple of hours into the game, i really didn't mind the graph. 
 at all. Also you may dislike the soundtrack, but i think it fits just perfectly with the game play 
 & the colors. But the story line isn't that appealing to me, maybe to a teenager it might .. but 
 believe me its worth the time playing. & its not the type of a game that if you don't have anything 
 to play then you would go for it . Just go for it anyways ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_goodguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  disgaea 3 is a must have for all RPG/strategy game fans. the game has the charm of the other two 
 games, but the story wasn't as great. the characters were charming in their own way, the story 
 as was however shallow as a kiddy pool. the real diffence between this compared to the other two 
 was the 3D backgrounds, and the magichange system. i found the magichange system pointless and 
 over drawn. the new system of throws and lifts looked good on paper, but fail to provide any use 
 to the player for any of ideal situation. the new skills system was one big fall for the game. 
 instead of the regular system of leveling up and earning skills, the system now has you use mana 
 for buying and upgrading skills, this left you using all your mana for everything else than just 
 the dark assembly (which has been replaced with the classroom feature) . 
  the classroom seems like a waste, you have clubs, and the special effects that come with joining 
 them. the flaw with the clubs is the features felt that they should of just given everyone the 
 effects without messing with problematic classroom.
  the game is fun, but of all the things they could used/ kept out it felt jammed together. these 
 are easily overlooked with pure fun, and level crunching. i would recommend the first two before 
 engaging into this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roddollente
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  the only game that i've played before Disgaea 3 was Disgaea: Afternoon of Darkness for the psp 
 - and i loved it. although i couldn't squeeze enough hours for the psp game (university days, and 
 my hands hurt when playing too long on the psp slim) , i swore to all my ancestors that i will pre-order 
 this game. and so i went to amazon and got the game.
  
  the first thing that i noticed, is that the characters are pixelated when i have the zoomed-in 
 camera. and this is the ONLY con of the game.
  
  First off, the music is off-the-hook. if anyone still remembers the sonic 2 (genesis) soundtracks, 
 then this game's music is on par with it. from the enthusiastic, hyper music to the more dreadful 
 ones, the songs vary depending on what situation you're in.
  
  the characters, are as lovable as the original Disgaea ones. The story is nonsense, (the Demon Prince 
 wanting to kill his father i. e. the Overlord because his father detroyed all his gaming/manga data) , 
 but that's what humour is all about. no other game could pull off such humour and jokes like Disgaea 
 does.
  
  and the content is this game is AWESOME. you have your regular storyline stages, and some cutscenes, 
 AMAZING JAPANESE VOICES, character sprites, etc. 
  
  and then, you have this classroom kind of thing where you arrange your characters, or propose a 
 bill in fron of the homeroom staff like More Exp points, More Expensive stuff, Character creation, 
 Stronger Enemies, Unlocking of purchasable items in the weapons and armor shops, etc.
  
  you also get the item world wherein you characters can enter an item's "world" and battle through 
 it level by level. a regular item has 10 levels, a rare item has 30 levels, and a legendary item 
 has 100 levels. as you go higher, this item will level up i. e. my falchion has attack 5 and after 
 10 levels its attack will become 26 or something like that. also, within these item worlds, you 
 can 'subdue' its specialists i. e. kill them in battle and so these specialists add additional stats 
 to the weapons base stats i. e. Sentry adds defense. and if you successfully subdue a specialist, 
 you can now transfer them to another item, so the additional stats wil lbe carried over to your 
 new item.
  
  in the latter part of the game, aside from the main storyline (which can get you to level 100 or 
 above) , you can unlock different worlds, each has different levels. and the enemies here are like 
 lvl 1000-9999 which is a long way to go and so the gameplay hours will really be demanding if you 
 want to finish the game completely.
  
  there's also the different character classes i. e. Fighter, Archer, Healer, Mage and as these characters 
 level up you can gain access to these characters' higher job classes witrh of course, higher base 
 stats. e. g. Priestess, Angels, Majins, Snipers, etc. the Monster class, apart from the Humanoid 
 classes (Healer, Mage, etc.) , can turn into weapons and can be used by the Humanoid classes. how 
 cool is that?
  
  anyways, i've spoiled too much. so go get the game now. cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I am an avid Disgaea fan, and Disgaea 3 is a great game, however there is almost 
 no innovation from the latest series entry. Geoblocks add another level of depth to an already 
 tremendously deep game, and the item world is more wacky than ever. Outside of these couple additions 
 however, this still feels like I am playing the same game for the third or fourth time.
  
  Gameplay 9- Battles are great fun and character customization possibilities are near endless; but 
 the story lacks the same charm as the first two games. Tower attacks are hilarious to watch and 
 at many points during play you will chuckle, either from dialogue, item descriptions, or wacky 
 Disgaea moments. Like all games in the series it is not afraid to poke fun at many things.
  
  Graphics 7- I like the 2D NIS America graphics style as much as the next person, but it would 
 be nice to at least have an upgrade. On the plus side this game does not depend on graphics to 
 be enjoyable.
  
  Sound 7- Voice acting is still strong and the music is good.
  
  Fun Factor 9- Like the rest of the series Disgaea 3 can be a blast to play and includes hundreds 
 of hours for your money. 
  
  Replay Value 8- There are many incentives to keep playing: level 9999, getting your characters 
 to god-like strength, and the always funny humor that this series is known for. I just wish there 
 was a little more innovation that made this game different from its siblings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay let's go ahead and knock out some of the flaws people are claiming with Disgaea 3.
  
  Graphics... or the lack of...?: Okay for you people who have probably been spoiled with games such 
 as Gears of War, Crisis or what have you... yes the 2D art style has been played out for some time 
 and surely the developers could have taken the time to revamp the visuals more... oh wait they did!!! 
 Probably not noticeable to most who aren't fans of the series or hasn't experience past titles 
 of this game, but the visuals have been updated as the maps and items within the map have been 
 given a graphical update with sharp 3D upgrade. Even the menu boxes, text and artwork of character 
 look sharp and very clean as most should come to expect for the PS3 and High Def gaming now.
  
  But to do away with the 2D art style for the characters and try to turn the game into this 
 world of High detailed 3D graphics would only result in turning the Disgaea series into some cheap 
 whore that doesn't sell.
  
  I know many will disagree with this idea of mines, and I encourage for everyone to call me on my 
 bull at any time. Just I've seen it so many times when people mess with the chemistry of a game 
 that it births some demon spawn people would rather throw away into the trash then so much as look 
 at... forget buying it! Look at what happen to Def Jam Vendetta when it was turn into Def Jam Icon, 
 or maybe Street Fighter when it turn into the Ex Series and probably many more examples that escape 
 me at the moment.
  
  Fans love the 2D styles despite how many people might consider it ugly now compare to what's possible 
 with 3D graphics. And I'm happy with how visuals have improved over the years towards more realism. 
 Just I pray people remember that visuals at one point in our gaming careers wasn't as important 
 as most of us come from a background of some seriously hideous 2D graphics that could be found 
 in earlier gaming systems. I hated to go on ranting like this I just hate the idea of the majority 
 of us being so spoiled to call a game bad just over visuals as it's the collective of visuals, 
 game play, fun factors, and many other subjects that shapes the true value of a game. So each their 
 own on this as I feel I can't really convinces other to change their minds on this, despite the 
 recent attempt, but I enjoy the 2D.
  
  Camera: Well as far as this go I would say that there is a bit of truth in this problem as the 
 camera angles in past games have been present and so far from what I've played it would appear 
 the same can be said as no clear tweaking or adjustment to the control of the camera has been made 
 as it operates just about the same as before. And in the past for most this was somewhat of a problem 
 with not being able to see characters over or around others without have to move the camera around 
 or the depths of the maps walls or holes that made it impossible to see clearly where all the enemies 
 stood or disappear to. And this would piss me off in previous games of the series something evil.
 
  
  But like I've said so far of my playing time with Disgaea 3 that it's so far unfound and I've had 
 a pretty pleasant time with the camera so no true arguing or disputing of this can be made on my 
 part.
  
  These two points were pointed out also by the editors of Gamespot and usually I find their judgments 
 on games to be pretty fair and unbiased. Even though I would love to refute the flaws to them about 
 this game particularly, I will not, and by doing so will respect their call as everyone will be 
 a fan or impress by the Disgaea series as I am.
  
  On to the better part of this ranting is what is great about this game as surely many of you reading 
 have experience firsthand hopefully, or is still reading to get a better insight on what could 
 be one of your best purchase for this season.
  
  Story: Oh man this baby has such a great story that is mostly driven by jokes and spoofs on the 
 gaming industry like you wouldn't believe. For those that have played pervious title of the series 
 will surely know that past characters do make appearances in the game with their own storylines 
 pretty well intact to add to the drama and gags of the overall story. So newcomers to the series 
 might be at a lost at parts of the story that deals with these cameos, but will still enjoy the 
 comedy that ever present. Fans are mostly rewarded when it comes to story! The only huge twist 
 I found that not only changes the perspective of the series as a whole and how this story plays 
 out is that it all takes place at a demon netherworlds SCHOOL!!!...-_-? Not sure why that is but 
 playing to find out.
  
  Gameplay: If you love strategy and puzzles then this game is made for you as the RPG factor is 
 here, but only makes up for half of the experience. The game plays about the same for previous 
 fans except for a few extras of mechanics and chains dealing with team attacks, more options with 
 customizing certain characters and couple of other things I won't mention.
  
  Audio: A Voice acting rock even harder than previous titles and that's saying something. The music 
 is very entertaining and cute... I guess... the only thing that falters here for me is the few tracks 
 that sound too much alike at times. But loved the opening song and it's been added to my personal 
 favorites.
  
  Overall Value/ Replay ability: This usually depends on the player in my experience as some play 
 these games solely for the story, some play for the customization and building of character or 
 items, and some do it for both! And from my experience of both methods either will take up some 
 hours for sure no matter how fast you play through that first time. But I'm sure as long as you're 
 interested you'll keep playing.
  
  So in the end I say this games a must buy, and even if your done or tired of playing that it'd 
 be a keeper for your shelves to collect that thick layer of dust till the next time you're ready 
 to play. Because the worst thing you could do is sale it back and only try to buy it back when 
 it's damn near impossible to track down a copy without paying an arm and leg. Trust as I did that 
 with Disgaea hour of darkness!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Being a newcomer to this series I was a little resistant to getting this. I had played Disgaea 
 1 for the psp for the first chapter and could not get into it, the story seemed very non existent 
 except between episodes, and i felt I had no reason to continue, so I really only just got past 
 the first chapter. 
  
  When I seen that Dis3 was coming to the ps3, I was intrigued, I craved a good rpg, jrpg, or srpg 
 for the system I just got in April. I have had my share of 3rd/1st person action adventure games, 
 and needed an rpg. I was in gamestop and seen the game on release day. I picked it up but then 
 returned it to the shelf. I left empty handed and felt a little hollow for that. That night I researched 
 the game and seen the gamespot review. The score seemed low, but it was total contrast to what 
 the reviewer was saying and how the game seemed. He praised the game and explained it good, but 
 gave it a mediocre score? I seemed perplexed by this and went to the forums where I asked quesitons 
 about the game. It turns out this game is very very deep. I couldn't stop thinking about this game 
 and it seeped into my thoughts. I rushed out the next day during my lunch hour at work and picked 
 it up so I could play when i got home. I didn't stop til 4am and started at 5pm, It has been a 
 long time since that has happened with a game, The labor day weekend I played the game all the 
 time, never once bored with it. 
  
  The game is a gem. The graphics are great and provide a balance and art style that is unique. The 
 sprite characters, while not next gen, serve their purpose and make the animations fun with all 
 the different weapons and abilities. There is so much in this game. I love the fact that it is 
 deep, and not dumbed down for the frat-boy halo 360 masses like most rpgs  
 days. The story unlike the 1st one is throughout each battle. Its a good funny story with great 
 sharp animations displaying at 1080p on my 24" display. The color palette is great and it really 
 feels right. Even after you finish the lengthy story you have the post game, dark worlds, class 
 worlds, item worlds and others to take on as well as the boss aparently when you reach level 9999, 
 yes thats right, this is a long game with a lot of content. Everything has levels and exp. Even 
 shops have a rank and level that goes up the more you buy. Each peice of equipment you have has 
 a unique item world, which if you enter that piece of equipment like say your sword, you will have 
 to fight or run your way through multiple levels and each time you advance a stage your item advances 
 and gets stronger, so when you leave item world you can re-equip the weapon you entered and its 
 stronger. There are special effects reprisented by specialist inside the item and you have to subdue 
 them inside item world to manipulate the bonuses. Its like the items have a life of their own, 
 and there are 1000's of items. The class world apparently works like this too, but I am not that 
 far yet. 
  
  The world for the story is the demon academy in the netherworld or hell. The story is very interesting, 
 everything that is good is bad and bad is good. You play as the number 1 honor student, but your 
 not the honor student from studying, you are that because you never go to class and do evil things. 
 While delinquents are the ones who study and volunteer etc.. The game has a great story and terrific 
 voice acting. The sound work and unique quirky tracks add flair to the game. There is a lot more 
 to this game then I mentioned. I just want people to know that even someone who never played a 
 disgaea game before can fall in love with it. It truly is a masterpiece. If you like games like 
 final fantasy tactics you will love this! If you like deep rpgs you will love this. If you like 
 good story you will love this. If all your after is photo-realism and fast paced shooting then 
 look else where, for the rest of though the game is an experience not to be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Disgaea 3. The third (doy) game in the Disgaea Series and the best, latest game NIS has released. 
 This game offers... how should I start? This game offers completely addictive and deep-driven gameplay, 
 the classic graphics that I like to see, the sound effects and music that reminds me of Soul Nomad, 
 replayability beyond TWO people's dreams, extras that have changed the game completely from its 
 predecessors, and originality that stands proud and tall!
  
  Story And Char.: Yeah! An absolutely funny and lengthy story that you can tackle awaits. Equally 
 funny characters are built into the story as you watch the classic Disgaea cutscene style of the 
 series. Some things in the storyline were truly entertaining to watch and listen to. The cutscenes 
 won't altogether "blow you away", but they do cover the bed with a fresh sheet of originality. 
 Some like it, others don't... if you are new to the series, and are contemplating about this game, 
 then I suggest at least a rental. However, if you MUST have 3-D action and/or intensity, then this 
 game may not make up for your fix.
  
  Gameplay: Turn-Based Strategy Game. Says most of it. Disgaea 3 stays loyal to its prequels when 
 it comes to its chess-game like gameplay and strategy elements. For those who would rather have 
 strong thumbs as to a strong brain won't like this game at all. I'll say that. If you don't think 
 as you play this, you will find that its difficulty could actually grind you up. If you are an 
 experienced veteran to turn-based, like me, then you may find MOST of the battles fair enough to 
 win. In fact, levels play little role in winning! Why? Because. Even low leveled units can overcome 
 higher leveled ones. One must simply pull the right move at the right time. I know this through 
 experience. I was several levels higher than that of my opponents. However, they slowly damaged 
 me until I lost. How did I lose? Didn't think...
  
  Graphics: Are essentially two dimensional in cutscenes, but a little 3-D is also thrown in. Many, 
 of course, will believe in ONLY 3-D graphics because they may think that 2-D is too old... Well 
 guess what?! Disgaea 3 has RECREATED 2-D! It is old no more! Disgaea 3 brings 2-D with a fresh 
 new coating added onto it. Afterall, the artwork should be vibrant enough for ANYONE... unless 
 you don't like artwork...
  
  SFX And Music: The sound effects are nice reminders of how Disgaea first started out. If you are 
 new to the series, and hard to satisfy, then you may not like the sound effects. I, however, enjoyed 
 them for they reminded me of an arcade game. Besides, they actually are PRETTY DESCENT! Music has 
 been done by someone you probably haven't even heard of... in my opinion, this person SHOULD be 
 known! I really liked the funky music they had for us and it was really different and refreshing 
 to listen to. A nice and erratic change of music style!
  
  Replayability And Xtras: Once you've finished the story, there are MANY more things in the game 
 that could keep you busy for a LONG time! Saying this, replayability is definitely here... and 
 better than ever. Even the same gameplay has added elements and extras that could change everything 
 on a single stage.
  
  Overall: If you don't like to think, then you can look the other way... but if you want a change 
 in your fix or a funny story with an interesting gameplay mechanic, then this game may just be 
 worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xepheon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  The most common objection to Disgaea 3, as we all know, has been the sprite-based graphics. Initially, 
 I was an opponent of Disgaea 3, demanding my next-gen graphics. "I didn't buy my PS3 for this!!" 
 Still, I couldn't help notice Disgaea 3's striking similarity to Final Fantasy Tactics, which in 
 itself was tantalizing. As the release date approached and I did my homework on the previous Disgaea 
 titles, I found it harder to resist the idea of purchasing Disgaea 3. The game made a convincing 
 argument: "What I lack in appearance, I make up for many times over in content..." I began to feel 
 Disgaea 3 calling out to me, despite the warnings against it being unaccessible to newcomers. Finally 
 convinced that I could not miss this PS3 exclusive, I went out and bought the game.
  
  Upon starting Disgaea 3, I experienced both awe and shock at the same time. I found the world of 
 Disgaea 3 to be immediately enchanting; the music, the awesome voice-acting, the atmosphere, and 
 the characters, like a fantastic Saturday morning cartoon that they just don't make anymore. What 
 shocked me was looking at a loading screen with graphics that more closely resembled a PS1 than 
 a PS2. As I beheld the mixture of high definition windows and scenery with PS1-esque sprites, listening 
 to the dialogue, an odd thing happened... I realized that it was working for me. I was not only 
 enjoying it, I was loving it. 
  
  As a newcomer to the Disgaea series, I actually found the game to be easy to understand and entirely 
 accessible. To say that Disgaea 3 is a complex game is to say, in my opinion, that it has so many 
 awesome features, it manages to be thrilling even with its semi-dated appearance. Where the game 
 could have gotten away with just an entertaining story and progressively difficult battles, it 
 adds so much more. The vast amount of dynamics in Disgaea 3 are truly impressive, taking every 
 little aspect into account and making it fun. For example, you don't just shop for items. You have 
 a customer rank at each store with an experience level that increases with every purchase you make, 
 leading to better and more expensive items. Even when you pay to have your characters healed, you 
 gain rank with the healing shop which eventually rewards you with free items. The items themselves 
 vary in statistics and embedded effects, so even if you can only afford one brand of sword, the 
 shop will have a handful of them, each with unique stats and rarity level. The battles allow for 
 plenty of creativity and the geo-blocks are FUN. Every monster type you defeat becomes available 
 to you in character creation for your own use. And if your existing characters don't have the job 
 skills you want for them, you can reincarnate them into stronger level 1 characters in the job 
 of your choice.
  
  While there is more to say about Disgaea 3's depth, I just wanted to put a good word out for other 
 newcomers who are considering the game. I am not disappointed, and this game will probably become 
 known as another reason to own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is difficult to write a review for. I love it to death, just like 1 and 2, but this style 
 of gameplay only appeals to a very narrow portion of the market, so recommending it becomes something 
 of a slippery slope. 
  
  It goes like this...
  
  There's a plot. It's silly and told through simple text planes and voice acting, with no animated 
 cut scenes persay. It never takes itself seriously, and continuously pokes fun at itself, its predecessors 
 and the gaming industry in general, plus it's well written and well acted. However, if all you're 
 looking for is plot, read a book or watch a movie. The developers never pretended that this is 
 a plot heavy game, and if that's what you want, go play a FF game. This series is all about gameplay, 
 which is why you can play this game endlessly, making new armies of characters and developing them 
 differently and doing pretty much whatever you want within the confines (for lack of a better word. 
 There's a whole ton of content here) of the game. 
  
  I would describe this as simply complex. 
  The level design is just different size grids on which 
 you move around and battle on with crazy anime style characters. There's just so much going on 
 on each map that it's a little mind boggling at first. The Geoblocks play a more active role now, 
 and they make filling up the Bonus meter a lot easier, making the pay off on each map that much 
 more satisfying. Throw all the different basic attacks combos and special attack combos, and it's 
 just a huge mess of absolutely insane entertainment. 
  
  The best part for me is that there's so much gain all the time. Before I was done the third chapter, 
 I already had almost 1 million hell and had gone up dozens of levels, and then just had to ask 
 the homeroom folks for harder monsters, and all of a sudden I had a huge challenge again. You can 
 really make this game as easy or as hard as you want, and that adds a lot to the game. 
  
  The graphics stick. They do. But who cares? The last two games weren't technical marvels, so why 
 would you expect this one to be. The contrast of sprites to environment and menus to background 
 is a bit jarring at first, but you don't even notice after a couple of hours playing, because you'll 
 be distracted by all the fun you'll be having. 
  
  The only thing I don't get is why they put it on the PS3. It could easily run on the PS2, and that 
 would've pumped up sales, but I'm hoping that maybe they'll be a whole ton of downloadable content 
 in the future or something that requires the PS3's big hard drive. 
  
  For sheer entertainment value and value in general (endless hours for $50? Thank you very much) , 
 it really is a great game. 
  
  For Strategic RPG fans and level grinders, this a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydancerofchao
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  There is no justification in downgrading an rpg's score due to graphics, I'm sorry, but rpg's are 
 built on mostly story, then gameplay. If the gameplay is involving enough to make you want to play 
 through the weee hours of the morning and the story even semi-engages your interest, then who cares 
 if its not a Final Fantasy game, in terms of graphics I mean.
  
  Some fo my favirote games ot replay when I have time and have nothign current are game like the 
 original FF's. Dragon Quest's, Zelda's, so on and so forth and I don't even notice the difference 
 between a current zelda and today's because they are so involving.
  
  This disgaea is much the same way for me. Disgaea 2 just stunk, I'm simply going to say it. The 
 story was lack-luster, but most of all the characters we pathetic. The very best part of the first 
 Disgaea was the sheer nonsensical humor of the characters and story. Laharl, Etna, The Power Ranger 
 ripoff squad, and most of all the Prinnies (DOOOOOOOOOOD!!!) actually made me laugh out loud quite 
 often, somethign very few video games can achieve for me. But the gameplay was so deep and involving 
 as a strategy title that, I suppose, the second incantation was allowed to exist only for that 
 fact. If you didn't mind a shallow shell surrounding the actual gameplay, then I guess it was fine. 
 
  
  Disgaea 3 is more of a step backwards, but in a good way. The story is more wild and ridiculous 
 than it has ever been and the characters are somewhat on par with the original. Gameplay-wise, 
 its the same game, honestly. Almost nothign has changed, so if your played part 1 or 2 and loved 
 either, play this game, you will not be dissapointed. If you have never played disgaea before and 
 would liek to try, I syggest starting at Disgaea: Afternoon of Darkness on the psp of ps2, then 
 skip over 2 in order to play 3. Gamespot's review is pretty much dead-on, but I would rather have 
 seen them give it an 8.0/8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostnut
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Well I'm a big fan of Disgaea but I really think this one is the best. I know graphics aren't beautiful 
 but I don't care since all my favorites games are on SNES. In Disgaea 3 you play the role of Mao, who 
 will do anything to become a hero and destroy his dad (the Overlord of the Netherworld) . This game 
 has everything I love. Customizable characters, so many weapons and armors, spells, skills and a humoristic 
 touch you don't see in many games. Disgaea 3 is well worth buying since you can spend as many times 
 as you want leveling up your characters and reincarnate them to lvl 1 so that they can be stronger 
 than before. I played like 15 hours and it still feels like I'm at the beginning of this game. I 
 recommend this game to everyone but especially to those who like tactical games and I hope you 
 enjoy it as much as I did. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklodus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game a lot it take some time to get used to and its very very deep as far as you can 
 create soo many things and do soo many things its amazing as far as that goes the game-play graphics 
 could have been a little better on the players the back grounds are ehh ok better then the players 
 the music is really good and the voice acting is top notch also . it is imop the best in the series 
 l played one for a few days but l have had two for along time and get a kick out of these games. 
 I hope Disgae 4 will be the same style with updated graphics l know graphics are not everything 
 but why go next gen (which is really current gen) with last gen's graphics, there is no need for 
 that .
  
  I still give it a 8.5 due to the indepth of the game play. 
  
  I am looking forward to Valkyria Chronicles that looks Amazing and if you enjoy a good RPG that 
 looks like it will be a good one also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubdanielrub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Great game, but short of a prefect RPG. If u loved FF tactics you will love this one. Many path 
 to choose from for ur characters and the story is quite funny. The game could have use video dialogue 
 instead of picture cut outs. And for it being a PS3 game its should have had a better graphical 
 overhaul, i mean the backgrounds are great but the sprites could have looked better. As for the 
 sound, where is the Dolby surround sound? I got the TV and sound system for a PS3 but this game 
 seems to sound like a PS2 game. But whatever I really like the depth of the game and how u can 
 progress in character creation, items, and skills. Funny story and a great battle format goes a 
 long way so that is what is pushes this game to the top. If you're looking for a real RPG for your 
 PS3 pick this one up even if you haven't play the first two. Random dungeons in the item world 
 add to the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tha_whiz_kid
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  You have to look past the graphics in this game. Yes for ps3 they are terrible, but the game play 
 is sooooooo entertaining. To my opinion, the graphics is the ONLY down fall in this game. These reviews 
 lately have been really lame. The strategy in this game is so deep people get frustrated. I love 
 it. It's not just a game you can beat in 20 hours and take it back to gamestop. Ps3 could of made 
 the graphics better, but you can never get bored with it. It's almost a never ending game with all 
 kinds of things to do with it. Disgaea games never disaoppoint they can make disgaea 4,5,6 I will 
 buy them all. My review would of been a 9 out of 10 and the only reason it didn, t get a 10 is because 
 of graphics. The game is strategy heaven and a cool story. If you love Disgaea 1,2 you have to pick 
 up this. Enjoy it for months even YEARS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with disgaea a few years back. put over 350 hours into the first one and still would 
 be racking in the hours if the ps3 was backwards compatible but alas ive had to lay disgaea to 
 rest. I was thoroughly disappointed in the second in the series but I think they've pulled things 
 together a bit better with the 3rd installment. It is quite a similar storyline to the original 
 but the characters are engaging, I'm enjoying the story nonetheless and have laughed on more than 
 one occassion at the goofy humor. This is definently the most complicated of the disgaea's. I picked 
 the game up fairly quickly because I've played disgaea for so long and games similar but if this 
 is the your first time playing a game like this, I'd suggest something different. I've heard a 
 lot of complaints about the graphics but honestly this is exactly what I expected, the thought 
 of upping the graphics never even crossed my mind. This is disgaea its never been meant to be a 
 graphical power house its all about the unbelievable amount of content, goofy story and no cap 
 99 cap level. Love the game, recommend to fans of the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Czenkus
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Fans of rpg's have been waiting for a good ps3 title for sometime now, This will not cure that 
 waiting game any more then buying a nicotene patch will make you want that smoke less. Although 
 some may disagree, I really found it hard to swallow this game as a Ps3 rpg it feels like it belongs 
 on the wii or ps2. There are allot of places where this game "should have could have" but it fails 
 to deliver on many levels. Those who are starving for an rpg on the ps3 may want to check it out 
 to simply cure that need, but otherwise I recommend you avoid this game entirely. Here is to hoping 
 that we can find a decent rpg on the ps3 before the launch of Final Fantasy 13. All in all, as 
 stated, as with any game that holds interest in your favorite genre, give it a try, but do not 
 expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Well they say the best games cant get better just older.... well Disgagea does get better but not 
 in the way that MSG4 or Ratchet did... this game does feel NEXT GEN but sadly it really inst.
 
  
  The graphics are horrible, if you thought HAZE had horrible graphics get ready to laugh one more 
 time.... it would have been better for the PS2.
  
  Game play is GREAT!!!! yes i love it they dint really cahge much but they added a little bit making 
 just fun like always. Great feal of controls and well balanced moves
  
  Fun, the game is a fun RPG yes there is a lot of fun RPGs but this one is charming and funny something 
 Square Enix and Bethesda studios will most likely not ever do or think of doing...
  
  Over all the game is not SUPER GREAT but NOT SUPER BAD, its just that a good game, if you dont 
 mind the PS2 garphics in an RPG then go for it its worth your time. So if you really want a J-RPG 
 get this game its worth something... just like old days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blucynder
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the writers opinion until they knock it for the graphics. I have purchased all of 
 N1's games since I got my hands on Disgaea. Part of the charm of the series is its sprite based 
 graphics, especially Disgaea. It wouldn't feel like an N1 game if it were fully 3D, however, I 
 wouldn't mind another game from them in 3D. Even if you do take into account the graphics and the 
 camera (which is bad, not horrible) and take off the 2.5, it is ludicrous.
  I read in another article that talked to the designer of the game, why it was not for the PS2 and 
 he mentioned that it allowed them a lot more room to make larger levels for the game and allowed 
 for more voice acting (which they failed to mention the fact that there is a whole lot more dialogue) . 
 Not to mention the ability for downloadable content.
  If your only problem with a game is the graphics but everything else is outstanding you are not 
 making a strong case for yourself. Cosnidering the graphics aren't even terrible, the score given 
 does not make a whole lot of sense.
  I bet they won't mark down Chrono Trigger for the DS when that isn't updated with full 3D, which 
 we know is entirely plausible since they have been doing it with the Final Fantasy series... or 
 at least CG cut scenes... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
