-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/dragonballzburstlimit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Visuals really capture the feel of the anime.
 Six difficulty settings.
 Lengthy story mode that spans three DBZ sagas.
 Japanese voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online play suffers from lag.
 Some especially cheap moves can be used with great effect.
 English voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,101 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This 3D fighting game can be enjoyed by newcomers to the DBZ universe and Super Saiyan wannabes 
 alike. 

  If you've managed to steer clear of the popular Dragon Ball Z anime for this long, you can be forgiven 
 for thinking that Burst Limit is a game best ignored. Nevertheless, you'd be wrong. Though this 
 3D fighter is full of references for the fans, it's a good game in its own right and can serve 
 as an easy point of entry into the DBZ universe.  

  Burst Limit goes out of its way to be accessible to newcomers with a thorough tutorial that walks 
 you through all of the controls while introducing you to a handful of the characters that make 
 up the game's roster. The fact that all of the PlayStation 3 controller's face and shoulder buttons 
 have multiple uses can be daunting initially, but there are no complex combos or character-specific 
 special attacks to memorize, and even the craziest-looking moves aren't much more difficult to 
 perform than a straightforward punch to the face. You'll need some semblance of skill to time your 
 attacks and to block those of your opponents, but after spending half an hour with the tutorial, 
 you should have little trouble holding your own in a fight, regardless of which character you choose. 

           Even spectacular-looking attacks can be performed with a minimum of effort.      

 
  Only three combatants are available at the outset, but as you progress through the lengthy Z-Chronicles 
 story mode, you'll unlock the rest of the roster for a total of 21. In Z-Chronicles mode, you get 
 to play through three of the five Japanese Dragon Ball Z sagas, and you experience some of their 
 most memorable battles from the perspectives of both good and evil characters. The Saiyan, Frieza, 
 and Cell sagas as they're told here represent only a tiny fraction of the anime material, but there's 
 generally enough dialog between characters to at least let you know why they're fighting, and that's 
 all you need.  

  As you play through the 50-plus battles of Z-Chronicles mode for the first time, you'll inevitably 
 unlock most of what Burst Limit has to offer, including a good number of the game's "drama pieces." 
 These brief cutscenes are triggered by events during a fight and invariably benefit the character 
 to which they're relevant in some way. For example, drama pieces can increase one or more of your 
 attributes for a short time, restore some health, or call upon a partner to get you out of trouble. 
 Drama pieces also go a long way toward making Burst Limit feel more like the anime that it's based 
 on by employing quick camera cuts and dramatic close-ups that wouldn't be practical during normal 
 gameplay. By unlocking and subsequently equipping up to three different drama pieces, you can customize 
 a character to suit your play style, and to unlock all of them you need to play through the Z-Chronicles 
 several times. New partners, attacks, and character transformations can also be unlocked in this 
 mode, so you'll probably want to beat it at least once before venturing online to really put your 
 skills to the test.  

  Like any fighting game, Burst Limit is best when played against unpredictable human opponents, 
 largely because they're less likely to fall for some of the cheap tricks that you can get away 
 with against the AI on easier difficulty settings. In Versus mode, you can do battle either with 
 a friend who is sitting next to you or with other players from all over the world. Battles against 
 players from other continents often suffer from noticeable lag, but if you successfully search 
 for an opponent nearby, then silky smooth matchups are certainly possible. Incidentally, online 
 leaderboards track and grade your performances anytime you choose to fight in a ranked match, and 
 you can use that information to search for opponents of a similar skill level.  

  In addition to the Z-Chronicles and Versus modes, Burst Limit features a training mode in which 
 you can hone your skills against programmable opponents, and three different Trial modes designed 
 to test different aspects of your fighting prowess. For example, Survival mode tasks you with defeating 
 100 opponents one after another, which forces you to block or evade incoming attacks whenever possible 
 because only a portion of your health is restored between fights. Time Attack mode challenges you 
 to beat a series of 10 opponents as quickly as possible, and in Battle Point mode, you're awarded 
 a score based on the different moves that you use to win a series of fights.  

           Drama pieces go a long way toward making Burst Limit feel like Dragon Ball Z.      

 
  Regardless of which mode you're playing, Burst Limit is a game that makes an impact with its fast-paced 
 action and a sense of style that's lifted straight from the anime. The colorful visuals and occasionally 
 frantic animation will feel familiar if you're an existing fan of the series, and will impress 
 even if you're not. The environments you fight in are bland, and the edges of the characters aren't 
 always as crisp as they should be, but the overall look of Burst Limit is definitely greater than 
 the sum of its parts. On the other hand, the upbeat soundtrack is something of an acquired taste, 
 and the English voice acting isn't nearly as convincing as that of the Japanese, which is available 
 with subtitles and was clearly the only language used for lip-synching.  

  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is a fighting game that can be enjoyed not only by DBZ fans but also 
 by those of you who don't know the difference between an aura spark and a Super Saiyan. You'll 
 undoubtedly get more from the game if you're familiar with your favorite character's storyline, 
 but understanding the complex relationships between some of the key characters simply isn't necessary 
 to derive pleasure from taking control of one and beating up another.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  I love fighting games. This one is probably lacks a little bit of the Wow factor to really make 
 me impressed.
  
  Let me start with the story line. Now I didn't watch any of the cartoons, so if it wasn't for someone 
 constantly telling me what happened in the story, I would have been completely lost. There was 
 no substance in the conversations and dialogue felt random to me. I guess that is what you should 
 come to expect from a Japanese game.
  
  The Graphics are actually quite brilliant. My TV has not seen that many colors since Viva Pinata 
 hit the shelves. Vivid colors and straight lines makes the game a feast for the eyes.
  
  Combat is something a little to easy with all the characters having different powers, but all are 
 activated the same way. I found this became a little monotonous, but spectacular to watch. No one 
 can do over sized fire balls quite like Dragon Ball Z.
  
  A large choice of fighters also make this game quite interesting. Not only that, when selecting 
 your combatant, you get to pick a 3 cut scenes, different powers and a partner to fight with. All 
 really great additions to the fighting. These scenes are triggered by whatever happens in the fight. 
 Like you get a load of damage all at one, boom... cut scene. :)
  
  Great for fans of the TV series, but not so cool for those who haven't got a clue who Goku is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuantumBreed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I got this game having played several others such as Budokai Tenkaichi 2, and this is more like 
 a step down from that and number 3. The visuals are stunning, and i love how they made it closer 
 to the anime. The controls get easier and there is less that you need to remember, and the new 
 drama pieces add a bit of flare and cut up an otherwise typical fighting game. Those things are 
 several steps up from the others, but the thing that really should have been worked on is the number 
 of characters. in BT 2 there are near 60 + characters and in BT 3 there are over 100. so why then 
 did they decide to limit it to a mere 20 +? this is a good game and i would suggest it, but if 
 you really liked BT 2 and 3 for the sheer number of characters then this may not be for you. if 
 they where to make another game then i'd hope they added more characters maybe going back to the 
 number they had in BT 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttru
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing Burst Limit, but it made me miss Budokai 3. The story line was pretty shallow, 
 I though. I really expected to play more of the original story.
  I did enjoy the way more powerful ultimate finish moves were unlocked as the game progressed, but 
 didn't care for the "drama piece" unlocks. The whole drama piece part was useless to me and could 
 have been left out. If pieces unlocked video scenes from the actual show, then it would have been 
 worthwhile in my opinion. I expected to see more playable characters and more available transformations. 
 Costume changes and transformation level selections in the VS menu were also missed. Destructible 
 environments are also left out for some reason, and I found it a very enjoyable part of previous 
 DBZ games. All in all, I'd say this is a fun game to pick up for $15.00 or less. Thanks for taking 
 the time to read my two cents.
  Mattru 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marth2009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is a surprisingly good DBZ fighter. The combat controls are purely responsive to the 
 buttons you push. This is both a good and bad thing. It is good because your in complete control, 
 however it can suck ass because the combat seems slow and makes the fight drag on.
  
  The amount of characters in the game may be small, but there is enough of them to keep you going. 
 The characters finishers are awesome to trigger and watch unfold. There are cut-scenes to open 
 and end battles, cool environments and drama pieces, which are cut-scene sequences which can help 
 you, or your opponent.
  
  The story reaches from Saiyan saga to the Cell saga and includes 2 bonus story lines, but even 
 with those bonus sagas, the story is way too short and you cannot help but to feel disappointed.
 
  
  The other game modes are always great to play and the online battles are great, even though the 
 online loading can sometimes be an issue.
  
  I find this game to be an excellent game to long time DBZ fans, but quite confusing to newcomers. 
 Besides that it's worth every bit of money you pay.
  
  Things you'll love: Great graphics, epic combat system and online fun that could last forever.
 
  
  Things you'll hate: Short and confusing story, online load times.
  
  Yours helpfully,
  marh2009
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pushkar90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of the game was wow it looks great. It is quite difficult to transform anime 
 2D to 3D so flawlessly.
  The game is fun to play but after a while get too boring as all the characters do basically the 
 same moves as others through the same button presses. E. g. Ultimate attk = up+o etc.
  
  The story i thought was a complete rip off. For some1 who has not seen DBZ, they wouldnt know why 
 these two are fighting. There are too many shortcuts taken to just barely touch the storyline and 
 off we go fighting.
  Also, i was disappointed that there was no co-op/ 4 player mode. 
  
  The A. I of the game isnt exactly the hardest to play against. Depending on the difficulty, it is 
 easy to predict what they are going to do and when. After a while it is just fun to play 2 player 
 and transform.
  
  The online mode is good but there is definite lag and it is nowhere near as smooth as in game.
 
  
  All in all, the game looks great, fun to play for a while after which only fun to play with mates. 
 Definitely worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  DBZBL is a nice solid fun fighting game with a fast paced fighting system but is missing alot of 
 content for a DBZ game. Lets see how it overalled.
  
  Story- The story only goes to the cell saga but whats interesting is that you can play as good 
 AND bad guys that extend the story and get there point of view.
  A-Great-8.5/10.
  
  Gameplay- There is a small total of 20 characters to play with but make sit up in its fighting 
 system the fighting system is easy and fast to use a special its as easy as doing a up on the D-PAD 
 and the circle button to do it a normal special is right on the D-PAD and circle and a defensive 
 special is back on the D-PAD and circle. every character plays the same so theres no need to worry 
 about how each will play also there is a small things called "Drama scenes" where it will brake 
 up the action but will most likey help you out in the mist of battle. There is also online play 
 and its really fun plus this game has a less fun dragonrush which is not the best fighting choice 
 they shouldve just kept the dragon rush fom B3 but aside that it has a nice fighting system with 
 a small flaws but hey im not complaning THAT much the dragonrush and little content for a DBZ game 
 makes it a little weird you just need to get used to it.
  B-Great-8.5/10.
  
  VA- Even though this game uses funamation voice acting the muths and actions are never in sinc 
 with the mouth u can skip it but the gam e looks nice but thats for later is alright...
  C-Good-7.5/10.
  
  
  Graphics/Design- The graphics in this game looks nice! With nice little 
 cell sahded desgns and graphics it makes a nice touch there are some alternative costumes but thats 
 it.. which is fine the only promblem as i said before are the voices are NEVER in sinc with the 
 mouth....
  A-Superb-9/10.
  
  
  Music- It has a nice set of music.
  A-Superb-9.5/10
  
  
  Overall-DBZBL is a nice starter for anyone who wants to get into DBZ and anyone who just 
 LOVES throwing 
  B-Great-8.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgeek
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Where... to start, Burst Limit's got everything you'd want in a DBZ game, action, drama (sometimes) , 
 great controls, a good tutorial, and awesome visuals. Ok range of Characters and I think the big 
 hitters are all here. BL starts out well with the short Saiyan saga with Goku's Kaioken. We face 
 Raditz and a good final battle with Prince Vegeta. The next is probably the classic saga (Freiza 
 saga) . The battle's start out pretty mild and get harder and harder, but not to hard ( the tutorial 
 does a good job of teaching you the controls) . There is a truly epic feeling in the final phase 
 of the battle. The next is the Cell Saga, this is the digusting one (childish in a way) , the androids 
 look beautiful and the English dialouge is good. I find that the hardest battle of the game is 
 the final battle between Goku and Broly (your Broly) , it puts all of your skills in place without 
 being too hard. The gameplay is better than most with quick response controls, there are some instances 
 when the dialouge gets out of sync but that's all. The msic is invigorating and energetic. The 
 drma pieces and attack overloads are the artistic touches that make this an authentic Dragon Ball 
 z experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duysan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, you must know the Buu saga is not in this game which is depressing D: i wouldve given 
 it an 8.5 if it did.
  New load screen, you get to play with the balls.. dragonballs while you wait. Playing the story 
 mode is great! brings back old memories of the series and makes you want to watch it again! The 
 graphics are for me, the best ive seen in a DBZ game. when using KAMEHAMEHA or other techniques, 
 the aura which surrounds the character is stunning! The sound effects incorporated with the attacks 
 are awesome! and the dodges make you feel invincible. it's good how they also put battles from 
 movies like Brolly. The bad thing about this gameis that its too easy to beat and very short. If 
 buu saga was in it i reckon it wouldve been great! The online play sucks ass, lags like a dog! 
 i dunno if its the lag but i cant seem to beat the online opponents :\. They should have spent 
 more time on it as the KI attacks are limited to only 3;
  2 special attacks
  1 ultimate attack
  There should have been more :@
  
  another thing is that we wernt able 
 to charge our Energt bar whch meant we had to wait it to refill. charging in previous games always 
 looked awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 120383
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I can not believe on that 7.0 and at this 8.2 from the public. I am a huge, HUGE (and this is not 
 enough to express what i feel about DB series) fan of the series. This game is a shame to all DB 
 fans. Where is the destruction? where is the characters almost dead with blood on their bodies? 
 wheres is the addition to the story that those critics (i do not know how did they get this title) have 
 said? the replay is zero, ZERO. I have talked to a guy from Namco/ Bandai and I said him how this 
 game sucks and he answered "yeah, but it sold a lot", to dumbs, stupids, hypocrites fan boys. I 
 can not believe in what the guys from gamespot wrote about this game. It is not a matter of opinion, 
 it is ridiculous.
  
  Before someone say something, I have to say that the best games of DBZ that exists are :Budokai 
 3 and Budokai Tenkaichi 3. If those that claims knowing and are really fans of Dragon Ball universe 
 this is undeniable and this Burst Limit is nothing more than attempt to win some money from you 
 know what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss4kakashi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  My review for Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit.
  I've only had the game for less than a week, but I'm pleased to say that they finally made a game 
 that is totally worthy of the Dragon Ball Z name. Don't think that I'm giving DBZ games a bad rap, 
 nothing close, I own several of them! But Burst Limit exceeds all of my expectations. It has the 
 best graphics, the best controls, the best story mode, and possibly the best fighting system ever 
 in a DBZ game.
  Let's start with the Story Mode (cuz that's what you do first when you play a game for the first 
 time) . The story mode is of course, just like any other DBZ game. It covers what happens in the 
 anime all the way up to the Cell Games Saga. (And yes if you ar confused, almost all of the PS2 
 games fully covered the entire DBZ saga incuding the Majin Buu Saga; unlike Burst Limit) While 
 this is somewhat frustrating to DBZ game fans like me, who have played through the entire DBZ mythology 
 in previous games, it's not that big of a problem. In fact, if you look on the bright side, it 
 gives you more to look forward to in the next Burst Limit. (And this is a message for the game 
 designers: IF YOU DON"T MAKE A BURST LIMIT 2... MYSELF AND THOUSANDS OF OTHER DBZ FANS WILL PERSONALLY 
 EXTERMINATE YOU, YOU WON"T EVEN SEE IT COMING!) Anyway, I at least found that not having the entire 
 DBZ saga somewhat refreshing, that means we don't have so many dang characters like in DBZ: BT3. 
 Not only the lack of the entire saga, but also the format of the story mode made it very different 
 from past games. Lately, DBZ games always make you fly around the DBZ world, or play board games 
 to progress along the story. Burst Limit is just a Story Mode, nothing more. Think of it like the 
 "Scene Selection" on any DVD. You just unlock the next chapter in the saga as you defeat the preceeding 
 one.
  Moving to the graphics, they ar simply amazing! They are good enough to make me want to make-out 
 with my tv screen because the graphics are so stunning. They definitely look the most like the 
 anime out of all the past DBZ games. No need to say anything more.
  The controls are very similar to the newly released PS2 DBZ game: Infinite World. It is obvious 
 that they used Burst Limit as a basis for the Infinite World controls. The controls are more like 
 the Budokai series than the Budokai Tenkaichi series, maybe because the Dimps company, responsible 
 for making both the Budokai series and the newly released Infinite World and Burst Limit, is so 
 freakin in love with their control system that they totally ignore the brilliance of the Tenkaichi 
 series, not produced by them. But again, not giving them a bad rap because the Burst Limit controls 
 are different enough from previous games to make it interesting.
  The main inovation in the game is the addition of "Drama Pieces" these being several second-long 
 cutscenes that are triggered by events in the battle. These are useful in every battle, they can 
 either do a little damage to your opponent or give you a small boost in health. It simply depends 
 on what you choose before the battle. These are well-integrated because they fit smoothly into 
 the battle. 
  So overall, Burst Limit is an amazing game, most definitely worthy of the Dragon Ball Z franchise. 
 It is also the best DBZ game I have ever played. And it is not a carbon copy of the Budokai series 
 (yes I'm refering to you Infinite World) . If you are not a DBZ fan, you will probably enjoy it 
 anyway, it even may get you interested in the anime. And if you are a fan, you will enjoy it totally. 
 So that is the reason I give this game a 10/10. And if you are a DBZ fan who does not have the 
 means to afford a PS3 or 360, I feel for you from the deepest part of my heart for not being able 
 to enjoy in the Burst Limit experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4yo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is a fighting game based off the very popular anime series that ended 
 over a decade ago. But the franchise still has a very active fan base and as with every year going 
 by, there are more people adding themselves to the community. With a large library of good DB: Z 
 games in the past, this game marks the first switch to the next-gen consoles, theoretically giving 
 it numerous chances of gameplay and graphical improvements, as well as extra content. But the developers 
 haven't been keen on using these possibilities and what we get is a game that feels incomplete.
 
  
  The main game mode is called the Z-Chronicles, which is basically your main story mode. It covers 
 three main sagas, the Sayian Saga, Freiza Saga and Cell Saga. Each saga has a certain number of 
 fights that took place in the main series. The developers have focused on presenting only the more 
 memorable fights and you'll take the role of numerous characters in these fights. If you never 
 watched the entire anime, you'll be more or less lost here. There's no actual logical reason given 
 during the game's cut-scenes what is going on, or why does someone want to beat up someone else, 
 but fans of the series will quickly remember these segments from the actual series, because the 
 cut-scenes are quite detailed and nicely pulled off. It should take about two hours to get through 
 the main story and you'll find yourself playing through it again with an new unlocked difficulty 
 and also in search for special content you didn't unlock in the first run. The story mode is also 
 the first sign of many flaws that can be found in the game. And it's most likely the biggest, because 
 the game ends at the Cell Saga, leaving behind the last chapter in the series, the Majin Buu Saga, 
 which is also the largest and has the most fun characters. Fans of the series will certainly be 
 angered by this move from the developers. 
  
  What the game lacks is backed up by it's incredibly easy and fun combat system, which allows anyone 
 with a good sense of tactical button mashing to jump in the game. You get two basic attack buttons 
 that you combine with other buttons on your controller. You can execute powerful moves with a simple 
 combination of pressing two buttons. Moves such as teleportation, ki attacks, power ups, transformations 
 and grabs are also done with such executions. What makes things even more easy is the fact that 
 every character has the same control scheme of moves, even though they can perform different energy 
 attacks and fight with a different style. However it should be noted that with practice and experience 
 you can really connect yourself with the game and place yourself into an incredibly deep sensation 
 of fighting. Which ultimately gives you the DB: Z experience every fan desires. Newly introduced 
 to the series are Drama Pieces, which are basically cut-scenes that are triggered by certain events 
 in the fight and they can give you a health boost or damage your opponent directly. They do add 
 the feeling of you watching the actual anime, but also slightly break up the fast paced fight. 
 You can unlock more as you go through the story mode a couple of more times. The game lacks certain 
 fight mechanics that made previous titles such as Budokai 3 very fun to play. Beam struggles are 
 rare if not completely oblivious because the game fails to recognize two energy beams colliding, 
 which results in the stronger beam automatically absorbing the weaker one. There are many more 
 small features missing that give the fighting system an incomplete feeling, but it still remains 
 fun and easy to play.
  
  Besides the main story mode, you also get a typical Versus mode, with a roster of 21 characters, 
 which you unlock by playing the Z-Chronicles. It should be noted that the Versus mode does have 
 a nice feature of tweaking certain aspects of the fight, such as your and your enemies health level, 
 attack powers and many more, which does at some depth to the mode. Which is sadly overshadowed 
 by the lack of fight stages, only five, to be exact, which is a letdown. There's also Trial mode, 
 which has your basic Survival and Time attack mode, Practice mode and a very helpful Tutorial mode, 
 that gives you a fast and effective tutelage of how to fight in the game. The online mode works 
 most effectively if you play against people that are in your region, anything more remote will 
 reflect in a huge lag, as with most other fighting games. Which shouldn't be an excuse, but it's 
 sufficient for now.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is the overall visuals that give you a nice anime feel to the 
 game. You'll be presented with a colorful array of locations and detailed portray of characters. 
 However you'll soon notice that in certain cut-scenes the same moves of different characters will 
 be repeated, which is kind of awkward. Piccolo and Imperfect Cell starting off the fight as Goku 
 and Vegeta did two sagas before takes away the value of some cut-scenes. But they still look pretty 
 cool, so there shouldn't be much of a complaint. Even a simple punch feels powerful and gives you 
 a real energetic feel as you play the game and deal numerous attacks and combos. Entwined with 
 visuals is the audio, which is probably one of the most detailed you'll ever encounter in a DB: Z 
 game. Every move, jab, missed jab, hit and special attack has it's own sound and combined in a 
 fight they really stand out and draw you into the experience. The voice acting is solid as usual, 
 given with the option of the characters using their native Japanese voices, which is pretty cool 
 if you're used to hearing the high-pitched scream that Goku has during fights. Luckily this is 
 most likely the most fleshed out and completed part of the game, which adds a lot of character 
 to the game.
  
  As noted throughout the review, it's the small but necessary pieces that make Burst Limit feel 
 incomplete in many views. There's no real excuse for leaving out an important chapter from the 
 series or having a lack of minor fight mechanics that made previous games so memorable. If you're 
 a DB: Z fan, you should get the game in order to experience a new fight system and the incredible 
 presentation the game gives you, if you're a casual DB: Z fan or you don't have any clue about the 
 franchise, there's no real point in playing it, perhaps it's valid enough for a rental. Overall 
 one could say that you're better off playing Budoka 3, but you would still be missing out on something 
 that makes Burst Limit so enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  What a waste of money. i love DBZ, i am not a fanatic, i haven't even seen the whole series, and 
 i have played budokai so i know the story line and battles. I thought this game would be a more 
 deeper version with better depth of mechanics, gameplay, and graphics; it does take care of some 
 of these, however it barely covers half the series. this game stops at cell, i was appalled and 
 will never, not probably, never buy another DBZ game. i couldn't even finish it. i had friends 
 playing it and when i realized this, i got rid of it within the week.
  
  to it's credit. it looks great, it allows you to interchange super powers, it has cutscene unlockables, 
 the combos are easy, not button mashing easy, but fun.
  
  i am just disappointed.
  
  
  
  
  What a waste of money. i love DBZ, i am not a fanatic, i haven't even seen the whole 
 series, and i have played budokai so i know the story line and battles. I thought this game would 
 be a more deeper version with better depth of mechanics, gameplay, and graphics; it does take care 
 of some of these, however it barely covers half the series. this game stops at cell, i was appalled 
 and will never, not probably, never buy another DBZ game. i couldn't even finish it. i had friends 
 playing it and when i realized this, i got rid of it within the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Just how many dragon ball games can you make before it actually gets boring? well this game answered 
 that question in a pretty precise way... this game is what? the 9th (not counting dragon ball z 
 boutuden or taketsu but only the budokai, budokai tenkaichi and shin budokai. why well because 
 this game was developed by the same creators as the original budokai series (yeah one to three only 
 because after that somebody else took dragon ball under it's wing) ) it is to wonder what was the 
 concept behind this game because it's basically a remake of budokai 1 with slightly less characters 
 and updated graphics (do I really need to point out how bad this is?) Well enough babbling about 
 the game and let's get on with it for this review and as always let's see the good and the bad 
 to this game:
  
  The good:
  
  -pretty fun game play: well the fighting mechanics is back to it's root so this is one of the good 
 points I mean budokai tenkaichi series where good but the arena just felt limited because of the 
 barrier put around it. also the action in budokai tenkaichi was a bit slow, but in burst limit 
 everything that made the classic budokai good is back the close combat no barriers two playing 
 looking at each others like in normal fighting games not roaming around trying to find your opponent 
 (so frustrating*-_-) 
  
  Decent graphics: well the cel shaded graphics gave this new entry in the dragon ball universe a 
 fresh new feeling making it step a bit out of the pack...
  
  Characters have their real techniques: yeah bardock is back with his riot javelin and heat palanax 
 and if you ask me it's a good thing because well you want to play a character with generic energy 
 wave blast?
  
  I guess this covers the good points now let's cover the bad ones
  
  The bad:
  
  -limited rooster: why do we have to stop this game at the cell saga again? Is it 
 a tradition or something? I mean think about it dragon ball z budokai ends at the cell saga dragon 
 ball z sagas ends at cell saga and then this one also ends at the cell saga I mean there is only 
 one saga left in the dragon ball z time line and it's buu's saga, you went this far with cell why 
 not go over it now. But this is not the only thing about the character rooster that is bothering 
 I mean there aren't even characters like Android 20 or Zarbon what's the point?
  
  Helpers: in this one you have helpers in your fights which basically consist of a cinematic that 
 interrupts the game play and give you an effect like blocking an attack or knocking out an enemy 
 the problem is that it's always the same cinematic and that it always happen when you least want 
 it, trust me it can get so frustrating
  
  Lost its originality: after 9 game in this series what else could they possibly add that we never 
 saw or what details about the story could they add that we never heard of? That the thing they 
 can't we already seen or heard all of this and as much as I like the dragon ball z series I really 
 think it lost it's originality.
  
  Well if you truly are a fan of the dragon ball z series and it doesn't bother you to have a limiter 
 character rooster knock yourself out but if you're new to the dragon ball series well go try budokai 
 2 or 3 instead
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockMax
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I love me some DBZ, I'm an old school fan and there are good DBZ games out there, but this isn't 
 one of them. This game is shallow and pedantic. For the FIRST next-gen DBZ game on the PS3 and 
 X-Box I was expecting a heck of a lot more. The graphics were superb, no mistaking that. But the 
 game play was SUCH a let down I didn't even both with anything else in the game other than beating 
 the story mode once.
  
  The bottom line of this game... It's a Shin Budokai PSP Clone... COMEON.. REALLY? The developers couldn't 
 even give us something with more substance for next-gen?
  
  Budokai 3 is and still remains the best DBZ game on the market. If you're going to make a DBZ game 
 at least finish the story, don't end with the Cell Saga.
  
  I could go on and on about what this game is missing, but chances are you've heard how mediocre 
 this game is. Not horrible, but not worth the retail price either. If you can get it for free, 
 then it's worth keeping.
  
  Maybe the sequel will be better and get a better fighting engine than a PSP clone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thyboen
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  Great graphics.
  
  
  
  
  
  The bad:
  
  The story mode sucks and many characters missing. Too arcady. No free roam. minimum combos. online 
 mode is boring and laggy. no transformation in story mode. you can't recharge so you can fx. make 
 kamehameha constantly without getting tired. no levels. you can't skip the ingame drama scenes. 
 gets boring very fast. A spirit bomb can made in 2 seconds. No blood. Not much extra/bonus. Even 
 some of the ps2 editions is much better, like tenkaichi 3. Not more than 20 $ worth. worth in my 
 opinion. The list could on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on 
 and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and 
 on.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANTZ_69
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  i liked the game very much!!! but a bit short i hope the next game contents all the DB, DBZ and 
 DBGT characters! the graphics are great! i have all the DB, DBZ and DBGT games! and i liked them 
 all, but i must be honest this game is the same as the first game story on the PS2, only with better 
 grapichs and gameplay! i hope there will be a contest or something online, and i hope in the next 
 game you can build your character to a higher level. i'm a fan of DBZ, and i have seen all the 
 movies and series, so i think the game could be a bit better. but still i like it!  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ani_manga200
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a realy good fighting game.
  
  It's got great fighting moves, great controlls, and it's awsome.
  
  This game is cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool as ice.
 
  
  Tha bad thing, the game is pretty short, and you can beat it in about 3 days or less, 1 day if 
 you play it more then 2 hours.
  
  The good thing, is that it's got a good scence of action, and you can play it in japanese.
  
 
  This game isn't the best, but I recomend it if one is looking for a good fighting game for 360, 
 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Ive had just about every single Dragonball Z game out from Budokai to Ultimate Battle 22 for the 
 Playstation. So I have seen it all in DBZ. I was glad to see some cutscenes like Budokai, because 
 no other game since that featured them. This game has some great graphics that looks just like 
 the TV show, energy attacks and Goku's hair look amazing in 1080p. But the game is a fighter and 
 not the greatest one at that. The fighting seems very reminescent of the original Budokai games 
 on the PS2, which I enjoy more than the combat in the Budokai Tenkaichi sereies. The combat isnt 
 the most balanced combat around but it works well enough to make this game an enjoyable time for 
 a fan of the series. But that is the problem, its just for fans, the story is very complicated 
 to understand if you arent a fan. It skips scenes form the story and leaves any Dbz noob confused. 
 Dragonball Z Burst Limit is far from being the best of the series but is an okay entry for the 
 series into the next gen ground. And one things for sure DBZ games are way better than those terrible 
 Naruto games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breno2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  When I first got DBZ Budokai 3, for my PS2, I thought it was only one of those games which you 
 play once and then throw them into some drawer...
  But then I discovered that it was one of the most addicting games I've ever bought. I loved the 
 game, and because of that I thought that a PS3 version of the game was going to be even more fantastic! 
 But I was wrong...
  
  The main bad thing about this game is that it's terribly incomplete... there are some main characters 
 who simply don't appear. What the hell happened to (adult) Gohan? And what about Buu? The story 
 mode consists in the Sayan saga, the Frieza saga and the Cell saga. There are also two secondary, 
 smaller ones, in which we get to play as Broly and Bardock. But that's it... there is no Buu saga 
 (and because of that, Goku doesn't transform into Super Sayan 3, or SS4. Vegeta won't surpass SS1) . 
 It's like these two smaller branches of the story are there to try to compensate the lack of such 
 main characters... not to mention that there are some other characters missing as well... (Goten, 
 kid Trunks, etc...) It's really a step backwards from the Budokai series... since those had all 
 the main characters, as well as many secondary characters...
  
  The fighting system is similar to the Shin Budokai game for the PSP: When you make an attack such 
 as the Kamehameha, it will be stronger if you hold the button longer. I find this to be one of 
 the only good features in the game. There are also a new feature called the Drama Pieces. In my 
 opinion, they only serve to interrupt the battle, with some useless cutscenes. Other than that, 
 it's generally the same as the previous games...
  
  The cutscenes you see throughout the story are pretty much the same: only the participant characters 
 seem to change... I found this really annoying... because you already know what's going to happen, 
 after seeing the same cutscene over 5 times...
  
  Hardcore DBZ fans will still find the game enjoyable... but don't expect anything new... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  The last DBZ game for the PS2, DBZ Budokai tenkaichi 3, was perfect in characters and stages. It 
 has 159 characters, and more than 20 stages. Now, this game came out. Well... Not enough. Really 
 not enough. It has 21 characters. Well... that's less than Budokai 3. Even than Budokai 2. Because 
 the game only has the Saiyan, Namek, and Cell Saga. With a really short brolly and Bardock Saga. 
 And the game also has only a few stages. It's so SHORT! But there are some new things in the game, 
 like the Drama Pieces. It's a really good Idea, but there isn't too much of them. The graphics 
 aren't bad, especially the characters, but there's only a few videos with them. I mean, the game 
 uses the same video a lot of time. I felt like the creators just wanted to release the game, as 
 soon as possible. It's like a half game. The online mode sounds fun, but it suffers from lag, and 
 everyone cheats. If someone quits the game, after he lost, but just before the power level grows 
 up for the winner, and goes down for the loser. And the game lets this happen! It's not fair. At 
 all, Burst limit is a dissapointing, and I hope, the next DBZ game will be better.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 The characters looks great. But nothing special.
  
  Sounds: 7/10 The musics 
 are good, but the english voice acting is terrible. Change it to Japanise.
  
  Controls: 8/10 It's great.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10 A nicer version of budokai 3, but not more, no. 
 Even less, then budokai 3!
  
  The good: Drama Pieces
  
  The bad: This is a half game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutonium666
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the good news:
  
  The graphics have NEVER looked better on a DBZ game. It is simply stunning, and makes you crave 
 for more!
  
  The battles are very exciting with lots of drama
  
  
  Well... that was the good news...
  
  It is VERY short. Unlike the other games of the franchise 
 this game only spans over three of the sagas of the series. Sayian, Namek and Cell saga. Only the 
 very first DBZ Budokai game was as short as this one. That is truly dissapointing. This is next-gen, 
 for crying out loud!
  
  They have left out SO many great characters in the game that I felt robbed! Where is Buu? Dabura? 
 Guldo? Adult Gohan?
  
  The voice-actors also seem to have a lack of motivation... It is great, that they have used the 
 original actors to do the voice-acts, but they need a little nerve, to make the voices perfect!
 
  
  But despite all the bad news, it is still an okay game. But no more than 'okay'. This is a graphical 
 step forward, but overall step backwards for the franchise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eleduel
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Pro's: Exelent graphics & animations, good online gaming.
  
  Con's: Way tooooo repetitive animations, very bad story line, worst playability than the Budokai 
 3 (PS2) . When a map is detroyed there's no animation like in Budokai 3 and suddenly the whole level 
 changes... In fact, to put it simple, the whole game sucks in comparison to Budokai 3 from PS2 
 (I'm not talking about Budokai Tenkaichi 3!!)
  
  The main problem is, that this game has the worst combination... this means, amazing graphics... 
 and the game itself's not so good... so what's bad bout this? That you get a great 1st impression 
 of the game, and obviously expect a lot... and well, at least me.. I got dissapointed. Still, I 
 admit it's funny to play with friends for a while...
  
  
  That's my personal opinion, good if you share it with me! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rod_Z
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong: This IS a good DBZ game for DBZ fans.
  
  But when we look back at other games of the franchise, we feel like it was released at an early 
 stage of development. Seem like someone at Atari told the developers that they MUST release the 
 game now, even though they were planning to release it a lot later. The result? A very short game, 
 whit very few characters and transformations. After going trough the story mode (which experienced 
 players of DBZ games will likely finish in a few hours) , there's not much to do. The game features 
 3 bonus modes, like a survival mode, but this is not enough to keep the interest in the game. So, 
 the replay value is almost zero.
  
  This could be excused by the new and so advertised "online mode". After all, this is what will 
 make the replay value for a (short) fighting game. The possibility to challenge players all around 
 the globe and a worldwide ranking sound very interesting, right? But here's where the game fails. 
 The truth is that online mode sucks. Big time. It's so full of lag that makes a simply fight impossible. 
 It also has huge connect/disconnect issues.
  
  Sure, the graphics are amazing, the new drama pieces are good (although Atari could make it possible 
 to be skipped ) and the fighting engine is great. 
  
  For all the cons, it seem to be just a temporary title to keep the franchise alive in the buzz. 
 But it's not "the" DBZ game of this current generation, as much more could be done. We can expect 
 a new DBZ title coming soon, since it stll sells a lot. Let's just hope that all the current issues 
 will be addressed in this new game. In the meanwhile, you better go and play Tenkaichi 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Irishman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  First off you guys need to know I am a huge DBZ fan, I have been for almost 10 years and I owe 
 it a lot; it's what got me into anime in the first place. You might think if he loves DBZ so much 
 why only give the game a 7.5, well its not a bad game by any stretch, its actually really good, 
 my 7.5 reflects my disappointment with what could have been done with this game. While the game 
 is very fun to play especially if you are a DBZ fan, you'll also find (if you are a DBZ fan) the 
 fighting engine is not unlike the PSP version Shin Budokai. There are no 4 or 5 hit combos then 
 energy blasts like the first 3 Budokai games, you simply press forward, back or up O to do a move, 
 truth be told I wanted a bit more out of the special moves, they really only felt like minor upgrades 
 to a system we have known for over 3 years now. Still the actual fighting is better than it's ever 
 been in a DBZ game, and obviously that is extremely important. All the fighting is very fluid and 
 responsive, the controls are very easy to learn and there are still plenty of new moves to learn, 
 like aura smash, and the energy wars can NEVER get old for a true DBZ fan. The addition of the 
 drama pieces is really cool, basically you can pick a set of drama pieces when you pick your fighter 
 and then while you play if a certain criteria was fulfilled there will be a short cut scene depicting 
 something from the show that has to do with the battle. Not only are the drama pieces fun to watch 
 but they can turn the tide of the battle, they will give you a boost in whatever category the piece 
 allows for. Now let me tell you guys what is perfect in this game, the graphics. Every single character 
 looks exactly the way they do in the show; I was blown away when I first threw in the disc and 
 started playing. I really felt like I was playing the show, words can't really capture the feel 
 so all I can tell you is see it for yourself, you wont be disappointed. Now that I got the good 
 out of the way here's the bad and the ugly. Not nearly enough warriors to pick from, I realize 
 this game only takes place from Saiyan to the end of Cell but this is insane, we are talking next 
 gen here guys and we have what somewhere like 21 or so fighters, the number isn't that bad, but 
 when you see what they did on PS2 and realize were are playing on PS3 here I see no excuse not 
 have all the Ginyu Force, more movie villains, Androids 19 and 20, Zarbon and Dodoria, the list 
 goes on. To me that was very disappointing, seeing how many fighters were available in the PS2 
 versions and here we are in the next gen and as far as fighting rosters are concerned we are going 
 backwards, not forwards. Another problem along these lines are the lack of areas to fight in, this 
 is seriously the arenas Im not leaving anything out, plain, desert, island, Namek, Cell games arena. 
 That is totally unacceptable for me as a DBZ fan. Finally the other thing that bugs me as a true 
 DBZ fan are the lack of costumes, yes they have different colors for each character, but many of 
 them don't have alternate costumes that make sense with the show, its not always the case, Vegeta 
 is ok but still others should have more costumes. To add to the inconsistencies of the game with 
 the anime is the fatigue gauge. All fighters can become fatigued and to me that's just over looking 
 a huge part of a certain DBZ saga, Androids never run out of energy or get tired, yet for some 
 reason in this game they can. I realize this review was a huge rant about what was wrong with this 
 game, and truthfully there was a lot good about the game. It's only because I'm such a huge DBZ 
 fan and waiting for a long time to see a next gen DBZ fighter that I'm a little disappointed. Still 
 if I had to tell a friend that liked DBZ a much as I do, buy it, you might be disappointed in the 
 overall game, but its still DBZ and its on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerakX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  As many people know, Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit was highly experimental. Returning to the Budokai-Style 
 of fighting on a brand-new system for the franchise. Well, the experiment did well, and is a decent 
 stand-alone game. But that's about all you can say about it.
  
  Graphics - 9.0/10
  
  Nothing spectacular, gut great anyway. Though the lip-syncing is noticeably off and they could 
 probably push it farther.
  
  Fighting 8.5/10
  
  Leaves quite a bit to be desired, but it's entertaining in it's own, shallow way. All the character's 
 play identically as far as controls go, but do have different styles. On top of which I personally 
 feel it could have done better without Drama Pieces.
  
  Story Mode - 6.0/10
  
  Confusing, disorienting, and just plain bad. Passable, but bad. They over used certain cutscenes 
 when they had valid replacements available, on top of which you don't get the whole story unless 
 you do some random action in a fight and have a little luck so the Drama Piece actually goes off.
 
  
  Content - 5.0/10
  
  Ouch. LESS characters than Budokai 1? Really? Less stages too? Come on, man!
  
  ~~~
  
  
 But overall I'd have to say that the game, for some reasons, is just more entertaining than the 
 sum of it's parts would have it be. Which is why it gets the rating I have given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anann
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Either way one puts it, this is still Dbz and is appealing to all fans of the anime. The game has 
 some innovative tweaks from the last titles, but it's still not there yet. 
  
  When it comes to gameplay, the controls are not as responsve as it was for the ps2 titles. The 
 drama scenes interupts the flow of battle, and can get annoying if a player keeps on dying and 
 has to watch them over again as there is no way of skipping them. These scenes can also null attacks 
 which can be crucial and will frauste any player. Other than that, Burst Limit provides a very 
 decent gameplay. The player can do all the cool tricks from Dbz such as teleporting, busting through 
 objects and awesome ultimate moves. The aura spark is a similar to Budokai's Hyper mode where the 
 fighters can enter rush mode. Unlike Tenkaichi, Burst Limit allows easier use of teleportation 
 dodge. So it's actually possible to dodge an attack by teleporting. Transformations are possible 
 mid battle and with them comes cool new moves. So overall gameplay's similar to Budokai 3, but 
 not as responsive. 
  
  Burst Limit is definitely the best in the series for graphics. The transformatons are execellent 
 looking and the attacks are as flashy as a Dbz attack should be. The best part is definitely the 
 cutscenes before and after the battles. There's actually characters talking and moving around. 
 It's nice to see some cutscenes after seeing just pictures talking in the other titles. Audio is 
 the same as any other Dbz titles as before. No change from the past styles. So expect to hear a 
 lot of computerized jazz music. 
  
  Burst Limit is definitely a good start for a Dbz title for the gen. Few more tweaks and it'll be 
 a very good game. If you are a Dbz fan, definitely check it out, but if you'r not, rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamepro0062
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, at first, I really didn't think it would be worth the money. Even when I bought it, I had 
 mixed feelings about it. But looking back, I think that the game was okay for the most part.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, if you played Budokai 3 before, or Shin Budokai, then this game is gonna 
 be pretty familiar to you. To some people, it'd seem that they just ported Shin Budokai on the 
 PS3 and slapped awesome visuals on it. But, since I love DBZ, I didn't really think too much about 
 it. The online is fun too, although it'll lag a lot if you're opponent is far away in Japan or 
 Russia, or France or something....
  
  Graphics:
  One word. Unbeleivable. Enough said. But that seems to be the only thing that's different from 
 the previous games.
  
  Story:
  If you know DBZ, you know the whole deal. They put the original story on the game, with a few "what-ifs" 
 here and there, and a few scenarios based off DBZ movies. That's right, they're beating the dead 
 horse, yet again.
  
  Overall:
  If you're into deep fighting games, like deep, deep fighting games, you're not gonna want this. 
 If you're a hard-core DBZ fan, like me, then you still might be dissapointed, or, you might like 
 it. If you have NEVER, and I mean NEVER, EVER, played DBZ games before, and you're a sorta casual 
 gamer, this'll be a good buy for you.. 
  
  Even though I enjoyed this game, I was a bit dissapointed, and this will most likely be the final 
 DBZ game I buy, unless the devs put a little more EFFORT in the game. Just a thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimripper_nec
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  In my person view i see that this Dragon ball Z game is nothing compared to the ps2 Dragon ball 
 z tenchaichi 3. But there is some upgrade in visuals but graphics aint everything compared to accuracy 
 an this is not a good representation to the anime as they try to manipulate themselves an you into 
 believing. I own most the seasons of the dragon ball z series. i think the anime is 100x better then 
 any dragon ball z game ever Dragon Ball Z has 3 cores destruction, Fighting, and environmental elements. All 
 this comes to mean that if your gonna make a next gen game make sure its worth next gen. Next gen 
 doesn't mean graphically advance i thought things would be more realistic to the show an feeling 
 you get when you watch it dragon ball z needs to serious have work done to it or they will never 
 have an accurate game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_badman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  DBZ. i watched the first episode at age 5 and was hooked on IMMEDIATELY
  super action fighting, never got boring ( except the times where they spent the whole episode talking 
 and fought for about 2 minutes.) and just interesting. period.
  
  now, my favorite anime franchaise makes a next gen game and to say the least, its not great, but 
 its definately not bad. 
  
  the gameplay itself is quick, and unpredictable at some times, and thats exactly what it needs. 
 however the drama pieces ( small cutscense that can sometimes help you win the match) are a double 
 edged sword. it's very interesting to put in, but it WILL stop you from unleashing your neverending 
 combo or your finishing move mid second. trust me, your better off without it.
  
  online play is new to DBZ and while its good to play against a human player ( like all games) the 
 game suffers from horrible lag, of any kind. but there is occasionally the guy who nice connection 
 and play seamlessly and nicely. beware of the bast***s that quit right before you win a match though. 
 its a good way to learn patience too! given you WILL throw your controller in frustration
  
  not enough content. definately. for something that is on a blu ray disc you would figure that 
 there would be more content. I MEAN COME ON!
  there is no tournament, not extra content to buy in the ingame store NOTHING just a long story 
 and versus. 
  along with the versus comes with 24 characters with each a unique fighting style, which is good, 
 but it would be nice to have more of them.
  
  SUPA_BADMAN'S PROS AND CONS
  PRO
  the fight is fast paced
  online is a nice addition
  long enough story and diffilculty modes 
 to keep you busy for a while
  if your an ACTUAL DBZ fan, you'd be glad there is japanese voice acting available
  CON
  ONLINE 
 IS AS SLOW AS ITALIAN CLUB SOCCER
  not enough modes
  more characters could've been added. 
  not enough content to make it feel like a full game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalifala
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  dragonball z burst limit is an incredibly nice game that put u back in the same game as DBZ budokai 
 1, but with enhanced graphic. the could have done way much better with the enviroment especially 
 using the power and capability of the ps3 and the Xbox 360 system. they could have created an enviroment 
 so huge that no last-gen DBZ game would have compared. also they took out 1 of the best features 
 of the tenkaichi franchises the free to roam the enviroment anytime and anywhere. i said it before 
 and i'll say it again they could have done so much better. i understand atari not putting alot 
 of DBZ characters because their would be no more point of making anymore DBZ game with no characters 
 to add. which is why they want to attract more fans into the DBZ franchises and they probably did 
 but they did not work on sasitfying the long-time fans. thanks for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well maybe it wasnt as much of a disappointment because I knew there were only 21 characters and 
 6 stages and up to the cell saga. But i didnt know that It was going to have terrible gameplay 
 as well. 
  
  Story: As you know it only goes up to the cell saga and there are few characters, but that does 
 not give them the reason to make the story a complete waste. they leave out key points of the story, 
 like when vegeta first turned super saiyan and annihilated android 19 and raditz kidnapping gohan 
 and the whole part that includes trunks into the storyline. also why the hell does bardock defeat 
 frieza in storymode ? the story is poorly told with bad voicing and repetitive cutscenes. the cutscenes 
 are recycled for each story battle. also the voices are terribly out of sync. Budokai 1 has a way 
 better story mode. 5 outta 10
  
  Graphics: this is a next gen game ? there is nothing Nexgen about it. the graphics would be average 
 for ps2. Charactermodels are blurry and lack detail when they are far apart. when they are close 
 you can see three shades of orange in goku's pants ( amazing ...) . Not at all. the graphics are 
 just average. Not to mention that some character models are done plain wrong. Krillin looks like 
 he is anorexic, picollo looks he bleached his clothes and frieza looks like he was abused as a 
 kid. However when you go super saiyan the Character detail looks much better. Also why is Broly's 
 hair yellow. 6 outta 10
  
  Gameplay: This is sad, because gameplay could have been good for this game, despite the fact that 
 EVERYTHING is copied from shin budokai 2 except for the stupid drama pieces. the drama pieces in 
 this game may seem cool the firs.... wait a minute , no they never seem cool at all, they are just 
 terrible. they look rediculous and they interupt the gameplay being terribly frustrating. For example 
 you are beating up cell pulling off a 15 hit combo when suddenly the screen flashes to android 
 16 and he flys through the air and punches ( yes at nothing) and then says some cheesing line
 Becareful out thereand the screen flashes yellow then cuts back to the fight and your character 
 has been knocked back and you are pissed like hell. these drama pieces interupt gameplay all the 
 time, sometimes 3 times a round, some of them are really long and there is noway to turn them off. 
 5 outta 10
  
  Enjoyment: as a hardcore Dbz fan and as a hardcore Budokai series fan and as a hardcore Tenkaichi 
 series fan this game is a terrible disappointment. O how can i forget, the bonus modes. Survival 
 you face 100 foes in a row getting health recoveries between fights (boring) the A. I. is incredibly 
 cheap. sometimes they will do nothing but fly back the entire fight to gather and throw some blast, 
 or just sit there blocking and do nothing. every fight is like that. the online sucks, its the 
 worst lag in any ps3 game i have ever seen. also when you win people quit the game so you dont 
 reap your rewards. Time attack (10 opponents, submit your score online) lame ! Thats all to the 
 game. survival, time attack and crap story (i dont even count in online) . 5 outta 10
  
  This game is a waste of time and money. after those drama pieces mess up your gameplay several 
 times you will hurl your sixaxis. so dont get this game. If you must get it , pick it up second 
 hand and then return it for another game when you are done. I bought it brand new and traded it 
 in 3 days later. Dont waste your time. Its worth about 5 bucks to a diehard fan. trust me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  First i will start by saying that i don't like dragon ball, although i listened pretty much the 
 whole series with my little cousin when i was babysitting him.
  
  So i didn't personally get the game by myself, someone gave it to me. So i played 1 hour, 2 hours, 
 3 hours ... Well it actually end up a really good fighting game. 
  
  The movement is easy with the left thumb stick or D-pad but i found thumb stick more reactive. 
 Combo are easy to perform, just bash the button 4-5 times and that's it. You can perform more complex 
 combo but the are also quite easy such as Square 3 times + Triangle + Square. Ki related attack 
 are all on a single button which is Circle by default. 3 attacks are available by pressing circle 
 and either forward, backward or up. Up and Circle make you perform an ultimate attack which is you 
 most powerful attack but it drain you complete reserve of ki.
  
  I suggest to player to start by running the tutorial, yes it's a bit annoying but you learn great 
 more complex moves such as dodging, teleport, aura burst and also my favorite the lightspeed fight 
 which all you need to do is bash all your button faster than the enemy. and it's like a tug-o-war, 
 depending where the meter stop it's either stopping the combo, finish by a block scene, or you 
 push even farther and make 3 strong combo attack that send enemy flying.
  
  Drama Scene is something awesome. when you are fighting if some conditions happen a drama scene 
 which is a kind of pause in the fight and a video start with somethign happening. I can go from 
 your helper character attacking the enemy to defend you to a basic taunt that boost some stats 
 or reduce some, sometime both. when you play in the VS mode you can choose your helper and you 
 can choose up to 3 drama scene that could happen when you will fight.
  
  The music is a good but not extraordinary, graphic are good, it look like the real cartoon but 
 obviously you see that it's 3D.
  
  I give it 8.5 because of lack of levels to play and short story mode (+/- 6 hours) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMitsos
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  I did not like other what I make they is dragonball I hope next dragonball game they is completely 
 different for what this they is not dragonball graphic they was not same with anime I want story 
 mode real I am worshipper dargonball when the other saw smurfs i dragonball 
  
  from under in Greek
  
  
     
      
 dragonball    
 dragonball game    
    
    dragonball  
     
   anime  story mode  
    dargonball 
     
 smurfs  dragonball 
  
  from under in French
  
  
  
  Je n'ai pas aim autre ce que je leur fais est espoir du dragonball I prochain jeu de dragonball 
 qu'elles est compltement diffrente pour ce que c'elles n'est pas graphique de dragonball elles 
 n'taient pas mmes avec l'anime je veux le mode d'histoire vrai je suis dargonball d'adorateur 
 quand l'autre a vu le dragonball des smurfs i
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game has many great visuals. The Drama piece system makes the gane harder and if 
 doing a harder mode very frustrating. The arenas look very nice and sometimes in a fight you can 
 go from one place to another. The controls are easy to get used to and the online play is fun. 
 You can face people from aroound the world with different ranks.
  
  The Bad: Their could be more characters in which the game would be funner. The online play suffers 
 from lag and people are sore losers. They will leave the game once they lose which dosent affect 
 their grade. The story mode left out many parts which made story shorter and it missed 3 movies.
 
  
  I say that if your going to buy it for a whole 60$ get the dvd with it. If you are not a DBZ fan 
 wait for the price to go down. You can always rent it to though just dont play to long though or 
 else you might unlock all the characters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is just dragon ball z shin budokai with a few added bits
  
  
  iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Homer
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  With every year in gaming, comes inevitabilities. Sports fans are treated to yearly entries in 
 the EA Sports series of games, movie fans are catered with game adaptations of the biggest blockbusters 
 or the year, Playstation owners are treated to games from Insomniac, and so on  Dragon Ball Z 
 is no exception. Ever since the release of the first Budokai game in 2002 (and effectively becoming 
 the first Dragon Ball Z game to be popular in the West) , fans have been treated to a yearly fighting 
 game starring Goku and company. 2008's iteration seeks to be the most promising yet  the return 
 of original Budokai developers Dimps, a shift to a new generation, and an entirely new slate to 
 work with. So how is Burst Limit, anyways? Kind of a disappointment, actually.
  
  The first thing to take note is that the game uses the familiar Budokai combat system, a refreshing 
 change from the somewhat jarring system present in the three Budokai Tenkaichi games. For the uninitiated 
  it's essentially a traditional VS fighting game. It takes place on the one plane on either the 
 ground or sky, and the character is free to sidestep around the battlefield to avoid attacks. Taking 
 a cue from the Tenkaichi series, Burst Limit adopts a similar method to perform special attacks. 
 For example, in Budokai 3, had I wanted to perform Goku's Kamehameha attack, I'd need to enter 
 a five button combination  Budokai Tenkaichi went around this by using a two button combination. 
 It's the same system used for each character, and while some characters do have differing move 
 combinations, it won't take long for players to be familiar with characters.
  
  Speaking of accessibility, the fighting system has been changed slightly. Ki is now charged automatically, 
 which does help. Also, Ki doesn't degenerate once you've reached a certain point, which does make 
 for an easier fight. More powerful versions of special attacks are done by simple holding the combination 
 longer before releasing. Ultimate Moves, which previously forced you to go into Hyper Mode to pull 
 off, are now done with a simple button combination, which does save some hassles. Also, the annoying 
 mini-game that determined whether or not you succeeded in performing the attack is removed. While 
 all this does sound like it makes the game simple, and it does, there's still some depth in there 
 for those who wish to explore it. 
  
  One of the biggest new features introduced in Burst Limit is the Drama Piece system  which effectively 
 replaces the character customization element present in the Budokai games. Allow me to explain 
  in the Budokai games, you had the ability to pick and choose what moves a character could use, 
 as well as equip bonuses to your character. The Drama Piece system works similarly  except you 
 choose bonuses, as well as a 'partner' character that can determine which pieces can be used. Once 
 in a fight though, the pieces you selected will kick in at certain moments during the fight. You'll 
 know this because the fight will stop for a moment to show a cut scene of the drama piece kicking 
 in.
  
  Unfortunately, the Drama Piece system is rather annoying. For starters, it breaks up the fight 
 at the most random moments. You could be firing off an ultimate attack to help score some serious 
 damage, and just as the move hits, the drama piece cutscene kicks in, and after the brief cutscene 
 of a character charging up their Ki or their partner attacking you, you'll have used up all your 
 Ki, while your opponent receives little to no damage. It's great if you weren't on the receiving 
 end, but frustrating if you initiated the attack. Though thankfully, it's totally possible to fight 
 without them, so if you want a more 'cinematic' experience, at the risk of gameplay interruptions, 
 then by all means, use the system.
  
  The story mode of the game is also somewhat of a disappointment. It takes after the original Budokai's 
 story mode in that it's a series of fights that take after the three out of the four main sagas 
 of the DBZ storyline (for the record  Sayian, Frieza and Cell) . In a shocking move though  you'll 
 actually have to have prior experience with the storyline of DBZ, because the game tells you squat. 
 Literally, you'll fight off Raditz as both Goku and Piccolo, then all of a sudden, the next fight 
 is Yamcha fighting off against the Saibaman. There's absolutely no description as to what happens 
 between fights, save for a scant description of the fight it really does hurt if this is the first 
 time that someone has played a DBZ game.
  
  Speaking of story  the limitation on content is one of the biggest disappointments in the game. 
 There's only 16 playable characters (that's not including transformation characters) , which is 
 barely a scratch on the near ludicrous number of characters present in Budokai Tenkaichi 3. Hell, 
 the original Budokai had seven more playable characters than this game! Granted, the sixteen characters 
 are some of the more important in the series, but it's a massive disappointment overall. Not even 
 the additions of Bardock and Broly (who were not in the original Budokai) can help this. What's 
 worse is that you can burn through the story mode in only a few hours, and as you unlock characters, 
 stages and drama pieces at a frantic pace, there's little else to unlock or do in the game.
  
  There is online play however  a first for the series, and it's not just limited to versus 
 battles. While the online play does work, it's a disappointment that Dimps didn't have to innovate 
 for sake of it and remove the Budokai 3 customization options. It would've made for a great experience 
 that would keep the player coming back for more. With no plans for DLC, it's a shame that Namco 
 Bandai are holding out for the inevitable Burst Limit 2, which will hopefully rectify these problems.
 
  
  One huge positive for the game though, is it's visuals. In stills, it looks barely a patch over 
 a PS2 game, but in motion, the game looks absolutely jaw dropping. It's the correct amount of balance 
 between framerate and cel-shading, and the effect is truly something to behold. It's also great 
 to see that Dimps managed to also get the game running on the PS3 just as well as its 360 counterpart. 
 Though at times, there is some slowdown, but this happens rarely. The only real disappointment 
 visually is the animations  it feels as if basically the same animations from Budokai 3 were lifted 
 and used in this game, and anything new is just repeated for each character. However, seeing a 
 shot by shot remake of the infamous "Over 9000" scene in glorious high definition is well worth 
 all the little flaws.
  
  The same can't be said for the audio. The soundtrack itself is nothing spectacular  the music 
 is the same upbeat jazz/rock that you'll have heard in previous DBZ games, as well as all the sound 
 effects lifted straight from the anime. As for the voice acting, it's the same stuff you'll have 
 heard before. While it's great to see that Namco got all the correct VA's for their roles, if you're 
 the kind of person who's heard it all before (or a hardcore anime enthusiast  the "subs not dubs" 
 kind of person) , then it's best to switch over to the Japanese VO. Otherwise, don't go expecting 
 a great aural experience, even with the game in 5.1 DTS sound.
  
  Overall, Burst Limit is more of a framework of what to expect in future instalments than an actual 
 game. It's hard to recommend Burst Limit as a purchase with what little the game has to offer. 
 That's not saying that it's a bad game  don't get me wrong, the gameplay is great; you can have 
 some close and frantic battles, but there's just not a whole lot to do. Even with the online play 
 and gorgeous visuals, it's really hard to recommend the game at full price  especially if you're 
 a first time Dragon Ball Z gamer. Despite this, the game makes a fantastic rental, you'll burn 
 through the game quickly enough to unlock everything and have a number of battles. If you must 
 purchase a Dragon Ball Z game, pick up Budokai 3 (which should at Platnium/Greatest Hits pricing 
 by now) , it's essentially the same game, but feels much more complete overall. It should work on 
 any PS3 with Backwards Compatibility, and has enough of a feature set to tide you over until the 
 inevitable release of Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedfreak121
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I hav been a dbz fan for more than 10 years so let me tell you i like this game have been reading 
 many reviews. Overall it is an impressive game. It takes a more BudokaI aproach than Tenkainchi 
 so i was suprised when i tarted it. However. the gameplay is more addicting than the budokai series. 
 I guess Tenkainnchi Fans will disagree about it being better than tenkainchi. They are not entirely 
 wrong, though. The graphics are better than Tenkainchi but if you have played the Budokai games 
 recently it will start to feel very familiar. However, the online mode interested me so i bought 
 it and although the lag bothered me a little the answer was just to search for someone in your 
 country rather than someone all the way in Alaska.
  
  
  Furthermore, the sound is good but not perfect. DBZ Original music is preferable. The stages where 
 a bit dissaponting but the drama pieces helped, even though they were a little repetive.
  Overall it a entertaining game that will pleaze most dbz fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This one is pretty hard to review. On one hand, the excellent fighting system is action packed 
 and really fun to play, but on the other hand, the game is so limited in scope.
  
  Graphics - Excellent. Easily the best looking DBZ game to date, from great looking fighters to 
 nice looking backgrounds. The in-game drama scenes look fantastic.
  
  Sound - In some of the DBZ games, it really sounds like the English voice actors are just going 
 through the motions so they can get the pay check, but they seem to have found a new inspiration 
 for the characters. The music is really great high energy rock common to the series, but the songs 
 are little bit better this time, and really stand out. One of them sounds suspicsiously like a 
 Bullet For My Valentine song, though. 
  
  Gameplay - The fighting system is more like the Budokai series, which was a great place to return. 
 It feels a lot faster than the Tenkaichi series, and the move feel very powerful (something I felt 
 was missing from Tenkaichi 3) . I think the biggest improvement in gameplay is that though the arenas 
 aren't huge, they did a good job of making them seem so. They don't do the wall-grid which made 
 the Tenkaichi arenas feel smaller than they really were, and manage to constantly turn you around 
 and throw you up in the air so you don't feel the invisible walls quite as much.
  
  The biggest problems: Small roster of fighters (though my favourites are all there, going from 
 150 fighters down to the 20 odd here is disappointing) , and the story mode is VERY limited. Though 
 the matches are fun to play through, there's only a handful of battles and there's a few levels 
 when they force you to play as Broly, and I can't stand playing as Broly. That irritated me. Also, 
 only Very Easy, Easy and Normal are unlocked at first, and playing through on Normal is a cake 
 walk. Once you start playing on Hard and Very Hard, you'll see a challenge, so it's disappointing 
 that you have to play through all the levels on Normal to get to the real game. 
  Some characters are unbalanced (like Broly. There's just no reason to play as him. He's not fast 
 and not particularly powerful, so why even bother with him?) , but for the most part it's o. k. Tien 
 is really fun to play with, and I've found that he's been mostly overlooked in the past.
  Few game modes, as well. I've never done the online thing, so I don't know how that works, but 
 one would think they would at least include a World Tournament or Cell Tournament mode. It's DBZ 
 for Pete's sake.
  
  Good, not great. I'd like to say good start for the current generation consoles, but that's not 
 really an excuse in this day and age. 
  If they include more story and more characters in a future sequel, I'd buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well as i am a fan of DBZ for a long time, i almost know everything about DBZ, and i should say 
 this game is not the thing DBZ has to show. I mean the game is not even finished only to Cell saga, 
 thank god they put Bardock and broly, but still its low on story and Characters.... But if youre 
 a real fan you still play it, with fun. The gameplay is impressive, Also very good combat moves, 
 the characters are all acrobatic, as in the show, Furthermore the Graphics are very impressive too, 
 if you ever played Budokai or Budokai tenkaichi series, youll see the difference=) Well all in 
 all, i say this, i think the creators were testing what they can do with the next-gen graphics 
 on DBZ, the results were nice, Now its time to make the ultimate DBZ game, so i think we'll wait 
 and we'll see another DBZ game with every last one of the character, and all Complete story Dragon 
 ball History, but for now, if youre a collector buy this game as a trophy=) also if youre tht interested 
 playing, theres always the online mode=) see ya leter=D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasso14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I believe that The Dragonball Z Burst Limit for the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 (Preferably PS3) 
 is an awesome breakthrough to the next Generation gaming. The graphics are high and the game play 
 is amazing as a DBZ fan I do enjoy this game and I find the online to be more enjoyable. The Story 
 as its called Z Chronicles doesnt last long if you play it non stop but I play the game non stop 
 from Z Chronicles to online I find it entertaining and Unique the the DBZ Series. When I first 
 got the game I was blinded by Awesomeness!!! This is a must buy for DBZ Fans. HINT FOR ONLINE: 
 Create your own Room and if anyone joins with low signal kick the player you want someone with 
 average or high Signal Strength so theres less lag!
  The Game modes are: Z Chronicles, Versus which includes Player vs CPU, CPU vs CP, Player vs Player 
 and Online Battle, Trial and then Tutorial and Options and that stuff well enjoy the game and if 
 your not completely satisfied with my review maybe hire the game first before you buy and also 
 for the PS3 it doesnt need to download anything it only needs to creat a save file which is only 
 kb so its all good Catch Ya All!
  
  -Sasso14 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well DBZ fans will love this. I'm a fan of DBZ too but right now I'm speaking as a gamer so no 
 punches are going to be held. 
  
  graphics: Great. A lot of flash work that pretty much sums up how DBZ should look. No glaring dissapointments 
 there.
  
  Sound: Pretty basic. Nothing over the top but it isn't a turn off to the game. 
  
  Music: If 
 the music from the anime were inputted, it would be fantastic. However you will get tired of the 
 same music for the same 5 stages in the game (that's right i said 5 stages)
  
  Machanics:... I think developers got lazy. Why is every beat-down scene, every square off, every 
 character motion during cut scenes the SAME? I got tired of watching it all, Not to mention the 
 drama pieces are pretty lame after you see them 50 times in 1 hour. It just seems like the game 
 developers didn't want to do more than it did because they figured fans would love it either way. 
 Well, let me be one fan to tell you, IT WAS DISAPPOINTING!
  
  gameplay: about the only thing i like about the game. Different fighting styles, nice attacks, 
 quite diverse. That's what a fighting game is about. The gave us that. Not the best in the world 
 but enough for you to pick this title up. It feels just like DBZ should feel.
  
  Other non-stated above issues: ONLINE LAG IS AWFUL. I don't play much online because the lag lag 
 lag lag lag!! It ruined the reason I wanted the game in the first place. Don't get me wrong it's 
 fun to play the game but $60 was completely not worth what I got. The story mode was choppy and 
 lame. Other game modes were just there to be there. It seemed as though they released a game they 
 knew they could get away with just becuse it's DBZ and they did. 
  
  Overall: Rent it, don't buy it. If you have gamefly, use it, if not wait for this to hit a bargin 
 bin or at least until they make a new one so the story is longer, you have more characters, and 
 HOPEFULLY the game developers will read this so they know their major screw ups. Fun vs. a friend 
 in the same home, but not enough fun to keep you happy more than a week. I'm selling mine maybe 
 next chance I get because that was enough for me. Hopefully BL2 won't break my happiness of DBZ 
 like this did. 
  
  Even though i had little nice to say about the game I say it deserves it's 7 from me because of 
 gameplay and graphics. But then again my second thought on it is a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windows3000000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  This new dragonball z game on the nex-gen colsoles is by far the best game of dragonball z game 
 titles I've played.
  
  Dragonballz burstimit is a great title in a new series with a 10 hour story line and another 5-10 
 hours with online, triels and verses modes dragonball z burstlimit is a must by.
  
  From a cross between a great dragonball z game and the budkai series plus a portable woner of shin 
 budokai burstlimit is made with a few added extras.
  
  the downs:
  :english voices not syniced for lip movement
  :online suffers from lag
  :a small amount of 
 glitches
  the up's:
  :amazing grafics and wonderful turain
  :all important characters from saiyan to cell saga
  :jappanese voice acting
  :online features
 
  :quick loading and saving
  :cutsceans fantastic
  
  all and all burst limit is a must buy for dragonball z fans eight and a half out of ten :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  In recent memory, it seems that NamcoBandai have been churning out DBZ after DBZ title with ever 
 growing ludicrous names that became so difficult to say you would give up after Dragon Ball Z, 
 however, this new installment sees the series invigorated on the next gen platforms with a less 
 silly name to accompny it, which is suggesting, so far, so good.
  
  Firstly lets mention the cast size, it is so incredibly huge that you could be sat down for an 
 hour and not chosen a character yet, its massive, and they do all have extremely daft names, Goku 
 being the sanest. As good an idea as it sounds, having a gingantic character selection, does offer 
 a wide variety, but in my opinion, too much variety, and over complicates the simple task of selecting 
 a character. DBZ isn't the only game with a big cast list, it probably just has the largest, which 
 in all fairness is fantastic fan service.
  
  It is graphically on par with the TV show, as in it looks a lot like the anime series and all the 
 players react and move as they would do in the show. All the recogniseable voices are there and 
 it looks and sounds like what you would see on TV, but only in HD. Some of the finisher move effects 
 are spectacular and will blaze eyebrows off an the sensation of speed is very good, if very sick 
 enducing. Though may argue the characters look flat and unteresting, they do mimic the show.
  
  Story wise it offers a bunch of quest known as the Z Chronicles, a definately cheesy title, 
 but a great variety of different fights, opponents and situations to challenge yourself against, 
 and also acts as a great training method for when it comes to the highly accessible and competitive 
 multiplayer. Or, start from scratch and learn every single move in the tutorial section whcih is 
 something like 35+ chapters, maybe a bit too long.
  
  Where DBZ: Burst Limit lags, but not let itself down, is the act ual combat experience, as I'm 
 a massive fan of Tekken and Soul Calibur, this series was very difficult to adjust to and seem 
 more leaning towards button mashing than tactically approaching a situation. Something I enjoy 
 in a fighting game, and this game simply doesn't techincally cut it.
  
  There are something like 5 or 6 arenas to select, which especially in Z Chronicles, grows especially 
 iiritating as you see the grassy hilltops of Namec for the forty four millionth time. The wealth 
 of arenas you get in other fighters really puts DBZ to shame, as you would have thought there would 
 have been as variety of arenas in a game with such a range of different characters and modes on 
 offer.
  
  One thing that is pretty cool in arena is the 3D plane in which you can fight. Most fighters still 
 approach on a 2D plane, forward and back, but DBZ lets you zoom up into the sky, and this idea 
 isn't just an afterthought, fights do quickly escalate skyward and make for some interesting bouts 
 and scenery. The online is fun but it is very laggy as the players are incredibly fast, and I'd 
 advise you to stick to local multiplayer splitscreen. Online is simple unplayable, but isn't something 
 i don't think could have been easily sccomplished with this particular fighter so I doesn't really 
 bother me.
  
  The music and voice acting was one thing that really got on my **** Music is not to disimilar to 
 80's rock pop, syths and guitar solos and all, and the voice acting is so incredibly hammy and 
 chessy that it makes for some truly laughable performances, add to that the fact the voice synch 
 is totally out.
  
  Overall DBZ: Burst Limit is a well accomplished fighter, it has lots of good ideas and I really 
 did want to hate this game, but I'm finding it difficult to pin point one really game ruining aspect. 
 Veteran players of fighting games won't like the layout or laxed approach to the technical side 
 but is still a fun and enjoyable game that is accessible to DBZ fans and newbies alike. I would 
 simply rather play Soul Calibur though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_0rder
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, even though there are only 2 scenes (Yamcha fighting saibamen and Goku and Piccolo fighting 
 Raditz) this game kicks butt. I was addicted to the graphics and the gameplay soon as i started 
 playing for about 5 minutes. I guess if you played Budokai 3 (Dragon Ball Z) then youd be hooked 
 on this. They can't make this game any better. The only thing i didn't like about it was that the 
 controls were a bit different. But the game play still rocks. The graphics were improved tremendously 
 and thats another thing that I like about it. If you dont like Dragon Ball Z i highly recommend 
 you rent it or buy the demo.
  I already know what the real game is going to feel like even without having it. They couldn't make 
 Dragon Ball Z any better in my opinion. 
  
  Overall, I think the whole game (demo) is really good, with only some minor flaws, you would be 
 playing this game about 5 years from now and still enjoy it. 
  To sum it up, this game kicks ass. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtiansk8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you, this game is most of what you wanted from the other sequels. It has cutscenes! 
 At last! If you notice, before DBZ: Burst Limit came out, the only game that had cutscenes of all 
 the DBZ games was DBZ Budokai. All of the other were of pure conversations between one another 
 and it made the story pretty boring.
  
  The bad part about the cutscenes is that sometimes they might get a little repetitive, buy trust 
 me, this game is really worth it.
  
  This game looks kinda simple you know, but it has enough characters to really spend a blast playing 
 it. I mean, don't worry, you know this story. In a few months they'll get out DBZ Burst Limit 2, 
 with all the sagas and a huge roster, and then the third, hell, maybe a fourth!
  but then they'll come with something similar to Budokai tenkaichi, and then a 2nd one and then 
 maybe a third one.
  That's how it goes people.
  
  
  just Buy the game... ITS AWSOME
  
  
  P. S. if you buy it at gamestop for ps3, you even might get the special edition with the 
 blu ray DBZ movie "Dead Zone" (Garlick Jr.) I got that one =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenture333x2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  The problem with releasing a new game is that you have so many old games to compete with. People 
 are always going to be taking your game and comparing it to the classics, and quite frankly they 
 should be. Video games are expensive. They should earn our money, not swindle us out of it by slapping 
 a popular license on a poorly made game. Think every game ever made based on a movie, except Goldeneye, 
 of course. A game such as DBZ Burst Limit certainly has the potential to swindle. The question 
 is, would this rose smell as sweet by any other name? The answer is probably no. 
  Coming into this game you can tell right away you have played better fighting games, but you may 
 not have seen many. This game looks just like the cartoon. Some of the visuals are so explosive 
 they really make you feel as if you are fighting on Namek. The specials look and feel great and 
 you will get to see them often because they are especially easy to pull off. The most powerful 
 moves in the game are accomplished by simply pressing up and the energy button at the same time. 
 First time players are probably just going to mash the buttons, and they are probably going to 
 do quite well. This is where the game play lags. The game can often feel like endless button mashing 
 coupled with occasional choppy movement, especially against the computer. Playing against another 
 human opponent can be a great time though. The online can be a bit laggy, but it works, and more 
 importantly it is there. 
  The game does a nice job of really giving you the feel of the characters. If you are a fan of the 
 series this is certainly the biggest draw of the game. All of the signature moves are there. Some 
 of the voices in English are nothing less than brutal. Simply go in to the options and change the 
 setting to Japanese. It even gives you English subtitles. The storyline is a little hacked, but 
 the major events are there. Goku and Vegeta's battle looks absolutely amazing. This is where I 
 find myself asking that question; would I have even heard of this game if it was called something 
 else? Probably not, but that does not mean it is bad. This game is a lot of fun to play. If you 
 are a fan of the series, then at the very least try this game, but if you can not answer questions 
 such as; what is a Saibamen, or what's the relationship between Cell and Android 18, then this 
 is probably not the game for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Been a DBZ fan for quite some time , but I wouldn't let that hinder my view on this game , if the 
 game was bad. So let's begin!
  
  First off the game is very fun. I think people that play the Budokai series and Tenkaichi should 
 enjoy this game. First thing you really notice is how well the game looks. It being on the next-gen 
 , it better be nice looking. And it is, the graphics are top notch and the action is very smooth. 
 The levels are nice to look at and are pretty spacious for all your DBZ action. The character models 
 are well done as well. I think the only thing I miss in this levels themselves is the environment 
 destruction , which their is none in this game. While that is kind of a minus cause I love seeing 
 guys/girls fly through huge boulders and what not , it doesn't really take away from the action 
 that you'd expect.
  
  The game play is much like the series before this. You get all the melee attacks as before and 
 you Ki attacks. And being DBZ you get your wonderful Super Attacks and Ultimate attacks. They also 
 added a Aura Action/Spark which basically uses up your full Ki bar and allows you do extra damage 
 on top of increasing your Ultimate Attack. If you knock the opponent away a certain distance while 
 in you Aura you can do a follow up move which is reminiscent to "Dragon Rush" In Budokai 3 where 
 you do lightning attacks as you fly around beating up the opponent. You also get your transformations 
 with your characters as well. This is done in game and not a chosen character like before.
  
  As for the Characters there are only 21 to choose from. I know some would like more and me 
 being one of them. Be It I never use all the characters , It's just nice to see a variety of chracters. 
 I still find that 21 is enough , but maybe later download able content will add more characters. 
 The games story mode takes place from when Radditz appears to the end of Cell saga. I guess this 
 seemed like a decent point to stop the game at. The Bardock and Broly side story are added after 
 you complete the Cell Saga which is nice. I would of liked to seen the story go to the end of the 
 Buu saga but maybe next time. There is also online play once you finish the story mode as well. 
 So you can finally test your skills against other players all over the world. Which is great addition 
 to the game.
  
  All in all this game is great for DBZ fans. Although new-comers to the series in general will find 
 the story mode with a few gaps cause it basically gets you the summary of the sagas and not the 
 full explanation. Even still this is a great game for people who love fighting games. Like I said 
 the only problems I found we're maybe the lack for characters and that the game did not go to the 
 end of the Buu saga. There is plenty of stuff to do in this game and even when you are finished 
 you can test your skills online!
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngerrette
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  The game gets to many interuptions with the cut-scenes that your helpers give, the controls are 
 ok at best, it handles well enough, it's fast pase, yet more button stomping and mashing than most 
 people like. The colors on some are off, ie broly, his hair is gold in the game, yet a greeny yellow 
 on the movies. The story is of course the same, and very direct to the show, wich lack imagination, 
 not much to do, little options, and a step back in story length and characters. It took me Maybe 
 A Few Hours To Complete. All in all this game is a huge let down, and hopefully not a glimpse of 
 what they have in store for the future. I love dragonball, dragonball z and Gt, and would like 
 it to finally be done justice, by getting it accurate, and for an area of imagination to come into 
 play. They really need people who know the show/movies better, and can give it that DBZ edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orochi_Paladin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed reactions to this game, one the graphics are amazing, 2nd the models are great (except 
 for Broly) and the Sparking Aura is a cool new feature. It allows you to perform moves faster from 
 what i saw. There are some character unbalance, for example Piccolo could be one of the best characters 
 to use as far as range and special attacks and not to mention the regeneration, senzu bean, and 
 the special beam cannon.
  
  Anyways the combat is good, the style of combat is way over-used like in cut-scenes. The cast of 
 characters is what really pissed me off, i mean coming from 100+ characters to 21, thats just sad, 
 there is no replay value because you dont have enough characters to play against, no unique value 
 what so ever. But i loved the new story lines, thats what i've been looking for a long time, i 
 love the what-ifs and however you like to call it with Bardock and Broly, i mean they have so much 
 potential to make a brand new story out of so many characters.
  
  Its a fun game, but its only at its peak when your playing with it with a friend, a fun rented 
 game but not worth that much. For some reason i saw this comming as more of a demo more than a 
 game. Just wait for the second title. I hope you enjoyed this review and hopefully have second 
 thoughts on buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Well like many I believe who were interested in this game, played the demo and were blown away 
 by the amazing graphics of this game. They look almost as good as the anime itself its that good. 
 Gameplay has gone back to be about simple combo's, which is alot better then the garbage we got 
 for the last 3 consol games on the ps2. Sorry but even in dbz button mashing is not cool! I will 
 always say the psp versions of dbz were the best in gameplay as they did it right and it was fun. 
 What we have here is an amazing dbz game graphically with minor improvements to gameplay and alot 
 ripped out. This game offers a small story mode offering up the cell games and thats it, and leaving 
 out alot of characters. Now I for one don't mind lack of characters as much, but if there going 
 to do so make the characters more unique. 20 characters is in this game from the last game of wow 
 over 100... thats a big blow. This game like alot of other games these days feels like a demo and 
 once again got to wait for a sequel to get the full package. All the modes have been ripped out 
 of this game and almost all is lost it seems.... however does it offer anything new to the game 
 that could make it shine? Well in a way it does, but it still won't save it sadly. It offers team 
 mode help and screen power ups! Its an interesting add on and I would like to see team attacks 
 in full detail in the future, sorta like supersonic warrior 2 did with teams. These boosts raise 
 your stats by doing a set of tasks you most do, which most of them are really BAD! When I mean 
 bad is, you usualy can't use them unless something that barly ever happens or your losing the battle. 
 These skills should be easy to activate not a pain in the butt like for example you must be fatiged 
 and your enemy must use a super attack on you at that exact moment... yah its impossible even when 
 your trying to make it work lol. This game is fun for a dbz fan, but will disappoint you and others 
 will not care about this game as lets face it, it could of been great but the makers seemed to 
 do it on purpose and we wonder why not many people buy dbz games anymore? 
  
  Overall
  
  Graphics 10/10 Once you play this game, you won't want to go back graphics wise it looks amazing.
 
  
  Gameplay 7/10 Its improved, but not to a level of where I would count this as a fighting game though. 
 
  
  Sound 7/10 Classic dbz music, great for the fans!
  
  Storyline 5/10 Alot of stuff is cut short in the scenes and it only goes up to Cell.
  
  Extra's 
 and Replay Value 4/10 lacks modes like mad, Trial mode is the same battles in a row every time. 
 Even an arcade mode could of saved this from being a failure. 
  
  Overall
  
  Gameplay x3
  Graphics x2
  Storyline x2
  Sound x2
  Extra's and Replay x1
  
  63 out of 
 100 points for 6.5/10 Gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I love me some good old dragonball z. To be honest when i downloaded and played the demo i was 
 extremely dissapointed. However with that said, and being a huge fan for over 15 years I had to 
 buy the game. It delivered and left no bad taste in my mouth like the demo displayed.
  
  This game offers the best graphics out of any fighting game that I have ever seen. Just absolutely 
 beautiful and takes full advantage of next gen techonology. The gameplay is solid and the controls 
 are easy after you practice for several hours. However this game has a couple of downsides.
  
  First off the game is just entirely to short. Thats fine it ended after the cell saga. but 
 they jumped around the story skipping so much that could have been added. The 30 something characters 
 dont dissapoint but they couldve added many more such as all of Friezas henchmen and Ginyu Force. 
 So unless you know the storyline then you will be completely lost.
  
  Now I wanted to give this game a perfect 10 but to be fair to you guys I have to be honest. The 
 story is broken so it does not offer anything welcome to new dbz fans. Atleast this game has online, 
 or thats what I though until I actually played online. It is very easy for other people to find 
 a glitch in the system and capitalize. They will get you with the same cheap move over and over 
 and over again making it extremely frustrating and almost a miracle if you can counter. 
  
  So all in all, I love this game because I love DBZ, but if I were a new fan that just bought the 
 game cause it looked good then I would be pissed off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biryu_Berserk
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Improved graphics. Yes, certainly, it must have improved graphics as this is the first DBZ game 
 to come out for the next generation. Yet, they both added/subtracted the elements that were in 
 its previous games of PS2.
  First of all, not putting the whole DBZ saga is a complete failure. This only means that they are 
 leaving some rooms for the next series to come, which is just a complete rip-off. I mean, having 
 three different sagas in several different difficulties isn't a bad idea, but it certainly could 
 have put all of the elements that were back in its PS2 series. It only tells us that they did this 
 on purpose so that they can add Majin Buu and all the other 'taken-out' characters later on the 
 "DBZ Burst Limit 2" (Quote on Quote) .
  Also, it's over all too quickly. There are no tournaments, speical mini game modes, nothing. It 
 just is a pure combat-based game with the saga and the multiplayer mode shining on thanks to the 
 PS3 system. Had it not been for the PS3 system itself, this game would have scored far lower for 
 me.
  Combat-wise, I guess they did add some elements as the actions got a bit more intense and a bit 
 faster, but overall it's the same old DBZ system of Atari. Seriously, this game has a lot of potential 
 inside, but they purposely left it out for the sequel. I do understand that that's how business 
 works, but this game just disappoints me as one of the fans of the DBZ game series.
  
  I still like the game though. I really am enjoying fighting with people from all over the world 
 without (alomst) any lack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragster2000
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  this game is ok but it isent gripping enough for the hardcore dbz fans its to short why couldent 
 they fit the full sagas from dragon ball to gt on it?? it is bueray after all... the game is unbalanced 
 as some characters are better than others like goku takes 2 tranformatons to get super saiyan where 
 as vegita only needs one plus vegita's final flash is undogeable and his big bang just rips through 
 other super attacks hes to good... the controls system has been changed again so that you have 
 that to get used to again which is annoying i prefered the other one out of dbz bt3. the only good 
 thing is the online play and the drama peices (when they arent half an hour long...) the fighting 
 was better in tenkaichi 3 becuase of the 5 vs 5 fights and you could record fights this game is 
 a let down on the others i hope they realise what they have doen and fix it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhao4
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If your like me you've played this game because you are or were a fan of dbz. I heard some hype 
 about the game and played it through only to be dissapointed. 
  THE BAD
  
  The games story only goes up to the cell saga which to alot of fans is a true dissapointment. Therefore 
 character selection and battle stages suffer. I mean most of us loved the tenkaichi series because 
 of vast 120 or so amount of characters plenty of story big battle fields lots of good combos and 
 solid controls with lots of replayability. Plus this game plays like the old budokai series, ya 
 know the old arcade style side view camera with no ability to jump. I mean I was expecting so much 
 HOPING it would live up to the tenkaichi sereies but I was mistaken.
  THE GOOD
  
  Graphics and animation are solid its like being in the show. The voice acting was a little better 
 this time around. 
  OVERALL 
  I would only recommend this game to the fan boys. The game just did not live up to its predacessors. 
 Thats why I give DBZ: BURST LIMIT 4.5 kamehamehas out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBW25EZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  DragonBall Z Burst Limits came to the new generation on notice. Sayin that it is a areies to be 
 reckon with. I kno some of yall gamers thought the same ol thing when they annouced this game out 
 for the new generattion systems (PS3 & 360) , that this is gona be good. Going down that road they 
 annouced that Burst limits consist of 21 characters and 5 boards. I know people was mad cause I 
 was one of them. People were asking why not have everybody elso on there like Tenkaicki 3. Well 
 theres a few thing about that....
  
  1. Burst Limits is a spin-off from the Budokai & the Tenkaicki series. They're starting fresh. 
 Thats why its a new generation game. Let me ask you a question, did it come out for playstation 
 2. Um... No. If it did then it wouldnt make no sense cause u cant rename a series that they started.
 
  
  2. Tenkaichi 3 was and i repeat, the quickest game in the Dragonball Z series ever. I mean come 
 on I beat the game in less than 2 days (38 hrs 25 min and 56 sec exactly) . SuperDragonBall Z was 
 longer and I hate SuperDBZ with a passion. Plus the combos was real easy and could be learned in 
 about 5 to 10 minutes. Just ask yourself why didn't they add more people on DragonBall Z Budokai. 
 Cause they feel that they want input with these 21 characters and for Burst Limits 2 if they need 
 to adjust or change certain things, thats when the boards and characters can come in. 
  And as a term is usually said looks can be decieving.
  
  The 2D graphics are to die for. And 
 this is to the fact that the crator of DragonBall Z drew the characters and etc. I mean they exactly 
 look like the cartoon to me. Did I mention that this game was drawn out by the creator of DragonBall 
 Z. The gameplay blew my mind. The newly added open scene play was good, the fighting kick ass, 
 the nwely added drama piece is a work of art, and the moves what can I say. The boards are alot 
 bigger and longer I mean you can fight in the air. I mean literaly you can fight in the air where 
 the clouds are at. And if yall complainer are saying that aint nothing, do me a favor. Knock someone 
 in the air and knock them back into the ground on all the boards execpt namek. Bet what yall see 
 even yall would say thats crackin.
  
  I cant wait till Burst Limits 2 come out probaly next year. This got me anticipating for it. Bottom 
 line is that Burst Limits did its thingfor the new generation systems and it goes to show that 
 yo cant judge a book by its cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Like I said in the title, this is a fancy version of Budokai 1 from PS2. I was excited at first 
 (WOW DBZ hits next Gen consoles, gonna be great) ... but after playing the game for awhile... I can 
 say... its boring after 1 hour of play. I never liked much Budokai 1 for PS2, and in Burst Limit... I 
 feel the same.
  Where is the Buu Saga?? This is the main flaw IMO. Why do this again??? This would be a much better 
 game if they made it like Budokai 3. Its very incomplete like this. The moves are ok, but nothing 
 stunning. Yes, the graphic engine is cool, I admit... and the battles are fun... but this game could 
 be much.... much better. I will buy it when it reaches Platinum or something, for now... I will play 
 it in my cousin house, thats enough for me.
  
  So people, if U want a really DBZ experience, buy Tenkaichi 3 for PS2, its way better, and its 
 way cheaper. Budokai 3 its also a great choice, if any of you guys like more Dimps DBZ games. 
 
  
  I just hope that Spike can bring us a Tenkaichi 4 for next Gen consoles, that will be a great day 
 for every DBZ fan!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnys007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Well, Dragonball Z : Burst Limit is the first Dragonball game that's actually close enough to the 
 anime.
  
  The first thing that sucks you in it is its amazing graphics. The fantastic colors, the blur effects, the 
 animations and the gorgeous environments mix up surprisingly good.
  
  The fighting system is solid, pretty simple and easy to pick up, but there is some deep to it for 
 those who like to make things more "complicated". While the fight goes on, special cut-scenes known 
 as the "Drama-Pieces" will take place to make the battle more dramatic, as their name suggests. This 
 new installment to the Dragonball games really make Burst Limit the closest thing to the show ever. Also, 
 the fast paced action makes your heart pump while you're playing.
  
  The story mode starts from the beginning of the Saiyan Saga end goes up to the Cell Saga. Fans may 
 think that this is too short, but the cut-scenes are so impressive and the story mode doesn't actually 
 retell the Dragonball "fairytale" just one more time ; it gives it an all new feeling.
  
  The AI level is (at last) improved ; almost touches perfection. The CPU opponents are now much more 
 competitive and will not waste the smallest chance of smashing you hard on the ground.
  
  The game has 21 characters. This number might seem small at first, but come think of it : how many 
 do you actually use? I can safely say 5-6 at max.
  Besides it's a fighting game, not a stupid "mugen" game for Pc.
  
  Also there are some magnificent 
 new costumes for some characters that fans will like.
  
  Now let's start mentioning the downsides of the game.
  
  The online mode is simply awful. It 
 reduces the speed of the game, its intensity and its "magic". I had high expectations for this mode. 
 :- (
  
  English voice acting sucks. Thank god there is an option to change the voices to the original Japanese 
 ones (which are just fine) .
  
  In game sound sucks as well. I wonder where all the promised rock and inspiring music that Atari 
 promised went to... That kind of music is for a Lego Star Wars game at worst.
  
  Story mode is confusing to newcomers to the series. If you don't know what's going on before you 
 play, then your mind will be fried if you try to figure it out by yourself.
  
  Survival, Time Attack and Battle Point modes are not appealing at all.
  
  
  To sum it up, 
 Dragonball Z : Burst Limit is a great start to a new series. We all hope that the necessary improvements 
 will be made and that Dragonball Z : Burst Limit 2 will be even more ''Magical"...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play-ME-Rob01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  After reminissing on my childhood (after also thinking about anime love) Dragon Ball Z came into 
 mind, therefore, I checked out Burst Limit and was greatly surprised!
  
  Previous Dragon Ball games are same old fighting, with shelf loads of sequels following them. Previous 
 games receive poor - average scores, so, that's what I was expecting in the Burst Limit package. 
 Surprisingly, I was suprised to see the smooth animation blend in with the fighting combo's and 
 in game movies (which look as good as in game footage) . In Burst Limit, thousands of combo's are 
 available leaving me will countless posibilities to addict me further. 
  
  When special moves open up with button bashing techniques, the animation glides as smoothly as 
 Raditz glides in the sky whilst fighting Goku in the first mission. God, I hate to say this but, 
 this is a game worth your attention and could possibly be worth putting in your games coollection. 
 Also, if you've never tried the genre then this is a good place to start!
  
  Although, there is another anime based fighing game which could compete - Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 
 Storm! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beast_Wolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I love Dragonball Z. When Burst Limits first came out, I thought it would be a classic 
 and better than Budokai 3, because its on PS3. I was surprised in the Z chronicles because they 
 keep showing the same introduction sometimes and the end they might add to it. The battle system 
 changed slightly, but no better than budokai 3. The creators missed so many key elements and so 
 many sagas between each sagas. The Ultimates are also a bad thing since the creators are coping 
 the PSP game system.
  
  What is right about the game, is the voiceovers and the graphics. The partner system is OK, nothing 
 speical. However, I liked how there are cutscenes during the fights. For example, When fighting 
 frieza with SS1 Goku, If Frieza did the death beam, it would hit goku but he is not affected (btw, 
 not every single time this happens, it happens only once per fight)
  
  Overall, I just wanted to say, that whoever thinking about getting it, think twice before u think 
 u get it. Rent it and then see if it suits you or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  I had play many dbz game in the past, my favorite was budokia 3, because it so many pontetial and 
 really nice made, but I do like alot of bodokai one cinematic in the story mode, this game is kinda 
 like both game combine, but they left out some parts, yes the graphic is amazing sharp; however 
 I felt teh super seiyan drawing wasn't as good and been miscolor of the hari a bit. But is nice 
 they included most of the imporatnt cinematic scene in the game even during the flight, can be 
 annoying sometime and can't be skip of those cinematic during the fight. Is nice that it support 
 dual shock, but it felt so weak that doesn't make must impact of the feeling, control is more like 
 teikichi then budokia, the ki system is kinda rigee and too easy, bodokia 3 still has the game 
 battle system that is balance, the ultimate move some of the is little impact and not nearly as 
 cool as budokia 3 (destroy the planet etc..) it does some has suprise story mode, not gonna said 
 here, but they could instead focus in the realy story then cut it and add this, the worst i think 
 this game doesn't included world tournament mode, which I really miss it. Online fight is good 
 but offer no chat or mic and can't do rematch to revent if loss or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalhero86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The game has some real atributes to it such as online play with other people and the graphics. 
 What makes this game good vs the previous ones is that hey if a new one comes out its better and 
 2 if you want to revive that stack of ps3 games you have get this game. people that dont like it 
 just dont understand the series or they are blind because this game is what its cut out to be... 
 a masterpiece!!! Also the new maps and fighting areas are very cool and the characters are more 
 what you want them to be. The storyline is very in depth and it is very entertaining and you will 
 be suprised how cool it looks on ur ty when Goku goes super saian for the first time. The game 
 itself also improved alot of what might have been lacking in past games. Overall if fantasy fighting 
 is ur thing then what are you waitig for.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wearespartans
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Many people for years now have loved and adored the dragon ball z games for its many multiple characters 
 you could play as, the close story line game play, and the excellent game fighting. But the newest 
 installment in the game series isnt quite what we all expected.
  
  While the graphics and animation are out of this world, the story and game modes themselves are 
 a little itchy. In DBZ: TB3 we were given a large asourtment of characters to choose from. In Burst 
 Limit, we are given a very poor selection. Also, its covering the storyline of the show was nothing 
 too spectacular. And what was with the Drama Features? None of the DBZ games in the past have ever 
 had a cut scene interupt a fight so many times before. I felt myself grow aggrivated very fast 
 thanks to the Drama Features. Maybe in the newest installment (if their will be one) of Burst Limit, 
 they will definitly fix up their mistakes. The game has incredible potential, just many flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance159753
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  First I would like all of you people to stop with these bad comments of this game. This game doesn't 
 have as many characters as Dragon Ball Tenkaichi 3. Sadly there are only 21 characters. Although 
 that doesn't mean you shouldn't get this game. Every character is special, I know all of you who 
 own Tenkaichi remember that almost every character that isn't important in the story had lame attacks 
 like that energy wave or the attack when they shoot a million huge Ki Blasts. That was a huge downfall 
 in that game. It seemed the attacks were rushed. In this game every character is special, they 
 all have attacks that were actually in the show. Every character is unique, they have there own 
 fighting style. Who cares about the amount of stages? Whats wrong with 5 stages? Are you going 
 to stop fighting to look for some lazy rocks on the ground? At least there are stages. Although 
 there is one major problem in this game, you cant charge you Ki. Seriously! I loved watching Vegeta 
 go AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! And all that Ki flowing around him, so what? Your Ki comes back normally, 
 which is kind of stupid. Another problem is Ki attacks doesn't take KI. You can blast a million 
 Ka Me Ha Me Ha's but ill just teleport behind you and blow you away, so don't try spamming me lol! 
 Now the graphics I must admit are blurry, but your in battle man you think theres not ganna be 
 blasts shooting every? Sand flying around? Wind Gusting tornadoes? Now the story, this was another 
 major reason there was bad criticizing. Whats wrong with going up to Cell Saga? The story is still 
 in detail right? Yes the game seems really rushed but it still is good. I mean i beat the story 
 in one sit but you can go trough the levels in different difficulty's! Are you nub still learning 
 to play Dragon Ball Z? Or are u an expert, a pro, a novice, a semi-pro, a loser? A Major loser ( 
 Very Easy Mode) You can spend a billion years with this game because of online play! And no there 
 isn't much lag. Your Ka Me Ha Me Ha isn't going to freeze. Only Problem is nubs leave right after 
 they are about to lose, or after I own them with my Vegeta. This game is the best in the series. 
 I love it. i hope this Review was helpful and i hope this review changed your opinion of the game. 
 I give it a 9/10 Although its not that great deserve a 10/10! If you can pass the few flaws, this 
 will be a very enjoyable game. Thanks For Reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Let me go ahead and say first that I am a fan of fighting games and have been one ever since SFII 
 leeched my paper route money a quarter at a time in the 90s. It is with fighting games that I enjoy 
 video game competition the most because it's up close and in your face. I love FPS but there's 
 just an extra added value when you can thrash-talk your buddy sitting next to you.
  
  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is a great Dragon Ball game that ends up being an enjoyable fighting 
 game. It does not end up recreating an overly competitive experience like say SF or Tekken, but 
 you do end up enjoying the game nonetheless.
  
  I usually find these kind of fighting games either one of two things : a bland waste of time not 
 worth playing or a sweet brawler that my less-skilled pals will be able to have fun beating me 
 with.
  
  In this game, most characters (aside from world-shaking specials you need to unlock in the Z saga) 
 play the same and own the same move set. This does not mean they all play the same, for example 
 Piccolo is able to strecth his limbs a-la-Dhalsim so that nets him more reach than anyone. The 
 small characters (Trunks, Gohan & Krillin) will use a lot of jumping attacks and rush moves to 
 keep up with the big guns. The major difference is with what special a given character has and 
 what Drama cards he can choose for 2P VS.
  
  Which brings me to either what a DBZ fan will love about this game and what hardcore brawlers will 
 probably end up hating by the time you get to Frieza : the Drama cards. 
  
  They are basically short movies that you need to engage during specific fights with various actions. 
 Some will regain your health, some will give you faster Ki recovery and raise your attack power 
 or defend you automatically against specific attacks. Others will debuff your opponnent or hurt 
 him a little. Once you have watched one scene and successfully won that particular fight, the scene 
 is unlocked and you can choose it for your 2P VS battles. Every fight in the Z saga 1P mode has 
 a bunch for you to unlock.
  
  It all sounds great and sometimes work very well, giving you a rest while you watch the usually 
 awesome cutscene, but like I said some fights are just peppered with them and it sometimes ends 
 up frustrating a player who just wants to beat that guy. Let's say you get to a guy you cannot 
 beat, you'll have to watch those same cutscenes everytime you try until you beat him. After the 
 5th try I can understand people having enough of the same cutscenes... and you can only skip the 
 intro scene. Try it in a Drama scene and it brings up the pause menu...
  
  That simple flaw aside, the graphics really shine in this DBZ game, even if they are "only" in 
 720, I guess when you also release a game for XBox no need to bother with 1080p. Screw us PS3 owners... 
 Like with every game where I noticed this (last good one was GTA4 of all games) , I sent an email 
 to the company saying this is the last game I buy from them until they consider making it in 1080p 
 and stop being dictated what to produce by the XBox fan cesspool.
  
  The characters really look better than the cartoon it was inspired from, and some of the cutscenes 
 really nail those DBZ universe-threatening battles. The cinematic ending to the Saiyan saga of 
 Vegeta vs Goku is awesome and looks better than the cartoon version. It even got my 28 year old 
 friend to start looking into that DBZ stuff, something he was violently opposed to before. 
  
  On the side of Sound, this game made sure to grab every single great track of music from the 
 DBZ cartoons. You can pretty much leave the songs run on repeat, they are that good and they're 
 everything I hope to hear in a fighting game aside from the sound of my fists smacking an opponents' 
 skull. Make yourself a favor and switch the voices to Japanese before you start, or else Goku's 
 "Take this" will ring in your ears for a while. If you want to complain about Goku's Japanese voice 
 sounding childish, maybe you don't understand who he is, but he basically stayed a child his entire 
 life, only thing that ever preoccupied him was becoming the strongest and he just cannot understand 
 why people are so bothered with money, jobs, fame etc... He's basically this starry-eyed child 
 who tries to be the strongest without any other concern in the world aside from his friends and 
 family. The way they try to make him sound cool & manly in the English cartoon translation while 
 every 5 seconds he does something only a kid would do is pretty lame...
  
  For the controls & game mechanics, this game is a mix of good and bad.
  The controls will give 
 anyone watching your bouts a show, Vanishing attacks and teleportation, dodging behind your opponent 
 really put exclamation points in this game. It really ends up looking like DBZ on a good fight. 
 Unfortunately, on some other fights you will have to rely on cheap tactics against the CPU or otherwise 
 be happy to chip his energy bit by bit, attacking him while he blocks it all because the CPU found 
 the "Block-Everything/counter" button. The CPU will litterally turtle up and block everything then 
 get all up in you and shave a couple of your life bars like it's nothing. I really recommend going 
 through the tutorials to learn all the basics so you know what to do when that happens in fight. 
 
  
  When you look at it as a whole, in my view this DBZ game is 100% successful at being a great video 
 game DBZ experience. The fighting mechanics aren't overly complex, so genre "divas" who only play 
 "the best fighting games" probably will need more complexity to keep their brawling stomachs full, 
 but DBZ fans now got the best DBZ game in my opinion. And the normal gamer really should give this 
 game at least a rental, the spectacular fights you can be part of are sure to get you and a buddy 
 through a rainy day.
  
  Just to prove that it really is a fun game, I bought it along with MGS4 (a jewel of a game if there's 
 one) on launch day, and ended up playing 4 hours of MGS4 then 4 hours of DBZ: BL after that with 
 a buddy. We just started the Saiyan saga for a change of pace but ended up getting through until 
 the Android Saga. Not that we didn't want to play MGS4 anymore mind you, we just got caught up 
 in DBZ: BL. The single player game is that good, the two-player versus is even better. Of course 
 I am in no way comparing this cool little time filler to an epic production like MGS4, just that 
 it really is a lot of fun even for non-DBZ-fans gamers like my buddy.
  
  My only complaints are that I DEMAND 1080p in games now and that I would have loved for characters 
 to own a couple of unique non-power moves each, that really would have brought the game in the 
 9.0-9.5 range. I also took out half a point for the "CPU-omniblock/counter" on the hardest difficulties, 
 that's just lazy AI programming to have the CPU cheese you out on every hard fight.
  
  Lastly, when will a DBZ game actually start to include better stages with lots of breakable sections? 
 Doesn't this game scream "Mass-Destruction"? Aside from little puffs of smoke and the occasional 
 trail left by you being pushed back from blocking, the stages are colorful and vibrant but devoid 
 of anything to smash, break or change in any way. Surely flinging your opponent through a mountain 
 or collapsing a cliff over his head would bring the "Booooosh" factor to a whole new power level... 
 If any game is a shoe-in for environnemental destruction, this is the one, but it keeps staying 
 away from doing it even though the actual cartoon is nothing but a serie of catastrophes on the 
 galactic scale. One day they will awaken and this game will score in the 9s.
  
  In the end Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is an awesome way to show off your HD display, then you can 
 use that opportunity to set some thrash-talk going in the living room. The fights are really entertaining 
 to watch even if you aren't playing and two experts going at it will make the cartoon pale in comparaison 
 sometimes. It still needs a little something though, the characters look amazing but too many of 
 them behave like the next does. And come on, you need to leave a mark with fights like these, no 
 stage destruction is silly. At least this DBZ is not only playable, it is also a heck of a lot 
 of fun, but it still can get a lot better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCyberDemon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  My only warning is not to get this game if you are only looking for the wrong things.
  
  There are a few big problems with this game, but keep in mind it is the first in the Burst Limit 
 series, and in certain aspects it will blow you away.
  
  First of all, the graphics are incredible. The game truly captures the feel of DBZ, especially 
 with the addition of Drama Pieces. The new style of the story mode is refreshing, as a completely 
 animated story mode isn't something we've seen since Budokai 1. In fact, the only thing that came 
 close was BT2's copying of moves from actual gameplay to make a couple cinematics. But Burst Limit 
 brings back several favorite scenes from the show with more emotion than ever, and even sometimes 
 with the same camera angles, such as Gohan's transformation to SS2, Goku's power struggle with 
 Vegeta, and of course the OVER 9000 line. So, the presentation of Burst Limit's story mode was 
 great.
  
  But the actual story was not handled so well.
  
  Be prepared to face Burst Limit's take on the events of DBZ. By that I mean be prepared for poor 
 dialogue and massive gaps between different events due to a lack of characters, and a ridiculous 
 lack of explanation. The what-if's are also rather unsatisfying.
  
  Another failure due to laziness is in the lip synching, which barely connects at all for the english 
 version. Still, the other aspects of the sound are great, such as the explosions and whatnot that 
 create a feeling of power that you'd expect from DBZ, and the exciting music.
  
  Then, of course, there's the gameplay itself. Taken straight from Shin Budokai, but with lots of 
 added features, the gameplay is very entertaining, especially due to the camera effects. The dragon 
 rush is back from B3, but is now much less annoying, and transformations and aura spark feel great. 
 Selectable ultimates are an added bonus, and drama pieces add a nice customization element, especially 
 for playing online. Still, many would argue the characters are imbalanced and all similar. However, 
 the game HAS made a major advance over the previous DBZ games of this style, and the basic combos 
 and attacks between characters are much more varied than they used to be.
  
  So, the game isn't perfect. But it sets up plenty for the sequels to improve on, while at the same 
 time remaining very entertaining, and, as always, easy to learn and hard to master. If you're a 
 DBZ fan, you shouldn't skip this game, and if you're not, this is a great opportunity to give the 
 DBZ universe a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttuHehTabbaJ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  When i picked up this game up I knew what to sort of expect. there are going to be a little irritation 
 at first getting used to the games controls since its different from most of my fighting games, 
 it will be a short story mode, and that i will be addicted to it once i start. 
  
  Thing i love about this game: 
  1. the characters are amazing and while im playing could almost 
 be fooled into thinking im watching the show
  2. the voice actors seem to be the same as the show other then android 16 but that could just be 
 me
  3. the story mode is great
  4. you don't have to pick all your abilities just your ultimate move
  5. Side story mode with 
 Broly and Bardock so im happy. 
  Things i didn't like: 
  1. the constant start and stop of story mode like you can destroy some one in like under a minute 
 depending on how good you are then you stop select the next mission and go again so you lose some 
 action momentum. 
  2. would have liked to see more in the story mode like the buu saga or just more of the battles 
 in between like trunks vs frieza and his dad.
  3. took about 8hrs of straight playing to beat it so one hour less then GTA IV.
  
  But overall 
 its a fun game and worth playing for any fan of dragon ball.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto-10001
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Dragon ball z burst limit is game i thought would be very good. I loved how they brought back the 
 fighting mechanics like in budokai 3 because the tenkaichi was the worst games i have ever played. 
 I did like how they had about every character and went into dragon ball gt in the tenkaichi series 
 but i was very disappointed in how they got rid of them and only went to the cell saga. To this 
 day dragonball z budokai 3 is still my favorite game.
  The two things i like most about this game is the next gen graphics and the online play, but the 
 online play is notvery fun and the graphics arent that good this game should have at least super 
 sayin 4. If they can get more characters and more gameplay i would like this game, but for now 
 im too upset i payed 60 bucks for this piece of ****. This game only took me about 2 hours to beat 
 and if the story mode was like budokai 3 it would be alot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_LoC
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  well whoever made this game shud be real smug with all the ppl they scammed for 70$. obviously 
 this is just watever they had thrown together in the time they had and just wanted to get paid. 
 im not saying its the worse game ever but considering its basically next budokai and they already 
 have so many versions out there to work off i think they could have done a much better job. plus 
 there are all kinds of gay glitches like after any support move u return to original position (right 
 side of screen or left side) even if u were not there wen the support started. anyway im just sayin 
 its not worth 70$ even if it comes with a movie that i can watch for free online. but like i said 
 it does look great. oh ya and i also thought that the characters were going to be more diverse 
 seeing how there are not so many to choose from but i guess i was mistaken. *patiently waiting 
 for a good dbz game on ps3* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeygamer17
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Well I have taken some time on the side and have gotten a chance to play all the modes in this 
 game, so I think it's appropriate to do a review on it now.
  
  Dragonball Z Burst Limit to me is like an upgraded version of the first Budokai.
  
  Story mode 
 is really bland in my opinion. The story only goes up to the end of the Cell Saga and I have no 
 problem with that since I think the sagas after really sucked. As usual you play through the story 
 of but the story cuts some various actions that lead up to the fights. So if you don't watch DBZ 
 you might be lost thinking what the hell is going on. Where did these androids come from all of 
 a sudden? Personally I really found playing through story mode boring and I had to force myself 
 to finish just to get all the characters mainly Trunks. The only idea I can think of to go back 
 for, is to get those drama pieces you missed so you could use them online. I really wish story 
 mode could have been more innovative.
  
  Next up we have the vs. mode. It's the same as it was before with the exception of online play. 
 They have an interesting concept online where your wins and losses are calculated by power level. 
 You don't have the number of wins and losses; it more goes if you win a match you get 1000 added 
 to your power level. If you lose you lose 500. As you get a higher level your rank will change 
 from F *bad* to Z *really good*. Now I have found an annoyance online and that is the lag you have. 
 I have found playing people outside the US to be extremely slow and bad! I've lost twice already 
 without laying a finger on the other opponent because they seem to be 3 steps ahead. Not because 
 I'm bad, because I can't react properly with the lag. *I know people make this excuse, but I'm 
 being very serious.* When you play someone inside the country it's a different story and the controls 
 have better reaction time and the lag isn't as bad.
  
  This is followed by a Time Trial, Survival mode and I haven't unlocked the last one yet, but they 
 are very cut and dry modes.
  
  In all this game doesn't give you much choice to play with and it left me even more disappointed 
 that there is no World Tournament mode What the Hell!?!?!?! Every DBZ up to now had it. Better 
 yet it would have been a great addition to the online mode.
  
  As for the characters you have a choice from 25-28 to choose from and they lead up to the end of 
 the Cell Games Saga. So don't expect any annoying pink boogers in the line up this year. One thing 
 that left me disappointed about the characters though you can't collect capsules and add attacks, 
 or attributes to a character. I always liked that about the Budokai games because you customize 
 the character to your liking and they still haven't brought that back yet. 
  
  Now we come to the game play. It reflects the Budokai games almost 95% but it has some changes. 
 You don't have to charge anymore and you have unlimited special attacks. I think it's a bit lame 
 to have these unlimited attacks and I think there should be some kind of power drainage from using 
 them. However, you still have to be strategic with your ki meter. You can use it to give you solid 
 defense, offense, transformations, and perform finishing moves. It's all on how you use it that 
 determine of you win or lose. Besides the unlimited special attacks I had no problem with the fighting 
 system and it is quite fun. At least there is depth here then in those Tenkaichi games right?
 
  
  Finally we have the graphics and sound. The only way I can describe the graphics is; If Dragonball 
 Z was remade in 2008, this is how it would look. It's beautiful. Then as for the sound you can 
 switch between English and Japanese which is always good.
  
  
  
  + Positives +
  
  The Game Play / Fighting System is quite fun.
  The Graphics are just eye candy.
  Hey we have 
 Online FINALLY!
  
  Negatives
  
  The story mode is dull.
  No World Tournament mode Plane Stupid to leave that out!
  Though we have Online it suffers from 
 a lot of lag.
  
  
  Though it looks good and plays alright, it's a very cut and dry game with not much to do. I think 
 Atari should be ashamed of the effort they put in so much more could have been done. 
  
  Once again Budokai 3 is where the bar was raised and no attempt DBZ has made so far has been able 
 to top that master piece in my opinion. Where does Burst Limit stand higher then Tenkaichi 1 / 
 3 and Budokai 1 at least.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z Burst Limit is one of the best Dragonball Z game that has ever come out so far. Just 
 get it! A very good game. Just the trail made me pre order the game. The game is similar to budokai. 
 I would highly recommend this for any dbz fan. it is the best ps3 game which I have played for now. Even 
 though there are a few characters and the story is only till the cell saga. If you like the budokai 
 games then you've got to get this game. I love the game. If you are not sure to buy the game try 
 the demo in the playstation store. the game is easy for me because i have played the budokai games. I 
 cant wait for the next one hope it is till the buu saga and the 3 one must be till gt. gamestop 
 should atleast give the game 9.0 this game is really worth the wait. I realy wanted a dragon ball 
 z shirt and I got it from the pre order. I have to finish the game in very easy, easy, normal etc. then 
 I will play online. hope you like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supraka
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  thought i was watcing the television show and was actually was playing it like a kid with the controler 
 off on the side of the tv then i was playing it forreal and the job that namco did with the game 
 play was great but u know everyone has their own opinion but ive liked dbz since it started showing 
 on toonami on cartoonnet work about 7-8 years ago and if u look at ps and ps2 dbz game graphics 
 the next hen counsouls have just evolved and i have both a ps3 and 360 and their bothgraet machines 
 i wonder what games are going to look like 10 years from now just look at them now
  
  thought i was watcing the television show and was actually was playing it like a kid with the controler 
 off on the side of the tv then i was playing it forreal and the job that namco did with the game 
 play was great but u know everyone has their own opinion but ive liked dbz since it started showing 
 on toonami on cartoonnet work about 7-8 years ago and if u look at ps and ps2 dbz game graphics 
 the next hen counsouls have just evolved and i have both a ps3 and 360 and their bothgraet machines 
 i wonder what games are going to look like 10 years from now just look at them now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vRsviRus
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  
  Its like it was downgraded for kids or something. Its stupid proof. 
  
  I really love all the previous games. I love the feel of the characters and the control and everything 
 but this one just killed it. I have been playing it for about 2h now and it doesn't feel like any 
 sort of improvement.... actually worse. 
  
  Maybe theres something im missing because I just started playing it but I loved the other games 
 like Tenkaichi 3 right away.
  
  Nothing feels like the other games and that sucks... not even the menus. The music is even annoying...
 
  
  
  
  
  Apparently the review must have 100 words min...... ok.
  Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time 
 Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time 
 Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time 
 Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time 
 Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time Waste of Time
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon21
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  im comparing this to the budokai games for ps2 and the budokai games are MUCH faster pace then 
 this game. thats why i gave it a 9/10. now lets change to the good, i like that they changed the controls 
 to the psp shin budokai games that was good in my eyes, the graphics in 1080p are GREAT i just wish 
 that the ps3 would have anti-aliasing like the 360 so it can have smooth edges but other then that 
 i think this game definitely meets our expectations on a DBZ game. the story looks good just well 
 everything i havent tried the online play yet because im just waiting to beat the story so i can 
 go ahead and get every character. well this is what i think on this game i cant wait to read from 
 other fans like my self and see what they thought of it. so this is a good dbz game for the fans 
 youl love it for ppl who just want a good fighting game till tekken comes out i think youl have 
 fun here besides who doesent like beating their friends with explosive energy waves.
  
  THIS IS AN ADD TO MY ORIGINAL REVEIW 
  ok something else i DONT like I BEAT AND UNLOCKED ALL 
 THE CHARACTERS in 4-5 HRs TOPS so what im trying to say WAY TOO SHORT!!!!! but i still think this 
 is a must for DBZ fans. and im gona agree with the guy that said the sound doesent go with the movements 
 of the mouth hahaha yeah i agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Dragonball Z Burst Limit
  
  This quite a good game, and is probably the best Dragonball Z game that has come out ever. The 
 graphics are smooth and the gameplay is a lot more funner then the rest of the past games that 
 have come out for the previous systems. One thing that seperates this Dragonball game from the 
 rest is that there is actual CUTSCENES in story mode instead of the crappy filler stuff that they 
 have in the other games. So all in all, this game is really fun and for all those Dragonball Z 
 fans they should get this game. Graphics: Graphics are good and have that cell shaded feel to it. 
 They look smooth and clean are a fun sight to look at and is a good turn for the Dragonball Z series 
 Gameplay: Gameplay is really smooth, and is A LOT more fun then the other games, so you're not 
 always doing special moves and powering up over and over, now there actually is a combat system 
 that is fun
  
  So all in all, this game is a game that all PS3 owners should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikel93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I still have not gotten this game, but the trial version alone is amazing! I've played most of 
 the other DBZ's, the ones for the Game Cube, Ps2, and the Game boy advance. The game trailer struck 
 me with amazement, I have not seen anything like this, ever... So beautifully displayed with improved 
 cel-shaded graphics. Just looking at the trailer in both English and Japanese made me think of 
 when I was much younger; such great times of watching the show. The fighting in the trial is amazing, 
 it flows so well together, chaining multiple attacks from those you have seen in the show when 
 we were all much younger! The voices are almost exact, as well as the Japanese voices, it will 
 make you think that you are actually watching the real show... God! It's Incredible! I don't know 
 what other words I could use to explain it. Just get it! You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigggpun142
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  i think this is one of the best dbz game that came out. awsome grapics, awsome gameplay, and the on, is 
 amazing. the ony thing thats not good is that when the mouths move it dosnt follow the voice. that 
 kinda retarted. And they should have put more charaters in the game the would have been better. other 
 than that its realy not a bad game. its fun and trust me its not boring to fight the same person 
 again and kick his ass again its entertaining. and anopther thing the gracphic are only awsome when 
 there HD other wise it looks just like any odernary game. i will give this game 8.5. its a good dragonball 
 z game but just not the greatest game in the world. maybe next time ATTARI you can fix the problems 
 this can had and make a other dbz game. this time at lest put the buu saga. i will give this game 
 a 7.0.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBjazzbo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is the 1st next gen DBZ game, and doesn't disappoint. Since the 21 characters 
 and 5 stages were announced, many fans were angry that it just wasn't enough. In one of the other 
 dragon ball z budokai tekaichi 3 there were 161 characters, which seems amazing - but a lot of 
 the characters played exactly the same. In the original budokai most of the characters had exactly 
 the same moves, just the blasts were a different colour and had different names. But in Burst Limit, 
 because of the smaller roster, there is actually more variety. I have to say I was surprised at 
 the tiny amount of stages but they're only backgrounds and don't do anything anyway. 
  
  The story mode (Z Chronicles) follows the dragon ball z story closely, but if you haven't seen 
 the series, you'll be lost. There are a lot of cinematics but they don't really fill in the gaps, 
 just introduce and end the fights. For those that do know the story, it goes from the beggining 
 of DBZ to the end of the Cell Saga, which is a bit short but kinda long when you compare to Tekken 
 or Virtua Fighter, which are just a series of 10ish fights (or at least thats what i remember from 
 Tekken 4) .
  
  But the actual fighting is what this game is all about and it is SOLID. It is very easy to pick 
 up for beginners with the ultimate moves just being up + o or up + b, but the game is still pretty 
 deep with aura blasts, transformations, pursuits, and lots of teleportation. If you don't understand 
 any of that don't worry - they're just stupid names for getting stronger and hitting people.
  
  The counter system is quite deep with the ability to teleport behind enemies after they attack, 
 if timed right. You can also dodge, block and even ULTIMATE BLOCK, which blocks everything but 
 drains your ki like a colinder drains rice.
  
  Also new are the drama pieces, which you choose before each match and are unlocked as you go through 
 Z Chronicles mode. These are activated automatically mid battle when certain circumstances are 
 met; ie Krillin might through you a energy-reviving senzu bean if you're just about to be KO'd.
 
  
  The online mode is also very well done, if a little unforgiving. Its a very simple Versus mode 
 where you choose a character and drama pieces and begin. If you win the match, your power level 
 increases by 1200 (i think) but if you lose it decreases by 600. You start of with 4000 or 5000 
 or something but if you're a beginner and you end up fighting the pros, your gonna lose it QUICK! 
 I only started playing today and I'm already down to around 1500. I don't know what happens if 
 you go down to 0, but i doubt you go into minus power. A word of advise to any n00bs out there: 
 Don't start with ranked matches, you'll DIE!
  
  Burst Limit is an excellent fighting game with a good variety of characters and special moves, 
 lots of customisation, a story that follows the original closely (but misses out a lot between 
 fights) and a fun (yet NAILS!) online mode, which is sure to keep you busy for hours. I would recoome-end 
 to any DBZ fans or fighting game fans, but not if you get weirded out easily, the characters are 
 a little strange to say the least.
  
  You'll only get that Recoome-end joke if your a DBZ fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
