-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dynasty Warriors: Gundam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/gundammusou/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A ton of different mobile suits and characters make appearances.
 A few flashy visual effects during combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 One-note gameplay, and it's a boring note.
 Irritating voice acting and incomprehensible storylines.
 Camera can be a pain.
 Repetitive missions.
 Ugly environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 542 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Koei
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dynasty Warriors: Gundam takes the worst elements of both franchises, and smashes them together 
 into a dismally vapid action game. 

  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is every bit as half-hearted a game as its unimaginative title suggests. 
 This mash-up of franchises is ultimately little more than a lame cash-grab, an excuse to put two 
 fairly popular brand names -- Koei's Dynasty Warriors beat-em-up series that lets you play as ancient 
 Chinese warlords fighting hordes of enemy soldiers, and Gundam, a long-running Japanese anime and 
 toy line that stars giant mechs and the space jockeys that pilot them -- on a box and extract dump 
 trucks full of cash in the process. In Japan it clearly worked, since the game hung out atop the 
 country's sales charts for a good long time. Now Dynasty Warriors: Gundam has hit North America; 
 thus, a whole new audience can experience its limp, repetitive action, its insufferable characters 
 and storylines, and its unflinching dedication to mediocrity.  

  As much as Dynasty Warriors: Gundam seems like it ought to be aimed squarely at the audiences of 
 both franchises, in reality, the scale tilts toward the hardcore Gundam fan. The game draws several 
 of its storylines from a wide variety of Gundam animes and pretty much expects you to know who 
 all these characters are, as well as what's going on, without even a hint of explanation. If you 
 don't already know a whole bunch about the Universal Century timeline, Elpeo Puru's relationship 
 with Judau Ashita, or what the significance of some guy repeatedly calling himself the "King of 
 Hearts" is, turn around and run screaming away from Dynasty Warriors: Gundam because this game 
 is not for you.  

           That sound you hear when playing Dynasty Warriors: Gundam, the pesky noise in the back 
 of your head that sounds a bit like jingling change mixed with giddy laughter, is the sound of 
 Namco-Bandai and Koei swimming in piles of money.      

  On the flipside, anyone who is nuts for the various Gundam anime series will probably cackle with 
 glee at all the crazy suits, characters and stories tossed into this game. Even some non-Gundam 
 fans might be able to just ignore the barely coherent storylines and grating voice work (thankfully, 
 you can turn the Japanese language track on, which makes the storylines only slightly more incomprehensible 
 than they are in English) simply for the promise of being able to take control of a giant mobile 
 suit to wreck a gaggle of enemy Gundams. However, regardless of which camp you fall into, once 
 you actually get your hands on the controls and bust through a few missions, that promise is quickly 
 broken.  

  Save for the swapping of ancient warriors for future warriors, this might as well be any of the 
 dozen or so previous Dynasty Warriors sequels from the past several years. Combat is practically 
 untouched, except now, every playable character can fire guns. Too bad they're worthless. Guns 
 almost never seem to hit anything or do significant enough damage even when powered up over time. 
 Beyond that, you're left to mash on the same two attack buttons over and over again against hordes 
 of mostly ineffectual enemies, periodically tossing in a special attack. Though none of the playable 
 characters play identically to one another, the combat is similar enough among all of them that 
 you pretty much end up with the same boring experience time and time again.  

  Mission objectives don't help. They rarely extend far beyond the scope of beating up everyone in 
 an area, beating up a specific enemy, rescuing a friend from getting beat up, or getting from one 
 part of the map to the other in a set amount of time while beating up enemies along the way. Combat 
 is a bit flashier visually than any of the previous Dynasty Warriors games, specifically the effects 
 that fly from the various guns and swords of each mobile suit. But the character models aren't 
 remarkably detailed, and the battle arenas are the same sort of barren, poorly textured wastelands 
 as in all the previous Dynasty Warriors games. The one wrinkle is that periodically you find yourself 
 battling in space, but the space levels are even more pathetic, as all you do in them is float 
 around on a flat plane while some ships sit still in the background. Without much visual pizzazz 
 to make up for the painfully simplistic combat, it doesn't take long for the proceedings to get 
 old.  

  In fact, the only thing that makes Dynasty Warriors: Gundam's combat even remotely challenging 
 is a slightly busted camera. It's basically OK on standard battlegrounds, but the second you get 
 into any area with walls or a ceiling, or you find yourself up against a boss enemy, it becomes 
 nearly impossible to keep track of where the enemy you're fighting is relative to you. Mobile suits 
 can dart around a fair bit, so it's easy to lose track even without the camera screwing up on you. 
 But when you couple that fact with the camera constantly snapping to a position that is least advantageous 
 to you in a fight, you'll end up a bit flustered.  

  It's sad that the combat is so dull because if nothing else, Dynasty Warriors: Gundam does offer 
 a good chunk of content. Granted, a lot of it is the same content over and over again, at least 
 in terms of gameplay. But there are 16 different playable characters spread across the official 
 mode (which is based on existing Gundam storylines) and the original mode (which is a collection 
 of new storylines built around notable characters from the series) , each with several missions 
 apiece. There is also multiplayer to consider. You and a friend can play cooperatively through 
 both the official and original modes. Though for the game to be over, it only takes one of you 
 to die, and there's really no reason to subject someone you like to this sort of perpetual boredom. 
 There's also a versus mode, where you and a friend can either fight against one another directly 
 or compete to clear an area of enemies the fastest. Shockingly, this isn't much fun either.  

 
           Yep, that's some goooooood dialogue.      

  As you play through the official and original modes, you have the ability to gain new skills or 
 parts for your mobile suits. These parts make you significantly stronger as the game goes on, improving 
 your armor, your melee attacks, your shooting skills, and adding some new abilities to your special 
 attacks. Almost none of it matters, mind you. All you really need to do is get as many melee attack 
 upgrades as you can, and you'll be an unstoppable force. And on top of that, the amount of play 
 time you'll have to log to get all those upgrades is far too high for any average person's psyche 
 to bear. No one should have to trudge through that much monotony.  

  The best thing you can really say about Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is that it's not broken. Apart 
 from the camera, nothing strikes as busted or unfinished; it's just a supremely uninspired game. 
 You could measure out the amount of thought that went into this game design inside a thimble: Take 
 Gundams, put them in the existing Dynasty Warriors game engine, and call it a day. This game is 
 content to leave every ounce of Dynasty Warriors' stale gameplay intact and just swap out the aesthetics. 
 That isn't enough to make this game fun. Not nearly enough.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dagger15
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is, indeed, little more than an attempt to cash in on two popular Japanese 
 video game franchises. However, that doesn't mean it's a lazy game developed just for the sake 
 of developing a cash cow. Being a Dynasty Warriors game, it lacks any in-depth or complex game 
 play, but that's the beauty of the franchise: it's supposed to be mindless fun, not some grand 
 , epic game like Final Fantasy or Street Fighter. Koei's mindset has been, in my opinion, don't 
 try to fix what isn't broken. Unlike all the other franchises that are simply utterly ruined when 
 new mechanics are introduced, Dynasty Warriors keeps it simple. That said, this game is still for 
 fans of one or, like in my case, both franchises. If you're not a Gundam otaku, you may be confused 
 about who's who, what's what, and what exactly is going on. However, there's plenty of websites, 
 anime, and whatnot to set that straight for you. But, since you bought a game with the Dynasty 
 Warriors logo on it, chances are you didn't buy the game for its dynamic storyline or fantastic 
 characters. You just move about and kill bunches and bunches of enemies in a matter of minutes, 
 which is still fun, even if only in small dosages. And the game certainly looks a heckuva lot better 
 than other games for the next generation consoles. Bottom line: it's a game whose aim is simply 
 to provide mindless fun for fans of a foreign genre, and it achieves that easily enough. The amount 
 of characters/mobile suits you can unlock, while being lacking for a Koei game, should still keep 
 you going for a bit while longer. If you're a Dynasty Warriors or Gundam fan, you'll probably enjoy 
 this title easily enough, and perhaps become a fan of the franchise you weren't before. If not, 
 what makes you think this game will give you anything other Dynasty Warriors or Gundam games didn't? 
 This is a game aimed at fans, not the average gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supigu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is the best game made for the franchise, i think the rated are not deserve a 5, very completing 
 good story from the series, this have the story of Gundam 0079, Gundam Z and Gundam ZZ, they included 
 Character like Domon Kasshu from Gundam Fighter G, Heero Yui from W Gundam, and others good characters 
 form the series, the game had the official Century Story mode for the 0079, Z and ZZ story with 
 the Main characters Amuro Ray, Kamille Bidan and Judau Ashta. and the other mode with istory with 
 very great number of character to use, like Charr Aznable in his two form Charr and Quatro, you 
 can select characters like Miliardo Peacecraf, the game have very new style like the old game of 
 gundam but this have very good new characteristic like domination of terrain and beat a boss in 
 each one in most of the cases, if you domination all camp you win, very good style and the boss 
 have very good difficult, the game have a good system of experience and very good system of power 
 ups, you can set parts to improved the power of the gundams like the Wing 0 system chip that can 
 add you the ability to recharge the power automatically, and others things good, the story is very 
 good the Z gundam have every good event of the series , the only problem is the story for the ZZ 
 they misses so much only 3 scenario is no good for the series ZZ, and the other problem is possibility 
 to have the parts in one of 5 opportunity is very hard collecting all, i have the game and i not 
 have all parts already, you need to play the game all over again to unlock then is very frustrating 
 sometimes, they are good game but they need to improved the scenario the are only 5 very poor this 
 is ps3 not ps2 they can put more scenario and more storyline i hope this for the next game, good 
 bye and good luck bandai for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridenne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  I'm pretty picky about my games. Seems like every other day, another shooter, gore, sci-fi game 
 comes out... w/o much substance. This games rocks. Plain and simple.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, the dialog is funny (something didn't come out in the translations) . 
 The combos are impressive, and slo-mo feature when you shoot down a boss looks really cool.
  
  Replay: The missions vary, so you don't get bored playing the same levels again and again with 
 different characters. Each have their own storyline and video animations during gameplay and after 
 completing achievements. If that doesn't get you, the skills and custom parts will get you to replay 
 chapters to get the most complete gundam.
  
  Totally immersive environment, hundreds of enemies on screen... hell yeah! You don't have to be 
 a Gundam fan to play this. Heck... don't know a thing about them, but I absolutely LOVE this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pufferfiz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When i heard about this game i was so excited. Two of my most favorite franchises were coming together. 
 But i didn't really seeing this so well in the US or would it come out anytime soon so i went ahead 
 and imported a copy. As i expected it was really straight forward. got your attack, charged attack 
 and the good old musou attack. Story mode or "official mode" is nice. You play as one of six characters 
 going through their story based on the Anime/manga. That being said there are still only 6 characters. 
 But with each completion you unlock that character in Original mode as well as another character 
 to play in official mode (3 to start 3 to unlock) . So the story is good. You got 5 stages to do 
 and they transition well between stages. If you are familiar with the anime then you can recognize 
 whats going on, and even if you don't you can still know whats going on.
  Now on to original mode. Like how its called this mode's story is all made up and mostly consist 
 of a evil plot by the Musha Gundam to destroy you ( there are some which involve more around Master 
 Asia) . these too involve 5 stages of play. A noticeable difference is there are now 16 unlockable 
 characters. Also the stories mix up the characters as they wouldn't in the original story. so Amuro 
 would be fight along side Char for example. This is nice and interesting, so it will does increase 
 overall game play time. And after you beat the game with that character you unlock him/her so now 
 you could choose what mobile suite you would want to play with.
  With each character you can level him/her up as well as level up his/her mobile suite. Each level 
 increases the attributes of the character or suite. By level 30 (10 for the suit) you will be almost 
 unstoppable. But it is not a overwhelming advantage so game can still be challenging. Then you 
 have skills, these just help even more. They are nothing special. better beam saber or higher musou 
 attack. Skills are unlocked by playing. so even if you are 30/10 you will not have all the skills. 
 Another thing are items. Items are picked up from the battle field after you kill another main 
 npc (not the generic suits) . And can be used increase the attributes of the mobile suit. These can 
 also be combined with other items to increase the strength of the effect. Still returning are power 
 ups, so by killing something you get a chance to find a attack/defense/speed power up. these can 
 really come in handy in tight situations.
  Overall this game is quite decent. So there are some good things about it. its got a good camera, 
 it can be controlled with the right stick and can be centered with L2 so the camera can quickly 
 changed. It plays well, it can be challenging at times but i think it really balances things out. 
 though there are times where you will have to fight someone one on one and you find you self low 
 on health and going back and forth out of combat to use your Musou attack that is slowly recharging. 
 The graphics are better than any PS2 Musou game that is out there. But it is sure lacking. Most 
 things in the world i can tell have been upscaled to reach 720. So at times there are those jagged 
 edges everywhere. And over all this way not up to par with even the launch titles for the ps3. 
 I feel like this more of a PS2.5 game. The lands can be quite barren at times. this can be over 
 looked by the fact they are trying to push 50 units on screen at once. But, it is still there. 
 The music is classic. Playing through you will find all your old favorites from the old animes 
 redone for this game. The voices are similar to their anime partners ( some even being the same) 
 so that is a plus. Though i still prefer the Japanese voices. And the voice you hear after a charged 
 attack can get annoying really fast. Unless you want the achievements or just want to get to 100% 
 complete there is not much replay value after you complete so many characters. After a while you 
 realize you playing the same story just with a different perspective. But the game is till a load 
 of fun. If you like button mashing and killing hundreds of guys or just a fan of the 2 series then 
 this game is right for you. But for others they just wont see much in this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonite136
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the dynasty warriors series i really hoped to get a new top game with this one, 
 but it was kind of disappointing...
  
  When I think about DW i think hack & slash, speed and free roaming. The hack & slash is there but 
 the speed? Youre going sooooo slow and because of that you just want to finish the game asap and 
 you dont care about killing everyone or find some new items... This ruins the game so I only played 
 the game less then 10 hours! waste of my money
  
  The good things about the game is the co-op mode. I love playing with a friend and finish the game 
 together. I recommend this game only to the DW or Gundam fans, I think theyll be happy to have 
 thise one in their collection, just like me, allthough i dont like the game.
  
  Soooo conclusion is: More negative then positivie, Fans of the series will be happy with this new 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokemon322
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I loved the dynasty warriors games but they were a little "old school" if you Know what I mean. 
 My favorite games all involve giant robots! (other than Pokemon of course) I have to have at least 
 a hundred words so, awsome game definitly worth sixty dollars. Buy this game, buy this game, buy 
 this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this 
 game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, 
 buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this 
 game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, 
 buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this 
 game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, 
 buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this 
 game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, buy this game, 
 buy this game, you get the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex8000
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  An Ugly Mash-Up
  
  Story: While the game does have some content to please its more avid Gundam fans, it leaves most 
 people confused. Dynasty Warriors fans may be disappointed in this area of the game. 4/10
  
  Presentation: The graphics are decent, but leave a lot to be desired from next-gen consoles. 
 6/10
  
  Gameplay: While not really achieving the Dynasty Warriors level of enjoyment, you will find yourself 
 using melee attacks for 90% of the game, even while piloting these incredibly versatile mobile 
 suits. 5/10
  
  Design: The game could improve much more on its pace and if more time was put into it they could 
 have reduced those little things we all hate about Dynasty Warriors games and milked the awesomeness 
 of Gundam games. But they did neither, and ruined both sides. 5/10
  
  Overall: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors: GUNDAM:
  -----
  While it has it's moments, DW: Gundam didn't really live up to my expectations of what this game 
 COULD have been.
  -----
  Story: 5 / 10
  Story has never been DWs strong point, some of them are good, but the majorty are either the same 
 as someone else or just boring; the same applys in Gundam, you get six "official mode" players 
 and ten more in Original mode. I havn't played through everyone, but i've beaten Official mode, 
 and the story wasn't all that great.
  
  Music/Sounds: 7 / 10
  I love the rock in all Dynasty Warriors games, and i'm really happy that they kept most of the 
 sound effects from the Gundam animes. While they could have touched up the beam sword sounds so 
 they don't sound as bad; but all in all the sounds and music isn't that bad.
  
  Graphics: 9 / 10
  Stunning, I love the graphics in this game, but they only look good on the 
 mobile suits, which is understandable, if they went all out on environmental graphics, it would 
 lag the game really bad. The earth and space battleground both look really nice, but it was the 
 Gundams and Mobile Suits that impressed me.
  
  Gameplay: 10 / 10
  Dynasty Warriors had that hook, that once you start playing, you don't stop for a good few hours, 
 the same applys to this game. The battles are fun and fast paced, bosses are really hard and challenging, 
 and the game itself is just really fun to play.
  
  Overall: 7 / 10
  Although I love the Dynasty Warriors series, but this game was a renter for me, I wasn't happy 
 enough with it to go out and buy it. This was a lower than average Dynasty Warriors, but one of 
 the greatest Gundam games, so if you are a fan of both (like I am) rent it first, then buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuGundam_20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  I've had Gundam Dynasty Warriors for two months now, and I still cannot stop playing this game. 
 Being a huge fan of gundam, especially the older series, this game is heaven to me. I basically 
 get to ravage through hordes of enemies with some of my favorites. I love the way that the suits 
 look even though there could of been quite a few improvements to the environment graphics, but 
 to be honest, I really don't care, especially when I'm really into the game. I think that what 
 impressed me the most was the amount of characters that became available as the game went on. I 
 had no clue that so many different missions were going to be offered, and some of the people and 
 suits I could choose from surprised me. The original mode had me hooked, pairing together great 
 characters from different centuries along with a surprisingly interesting story . I'm looking forward 
 to a sequel of this game, I know there will be one in japan, but I can only hope for it to be shipped 
 over here as well. Dynasty Warriors Gundam is a great game, especially for Gundam fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoR4Me
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I've really enjoyed this game!! People may knock the Dynasty Warrior and Gundam series as being 
 stale and only for fanboys; however, I think the dynamic works very well here in this game. It's 
 easy to just pick up and play. There are many characters from which to choose originally, and as 
 you play through the game; many more come unlocked. The game is, for the most part, fully voiced. 
 You can even choose the Japanese track which is a lot better appreciated than the English language 
 version. The combat does tend to feel a bit stale after taking on countless hords of the same enemies; 
 however, changing mechs and upgrades help to keep the fun at hand. Co-op play is greatly appreciated 
 as well! The graphics are nothing too, too special; however, the resolution is great. The models 
 do their source material justice. There is some draw-in, but it's not too distracting as noted 
 in previous Dynasty Warrior and Gundam games. There's hardly a hint of slowdown when there are 
 numerous enemies on the screen. Sometimes there are greater than 100 enemies on the screen, and 
 there's not a hint of slowdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors... right away you think: "oh this must be on those chinese martial artists" but 
 you look and you see a chunk of robots!!! not cool or impressive when it comes to the title.... 
 why is it "gundam"? you use a saber of some sort, not a "gun". there's something up with that too 
 and i haven't even gotten to the basics... tells you something don't it???
  
  Graphics: two words!: not impressive! c'mon, PS3, youre supposed to have off the wall graphics 
 but i've seen better hotdog in KH 2!!!! and that's a PS2 game, not PS3!! not cool, it's as if they 
 slouched when they made this game....
  
  and what's up with the "freezes" anyways??? eevry time you connnect a hit, the screen freezes for 
 a split sec.. it's subtle but still there..... stupid!
  
  sound: what the heck, the thing is slashin' his blade youre gonna hear the same thing over and 
 over again. not cool!
  
  i'm not even gonna go on with the rest.... just a pointless destruction game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeoJohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  People really underestimate these games since they have only played the first of the series and 
 never bothered to try out the newer ones. Well... I simply can't stop playing this game due to 
 how fun the gameplay is. Being a huge fan of both Dynasty Warriors and Gundam, I was overwhelmed 
 when I heard of Dynasty Warriors: Gundam. Even though the game gets a little repetitive, each time 
 playing feels like a fresh start. There is so much to accomplish within the game yet it still doesn't 
 have everything. MANY mobile suits are missing from the vast collection. That's why I'm anticipating 
 more sequels containing more mobile suits and pilots and an enhanced experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyboy0001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be fantastic. I'm not quite sure what other people were looking for in this 
 game. It's exactly what the game title says, "Dynasty Warriors: Gundam". If you like the anime 
 and you like the Dynasty Warriors franchise, this game is for you.
  
  The game holds true to the anime. You get to be some of the favourite heroes, pilot their gundams 
 and fight in many of the famous battles. Every character has a different storyline just like in 
 the anime. Most of the original voices make a return in English and if you don't like the English 
 voice acting, you can listen to it in Japanese with English subtitles. 
  
  The combat is a fast-paced hack and slash role playing game mix, just like all the other Dynasty 
 Warrior games. You run or fly around the map battling hordes and hordes of enemy suits and at the 
 same time, gaining experience for your pilot and getting upgrades for your mobile suit. 
  
  I have read reviews where other people complain about the camera angles. This seems to be a basic 
 Dynasty Warriors theme among reviewers but who needs to see perfectly when your going to be fighting 
 a thousand enemies per map? You can point your character in pretty much any direction and chances 
 are that you'll run into 10 - 20 enemies.
  
  One of the best features in the game is the cooperative storyline option. Soloing this game can 
 prove to be very challenging so why not bring a friend throughout the entire game?
  
  So if your a fan of the Gundam series or a fan of Dynasty Warriors, this game will have more than 
 enough to keep you busy for hours.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I have always liked the Dynasty Warriors games, and Ive always been a fan of button mashers. But 
 even I couldnt get into this game, not even a little bit. The gameplay is really bad, and the controls 
 suck. It always seems like you are moving really slow. The dialog is atrocious and the voice acting 
 is laughable. I didnt think that the graphics were all that impressive either. I am sorry that 
 I wasted the little amount of time I spent playing this game. The only thing it did for me was 
 make me want the next Dynasty Warriors title and hope that it doesnt suck as bad as this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Well the gaming industry wouldnt be quite the same without the yearly release of a crappy Gundam 
 game. Dynasty Warriors: Gundam fills in that requirement as its the marriage between Koeis Dynasty 
 Warriors franchise and Bandai-Namcos Gundam. While the title isnt as bad the PS3 launch title 
 Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire, which I gave a score of 1.8, it still is far from the greatness 
 of titles like Zone of the Enders and isnt as good as what the Gundam franchise deserves. The 
 story of DW: Gundam revolves around a mysterious planet that threatens the galaxy. So naturally 
 a bunch of people in Mobile Suits go down to investigate and to stop the planet from its path of 
 destruction. The potential highlight to some is that the story features an array of characters 
 from multiple Gundam series. So youll see Heero and Zechs from Gundam Wing as well as characters 
 from the 0079 Saga and many more. Fans may be pleased to see these characters in action but from 
 a story standpoint it doesnt make much sense as to why these characters are co-existing together 
 in this universe. The story has always been a key part to the various Gundam series and the overall 
 plot just feels sloppy and just is an excuse to bring all these characters together. In the end 
 it feels like a bad fan fiction instead of the Gundam saga it should be There is a separate game 
 mode that allows you to play as individual characters from separate Gundam sagas which could please 
 some fans but the story is really never put into focus like it is in the anime. It also hurts the 
 game that there are no real story cut scenes. All the dialogue is given through character illustrations 
 of the main characters while looking at a map. There are some in game cut-scenes during levels 
 which set up the boss battles but these arent really that entertaining. Now of course to some, 
 especially hardcore Gundam fans, the story may not be important as its all about the game play. 
 So what is the end result when you mix Dynasty Warriors and Gundam? Its a bit meh. The biggest 
 strength in DW: Gundam is also its biggest weakness: its essentially Dynasty Warriors with a Gundam 
 skin. So if you love the hack n slash game play of the DW series you may love the game, but if 
 you were hoping for more of a unique Gundam experience then you wont be getting that. Instead 
 of broadswords you have laser swords and instead of shruikens you have machine guns. The core game 
 design of DW: Gundam is exactly the same as a standard Dynasty Warriors game. Everything from the 
 objectives which range from killing the commander/bodyguard and then facing the boss mirrors that 
 of a standard DW game. Even the main menu setup and front end is essentially the same. Koei didnt 
 really tailor the game design and overall visual design of the game to the Gundam universe. Yes 
 there are battles in space but the game play doesnt change drastically and actually loses some 
 of its luster because of that. The game also suffers from one of the same problems DW had: long 
 levels. When youre playing the same level for around 40 minutes and have racked up an 800 kill 
 count you may find yourself tired quickly due to the lack of variety the game offers. Sure there 
 are some cool special attacks you can perform but after awhile facing the same dull A. I and using 
 weapons that dont have the impact they should you may just want to put the controller down and 
 put in another title. The game does allow you to upgrade your mobile suits weapons and other features 
 but its not up the level of a title like Armored Core and upgrading really doesnt change the 
 game play experience that much. The Dynasty Warriors games have never really been graphical powerhouses 
 and DW: Gundam clearly follows this path. The game has a clean look to it, with only small cases 
 of pop-up, but its not really that impressive when compared to other titles. Sure its cool that 
 youre on a battlefield with tons of Mobile Suit units but when they look like theyre high-quality 
 Xbox models you may be disappointed. There are some nice visual effects in the game from some of 
 the weapons and special attacks but once again nothing amazing that will make you say Im playing 
 this over Heavenly Sword. The environments you find yourself battling in, whether its a ground 
 base, the core of an evil planet or the vastness of space, all look quite bland and have no character 
 to them. Its also a bit disappointing that in some levels you cant destroy certain structures, 
 which makes absolutely no sense since youre piloting a giant robot. From an audio standpoint the 
 game is solid but there are a few annoyances. Its nice that all the voice actors from the various 
 animes reprise their characters in the game, with a few exceptions, but you may grow tired over 
 the repetitious voice over lines the main characters sprout during combat. And depending on your 
 level of Gundam fandom you may also become annoyed by some of the voices since some of them arent 
 that good. The music in the game is ok but isnt as memorable as it is in some of the animes or 
 the wonderful score that was in MSG: Crossfire. DW: Gundam does have some multi-player components 
 but theyre pretty lackluster. You can face off against a friend in a Versus mode or play through 
 the games campaign mode with a friend. Sadly there are no online components so you and a buddy 
 can meet up online to take down the Zeon forces. There are also no online leader boards or anything 
 along those lines. Dynasty Warriors Gundam is yet another Gundam game that doesnt live up to the 
 caliber of the franchise. Sure the game was a massive hit in Japan but over there they will buy 
 anything that says Gundam on it despite the quality. Hardcore Gundam fans may get a kick out the 
 games story mode, despite the issues with it, and the fact that you can play as a wide assortment 
 of Mobile Suits. The replay factor is limited due to the repetitive levels and other than a few 
 bonus modes such as a character profile and Gundam galleries there isnt that much of a reason 
 to play the game once youve beaten it. Everyones entitled to a guilty pleasure but paying $60 
 for Dynasty Warriors: Gundam would be a bit much unless you sleep in a Gundam bedspread. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Last_Love_Song
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a bit biased, i'll just say it right out, i've loved Gundam and most every aspect of the 
 franchise since the first time i saw it, and recently ive gotten into the Dynasty Warriors series 
 so naturally when i saw Dynasty Gundam at Wal-Mart i dropped to my knee's and cried a little =] . 
 When i got home i went to gamespot to see if there were any cheats available but all i saw was 
 alot of people giving it bad reviews and saying how horrible it was, and so with the mind set that 
 i just ripped out of near $60 i opened up the game and started to play it and much to my surprise 
 it was great, it had all the hack and slash fun of Dynasty Warriors with the cool and sleek mecha 
 of Gundam. The game itself has a good original story line as well as the old story lines Gundam 
 fans know and love, the graphics are very good looking and the controls are easy to get used to 
 so you can slide into the game very fast. This game is a must buy for any Gundam fan, dont let 
 all the bad reviews and such get you down until you try it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuapurcell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, I think the official Gamespot review was a little too harsh. I don't consider myself 
 a fan of the Gundam anime series for the simple fact that I haven't watched too many of the shows, 
 but I was easily able to pick up on characters' motivations, personalities, and how they related 
 to each other. There are tons of characters in Dynasty Warriors Gundam, and although it can take 
 some time to get used to everyone it will happen once you have played through the game a couple 
 of times with multiple characters. The game overall did an excellent job of combining the good 
 aspects of both the original series. If you consider yourself a fan of either Gundam or any Koei 
 game (unlike the Gamespot review from what it seems) , then this game is for you. Each character 
 you are able to play as is very similar to start out with, but over time the characters become 
 different as you gain pilot and gundam levels. Each character (or pilot) has 30 levels, and each 
 gundam suit has a maximum of 10 levels. Once you have beaten the game with a specific character 
 you are able to have that character control a different gundam from what he starts out with (although 
 some characters also switch to other gundams temporarily during their scenarios) . The use of combo 
 moves is what really differentiates each gundam. The combo moves work the same among all characters 
 (the same button combinations for each gundam will produce a combo move) , but the combo move created 
 is sometimes very different. Some gundams are very heavy in the different types of attacks (could 
 be either long or short-range) , and their combo moves will also reflect whatever their chose area 
 of expertise. While range attacks (like those using guns) can be much less powerful and harder 
 to control than short-range attacks, their are various items and pilot skills you can find that 
 make these attacks much more useful over time. Gaining gundam and pilot levels also helps increase 
 this hard-to-use attack's usefulness.
  
  Some things I found lacking were the ability of unlocking more missions, bonus weapons for each 
 gundam and/or pilot, and the ability of unlocking 'chaos' or 'very difficult' setting. In other 
 Dynasty Warriors games, one of the main aspects that added to replayability for me was doing what 
 was necessary to unlock my favorite characters' special weapons, but this game only allows you 
 to find items in the missions that you can then add to your gundam. These items seem to the exact 
 same for each gundam, so it's random whether or not you find the item you may want for the most 
 part (although higher missions and the hard difficulty level gives you better odds at finding the 
 best add-ons) . Each character has five missions each, but many times these missions are ones you 
 already played as another character (although this time you are playing from another angle and 
 many times will see different cut-scenes) . The only difficulty level I played this game on was 
 the highest option available (which is hard) , and some of the levels are way too easy on that setting... 
 especially after maxing out your levels and add-ons on a chosen character. I've beaten the game 
 three times already, and so far I have seen nothing that shows me a harder setting is available 
 to unlock.
  
  Overall this game is a great initial offering from Koei along the lines of previous Dynasty Warriors 
 games. And for fans of Gundam, I'm sure they will see this game as a good chance to play as some 
 of their favorite characters and gundams. This game is just what was needed to tide me over until 
 Koei releases their upcoming games for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u_poop
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Frist off this game is awsome from the first time i started playing.
  Thhe graphics are cool in hd and are well anti aliasended . the game has fun levels cool moble 
 suits and pretty addicting game play. It s very good fun level and it is fun too make progress. 
 it is so fun to smash your way throug all the bad guys. The weapons incllude many machine guns, 
 lasers , and realy cool laser swords. The enviroments are usaully plain and bocky butt never get 
 boring and they need a bit of graphic detail. As for the consil wars the ps3 clearly wins in fun 
 gameplay and the smoothist anti-alaisned graphics. When playing the 360 version the game feels 
 like it needs a bit of personality and smoother programers and less long of load times. Ehen playing 
 the 360 versions it sort of feels lik just button clicking. All in all the game provides fun for 
 both consles and is great fir any hard core gundam fans. ALso is great for a hungry ps3 gamer scavenging 
 for games. One more coment : way better than the ps3's nock off game :cross fire which i did not 
 play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballto316
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  For all of you who don't know, the character Domon's special move where his glows. In the original 
 japanese anime, it translates into Shinging Finger , which is a long going gundam joke in certain 
 anime circles. But onto the Review!
  
  Alright then, first off i'm going to say that if your looking for a new great Dynasty Warriors 
 game with an original approach! Well... you better keep looking. Not to say that the game is bad, 
 but like most other games that i'm seeing out now a days, it's nothing new. If you use your imagination 
 to swap out giant robots for Japanese men, then you wouldn't know it was a new game at all. That 
 said, if your looking for something that you've done before, with a new storyline, then your in 
 the right place. If your a gundam fan (like myself) then the game will be good enough to get you 
 by, just on sheer fandom alone. The game delivers three main modes of play, Official mode, Original 
 mode, and Verses. Official mode offers the player the storyline of their selected character, from 
 the anime series that they are in. For example playing as Armuro, allows you to follow his storyline 
 from the One year war. And while I havn't seen every episode of every Gundam series ever made, 
 I noticed that in Armuro's story mode, it missed alot of important things that would make no sense 
 to the player unless they heard it somewhere else. This of course doesn't come as a surprise as 
 they try to compress his entire story line into 4 levels, and of course you can't get much in from 
 that. Original mode is something that most gundam fans will enjoy more. As the name implies it 
 follows an original story, that mixes in most of the main characters from all of the gundam series 
 into one big mixing pot, where (for whatever reason) they are all present together and interact. 
 The storyline in the original mode is that there is a bright red planet floating in space. At it's 
 present course, it will crash into the planet earth and destroy it. All of the gundam pilots are 
 drawn to this planet with the rumor that Who ever controls the power of this planet, will have 
 the power to acomplish anything , and of course all of the pilots of their own reasons for wanting 
 this power, that ties into their own storyline. The reason why most gundam fans will enjoy this 
 mode over the offical one, is because the pairings that they have in the three differant teams 
 are very well chosen. For example you have Master Asia, Jerid, and Heero, all one side. And it's 
 fun to see how they all interact with each other.
  
  Verses Mode is nothing particularly special, it has an option of two differant PVP options, and 
 one option which is basicly Who can kill the most weak units modes. This isn't too surprising concidering 
 it's all still dynasty warriors.
  
  Overall, it's a decent game, and I would suggest renting it before making serious decisions about 
 buying, but even then I would think twice. The one thing that this game seriously lacks, is enjoyible 
 replay value. Granted you will enjoy yourself playing through all the characters in their original 
 and offical modes. But each character only get 9 or 10 levels (that's counting both modes) and 
 then the only replay option you have, is replaying the same levels you've already done, just with 
 all your current skills and parts. What this game lacked as oppose to games like Samurai warriors, 
 is a free play mode where you can enjoy your characters after you've finished their storylines. 
 The only benefit you get really, is that when you play that character in the levels you've already 
 finished, you can play him in any other mobile suit that you've beat the game with. Which is cool, 
 but in the end your still stuck playing the same level, with the same people.
  
  In the end I would say that it's a good game, but don't buy it, save your money and rent it. After 
 your done the story modes, you won't play it much after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is one of those games where you'll either like it or hate it. You also 
 need to know a good deal about the Mobile Suit Gundam storyline to really be able to follow this 
 game (seeing as half of it does revolve around Mobile Suit Gundam, Zeta Gundam, and ZZ Gundam) . 
 If you're not a fan of the series, or any of the other series', you're not going to like this game. 
 It's just that simple. However, I'd wager that most Gundam fans will find something to like about 
 this game.
  
  I admit, I'm a die-hard Gundam fan (mostly of the UC era, and of G-Gundam) . Whether or not that 
 biased my choice, I have enjoyed this game quite a bit. At first the combat got a bit repititive, 
 but pretty soon I really started to get into it and enjoy the game. There are plenty of characters 
 and mobile suits to unlock, and plenty of attack combinations to figure out. Each character doesn't 
 have many levels to play, but with all the characters to unlock and play their missions with it 
 doesn't really seem to be much of a problem.
  
  GameSpot says the voice acting is annoying, however I think the voice acting is quite good. The 
 game has many of the original English voice actors (though not all of them) , which adds to the 
 game. What I also find neat is that the characters actually interact with one another and have 
 unique lines for their conversations, rather than just pre-recorded lines put together to sound 
 like they're talking to one another.
  The enivornments look good to me as well, I haven't noticed anything ugly about them. They're a 
 bit bare in some areas, but other than that they look very nice.
  The mobile suits look great too. No, they're not as detailed as Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire , 
 but they're definately look better than any Gundam game you'll find on the PS2.
  The missions and storyline I haven't found hard to follow either, in fact they're pretty simple 
 and straightforward. What's not to understand here? Both the original and official mode missions/storylines 
 are very straightforward...
  
  One thing that I found very neat (though I always like this when a Gundam game has it) , is there 
 are a number of MS you don't often see in a Gundam game -- like the Gouf Flight Type (MSV version) , 
 Zaku Tank (MSV version and 08th MS team version) , Bawoo, and Mass Production Quebely. From The 
 O, to the Turn A Gundam, Gundam Epyon, and the Quebely MK II, you'll no doubt find one of your 
 favorite mobile suits in this game.
  
  I'll also add that I've never been a fan of the Dynasty Warriors games, however I've very much 
 enjoyed Dynasty Warriors: Gundam . To me, that counts for something, heh.
  
  No, it's not the best game, but it's definately not a horrible game either. Like I said, to enjoy 
 the game you need to have an open mind, a fan of Mobile Suit Gundam , and you need to know the 
 MSG storyline fairly well (which the GameSpot official reviewers doesn't seem to have either of 
 the three) . All-in-all, I enjoy this game and I find it a worthy edition to any fan's Gundam collection. 
 But, of course, I enjoyed Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire too, so maybe I'm too easy to please. Nevertheless, 
 pick it up, or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors has always been one of those games where you either like it or you dont. Ever 
 since my first experience with the series, Dynasty Warriors 3, I have always enjoyed getting a 
 friend of mine together and thrashing some Yellow Turbans. The game has never been especially impressive 
 but it has always maintained itself in my collection all these years. The most recent iteration, 
 Dynasty Warriors: Gundam, holds true to what you would expect, for the most part. It isnt exactly 
 strong in any particular sense of the word but it has some value to it. Originally, when it was 
 first shown, you thought, Hey look, you get to fly and fight in free space. (Moving in zero gravity 
 and all.) You would think that fighting in space would utilize some kind of flight mechanic. This 
 is simply not the case though for the best support they provide for this dynamic is the ability 
 to perform short boosts either up or forward. They also incorporate boosting into certain attack 
 combinations. There are levels which do take place in space, but the action is strictly on a linear 
 plane and can get pretty annoying at times. All in all, you really get the sense that this is an 
 untapped potential that was just left you feeling unfulfilled. For the game itself, it is a Dynasty 
 Warriors game true enough. Even with the over the top mech combat, being usually somewhat slow 
 by nature, you never really get a sense that the action lets up. There are those times when you 
 find yourself literally surrounded by hundreds of foes and are forced to hack and slash your way 
 through to gain a specific point or objective, as you would expect. A common level consists of 
 you taking strategic fields by defeating a certain amount on enemies in that field. Sometimes there 
 are mini-boss battles before you conquer the field in which you have to destroy a certain guard, 
 Enemy Character, or group of three guards. Along with this you usually have specific character 
 mobile suits that are the equivalent to the generals from the previous games that you must hunt 
 down as they appear. They even add a new dynamic to this game that has never been seen before. 
 For the first time ever, you will fight against two different factions at the same time. That adds 
 something new and interesting to the game, even with the story lines for the game being weak themselves. 
 There is a leveling up system for the pilots and the suits. Unlike previous games, this one incorporates 
 skills that are learned as the pilots gain experience. There are also parts that are sometimes 
 left by defeated enemy generals that boost stats and enable special properties when equipped.. 
 With the skills and parts mechanic combined ,it does serve up a good substitute for the weapon/item 
 mechanic from past iterations in the series. Now for the down side, or should I say sides, plural. 
 There arent a fantastic number of different pilots to choose from, in fact I would go as far as 
 to call it down right unacceptable. They try to cover this with the fact that once you clear the 
 campaign for a given pilot, you can switch between a number of different mobile suits, but all 
 in all the number is just plain low. One would think that with the games of the past, you would 
 be able to switch between at least 50 different characters and ideally 50, or near to it, mobile 
 suits. Especially with all that extra space that seems unused on the disc, you would think that 
 this is simply yet another missed opportunity. Some can argue that they ran out of source material 
 to fill out the roster, I say thats no excuse. The way it stands, there are a plethora of Dynasty 
 Warrior characters that could have been special unlocks in the game, another well of potential 
 left unused. The game leans heavily on the Gundam aspect of the name. The Dynasty Warriors side 
 is nonexistent for the most part. The levels are all pretty unimaginative and are few in numbers. 
 You will find yourself playing the same six or seven maps from all different sides and that gets 
 old quickly. They also cut free mode all together. You no longer have the ability for you and a 
 friend to just scroll through the available maps, choose a faction, and go. That factor, along 
 with no online support make the game just seems unfinished or hurried. You can see all the game 
 has to offer in about three hours of solid gaming. Those numbers dont add up fantastically well. 
 All in all this is a good game strictly for the fan base. I dont even think I would put the Gundam 
 fans on this bill. You would have to seriously love the show to sit and play this for hours on 
 end. That aside it is an excellent addition and a fresh spin on the series. I enjoy the game with 
 coop, and even with the drawbacks (unacceptably low character count, map count, nonexistent online 
 etc,) I have put plenty of hours into the game. I would not recommend the price point simply because 
 the game isn't worth 60 dollars. The problem as with most Dynasty Warriors games, they don't make 
 very many so if you wait to long, you may have trouble finding yourself a copy. (I was just recently 
 able to pick up a new copy of Dynasty Warriors for the PSP and that has been out for ages!) I would 
 love to see them take another whack at this thing, maybe put some effort in it, add free roaming 
 space levels, keep the three faction battles, (or bump it to four!) add some Dynasty Warrior characters, 
 online coop, more missions, something that uses the 40+ gigs of space on that disc to make it more 
 of a $60 Playstation3 game. As it stands I see nothing that couldn't have been done on the PS2. 
 I gave it an 8 out of 10 which puts it at Exceeds Excellence on my personal scale simply because 
 I am a big Armored Core fan and it is kind of like Armored Core meets Dynasty Warriors. (Yea, kind 
 of.) Bottom line, be sure you know what your getting before you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  to carple tunnel hell. lol no but seriously, this game pwnz.
  As with most of the reviews from gamespot, they got it all wrong (AGAIN! this is like 18 outa 34 
 GS reveiws that I have read where the creator had seemed to play the game without understanding 
 what it was about.)
  
  with that all said, review time.
  
  Main Score: 9.5
  
  Score Breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 9.0 (controls are nice, if you know how to use them correctly 
 BUT the space missions are a little bit trickier then usual)
  
  Storyline: 3.4 (but a storyline is not really that important in this kind of game anyway xD)
 
  
  Graphics: 4.9 (low standard, even for a ps2 game.)
  
  Music: 6.8 (some nice music in there but could have been better)
  
  Replay Value: 10.0 (TONS 
 of replay value, this game has replay value coming out its ***. You can play Official mode characters 
 in original mode, and once you clear the original mode chars they can use different MS's (same 
 goes for Official mode chars) .
  
  Full Review:
  
  Well, we all know the storyline sucks to some degree, but everything else makes up for that.
 
  
  Right now, if I wer to have to say, Domon is the strongest character, I was able to take on 3 MS's 
 at once with him (Puru, Amero, sorccio) .
  
  I have not used everyone yet, or even one char on ever MS but so far this game is kickass.
  
 
  Basically there are two plot lines in this game:
  
  Original Mode:
  A giant planet (suspected to be a MS) comes outa no where and is trying to crash into Earth.
 
  
  You have to fight your enemies to stop the planet. Let me just say this now, some forms of Musha 
 Gundam (basically the force driving the planet to Earth) are DEAD hard to beat.
  
  Then there is Official Mode:
  
  You are a member of the Earth Resistance fighting against the 
 Principality of Zeon (or vise versa) .
  
  I have only cleared one char in official mode so im not privy to what the actual goals and such 
 are (except for that it is a little harder at times then original mode.)
  
  The controls are perfect, you have to learn to use l1 to turn the camera to the direction you are 
 facing, but other then that, its pure blister making perfection.
  
  So far the hardest MS to control has been Master Asia, his moves are kinda weird, but once you 
 get into a groove with him, he can kill of insanely lard numbers of Zakus.
  
  Also, unless you have hours (literally, each mission takes about 15+ mins to finish) of time, dont 
 except to breeze through this game xD.
  
  The longest one I have been on so far has been about 45 minutes long.
  
  In each mission there 
 are at least 400 non-manned drones and anywhere from 4 to 12 Aces (some recycled [aka you beat 
 them, they retreat then come back to the battle at a later time] ) .
  
  Really, as long as the enemy has a field, there will be drones spawned. So you could, if you chose 
 too, just farm those then, back off em, let the field pop regenerate and farm it again for levels.
 
  
  Some Aces are a hell of a lot harder then others, Amero is by far the hardest normal battle Ace 
 that you will fight.
  
  But for final battle Aces, Master Aisa takes the cake there (play through Domons missions and 
 you will see what I mean) .
  
  Also, during battles, things you do accomplish and dont accomplish effect your friendly Aces.
 
  
  Like Puru for example, if you destroy Judas MS before she reaches him in certain missions, she 
 will stay on your team. If not, she becomes an enemy and later returns to your side if you defeat 
 her.
  
  Some of the things about some of these missions that tick me off are that on some, they want you 
 to go to the other side of the mission field to fight an enemy ACE, to have your main base over 
 run by the time you get to it and you have to get back to the main base, kill off the drones and 
 aces or else lose lol.
  
  the things that i am dissapointed about with this game is lack of characters (no Duo, Quatro, or 
 Wu-fei, or G Gundam non-primary chars (cant remember the names right now xD havent watched it in 
 like 4 years o. O) and I thought there should be more enemies (not joking) .
  
  A few more sp mve would have been nice, or more effective special moves (Master Aisa's flying downward 
 kick just sucks usually, unless you time it perfect) .
  
  A few parting statistics for thought:
  
  My high sorces:
  
  Current highest enemy kill 
 total: 1385
  Enemy Ace Total: 8
  Highest Char level: 27 (Heero/Amero)
  Highest MS level: 10 (Wing Zero/Epyon/Master Gundam/Gundam)
  
  Overall, this game is a must 
 have!` 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  There has always been a small number of dynasty warrior's game fans, which is disappointing because 
 when you get into it is a great game. Well this game may bring in a bigger number of fans to the 
 genre of hack and slash games. This is by far the best dynasty warriors game to date. For those 
 of you new to dynasty warriors its basically a button masher game where you just press almost all 
 the buttons on your controllers as fast as you can to kill all the enemies. The good: it is an 
 extremely long game. Each characters story takes about 3-6 hours and then times that by about 30 
 characters thats allot of time. And even after you beat a certain characters game ull still go 
 back and play it again. Because after you beat the story mode once with any characters then you 
 can use and gundam that you want with that pilot which is cool. So you can mix and match. The energy 
 booster added into the game is nice as well helps you get from point a to point b quick and allows 
 for easy dodging. The ability to change parts to acquire different stats is nice to. And the leveling 
 system is cool. The three musho attack bars ( musho is a gauge that fills up as you kill enemies 
 and when its full you can use it to use a special move on your surrounding enemies.) as something 
 new to the game. The bad: if you aren't a fan of the hack and slash genre then you will get bored 
 of this game quickly. The voice acting is horrible but then again it is based off a Japanese show 
 so not much surprise there. Some of the levels are a little to hard even on easy mode. You will 
 come across other Mobile suits and you will find when they hit you they will take away like 25%-50% 
 of your health in one combo. If you don't follow the gundam show you might get a little lost in 
 the story. Ive never really watched the show and i had no idea what was going on. But then again 
 if you are a gundam fan then the story will be a bonus for you.
  
  All in all: great game for dynasty warriors and gundam fans in the world. Its a game thats actually 
 worth a buy mainly because you can't finish this game in 1 week unless you played it for like 10-12 
 hours each day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffysan13
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Mobile Suit's look almost exactly like their TV counterparts, they are sharp and clean 
 looking, though they seem to have stuck to the cartoony theme over a realistic theme, which is 
 fine by me considering the game we're playing. The environments were kind of bland but how many 
 earth based environments are left? The space battles were a nice graphical change, thought it was 
 pretty cool how enemies would float in from above or below giving the mild illusion of three dimensions. 
 Textures were nice and clear, a significant advancement from previous Dynasty Warrior titles (though 
 I expect no less on a next-gen title) . More entities rendered on screen then ever before, draw 
 distance is pretty dam far too.
  
  Sound: Voice acting itself was not bad, lines were delivered pretty much spot on for their TV counterpart. 
 Now, the writing was far from stellar, but from my point of view I think it's hilarious. The Domon 
 ending with Master Asia is the longest series of nonsensical statements I've seen in a long time. 
 Rest of the sound effects aren't bad, a lot of it was taken right from the different series. Music 
 is bland, nothing amazing, nothing horrible.
  
  Plot: Ok, if you expect a plot you're looking at the wrong game. The Official Mode somewhat follows 
 the later half of the original Gundam Series, while the Original Mode pulls a plot out of nowhere 
 just to have an excuse for multiple series crossovers. While the Original Dynasty Warriors is indeed 
 based on the Romance of Three Kingdoms, the game itself barely gets the plot across, so why do 
 expect a plot in a spin-off series?
  
  Gameplay: Hack n' slash is the name of the game. If you've played any Dynasty Warriors game before 
 this you'll know what to expect, though this version is noticeably faster paced. If you haven't 
 played any previous titles, rent this before you buy it, it is definitely an acquired taste.
  
  To mix things up a bit the item system have been revamped, simplified actually. All Mobile 
 Suits can equip up too 3 items. Depending on different factors, some combinations will give you 
 bonus effects, kinda nifty. Also added are skills. They have various effects, so far I have not 
 found any that I would deem entirely useless . Only complaint with this system is that the items 
 are not collected amongst all characters, only the character who picks it up. Makes things kinda 
 tedious.
  
  An awesome addition is dashing. Thats right your Gundam can do all the crazy dash-dodging you've 
 seen in the TV series. This includes on the ground and in the air. Not only that, but after a combo 
 ending in a power attack you can immediately go into a dash attack combo which can them be chained 
 back into a normal combo.... and so on. However I have one major gripe with this and it's my only 
 real complaint overall. You'll find that you use the dash maneuver under two circumstances: 1. 
 to run away when dieing and you're surrounded and 2. when fighting another Gundam, but since their 
 is no lock on feature you will more often then not dash in the complete wrong direction or to where 
 your target used to be... all because you can't keep the dam camera focused on one enemy. This seriously 
 detracts from the dash mechanics, if implemented could have extended the game's combat repertoire.
 
  
  Overall: A solid Dynasty Warriors title, if you don't like DW, do not play this game. Best played 
 with a friend, I find it rather boring after a bit of solo play. While it was little light on characters/items/etc.. 
 relative to recent DW games, I'm pretty sure it's due to being a new spin-off. Koei appears to 
 be testing the waters for this series, we'll see what happens if they release an Extreme Legends 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  It's true that the dynasty warriors series hasn't been updated in years and it's the same hack 
 and slash style can get touch dual over time. I do have to say putting gundam and Dynasty Warriors 
 into one thing is one of the best ideas ever thought of, and plus with lots of suits to play with. 
 Now gamespot saying it takes the worst things from both games is well kinda wrong, and the reason 
 I say that is what is wrong with the Gundams that make them bad? I say people at gamespot need 
 to watch alittle more gundam animes and understand the aspects of each series. My only problem 
 with this game is that yea the hack and slash style gets old after a week of playing it, but the 
 the chance to play all these gundams and mobile suits from these animes is cool. They even included 
 space battles, and I hope for a 2nd game of it's kind. To me this one of the best Gundam games 
 ever made, and there are very few gundam games that are good. So the fans of the series we will 
 rejoice and play this game till we play and clear every char, and you people gamespot can go back 
 to playing Gundam Battle Assault 3, or whatever kinda crappy gundam game you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Risrepkel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  For a good deal of your playing time, you will be button mashing while your mech plows through 
 hordes of enemies. There, I've said it. That is the single biggest detractor of this game.
  
  What makes this game different from the older DW titles? There are two things to customize 
 now, the ace (hero) and the gundam (mech) . As the hero levels up, he gains increase stats and skills 
 to use. These skills differentiates all the heroes from each other and provides a unique campaign 
 for each character. The mechs can also level up providing increased stats. They can also be customized 
 with certain parts to power up their stats. Each gundam has their own set of combos. Certain gundams 
 are better geared towards crowd control while others are meant to take on other aces with. The 
 ability to choose comes after you clear a campaign and can make certain missions easier.
  
  The actual gameplay is a mix of strategy and action gaming. The action part is very simple. You 
 wander into a map and use your combos to take out enemy mechs. The strategy part can either tip 
 the scales in your favor or offer up impossible odds for your mission. Each map is divided into 
 many regions of control called fields. When the enemy has control over them, an endless supply 
 of bad guys will spawn and attack surrounding fields. The same applies vice versa when you control 
 the field. This system makes control of certain areas very important. Oftentimes I had to dash 
 around the map to support an area under siege so the enemy wouldn't gain control over it. Luckily 
 you don't have to do this alone. There will usually be other heroes on your side to back you up. 
 Don't count on them taking orders from you though. Their route is programmed and they won't stray 
 from it to take over fields.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for 720p. I haven't encountered any slowdowns or glitches yet. The 
 character portraits look a bit dated and could've used some modern touches to. I suppose they wanted 
 to capture the old feel of the shows.
  
  The background music is alright. It didn't inspire me to slaughter thousands of mechs, but it also 
 didn't put me to sleep. The voices are wonderful and emotional for the most part. There are a few 
 which ticked me off like this one guy who cackles every time I execute a combo. Don't forget the 
 obligatory high-pitched squeaky female voice. The only thing is, screaming out some of their attacks 
 in English seems kind of... childish.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game really shines. Unfortunately, there is no multiplayer over the internet. 
 You're stuck with inviting a buddy over and sharing the screen with them. Having an extra hero 
 to run around and cover you works wonders for gameplay. You could team up against another ace, 
 but the real reason for having someone else is to cover all the fields you couldn't do by yourself. 
 With someone else, you can defend a field under siege by enemies while at the same time advancing 
 on the enemy. It was a very enjoyable experience having another person who could think for themselves.
 
  
  This game has around 100 missions amongst a cast of many characters. Each mission lasts 15 to 30 
 minutes if you manage to complete it the first time. It has some replay value but by the end of 
 the game, you'll have seen everything. There's not much else to do except level up your pilots 
 or replay some missions to try and get a better outcome.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed this game a lot. If you can find a buddy to sit down and play through with you, 
 then this game can provide hours of fun. If by yourself, it can be fun in small bursts, but not 
 as much as with a friend. Like I mentioned above, the sole annoyance with this game is lack of 
 online multiplayer. Here's to hoping they will add it through an online patch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuyo_Puyo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay &amp; Controls:
  Ok this game plays just like Dynasty Warriors, only instead of Chinese Warriors, you get Gundams! 
 Now I'm pretty satisfied with the gameplay, everything runs smooth and there are plently of enemies 
 to slaughter. You can fly, dash, and there are more combos than previous Dynasty Warriors games. 
 I think the camera overall is pretty good, but fighting a boss one-on-one might put your balls 
 in a meat grinder. You cant really target, but you can guard/strife which you will find yourself 
 doing a lot, it quickly adjusts the camera. The manuevering is well-rounded and quick, so you can 
 compensate for the awkward camera. Graphics:
  The game can output at 720p, and I assume the PS3 version looks better, since it was initially 
 made for the PS3. The robot models look great, but the environments are average. I was pretty satisfied 
 overall.
  
  Sound:
  Most of the background music tracks are really cool, and fit the mood of the game well, too bad 
 there arent very many! The SFX are average, and the Japanese voice acting is much better than the 
 English (the Publishers probably felt the same way, which is why they made it switchable) . Story 
 &amp; Concept:
  Uhh, unless you've seen most of the Gundam series, you probably won't know what the hell any of 
 the character's are talking about. Mission's are repetitive but I dont care! The object of any 
 war-like games are just to defeat all the enemies.
  
  Content &amp; Replay Value:
  The best part about this game is its 2-player, you can play Co-op on Official and Original mode. 
 Throughout the game, you can unlock new parts and skills by defeating bosses. Unfortunately I think 
 I'm onto something, if you let one of your computer comrades defeat the boss instead of you, it 
 seems that you will get like a recovery item or something, instead of an equipable part! Thats 
 a buncha BS, and the only way around that is to try to stay ahead of your comrades and get the 
 kill for yourself! And here is my biggest dissapointment, the moron at Gamestop told me that every 
 Gundam from every Gundam series would be in the game. Gundam Seed and Gundam Seed Destiny series 
 arent even in this, and those are the only Gundam series I've seen! So that really punctured a 
 hole into my heart after I found that out (I found out before I got the game, but bought it anyways) . 
 After unlocking all the Gundams, there are like 18 to choose from, which is a DECENT selection. 
 Well actually its not, cause if this game had ALL the Gundams from all the series, there would 
 be like a hundred. And I know, the PS3 has enough space on the blu-ray disc to throw the rest of 
 those stupid robots in it. Overall the game is quite enjoyable, especially with a friend, and right 
 when you start a mission, there are hordes of robots in front of you to slay, so the replay value 
 seems pretty high to me. I hope they make a 2nd Dynasty Warriors: Gundam game with a lot more content 
 (like maybe Create-a-gundam mode, now how cool would that be?!) , because watching the mechs go 
 at it is pretty fun. Honestly you shouldnt don't pay $60 for this game if you arent a Gundam fan, 
 because a simple hack-n-slash game like this should offer a ton of content, but it doesnt. But 
 if you are a fan though, you will probably love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: handspiel
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was designed as a basic beat-em-up with licensed Gundam content. It's not flashy and 
 it's not new, but, like any of the previous Dynasty Warrior games, it will be enjoyed by people 
 who like beat-em-ups. Most of the recent DW games have recieved bad reviews due to a lack of change, 
 however, they continue to sell fairly well and the people that are buying them generally enjoy 
 them. I have no doubt that, based on the majority of Gamespot's audience, the reviewer did a good 
 job of playing to his base. That's his job. He's right. If you didn't like the last few DW games 
 you won't like this one: it's the same game with giant robots. However, if you liked the gameplay 
 from the previous DW games and were getting tired of playing the same stories over and over again, 
 this is a game you will enjoy. Much like the Samurai Warriors games, this game takes the same playing 
 style and gives it a fresh setting. That's all. It's like a fresh coat of paint on old, well-built 
 walls. It still plays well, but pretty soon it'll fall apart. This might be the last time they 
 can get away with the same old gameplay in these games and still have them work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm an old Gundam fan, but ever since i heard about this game i thought it will be a joke 
 more so than anything. Well I was right. It is a joke, but so much so that it is kind of fun. I 
 like Dynasty Warrior and Samurai Warrior games so it isn't like I'm new to the Beat 'Em up style 
 games and unlike some reviewers I don't hate such games because I think they are boring as some 
 reviewers would say. The game is repeditive, graphics are not very great, but its based off a cartoon 
 so who cares if the graphics are great, in fact cartoonish and cell shaded graphics are perhaps 
 the best style games ever made over realism. Gameplay is annoying the camera feels like it should 
 go the other way every time I turn the joystick on default controls. But still like any beat 'em 
 up games it isn't always a cake walk, I lost many times on this game, some fights with some officers 
 were a god awful pain in the rear, this also makes this harder than the first Gundam title for 
 the PS3. I'd recommend it for Mecha and Beat 'em up fans, however if you're not used to games like 
 Dynasty Warrior I warn you, you may find it boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nastya0391
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  When ever i saw a game i normaly try to get it rented but in this case i had the oportunty to download 
 the demo of the game, and even that is was only the frist level i have played this more times than 
 other demos i had. The graphics are great, the game play is challenging with out beeing frustaiting. 
 And have several combos (by the way easy to learn) .
  
  I by the way never played the original dinasty warriors. but a coworker that had played told me 
 that trhe combos learned on the orignial can be used here i have treid some of them and the gundam 
 responds to them, with the powers form the Anime. So if you ever tougth that there will be agame 
 that has to be buy for the PS3m this is a must have game (this also has nothing to do with crossfire 
 dinasty is a much better game) .
  
  Easy to play, great looking, more that good graphics, music. And a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  I'm pretty sure many gamers has played Dynasty Warriors when it first came out and loved beating 
 up hundreds of soldiers. Problem with Dynasty warriors is that, from Dynasty warriors 2 to 5, there 
 isn't much differences and people get sick of it. Gundam Musou is a joint effort by Koei and Bandai 
 Namco, the first Dynasty Warriors/Gundam hybrid game. Just by imagination alone, you can imagine 
 the fun of playing as a Mobile Suit Gundams and cutting through hundreds of Zakus. Using the same 
 formula, Koei has added a booster function so the Mobile Suits can move around the map quickly.
 
  
  The problem in this game is that the developers made the game too much like Dynasty warriors and 
 they focused mainly on close combats, making guns pretty much useless which is different from all 
 other Gundam games.
  
  While the game seems kinda repetitive, I just can't seem to stop playing it. On a more difficult 
 mission, it can take up to 60 min to finish a level. This game also features co-op and 2 player 
 versus, and you can unlock more Mobile Suits, upgrades and weapons as you progress in single player.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The Gundam models look great and having the amount ot Zakus in a screen is simply amazing and it 
 is impossible to see it in last gen consoles. The special effects are also amazing in this game. 
 However, I wish they could spend more time in making Zakus explode on death.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Great music, great sounds fx, great voice overs.
  
  Value: 9/10
  I remember 
 the fun I had with my friends when we first played co-op in Dynasty warriors. That feeling is gone 
 after we got sick of DW, but now it's back again with Gundam Musou!
  
  Gundam Musou is import-friendly so don't worry about the Japanese. If you love Gundam and you love 
 Dynasty Warriors (or used to) , you'll love Gundam Musou. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I imported it and i cost $130.00Canadian. This is a fungame but has lots of problems. 
 The graphics in this game are horriblwe for PS3, even worse then a 4 month old gndam game, Gundam 
 Crossfire. Its not blurry or anything, but the gundams have NO DETAIL AT ALL! Its like they never 
 get scratched or muddy, they are ALWAYS CLEAN! There are only 19 playable Gundams/Mobile Suits 
 in this game, and 33 non playable. Its a let down that they have Mobilesuits/ Gundams from Gundam 
 Wing, Zeta, Double Zeta, turn A, G Gundam and Original Gundam and only have 19 playable ones. The 
 space in this game is horrible, its like walking on an invisable ground with lights on the bottom. 
 They could have worked on that longer. I know this is supost to be like Dynasty Warriors, but they 
 could have atleast made the guns a little useful by adding a aiming button. You just keep pressing 
 the attack button and specail button and you win after killing 600 mobilesuits, gets repetative. 
 Even though there is no detail i n the graphics, they are still ok and the specail attacks are 
 good. This game is worth getting and is very fun, compared to Gundam Crossfire this game is AAA.
 
  
  the cover gets 8.5/10, its cool but they should have put the Wing Gundam on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Weekend
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  When i first saw this on a japanese gaming magazine, I went insane with the pictures and screenshot 
 of the various Gundams and other mobile suits ready to duke it out, just as they were the characters 
 in either Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors!
  
  Well, I got to see the game in action at the recent PS3 launch in Singapore. And I can it's living 
 up to the hype that fans are drooling about ... the mobile suits that you can use, the battlefield 
 are quite big in size and you do need to use your boosters to get from point A to B quickly .... 
 no Matsukaze or Red Hare lurking around for you to use!
  
  In terms of graphics, the mobile suits are quite well drawn, the moves sets and stuff are so far 
 sticking close to the original series. I saw G Gundam battling and his combo attacks are quite 
 close to what we know him for in Super Robot Wars, when he unleashes his dual blades at his opponents.
 
  The nice detail is the robot parts that break apart and fly around after you finish off the enemies 
 ... nice details indeed!
  
  I would love to play some more to give a more in depth review, but this should be decent enough 
 to let you know that whatever screen shots you will see online, will certainly not disappoint when 
 you really play it someday when it's translated into English ... which i think will happen somehow! 
 One note to the english translation team though .... KEEP THE JAPANESE VOICE OVERS! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
