-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dynasty Warriors 6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/shinsangokumusou5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's the same old Dynasty Warriors formula.
 Plenty of playable characters.
 Fog of war now gone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's the same old Dynasty Warriors formula.
 Renbu system makes combat even simpler.
 Enemies still pop up out of nowhere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,009 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Feb 19, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dynasty Warriors 6 plays it safe with the series' standard button-mashing formula, and as such is 
 little more than a prettier version of every other game in the series. 

  Dynasty Warriors 6 is the first game in Koei's long-running hack-and-slash series to be built specifically 
 for current-generation consoles, and as such it benefits in one major area: It looks pretty. Other 
 than that, this is Dynasty Warriors as it has been since its inception: a huge, sprawling, button-mashing 
 affair set in ancient China, complete with the series' requisite cheesy cutscenes, dozens of playable 
 characters, bad dialogue, and mostly incomprehensible storyline. Of course, there are new gameplay 
 additions in Dynasty Warriors 6, but they're tweaks rather than overhauls and will be more exciting 
 to long-term fans than casual players of the series.  

  If you are a newcomer, then suffice it to say that the Dynasty Warriors franchise has represented 
 some of the best button-grinding fun to be had on consoles, although the series has been widely 
 criticized for being just that: unashamed, action-focused, and strategy-light games that become 
 almost hypnotic in their repetitiveness. The gameplay in Dynasty Warriors generally consists of 
 your chosen character taking on hundreds of opposing soldiers single-handedly, which is usually 
 accomplished by pressing one or two buttons ad nauseam. Like previous entries in the series, Dynasty 
 Warriors 6 is set in the Three Kingdoms period of ancient China, a time when three rival factions 
 were battling it out for supremacy over the land. You take the role of a general from one of the 
 factions -- Wu, Shu, or Wei -- and are set loose in large, open battlefield areas to take on an opposing 
 army practically alone. (The kill counts at the end of each level usually number in the hundreds, 
 if not thousands.) Although only nine generals are initially selectable, there are a total of 41 
 playable characters who become unlocked as you play through the game, a number that is not quite 
 as many as in previous Dynasty Warriors offerings.  

           Dynasty Warriors 6 doesn't stray far from the series formula.      

  One of Dynasty 
 Warriors 6's key innovations is the Renbu system, a new way for characters to build up their attack 
 combos. In previous entries in the series, combos were usually tied to the quality of weapon your 
 character was wielding, with more powerful weapons (usually found throughout the course of a campaign) 
 allowing generals longer and longer consecutive attacks. The Renbu system ditches the weapon-based 
 combo count completely and replaces it instead with a gauge that gradually fills as you perform 
 attacks. If you string together enough attacks without getting hit, then your Renbu will go up 
 a level, which in turn lets your character perform a longer combo. If you go too long without attacking 
 or suffer from a serious blow, then your Renbu goes down. This means that characters will be able 
 to perform up to six-hit combos practically from the get-go, although longer strings will still 
 have to be unlocked as you progress through the game and earn more Renbu levels.  

  Though the ability to do wicked six-string combos from the opening level of the game is all well 
 and good, what the Renbu system really does is make the Dynasty Warriors brand of basic button-mashing 
 even simpler by boiling down a two-button-mashing affair into one. Previous games in the series 
 forced you to use both the normal and charged attack buttons to perform different hit-number combos, 
 but with Renbu, you can now simply press the normal attack button over and over again to come up 
 with flashy-looking and effective moves. (Charged attacks in Dynasty Warriors 6 are now best left 
 for trying to break the block of an enemy.) It doesn't do much to dispel the series' reputation 
 of being a brainless bash-'em-up, but then again Dynasty Warriors has never positioned itself as 
 gaming's version of advanced calculus.  

  Another major addition to the series is a skill tree that you can use to improve the attributes, 
 attacks, and special abilities of your generals. Generals still earn experience in campaigns and 
 go up in levels, but instead of attributes such as health, defense, and attack improving automatically, 
 you now receive skill points to spend on building a character. Skill points can also be spent on 
 other abilities, such as more Renbu levels, bigger damage to specific attacks, being able to carry 
 more items, and others. There's enough in the skill tree that you won't be able to unlock all of 
 a general's abilities during your first play-through, but it's certainly not as exhaustive as in 
 other games.  

  The rest of Dynasty Warriors 6's new features, though quite significant in the context of the series, 
 will probably leave everyone who hasn't drunk the Three Kingdoms Kool-Aid scratching their heads, 
 given that they've been staples of many other games for quite a while now. Generals can now -- wait 
 for it --climb ladders and swim. Series stalwarts will most likely appreciate the introduction 
 of ladder climbing, which -- in addition to the ability to now jump down into lower levels of maps -- gives 
 Dynasty Warriors 6 a more multilayered feel. You can send your generals up into castle battlements 
 to take down enemy archers and ballistas, and you can also take a shortcut down a winding mountain 
 path to quickly get behind an enemy unit. Swimming seems less integral, although it's neat to now 
 be able to swim through some of the game's water-based levels (such as in the Battle of Fan Castle) 
 instead of taking a longer but dryer path. In another addition, enemy bases can now be invaded 
 by simply bashing down the door that leads into them, as opposed to finding the appropriate defense 
 captain and sending him sprawling. Duels with enemy generals have also been tweaked somewhat; enemy 
 soldiers now form a cordon around the two combatants during their battle.  

  With so many generals in the game's lineup, there's plenty of replay value in Dynasty Warriors 
 6, although the amount of replay you'll get from this really depends on how you feel about doing 
 the same thing and going through the same levels (albeit with a different character) over and over 
 again. If you're fine with the repetition, then there are well over a hundred hours of play to 
 be had in Dynasty Warriors 6, considering that each general's campaign will take roughly three 
 or four hours to complete. Returning in Dynasty Warriors 6 are challenge modes, which task you 
 with performing set tasks such as defeating as many enemies as possible within a set time limit, 
 moving from base to base as quickly as possible, and more. The game also features a two-player, 
 split-screen cooperative mode, although sadly there's no online option whatsoever apart from leaderboards. 

           All of the generals have benefitted from visual makovers.      

  Thanks to the power of current-gen consoles, one of the key areas of improvement in Dynasty Warriors 
 6 is in the looks department. Each of the generals has undergone a complete facelift from previous 
 games, and now all sport snazzy motion-captured moves that make their attacks look more fluid and 
 realistic. The series' dreaded and much-mocked fog of war has also disappeared, which means that 
 Dynasty Warriors 6 has a decent draw distance that lets you see the lay of the land more clearly. 
 However, it's not all sunshine, given that the game -- much like every other Dynasty Warriors game 
 before it -- still suffers from horrendous pop-ups and pop-outs. Enemy and allied soldiers will routinely 
 just appear out of nowhere while you move through the expansive battlefields, and pieces of the 
 environment (grass in particular) will simply disappear as you get closer to them. And though the 
 game does have many more characters on the screen at once, we encountered several instances of 
 serious slowdown during some of the more hectic scenes. The slowdown wasn't enough to affect gameplay, 
 but it was most definitely notable, particularly when playing two-player split-screen. Where audio 
 is converned the series' cheesy and generic rock soundtrack still dominates. As always, it's mainly 
 uninspiring and seems to have not changed at all from the series' PlayStation 2 days.  

  There's no question that Dynasty Warriors 6 plays it safe with the series' tried-and-tested formula, 
 which means fans will lap it up, whereas those who tried a previous game and found it not to their 
 liking will find nothing here to change their view. For everyone else, Dynasty Warriors 6 is a 
 decent beat-'em-up with plenty of gameplay packed in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (67 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  So....... Dynasty Warriors 6 is a fun game for a while. After a few weeks. Then it starts to get 
 old again.. The only thing that's new is the skill points you spend on that skill list. But I think 
 Dynasty Warriors Gundam is a failure. In DW 6, some of the characters will have the same move set. 
 That's what I hate.. Everything is just plain old. When you buy this game you will just see the 
 same old characters with new clothes and that's about it. The graphics in this game are pretty 
 much class for a PS3 game. It make look good but the game play isn't. The story only has some characters 
 to pick from. 
  Game Play : 6.5/10 
  Story : 7/10 
  Graphics : 8/10 
  Value : 6/10 
  Effort : 7.5/10 
  Overall : 7.5/10
  
  
  That's it everybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neomaniac15
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 6 is another in KOEI's loose interpretation of a book known as Romance of The 
 Three Kingdoms (a very good read by the way if you're into history and like Dynasty Warriors) which 
 depicts an Ancient Chinese era known as-surprise surprise-The Three Kingdoms period where three 
 rulers compete for China's throne. In Dynasty Warriors you are, yet again, an officer of one of 
 these kingdoms going through the worst interpretation of their story (Gan Ning's story doesn't 
 even mention he killed Ling Tong's father) i've seen yet. And that's really pretty much it. The 
 game looks prettier being in HD/Blu-Ray, a couple of new features like swimming, climbing, and 
 upgradeable horses have been thrown in and that's all great but it doesn't take away that you're 
 doing the same thing again and again. What makes matters worse is that they took several characters 
 out of being able to play them in story mode. You get a total of 5 per Kingdom plus Lu Bu and Diao 
 Chan and the rest can be played by second player in story or in free mode. I recommend this game 
 to either someone who's never played a Dynasty Warriors before or a die-hard Dynasty Warriors fan 
 like myself. Otherwise, like i said, don't even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  A greate game not best in the series so far but it is good enough
  
  Story- a good decently long story mode but this depends on how many characters you do. There are 
 a wide range of classic character remade for new gen graphics. You will find yourself spending 
 ages doing up characters so you can use them in the story mode but its worth the time spent because 
 unlocking new characters is allways good fun.
  
  Lack of something new like there are no new characters or battlefields to be tested out on. And 
 this time round you are limited with only 17 characters that have story mode. The gameplay itself 
 tho has been improved this time the battlefield is packed full of soldiers to give a more realistic 
 battle that keeps you interested right till the very end.
  
  Online- they could have tried sometrhing for online but the only thing you can do is take part 
 in single player challenges and finding were you rank online abit dissapointing.
  
  A must have game for all fans of the series totally worth the money spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeyboey2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:26 am PT
Review:  I'm a massive fan of they whole Koei developed Dynasty Warriors and Romance of the Three Kningdoms 
 series. And to be honest this one is a slight let down. Number 6 in this series comes after a long 
 awaited release date for many eager fans - I was and still is one of these. 
  
  Dynasty Warriors 6 is a very repecticalble game with a few nice addition features compared to its 
 previous in the series. This previous Dynasty Warriors games I could play for hours and hours (I 
 still sometimes have a play on number 4 still!) however, this one I could play for a while then 
 would get bored from the monotonous gameplay. Although the games in the past were of the same structure, 
 6 manages to do this but adding the little liked addition of bordem! Nevertheless, when you first 
 start playing it is great. The new features help and, in my opinion, bring a new diamention to 
 the game. 
  
  It could also do with a multiplayer, as you can only compare scores online, which doesn't really 
 take advantage of the whole 3rd generation of gaming consoles power. 
  
  Gameplay has been improved, if it ever need it. With more manoverable charicters and weapons. The 
 attacking has also become easier. With vertully no-stop swings possible, which add some fun but 
 take away realism.
  
  On the whole, I reccommend this game for solo gamers and for a bit of split-screen action with 
 mates. However, do not expect 100+ hours of fun just about 1 or maybe 2 hours until it becomes 
 same old same old.
  
  Thanks for reading my review,
  
  Joe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElderonWise
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Personally, I like a few of the looks on the characters, but in short, this game is by far worse than 
 the rest.
  
  I've played Dynasty Warriors since the second game was released on the PS2 a long time ago now 
 and never have I seen Koei be so lazy... they took characters out, here's an example, the 2 sisters 
 of Wu, only 1 sister remains in-game, they are sisters, they are meant to stay together. I never really 
 liked the sisters but it is one of many examples of the stupid steps Koei has taken, they have rushed 
 a game that had the potential to be great.
  
  The movesets are another issue, they've taken the cool character movesets of individuals and cloned 
 them on other characters who had their own moveset, why may i ask? Wey Yan is a perfect example, I 
 love his new look, but why take away his double edged halberd and replace it with a club and a cloned 
 moveset.
  
  There were 45 characters in Dynasty Warriors 5, that has now been drastically reduced, with around 
 30% of the remaining characters being only playable in free mode/challenge mode. Just goes to show 
 how they rushed.
  
  They've shortened the game aswell, some stages have been removed and even some battles are now shorter 
 to complete.
  
  We can only hope in Dynasty Warriors 6: Extreme Legends that they will readd the lost characters, and 
 return them all in Dynasty warriors 7 along with a few new characters.
  
  Sorry if I seem as though I'm trolling, but being a long time Dynasty Warriors+Samurai Warriors 
 fan, this is a huge letdown. I'll continue to buy the Dynasty Warriors games though, as i can't help 
 myself hehe.
  
  OVERALL: Good Game, But not worth it really, if your a hardcore fan, buy it, if not, I'd recommend my 
 favourite Dynasty Warriors game, Dynasty Warriors 5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fay737731
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This mix between a button-basher and strategy game is amazing!!! There are so many new characters 
 to unlock and scenarios to play it will keep you going for hours! The enemy alterations when playing 
 co-op are well thought and the graphics for HDWOW! 
  
  This game is seriously addictive and making it 2-player just jumps up the entertainment value by 
 having to try and co-ordinate your efforts. There will be plenty of shouting at the screen and 
 talking tactics! It's the first game I have played where neither me nor my partner gets left out 
 because all missions are for one or two players, not completely separate areas of the game.
  
  The only drawback for me is that some of the later characters have to similar move base to 
 previously used characters.
  
  It's you against 1000, will you be able to lead your army to victory from the front line? I guarantee 
 that anyone who gets this game will not regret it!!!
  
  (This is the only Dynasty Warriors game I have played)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckafro
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm a true dynasty warriors fan but this game is STILL disappionting. Somtimes even a disgrace 
 to the past games. The renbu system aka the new fighting mechanics makes it way tooo simple to 
 mindlessly button mash away at your opponents. The Musou modes are now limited to 5 generals per 
 kingdom except for the "other" which only includes Lu Bu and Diao Chan. All characters have indeed 
 been remodeled and a majority of them look better. Some players may be disappionted to the weapons 
 because the musou character's weapons look different as you find more and more through battles. 
 BUT, the characters who DON'T have musou modes or story lines have the same looking weapon throughout 
 the game. Not to mention that some characters have different weapons then previous games. For example, 
 Gan Ning now as 2 daggers insrtead of a broad sword, the Sun daughter (dont know how to spell her 
 name) now has a bow, Guan Ping? instead of his giant sword, he now has a spear, Liu Bei instead 
 of 1 sword, he now has....2 swords..... wow. 
  But this game isn't all bad. Unlike previous games, the swords significantly different from the 
 others. Thier are now throws that you can perform to deal alo of damage. They also introduced a 
 new Duel system where all the soldiers form a circle around you and enemy officers. And their are 
 a bunch of horses you can find and level up. 
  BUT you CANNOT unlock red hare. The only way to ride red hare is to steal it from Lu Bu or Guan 
 Yu in a battle. You CANNOT ride red hare when the battle starts....... EVER. You are pretty much 
 stuck with w/e hourse you have choosen. The skill tree introduced is also a let down since its 
 pretty much the same as leveling up normally and adding stats. And also, the HD graphics in the 
 trailer and intro are ONLY thier. The endings of the Musou Modes DONT have the HD graphics. WHICH 
 IS COMPLETE BULL CR4P!
  I don't recommend to veterans of the franchise because its just as good as DW5. But for newcomers, 
 feel free to pick it up AFTER the price drops to 30$ because its not worth 60 or 50 to be honest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 6 is almost like the previous series nothing special about it. 
  
  It is similar to Devil Kings or even much more easier than that. I thougt that this game will worth 
 waiting, but I was wrong. It is true that the graphics are great and the game play is good, but 
 special moves are boring. Any character can perform certain combo every time and this makes it 
 boring you have to repear the same combo every time you are fighting.
  
  I noticed that they are using the same technique of Final Fantasy X. I mean you have a page for 
 skills. You need to travel from one point to another based on your EX points which is a good thing. 
 
  
  There are various weapons available, but less techs and this is useless. The gameplay is boring 
 and sucks. You are fighting randomly with your allied forces. You feel like you are lost in the 
 battle. Life guages of enemy will not appear sometimes which makes you think they are allied forces. 
 All ypu need is just walking and keep moving your sword to determine your enemies.
  
  Also the fight while riding a horse is totally out of control. No special attacks just moving the 
 sword right and left. 
  
  This version of the game is like the others no special things have been added. The gameplay is 
 still the same. Few techs have been added and graphics have been improved, but the playing style 
 has not been changed a bit.
  
  The most beautiful thing about this game is the skill map. Anything else is rodinary. 
  
  I 
 rated this game to be 7 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  There really isnt much to be said about the current Dynasty Warriors well because it basically 
 feels like the same game.
  
  The graphics arent really special so there really isnt much to say in that department.
  
  Game 
 play its the classic hack & slash kill anybody who gets in your way. I just wish they would do 
 something new to the series add something to spice it up and make it different it feels like ive 
 been playing the same game for awhile now.
  
  As for the characters i think they are cool but the only thing i dont like how much out of the 
 way you have to do to unlock new characters now. Before all you had to do was use different characters 
 from a dynasty and would unlock a new one. 
  
  Of course the voice acting in the game is horrible but what Dynasty Warrior game doesnt? 
  
 
  I just hope the developers decide to do something new to the series or i will not be purchasing 
 the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEPC
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright. Some characters are missing. Same story as the others. Why not add new stages. 
 The renbu attacks make it boring. I preferred the square triangle combos. The grapple system is 
 cool. The characters that doesn't have musou modes doesn't motivate me to level them up. The new 
 weapons are cool but a 4th weapon like the others would have been great. The 4th weapon should've 
 had all the skills to it! Cool costumes A create officer should be in it. People still pop out 
 of nowhere. Swimming and climbing is fun. Nothing really special about it. Things need to change 
 for upcoming Dynasty Warriors games. Maybe new characters should be introduced in every game. Maybe 
 downloadable stuff like characters can add to it. Overall its a pretty good game. But much needed 
 improvements. Dynasty Warriors 4 is the best to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aka_Oni
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if it was just me, but I felt like I'd played this game before and I have in every 
 version of dynasty warrior I've played. The character graphics and backgrounds have been juiced 
 up alittle bit, but it takes more than a few graphical improvements and different character weapons 
 from saving this game. Like all other dynasty warrior games you have a light attack and a heavy 
 attack a new rembu attack is implemented which added some spice to the monotony of this game. In 
 its defense however the attack routes are a little less linear given the addition of swimming in 
 the water to stage a sneak attack and the ability to climb ladders and fight it out over high ground. 
 The various side missions that are to be preformed in the field are sometimes rather impossible 
 if you're on your first run through and haven't accumulated enough levels and weaponry to face 
 the swarm of reappearing enemies. One thing I did spend a mass amount of time doing was reading 
 the historical points of the many characters in dynasty warriors from various battles down to adoptive 
 sons/daughters. If you're a hack and slash fan this may be all you need, but if cutting down hordes 
 of the same vanishing ninjas isn't your cup of tea this game is really a no go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kape22
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Many people have been waiting for the new dynasty warriors game in years, and now it has finally 
 arrived, with a couple of hesitations from the game makers side. 
  
  Dynasty warriors 6 follows its ancestors with the same characters, the same battlefields, and the 
 same story. But that doesnt have to be such a bad thing. Even though its the same story and charachter, 
 the graphic has giving a huge step up. the battlefields are more realistic, and the characters 
 looks more impressive then ever. All the characters have been giving new weapons too, which is 
 both good and bad because of the usually sword looking weapon all the time. The battle style has 
 been changed too. Instead of pressing two buttons to make different combinations, you can press 
 only one button to make the attack. This might be kind of boring, but the battlestyle is so brilliant, 
 that you dont have to think about how you make the moves.
  
  Dynasty warriors 6 isn't the new game you could have hoped for, but even if you are are hard core 
 fan, or a newcomer, this game surely will satisfy you expectations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors is a mindless hack and slash from Koei. believe it or not the last 5 games in 
 the series have had the same story where you do the same thing: Lead one of the 3 kingdoms to victory
 
  
  short story: The 5.5 represents how this game is both the worst game ever and the best. You can 
 burn countless hours hacking away at the enemy Chinese people. Its mindnumbingly repeditive but 
 you know sometimes thats fun. Also it has good co-op. Its worth a buy a rent and maybe you should 
 just skip it i don't know.
  
  You can play as many characters. As you play though each warrior's 'Legend' you unlock more warriors 
 and more 'Legends' to play though what are basicly the same levels over and over again. the legends 
 follow the idea that in ancient times china three kingdoms fight for dominance. You try to lead 
 one to victory and at a time you can bring them all down as Lu Bu
  
  GAmeplay: Mash square and triangle to slauter enemys you run into officers every once in a while 
 to challenge you, you can replay any levels you played in story mode any time after. you also can 
 take on challenges to enter online rankings
  
  graphics: pathetic for a 'next gen game' 
  
  Story: some of the legends are interesting but the poor voice acting and bad looking cutscenes 
 kind of wreck it
  
  the pure entertaiment value of this game is incredble, its so addictive and extremely long with 
 nice co-op options
  
  PPPPros: Its fun, so much Co-op stuff, long
  
  Cons: its the most unoriginal game ever, repetitive, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodyhedgehog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  DW6 still features a lot of characters, but only a few of them have a story mode. What we get instead 
 are loads of CGI videos, which look awesome, but have no story whatsoever.
  The weapons are a bit lacking, after the variety of DW5 I expected more than everyone wielding 
 either swords, spears or halberds. And just by the way, why do female characters have to be archers 
 all the time? I think, they could wield daggers, shurikens, etc. That would be nice.
  The battles bring more tactics to the field, which make the game more interesting as you can take 
 advantage of the terrain or it can prove to be a set-back. Having your own horse and levelling 
 him up is also a nice addition, far better than your bodyguards were in the previous games.
  So, after all the negative points, DW6 itself is still a great game, far worth your time and money. 
 However, I hope that the next installment presents more innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukimurasanada3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. It is fun, engaging, and the gameplay speaks for itself. For those of 
 you who have played the previous installments, get ready for a nice surprise.
  The gameplay has almost been completely changed. Weapons no longer play a part in how many attacks 
 you have. You improve your character by your accomplishments and not by what weapon you get. There 
 is now a grid similar to FFX which allows you to by improvement in stats and attacks with points 
 gained by leveling up. The attacks are new, and there are MANY of them. The new renbu system is 
 weird at first but is very easy to understand. It is simply hit people, get cooler attacks. There 
 are also a lot of different attacks that are used from blocking, like grapples and counter attacks. 
 The musou is the same, but a new special attacks has been added (used by pressing L2) which can 
 be 1 of 5 different things for your character.
  The stories are engaging for each character and provides insight into their character and relationship 
 to other heroes. It provides a nice break from JUST fighting.
  The one thing that amazed me the most was how many people could be on the screen at much. With 
 being able to have about 200+ people on the screen at once, one swing can hit almost 30 people. 
 And the frame rate almost never slows down. 
  This game does require a bit more skill than the older games, but it can either be a hack-n-slash 
 with just mashing box and killing loads of people on Easy, or you can try the battle on a harder 
 difficulty and have to counter, grab, combo, musou, special, mash mash mash, counter, grab, musou... you 
 get the idea.
  For those who have played the previous games, GET THIS GAME. For those who have never played a 
 Dynasty Warriors game, buy this and get in on all the fun, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 6 really brings ancient China to life. With enhanced graphics for the PS3 and 
 Xbox360, it's a title any gamer must have. With 17 different story lines and 6 stages of blood-shedding 
 battle, you feal the warrior within you come to life. Each story line has a different character 
 but you can play free mode (repeat the level) with over more than 20 warriors. Each warrior has 
 a unique attack arsenal, weapon and appearence. You can unlock weapons outfits, and horses to ride 
 on. And just like a book, you shouldn't judge this game by its cover. in addition, you can swim 
 and scale walls of some of the mightyest castle of all time. I suggest going to "www. koei. co. ltd/dynasty 
 warriors 6" to see more. Another version of the classic game is \Samurai Warriors 2. Another masterpiece 
 by Koei. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has hours and hours of hooking gameplay and an enormous selection of characters and stages 
 in which they can be used. The difficulty selection process is so perfect that both experienced 
 gamers and those without experience will enjoy this game. When you see the cover, you're thinking 
 well... here's your average button mashing, beat-'em up game, but this game is so much better than 
 that. The gameplay is flawless, and you can use your own strategies to plan an invasion on enemy 
 bases. Another huge reason that makes this a next-gen game is its graphics, not as good as some 
 of the other new ones, but they stay the same throughout the battles, never turning into common 
 battle scene graphics. The story line is really hooking so that adds to the fun as well. Give this 
 game a shot, it truly is next-generation gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 3
Date: May 30, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  before you read this i just want you to know i am a fan of this series since the original ps1 version 
 and still am a fan. however this game is a huge let down. the voice acting is cheesy. the graphics 
 are not up to par with next gen and the story sucks. although it still has the same loving gameplay, 
 the little changes they made were definitely not for the better. i was extremely let down especially 
 after paying 60 big ones for it. dont pay more then 25 and if you do then your throwing your money 
 away. this game is a waste of time. stick with samurai warriors two for the xbox 360 and let this 
 one go. its just not worth it and if you are a kid then you will probably cry. my wife is even 
 a fan of this series and we play the other ones for so long i cant tell you how many hours because 
 its embarrassing but she wouldnt even touch this one and i dont blame her. so there you have it. 
 take a dynasty warriors, chop it up. eat it and regurgatate because this one sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I have played Dynasty Warriors for years with my brother, but this is the best. Beating Lu Bu in 
 the previous games was probably impossible but in this one, he's a little easier, I've beaten like 
 6 times now and still going. Getting mounts is easier except rarer mounts such as Red Hare and 
 it is easier to unlock other characters. Now that the characters have skills, its easier to beat 
 the game, slightly. 
  
  Bad parts would probably be what characters were cut out from the previous games, some characters 
 have different weapons from before and worst of all, you can't create your own character, which 
 I think is a big let down. I would of left the create character option so that players can play 
 with a character that best suits them.
  
  All in all, Dynasty Warriors has grown to a better potentional from the other games with a few 
 things cut out but it pretty much grows on you over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon2127
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  A game that I feel could have been a lot better. The Dynasty Warriors series is one of the oldest 
 titles for the playstation and has had a good long run, but has the game started to go downhill? 
 In some areas the answer is most definitely yes, let's examine them...
  
  Graphics: By far the most obvious hiccup in the playstation version is the graphics. The main characters 
 and officers are fairly well rendered and the nearby scenery is in no way the worst I've seen but 
 it's the far away objects and the enemy (and allied) hordes that are the let down. The far off 
 mountains in view are often blurry and too round to seem real and the level of detail on the soldiers 
 could easily be compared to DW2 or 3. The final nail in the graphical coffin is what I like to 
 call the "ambushers"; troops on the enemy side that are COMPLETELY invisible from less than a foot 
 away, this is a major problem when playing the game on the harder difficulties. However there may 
 be reasons for this, I believe the graphics were a lazy port from the 360 using none of the extra 
 PS3 processing power so overall 6/10.
  
  Music: One of the game's much needed saving graces. The simple but powerful guitar-based tunes 
 really enhance the one man against a thousand feel that the other DW games did so well, a well 
 earned 9/10.
  
  Gameplay: Many say the creation of the Renbu system was a mistake, I say it was a step in the right 
 direction. If it were you or I out on the same battlefield we wouldn't stop after we had finished 
 a combo and risk getting sliced in half, we'd react in a similar way to how the Renbu system plays. 
 It's a step towards a real, fluid fighting system worthy of the title "a next-gen experience". 
 The in-battle tasks that get you extra experience give the player purpose and some (limited) variety 
 to an otherwise one-track game. The rewards for completing the Musou modes are a real let-down, 
 I understand that unlocking new characters is the norm but what I would really like to see are 
 some extra battle options such as; invincibility, enemies turn into horses, adjustable army sizes, 
 I could go on for some time here... Overall 7/10
  
  Story: Ah... here we are... the king-sized dent in the fender so to speak. The english versions 
 of DW were never famed for their voice acting prowess but it actually feels like they are getting 
 worse this time around. The story redeems itself slightly by explaining events more clearly, for 
 instance I didn't have a clue why Guan Yu fought for Cao Cao at Guan Du and I was pleasantly surprised 
 at the apt explanation. Overall 4/10
  
  Overall Score: 6.63/10
  
  A worthy title for diehard fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamdcdog
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  As i purchased this game i was very unsure of what to think after reading many reviews and made 
 me doubt my decision. After playing it for an hour i decided that i could have been playing dynasty 
 warriors 5 and not noticed. They have not changed a damn thing, what a waste of money. You would 
 at least think they could have got rid of the slowdown and at times i found my self alone then 
 all of a sudden surrounded by 50 enemies.
  
  The graphics were slightly improved but other than that it was very much the same. Once I had completed 
 a few characters mousou missions i found my self replaying the same battles over and over again 
 which was very boring. Koei need to come up with a fresh dynasty warriors that is unique from the 
 rest or they will never raise the bench mark.
  What a dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enViable
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was a big dissapointment for me
  
  The characters have all had there appearences altered and swapped there weapons around but apart 
 from a characters thats a pure archer (Sun Shang) there is nothing new in this game to keep you 
 interested.
  
  Swimming sounds great in theory but there's nothing really tactical you can achieve by swimming 
 and alot of the time you end up in a ravine in the middle of nowhere with a 15 minute swim just 
 to reach a side to climb out.
  
  The attack combo system has been altered to a very full infinite attack system where you just keep 
 repeatedly tapping attack to hit people. No crowd clearing charge moves. With the exception of 
 the new grapple moves (thats are usually weak and inaccurate) there is no cool way to dispose of 
 your enemy in this game. No bow and arrow either...
  
  Horse whistling is the only good new feature to this game...
  
  To summarise, if your looking 
 for the newest and best DW then get Warriors Orochi. Old school gameplay with the new stuff thrown 
 in
  
  Crap on toast with mouldy jam...
  
  Also beware of the fact that if you start with an untrained character and you come across a half 
 decent general they can kill you with one hit in the back and you lose your last 30 minutes of 
 progress... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Tidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I really don't know what gamespot was going to expect out of this, so what it is the same old button 
 smashing, its like that with every other game. For me it is really addictive. I'm a fan of the 
 series that koei makes and this by far is the best one.
  
  Gameplay:
  The same old button smashing we all know and love but with a new renbu system that makes it exciting. 
 I don't get where gamespot has enemies popping out of nowhere becuase i don't have a problem like 
 that. You are able to do more exciting stuff like climb ladders and swim really fast. Also, the 
 ability to grab your opponents and throw them around.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics compared to the other Dynasty Warrriors games is really amazing. The new character 
 designs and a lot of other cool stuff. They really made the characters and some the stages like 
 what it is in the novel.
  
  Story:
  Like most Dynasty Warriors games, this still goes by the book. So this will be a no duh answer.
 
  
  Overall:
  The game is really addictive even after you unlocked everything. Really wished that Koei didn't 
 deleted any characters, just make new ones instead. I am just hope they actually bring them back 
 in the next one. The only backside to this is that not everyone in the game has a musou mode, but 
 playing on free mode makes up for that. So this game is a must have for people who like the series 
 and the buttonsmashing people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsItInMyEye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series ever since I picked it up for the PS2. It seemed 
 to me that every game in the series got better. This climaxed in Dynasty Warriors 5, where all 
 of the characters seemed to pretty well follow the novel as far as battles they were involved in 
 as well as the roles that they played, granted anytime a game is based off of a book there is going 
 to be some limitation on how closely they can follow it but they seemed to do pretty well. It was 
 always a fun challenge to try and get all the items, horses, and final weapons for all the characters. 
 This has all disappeared in DW6 however. No longer are there items or final weapons for the characters. 
 The only thing that stuck around and seemed to be improved was the horse system which instead of 
 just finding a horse randomly you now find horses and level them up unlocking various skills along 
 the way. While this makes it hard to get some of the better horses it's kind of a nice change. 
 Also the leveling of the characters seems a little better now you have what reminded me of a talent 
 tree in World of Warcraft the only difference being when you max out your character in DW6 you 
 get all of the skills, had they put in extra abilities so that you couldn't get all of them it 
 probably would have added at least a little distinction between many characters that are basically 
 copies of each other. The graphics are pretty good and the battles seem well thought out, now instead 
 of killing gate captains you capture bases which is another feature I really liked. The biggest 
 problem I had though was that the musou mode is only available for a handful of the characters, 
 and the stories that they gave to those characters were, in my opinion, awful. Maybe part of the 
 problem is that I've watched the TV series and read the novel, and the characters have stories 
 that are nothing like what is portrayed in the game. Maybe I'm just being nit-picky but like I 
 said in DW5 they really seemed to follow things pretty well without a ton of just horrible cut 
 scenes that I usually ended up skipping anyway. Anyway the gameplay is pretty much the standard 
 that it has been, the Renbu system does make it even easier to kill the masses, but I really felt 
 that they Koei took a step backwards in the series rather than forwards. We'll see though I hold 
 high hopes for some downloadable content and maybe and Xtreme Legends pack or something. But on 
 that only time will tell. Anyway overall I felt the game was alright, I'm a fan of the series and 
 do like the pure hack and slash of the game but I really could have used a little bit more substance, 
 it seems like for everything they improved on they went backwards in two other areas. Seems like 
 Koei just fell a little short of what they could have a acheived on a system like the PS3 or X360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endakol
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors 6 was missing many things. There were Characters missing such as Pang De who was 
 a really great addition in the previous instalment. I was't to plesed with Xiahou Dun's new weapon, 
 it grows on you a little bit, but then you start to notice that there is nothing scientific about 
 his weapon, its completely unrealistic and I hope Koei gives him back his schimitar. I must say 
 some of the new character designs look great, such as Sun Jian, and Cao Cao, even Xiahou Dun's 
 design was good just not that giant back scratcher he was given to wield.
  
  Gameplay was good, they is plenty to discover here if you played previous DW games. You will be 
 happy to know gates can be broken down instead of having to wait for events to happen. You can 
 swim! I must say that was a big surprise and not only that but you can climb ladders as well. This 
 new aspects make gameplay more interesting as you have much more freedom that before. The graphics 
 were great, because your character has a realistic shadow now as opposed to a dark circle under 
 his feet.
  
  There are some things to like about this game, if you like Dynasty Warriors, buy it and see for 
 yourself, you may or may not like it, or you might end up like me; somewhere in between. Koei has 
 a lot of work to do, and Lu Bu needs to "undemonize" himself because its not working for him. Never 
 the less the Dynasty Warriors series is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Eagle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Initially, the game may seem daunting. 41 characters, horses, costumes, battles and weapons can 
 be unlocked, which provides plenty of playtime. The roster is huge, with 41 characters, which each 
 have an alternate costume. The game-play is entertaining, with decent graphics and plenty of troops. 
 Despite the 60 fps stated on the box, the game slows down when you are in a huge brawl with a possible 
 100+ troops onscreen. At first you could think it was intended to be slow-mo, but no. 
  
  Each character has new grapple moves, and these are generally quite elaborate, with spears and 
 swords flailing around. The new renbu system isn't bad nor good, but is a slightly refreshing new 
 feature. The 'breakthrough' feature is that players can now, wait for it swim and climb! As sarcastic 
 as I am, this can be good when laying siege to castle, and jumping from the top of mountains on 
 your house is a cool prospect.
  
  The game provided me with lots of fun at first, but after that the same levels can become tedious. 
 Despite the issues, the game is a fairly exciting experience (yes, for me, the diehard fan) but 
 doesn't come out with anything new. New players will enjoy it if they like to monotonously disembowel 
 people for hours. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors as a game harbors very few illusions, it's a massive scale hack and slash, as 
 coin-up side scrolling beat downs disappeared, Dynasty Warriors moved in to take there place. Many 
 may wish the whole genre died but for those of us that get a thrill out of kicking the butt of 
 impossible numbers it's always been a godsend.
  
  For the first time this new installment of the series has seen some important changes. The maps 
 have been re-built and the generals can now traverse the 'killing fields' that much more dynamically, 
 cliffs can be leapt of on horse back, towers climbed and rivers swam through.
  
  The combat has also been re-worked, rather then a series of combos DW6 now allows standard attacks 
 to be chained infinitely and power attacks to be chained with increasing length as you build the 
 character up, and generate enough combat momentum. It may seem irrelevant but it's more suitable 
 to the kind of combat Dynasty Warriors offers. The only combat strategy DW has ever had was timing 
 and position; we now have more control over both by basically removing the arbitrary combo system. 
 Each officer now has two 'Grapple' style attacks to break through blockers, which is a nice bit 
 of flair you can use to color up your combat. There is also the new "specials" that each character 
 can have allowing powers even great then Musuo to be able unleashed clearly we weren't strong 
 enough already.
  
  The battlefields themselves have more impressive "bases" that you can take over, a more structured 
 method of power up collection and each battlefield has three special "targets" special on field 
 occurrences that you may need to prevent or enforce for bonus XP.
  
  In some ways the game play is a little stripped down. The motion captured combat is beautiful but 
 means there is overall less variety in the characters compared to previous installments. The character 
 creator has been removed, which will irk some and be indifferent for others. The new designs also 
 take some getting use too, it's nice that the characters have been re-worked but we had been using 
 those same designs for 5 titles now, you may find yourself often saying "I like the old one better".
 
  
  Some things haven't change, the music is the same awful wailing guitars and the voice work may 
 actually be getting worse. Still turn the BGM off and skip the cut scenes like you always have 
 done right? The enemy pop in is still ridiculous whole legions of enemies are often invisible at 
 2 feet away.
  
  At heart it's still the same Dynasty Warriors, it's more attractive it adds some color to the battlefields; 
 it isn't trying to win new fans. It does however give enough new for those of us awaiting our next-generation 
 slaughterfest to be pleased. It's a gem in it's own way, not that flawless shining diamond but 
 an oddly colored emerald that most people think looks silly, but just a few love it for exactly 
 what it does will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  First of all ,Nasty warriors 6 is a very intruging nice beat-em-up game, wich i think most ,or Mostly 
 every1 might like it.
  
  This is by far the prettiest game in the series. character models look great, water is nice and 
 some castles look indestructible, plus decent particle effects and usually fluid gameplay though 
 the game tends to lag every once in a while
  
  The story is basically the same as all the others, three kingdoms vie for control of the land, 
 and you play in battles to unify the land under your kingdom. There are some slight variations 
 from previous games, but if youve ever played a dw game before, then you know the story
  
  This is where the game shines. Killing thousands of people at a time is a cool feeling, and it 
 doesnt get boring. Every character in the game has been redesigned, with all new weapons and playstyles
 
  Overall this game is a very good game and although not very innovative its just plain fun .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  I must say I am somewhat suprised about the Gamespot review, altough it somewhat seems regular 
 as of late. 
  
  
  Conclusion: If you enjoyed the previous DW's you most definitly like this one too. Like any of 
 the predassesors dont expect any spectacular changes apart from graphical ofcourse since this one 
 IS next gen. Some might say it's a simple update from the previous series but in my eyes it's been 
 like that with every part of the series except the original ofcourse. 
  
  FOR PEOPLE WHO KNOW DYNASTY WARRIORS. 
  
  Let's bounce off to my review now shall we? I think 
 everyone is familiar with the Dynasty Warrior series, nearly every 10 - 20 buck bins is filled 
 with titles such as DW1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. When you compare the titles to one other there are always 
 minor improvements to the game. Basicly DW3 gave you the oppertunity to collect weapons horses 
 and customize your own personal army, don't know excactly what the imrpovements are with 4 because 
 I do not buy every DW there is simply for the reason that they are nearly all the same. 
  
  Anyways nearly all the improvements made in 2, 3, 4, 5 are there in big lines. Brought in a few 
 improvements such as trainable horses more depth to weapon customization. But as always the tweaks 
 are as always minor. 
  
  What does come as a great imrpovement is the graphics, apart from that they also redesigned most 
 of the characters ingame and most of them still retain their typical features. 
  
  In my opinion it's a great imrpovement from what I know from the DW series. Trust me when I say 
 it's a worthy successor in the DW series. If you know from expierience that DW isn't worth 50 dollars 
 or 50 euro for that matter then wait a little but if you still enjoy playing the DW series you 
 will get what you expect
  
  FOR THOSE WHO DO NOT KNOW THE DW SERIES
  
  Pretty straight forward, Dynasty Warriors is a button mashing on a epic scale. You are a general 
 who fights 1000's of enemy troops all by himself. You got a few other generals like yourself and 
 1000's of troops at your disposal as well. Yet do not think you get to control any of this. All 
 you do on the field is killing enemy generals who are somewhat challenging and kill 1000's of soldiers 
 who are not challenging at all. With one press on the button you probarly take out like 10 soldiers 
 at a time depending on your characters fighting style. Usualy to flare up the game a bit other 
 generals will ask for your aid in taking a fort and you will get to move because there are pretty 
 big bonuses in a sense of XP if you save your generals IF it is a objective. 
  
  When fighting masses of enemies defeating generals you will get praises from other generals like 
 "It's inspiring to see you fighting" and "You are an inspiration to us all" to keep you going I 
 guess. The game has some cutscene's to make you aware of impending danger for your fellow's such 
 as allied generals walking in a valley and they get boulders in their face. 
  
  To cut to the chase, the gameplay is repetitive and when you think about it you are wondering why 
 you like the game, it's button mashing till your fingers fall off so if you are prone to RSI or 
 what so ever I do not think you should play this game. The story is quite shallow and the cutscene's 
 are poor. Yet the gameplay is awesome, the graphics are moderate for next generation, voice acting 
 generaly sucks, music adds to the game and sounds are quite poor. I enjoy playing this game a lot, 
 as I stated before I don't know excactly why but I do. I reccomend buying this game from the bargain 
 bin not because it's bad but I do not think it's worth the money they will likely demand for it 
 in the start. Rent it if you are having your doubts. All my friends love this game as well, yet 
 I can imagine someone not enjoying the game because of it's repetitive gamestile simple story and 
 poor voice acting. Yet the gameplay really makes up for every little flaw I named previously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I was a Dynasty Warriors follower if you asked me, i used to play them on ps2, now that it's on 
 PS3, dynasty warriors doesn't renew itself in any major way, making the sixth installment look 
 repetitive to the series.
  Basically, there's this renbu system which determines how much combos u can make, but i'm a little 
 disappointed with this addition. The old good combination of different button combos no longer 
 exist. So now it's just one button smashing which i don't prefer.
  
  Graphics:
  Given a HD renew, it looks great, there's plenty of ppl on screen and a lot more soldiers than 
 the last installment.
  But sometimes, soldiers do pop-up out of nowhere, making the game less impressive on the graphics 
 side. Framerate issues if u ask me, ill say there isn't any, But some person are saying the slow 
 motion to as framerate which i deem them as different things.
  The cutscene for one, is great, it offers some relaxation from hack and slash
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Still the same old formula but with a renbu system implemented, u get more and more combos to 
 raise ur renbu rank, each upgrade of renbu rank gives you more combos but these combos are only 
 from a single button. Unlike the past series, u can't do button combination for combos which i 
 like.
  There's plenty of charactors to play, but the musou mode is just repetitive, some charactor have 
 the same storyline which make it same objective. I've complete each of the kingdom and felt bored 
 with the storyline already, didn't had the chance to unlock lu bu.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing impressive here, just normal Dolby Digital format. The translation from jap to english 
 isn't that well done either.
  
  All in all, unless ur very keen on this title, i wouldn't exactly recommand it. Unless u like hack 
 and slash, u may want to get it, but like i've mentioned, the different button combos is no longer 
 there, which makes the gameplay repititive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Yeah um wow i own all the Warrior games Koei has made and I was surprised by this one. Everyone 
 complains the warrior games are bland cookie cutters, which may be true to a point however this 
 can also be said "If it aint broke, dont fix it". they took everything that worked in the previous 
 DW title's and threw alittle gravy on it. The Graphics are good. not great but good. the new character 
 designs were nice, alot of them have been given new weapons. Some of which were cool some were dissapointing. 
 ( I miss Dian Wei's axe) . In the way of sound, the music hasnt changed much. The voice acting however 
 in my opinion made a huge leap forward. The controls seem alot tighter and more resposive too.
 
  I especially like the new Renbu system which rewards you with more powerful attacks for linking 
 together combos. The fact that each officer has there own Movies throughout the entire Musou Mode 
 impressed me as there are 30 some odd playable officers. All in All i think Dynasty Warriors 6 
 is a great addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the beat-em-up and Dynasty Warriors games. I've played every single 
 one but the first and i love them all and this one was a lot better. I first started to play the 
 game when it came out and it was real fun, it was new , had great graphics , and very good details. 
 This was just a perfectly done game. I loved the changes in the characters besides Xiahou Dun's (weapon) , 
 Wei Yan (weapon) , Lu Xun (Suit) , Zhou Yu (both) , Lu Bu (weapon) , Yuan Shao (suit) , Dian Wei (weapon) , 
 Lu Meng (suit) and i hate that they got rid of Jiang Wei and Pang De, plus less musou's. But there 
 are things that make up for it like the renbu gauge where the gauge fills up and your attacks are 
 more damaging and more attacks. Im glad they have introduced also brigades that have more men in 
 them. I loved this game i hope to see a Dynasty Warriors 7 and Samurai Warriors 3 just like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icey05
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  so i just dropped the $84 on this game.
  to realise i enjoyed DW4 more.
  there is barely any sense of character progression.
  just about every enemy doesnt put up much 
 of a fight. then you have the one or two enemys they chuck in the mix to piss you off, which are 
 insanely difficult the 1st time u fight them....
  
  the renbu system doesnt seem to change anything, its pointless. in fact. i think you are limited 
 to how you can play missions now.
  
  they have taken away the variety with attacks, making the triangle button perform the exact same 
 attack again and again with no combos at all.
  
  i think they should focus more on the actual content, like gameplay and such, instead of graphics..
 
  
  oh yeah and about those graphics, cut scenes look EXACTLY the same as they did on ps2!!!
  the 
 water looks better in this, but when swimming in it, doesnt change anything at all.
  
  if you ask me they used alot of LAST-GEN affects, and did a dodgey job of the 1st next-gen DW.
 
  
  im giving this an 8. because i generally enjoy DW games. and havnt been completely bored with one 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacorb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Some people are saying theres nothing new and that is fundimentally true. The basics of the game 
 are pretty much the same. 
  
  However this doesnt take anything away from devil may cry so why should it here. Also remember 
 the characters have been mostly reinvented and they have put some interesting fighting styles in 
 to it. 
  
  With a friend (or not) this game is a laugh. So what if it doesnt break into a new world of technology 
 and engines etc. What it does do is does what a game should do. Be fun.
  
  I would like to add that graphically it is quite reasonable ( but you wont care if ur having fun) . 
 You may ask then why do i have my ps3/Xbox 360 if there are games similar to Ps2 ones. The answer 
 is simple : you have been forced to move on by the next gen. Also it has a bunch of new maps, characters, 
 challenges etc.
  
  On to the bad.
  
  Graphically not stunning.
  
  ANNOYING FRAME RATE SLOWDOWNS. (though not to common)
  
  Cheesy voice acting
  
  But what 
 is annoying is the fact that they could of changed some things that wouldn't of changed the core 
 of the game but would utilise the next gen consoles.
  
  e. g. More complex combos, to do the huge blasts that they do in the cut scenes, amazing moves like 
 from house of flying daggers, and naturally the graphics.
  
  Overall a great game. Modified enough to please, but not too changed . It is flawed and it could 
 of done more but when you start playing it the mesmerzing, fun experince comes through
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't always a Dynasty Warrior fan. It took some prodding from my younger siblings for me to 
 get into it. I just didn't get the allure of killing numerous enemies (faceless for the most part) 
 over and over and over and over again. Well, I spent some time with I believe it was PT 3 or 4 
 and I was HOOKED. Now, I understand the draw. So, without hesitation I read everything I could 
 on the PS3 installment without missing any details. Let's get on with it shall we?
  
  The first thing you'll notice is those BEAUTIFUL graphics. As it should be as it is on the PS3 
 so I'd expect nothing less. The character moves are fluid enough and the enemies are plentiful 
 (as a matter of fact I don't remember seeing so many enemies onscreen at once) you have your usual 
 seek and destroy of the opposing generals and the animation of your character is pretty sleek. 
 You can ride you faithful horse, level up the horse, and add more horses to your stable. Also, 
 is the ability to climb ladders (not the big leap I was expecting) and swimming (ditto although 
 this one is more handy)
  
  The levels are breathtaking and some are kinda confusing. It just seems difficult on some maps 
 to get from place to place but, is figured out all in due time. The difficulty seems easy enough 
 although you will be challenged in the early going as you level up.
  
  What's cool as well is the challenge mode where you can KO as many enemies as you can, destroy 
 towers, speed kills, gauntlets, and do so without damage. I haven't really dabbled in these modes 
 as of yet but, will do so when I am finished with the Musou mode.
  
  I just don't feel like this is the BIG leap we all were expecting. You would think for such a powerhouse 
 system we'd get a little more bang for our buck. The characters are limited as it doesn't have 
 a FULL roster of your favorite warriors (why I don't know!) and I am craving different scenarios 
 instead of, yet again, fighting in the Yellow Turban Revolution!!
  
  If you are a HUGE Dynasty Warrior fan then by all means it's worth a purchase since it is a pretty 
 good game though not outstanding. If you are the casual, wanna try but not sure then give it a 
 rent. Other than that I look forward to Dynasty Warriors 6: Empires and Dynasty Warriors 7 which 
 I am blows away this version in EVERY respect but, until then a good job on this one but, please 
 make something a little more epic next time (please?!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinjiboo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game yestderday, and havent stopped since.
  
  Firstly, a big graphical improvement on all the previous games, lots of nice new juicy features, 
 such as the skill tree, or renbu system.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  This game is fun and interactive, it pushes you right into the action, you have to think fast and 
 land quick combo's to deal with the hundereds of troops that you have to fight at once. =)
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  The music and voice acting in these games has always been excellent, but 
 this time i think that KOEI have really outdone themselves, sometimes i forget its a game and think 
 that im dian wei. =P
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Thanks to the next-gen power of the 360 and the ps3, DW6 is a massive improvment on DW5, gameplay 
 is very smooth.
  
  
  Replayabillity factor: 10
  
  This is the kind of game that you can play over and over without getting bored, with free mode 
 and challange mode to keep you occupied, theres always plenty to do.
  
  
  Overall: 9.8
  
  A brilliant game. wonderful graphics, unlimited playability. This is a must buy for anyone 
 who enjoys the dynasty warriors series, or associated games, samauri warriors etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilgarun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  The new and exciting DW 6 has lots of new things to offer to old DW veterans, so much has been 
 changed for the better in this newest arival of the DW family.
  
  Just remarking few of those now
  
  -Swimming
  - Climbing ladders
  - Leveling system with 
 a Skill point implementation which differes for each character
  -weapons have been deepened alot by changing weapons weight to Teqhnicue, Strenght and standard 
 and giving them various different effect like Leech, mystic seal and many more that make the possible 
 weapon outcomes extremely huge.
  - Instead of weapons giving certain numbers of attacks you can now chain combos indefinetly getting 
 more complex attack patterns each time your REMBU meter goes up.
  - The ammount of enemy models on screen has been heightened to new level which makes the old school 
 rush to boss nearly impossible to attempt
  - Strategies are actualy alot harder to perform on this title and need careful planning and timing 
 to decide where you go next which makes this game alot more than just a nother button smasher.
 
  - new battle moves have Throw moves implemented and a special attack scroll which you can find 
 in the battlefields pretty much like musou rage in dw:5 which triggers a specific special attack.
 
  - there are few characters taken out of the game series and all the characters have been given 
 a new look, which makes this game actualy worth buying for those that have been driven bored of 
 the repeativeness of the older games.
  - Weapon death locks actualy have a metter now showing how well you are doing and can end up in 
 a showoff throw move if you get the metter fully to the other side.
  - Graphics are better than ever before and looks very nice on PS3 in my opinion.
  - Regarding 
 the slow down which has occured in all of the dw series so far when the fight started to go rough 
 we have to actualy remember that this game has to load extreme ammount of models on the screen 
 at the same time, and for some, the slow down enchants the playing experience. In my opinion the 
 slow downs make tha game looks extremely awesome in some parts givin a Matrix style slow down effect.
 
  
  
  Sounds
  The old nice DW musics have been enchanted to new level, and for those people that have gotten 
 used to the english speaking voice actors can breath for releaf because many of the old voice actors 
 have given their voices for this title as well.
  
  Game play is actually very fluid and looks very nice. 
  
  
  Regarding the Cloned move sets
 
  Some characters have cloned move sets but still they have their unique skill tree and special 
 abilities available which makes them still totally different kind of characters.
  
  Musou mode is now only available for 16 characters but all of them are persons with high impact 
 on the story and who actualy lived
  nearly for the whole time of the war, they meet all other characters
  in game in various beautifully 
 rendered animation so every single character gets their screen time. I think they tried to get 
 more realistic approach here, because for example in older games,
  there really wasnt any sense in having musou mode for some people, like Pang Tong for example, 
 who really didnt participate
  in many fights before his death in the orginal story.
  
  Graphic
  Its as beautiful as it could get with this kind of game with lots of things to load 
 on screen at the same time.
  
  Game Controll
  Its extremely fluid and NOT button smashing it has lot more to it.
  
  Play Time
  There is 
 alot to do when you have so many characters to level up and build. And 16 musou modes with more 
 than 2hours to play each the game has alot of stuff to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainkill2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good and amazing game. Compared to the last title the graphics have been improved 
 so much. For example the background have been improved it does not feel like if you are playing 
 a game. The shadows have been improved so when you are standing in a shadow of a castle wall the 
 part where you are standing will go dark. Also the size of the game have been improved in the last 
 title dynasty warriors 5 the size of the building was very small but in dynasty warriors 6 the 
 building are very big so if you want to go on top of a castle wall you will need to climb a ladder. 
 The other new feature such as swimming. Some characters have been removed from the game this include 
 Pang De. In the start at you get 3 characters for each forces players for start off and then you 
 have to unlock the rest your self by completing the story of the characters that you have been 
 given at the beginning. The lead good character in this game is Zhao Yun and lead bad character 
 is Lu Bu who has been completely changed in the game. This time is more angry and he has a better 
 bad guy appearance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  I have a strong interest in this time period and was very surprised when I saw a game based on 
 it (Dynasty Warriors 3) . I started playing this series when the third one came out and have bought 
 every one of them since. I just bought a PS3 with this game and a HDTV.
  
  The graphics are amazing! I first played on an old tube TV and it still looked great other then 
 the text being very hard to read. I went out and got an HDTV and hooked up via HDMI and it is just 
 amazing! I love how the capes blow into the wind now.
  
  Each character that has a musou mod gets 10 unique movies that play throughout the story. I've 
 noticed that not everyone gets a story witch is kinda disappointing but the amount of content put 
 into the available stories is great. The renbu system adds a new flavor to the hack-n-slash combat. 
 The skill tree that each character has adds replay value and strategy in the way you want to progress 
 the character.
  
  The history in the game is good but is somewhat inaccurate but this is a video game not a history 
 lesson. Each characters story really gets you into the way that person thinks. Some of the character 
 movesets have been cloned onto other characters and some characters didn't make it into the roster 
 but that is completely understandable since the game was rebuild from the ground up. If you really 
 think about it all the characters are new since they've been redone.
  
  If you love to hack-n-slash or love this time period and the past games in this series then this 
 is a must have. I gave this game a 8.5 because of some missing features but I'm sure it's nothing 
 an expansion or some downloadable content can't fix.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deusman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Now first I will admit I am a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series. Ever since "Musou Warriors" came 
 out for the ps1 I have been hacking and slashing in the DW universe ever since. Admittedly, I have 
 been disappointed with DW 4 and 5 as they lacked any real additions from the groundbreaking DW 
 3. That said, many things have been bought back in DW 6 that was present in DW 3. The in depth 
 storyline for each character is astounding and moves away from the tiny storylines included in 
 4 and 5. This gives you a chance to really get into the character you pick and the branching skills 
 tree is a great addition and adds alot of replayability. As for the battles themselves, the renbu 
 system is not a hindrance but adds a welcome sense of organic flow to each battle as the more you 
 fight and get your adrenaline pumping, the better you fight as a solider. Even the tiny re-introduction 
 of the "title" system lost since DW 3 adds a level of character-attatchment that anyone will enjoy. 
 The morale system seems to be much more fleshed out as soldiers really do fight harder and with 
 more initiative instead of remaining in the same place unless their officer is nearby. So many 
 facets have been added to this game it would be hard to get to them all. But as I said at the begining 
 of this review DO NOT listen to the idiots who give this game a bad review. God of War is just 
 as much a button-masher as this game but lacks the depth and chaos of war this game has in spades. 
 So if you are a huge fan of the series or just someone looking for a game to satisfy your fighting 
 and/or war tastes, Dynasty Warriors 6 will satisfy I promise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Seriously. Sure, it is REALLY pretty in every possible way... but that doesn't justify the rabid 
 popularity of this series.
  
  Conan's answer to the question, "What is best in life?", is still the one to live by... crush your 
 enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentation of their women.
  
  There are no lamenting women in DW6, at least not in cutscenes that I've witnessed so far, but 
 there is a WHOLE lot of crushing your enemies and seeing them driven before you. And there is something 
 to be said for the entertainment value of single-handedly demolishing hordes of unremarkable foes. 
 Dynasty Warriors has always captured the sense of epic heroes of demi-god stature roaming the battlefield 
 and this obviously appeals to a lot of players out there. Just looking at the series spin-offs 
 and similar games out there is solid proof that the idea is good.
  
  Good idea or not, as good as DW6 looks and as much fun as I am having playing it... there isn't 
 anything innovative or special about it. Not one thing.
  
  I'm all for over-the-top characters... but there are limits. How many hulking brutes wielding obscenely 
 massive clubs does the game need to have? Why do the female characters all have to be so extrovertedly 
 "girly" and hold to the fantasy law of ladies in armor... the more flesh you show the more combat 
 effective you must be. And, with the variety of weaponry and armor reasonably available during 
 the era, why did the character designers feel the need to deck out characters in ridiculously out-of-place 
 gear? Every time I see Cao Ren, I cry a little inside. And that is far preferable to throwing up 
 in my mouth at the overly androgenous, lace-covered, high-heeled book wearing horrors that dance 
 across the screen from time to time. I'm thankful for the teen rating, I'm not sure how much more 
 thinly veiled homo-erotica I could stomach.
  
  Normally, a large stable of playable characters is a good thing since it provides variety... but 
 of the 41 unlockable characters, how many of them are truly unique? How many styles of fighting 
 ARE there for hulking brutes wielding obscenely massive clubs? The differences between the dozen 
 or more characters I have played so far are trivial and provide little to make characters unique. 
 And only 17 get a Legend? Man, I guess churning out 6 stages each... oh, wait, nearly all of the 
 stages are identical in design between the various Legends. So guess rendering all of those cutscenes 
 was too much work... huh?
  
  Speaking of which... gack!
  
  I'm use to bad dialogue and eye-rolling responses to what passes for storylines, but this really 
 takes the cake. The depth, emotion, and characterizations make DW6 feel more like fan-fiction than 
 a professionally developed script. All of the pseudo-philosophy and warrior's path nonsense got 
 really old, really quick... in the first Legend.
  
  Tangent done, back to the characters themselves. The progession chart is a nice touch... but woefully 
 under-developed and lacking in impact. They don't seem to offer any real customization but instead 
 serve more as a handicap to bolster deficiencies in your style or skill and, again, they don't 
 do anything to make a character feel unique.
  
  Weapons, while (as previously mentioned) often comically over-the-top, are fun to collect and the 
 driving need for players to find "the best weapon evar!" is generally unresistable. But the weapons, 
 too, continue the trend of providing too-little by way of customization and nothing by way of uniqueness. 
 There isn't a need to keep an arsenal of different weapons because the differences between them 
 are minor and there is little decision in picking a weapon to compliment your style. It is a non-issue. 
 As long as a weapon has more attack power and abilities you want, it is better. Occasionally there 
 is a choice between abilities that you like more, but it doesn't change the gameplay any.
  
  Horses? Go read that last paragraph again. Now add that, while riding and mounted combat make 
 you grin, these horses are just as demi-godlike as you are in their ability to leap from outrageous 
 heights successfully... without tossing you and their apparent power to dish out elemental damage 
 from their hooves. Um... yeah...
  
  All of that, its really just opinion and results may vary with interest. So let's start to wrap 
 up on some things that are not opinionated. 
  
  The graphics ARE superb but they are not perfect. Despite the dramatically increased viewing distance, 
 there are still times whenever enemy units don't render fast enough and you find yourself suddenly 
 staring down a forest of angry faces that weren't there a second ago. This is especially true on 
 co-op, where the engine apparently doesn't like both players being in the thick of battle... especially 
 if they are in the thick of two different battles. But, oh, does it love failing to render enemy 
 officers until they just finish sodomizing you with their outlandish weapon.
  
  The audio is wonderful and I have no complaints at all about its quality, though I would have liked 
 more than one victory line per character. After a few battles, I actually start to cringe whenever 
 I defeat an officer or take a base because I just don't want to hear the same thing over and over 
 again. Is a little variety too much to ask? Can we delete one of the hulking brutes with obscenely 
 massive club to make more room on the disc for voices?
  
  I'm rarely one to agree with the critics and they are giving lower scores than their reasoning 
 seems to justify, but they are saying the right things. No matter how pretty, this is just another 
 Dynasty Warriors game with no spark of innovation to make us nod and smile. It is fun to play, 
 without a doubt, but KOEI needs to raise the bar and give us more than a cookie-cutter game with 
 a new paintjob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Compilation
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the game for 1 and a half hours as of today, so unfortunately, I'm not really 
 sure if all the characters have different weapon changes. I may also have incorrect data within 
 my review.
  
  Pros
  
  -We all love the game! Action Japanese blockbuster hack and slashing- It's just so good to be apart 
 of it.
  
  -The graphics has been much refurbished! It's a completely new Dynasty look. More dynamic than 
 any other KOEI game out now.
  
  -Sound and music is more. There is no cheap guitar solos in this epic.
  
  -A great compelling 
 1/2 playing game. It's just right!
  
  Cons
  
  -Exaggerated character tweaking is present. Lu Xun is wearing facial Amazon make up. Sexual looking 
 Diao Chan and Zhen Ji just do not fit in.
  
  -Linear gaming modes. Musou and Free mode, including Challenge mode, is your entire going to play 
 with.
  
  -Out of the 41 playable characters available, only 17 have a storyline or Musou Mode, with the 
 others being featured in cutscenes and as supporting generals on the battlefield. It's just not 
 good enough KOEI!
  
  Dynasty warriors 6 is a great game, just like all the predecessors from games gaming hack and slash 
 experts, KOEI. We have all been dying for an RPG Hack and Slash for sometime now on the current 
 and extremely notable console that really does deserve credit for.
  Dynasty Warriors 6 offers a completely new make over that completely washes aware sharp and low 
 level terrain pixelisation at the first. We can all see its drastic change in graphics, and the 
 addiction is really fun looking and wide spread.
  
  The gameplay is also a great new addition, featuring classic moments of the repetitive square-mashing 
 button pressing, followed by the execution of the triangle button on the controller. The new concepts 
 are great to hack into the opposition because an unlimited combo, i. e. The Renbu system, helps 
 maneuver attacks better and with more precision. The 60 fps implementation adds to the effect, 
 making the linear experience wider and tactical to the players disposal. All well is so because 
 maps are finer, graphically speaking, a lot of improvement has been concentrated here, and the 
 far plane is seen from thousands of yards away! 
  Enemy A. I. is revamped to an excellent level of reconisation as well!
  Soldiers will respond 
 to attacks and the counters they execute while you're constantly attacking with the same method, 
 is repelled most of the time. Enemy units have been altered, varying from boulder throwers, to 
 two Handed club hitters; these enemies ensure attacks you make, with little aggression, attack 
 ineffectively. It's all very well here!
  The cut-scenes are simply full of lush HD Greatness. Sharpness is smooth and prcised with accuracy 
 and compelling action moments. You can even witness characters dying in their inevitable storyline 
 adventure. Blood and guts are not present; so don't dribble over the sick twisted scenes of blockbuster 
 title, Saw IV. It's just never going to work out!
  Dynasty Warriors is rated 'T' for Teen people.
  
  The all new grapple feat, and skill tree 
 idea put into the games process. 
  It sounds fun, that grappling feature! However, the skill tree is different for every character. 
 It's new but already tacky and wasteful. Nothing so good here.
  
  Characters are tweaked, a completely new look is stunning, and models are looked with more realism. 
 However, the weirdness starts with the new weapon arrangements for the characters. Characters like 
 Diao Chan, and Zhen Ji, yes that's right, the female Club and Flute wielder, have been equipped 
 with rather uncanny Whips.
  They look similar in weapon shape, and well, KOEI might have given us an impression that the Three 
 Kingdoms had some sassy and naughty Dominatrix, within the cast. Dramatically, it's just bizarre 
 and not right. 
  In addition, Sun Shang Xiang now specializes with a Bow and arrow weapon. Goodbye you pair of Chakras. 
 Ultimately, characters have been given haircuts and styles, a new outfit and attires, and a drastic 
 weapon modification.
  
  7 of them have been discluded within the series so far. Disappointing as it may seem for the Playstation 
 3 and its extremity. Jiang Wei, Xing Cai, Pang De, Da Qiao, Zuo Ci, Meng Huo and Zhu Rong have 
 all dispersed from the set. The difference is that Zhu Rong and Meng Huo gave an ultimate ethnic 
 twist to the series. It's a shame, and it will all change now. 
  What also has changed, since all the characters in previous games could play in Musou mode, is 
 that now out of the 41 playable characters only 17 of them have a storyline or Musou Mode selection 
 progression.
  The remainder will only be controllable in Free Mode and Challenge Mode.
  
  
  
  It's surprisingly awkward to express thoughts on this because it's just not understandable. 
 Perhaps the engine within the game has used up its limits.
  
  Musou Mode and Free mode, including the Challenge mode, are all about what you are going to experiment 
 with. 
  
  
  Because my Review might not be 100% accurate, it's just best to say this game has disappointed 
 me for several reasons. These are the customization modes, the use of weapon manipulation, the 
 playable characters, the mode selections, and the item menu, which has been disposed of within 
 the game. You will no longer be able to equip that wonderful 'Peacock Amulet' onto each character 
 folks.
  
  Everyone has publicized so much over a journey. In return, don't listen too much about the hype. 
 Perhaps it is not over yet. KOEI likes to surprise their Fans. Additionally, an Extreme Legend 
 and Empires game Expansion could already be in the making, including faults I have mentioned about 
 the games contents.
  
  Give the game some leeway, dig out of the linear pit to previous titles, enjoy every moment of 
 the game as we did with Dynasty Warriors 5. Do you remember craving over that previous title? Were 
 there any later installments to add onto the gameplay? There was indeed!
  So, think positive about this one of a hell of a classic Japanese Hack N Slash Title! The future 
 will hold secrets and rewards!
  
  Game Rated 8/10
  
  Just wait for KOEI's finale!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roog2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors 6 is an upgrade from the past if ur a fan u will know this i will list its goods 
 and bads
  
  1: (good) =i think dw6 os perfect fr friends and having loads of fun!!
  
  2 (bad) =only thing some chars have the same movesets but diffrent atributes but still....
  
 
  3: (good) =gameplay fixed with new renbu system and creative fighting!!
  
  4: (bad) =cut out old chars one of them was my fav....
  
  5: (good) =the sound, voice actings is 
 all pretty good ,etc
  
  6 (bad) =ah alas no 4th weapons Overall i give it a 9.5 becasue i am a fan and encourage koie to 
 make more plus its honestly just a great game well thanks for lookin!! and thers is still more 
 room for improvement iall i hope is koei step up their gam bring those chars back and no more clonde 
 movesets and this is the perfect game, i think so they can get better rating from gaming sites they 
 may have to go back to the dueling 1-1 fighitng type to regain good ratings.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doldirkpolsex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Game is hot... mad fun and just feels plain great... best in the series.... the only thing the game 
 is missing is that not all the characters can do or have their own mosou mode.. other then that 
 the game is amazing.. graphics improved, fun to swim and fight in water... the horse is great in 
 this game, which is a great improve.. Zange he is still gay lol, which is a good thing cause theirs 
 always got to be someone to laugh at.. but his weapon is kool tho... and xu zhu is still fat... all 
 the characters have changed in some way or another... which is kool so you dont get bored with them.... the 
 all new renubu thing fight style is mad kool, makes it fun and makes clutch moments intense and 
 you just wanna kick ass and kill thousands and thousands of people at a time... the all new skill 
 chain progression is kool, makes it fun to know how you are improving your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cao_English
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me about Dynasty Warriors 6 was its story. For once in my life, I wasn't 
 saying how much Dynasty Warriors deviates from the storyline of ROTK (Romance of the Three Kingdoms) . 
 For those of you who didn't know, yes DW really happened, and the characters really were alive 
 once --they just probably didnt look too much like they do in the game. Of course I'm not saying 
 that Sun Ce destroyed Xu Chang; but other than the story that happens after the (historic) death 
 of the character you play as in the Musou (story) mode, it is generally very accurate. So while 
 you are playing, it isn't too farfetched to say that if you read the story and listen to what it 
 says, you are getting a basic lesson in Chinese History; Which is great!
  
  Story (9.5/10)
  
  Getting to the game however, theres not much to be disappointed by with DW 
 6. It is more difficult than its predecessors and requires you to prioritize your movements more. 
 Previously in the series, the extent of the prioritization was "which red dot should i move towards 
 first?" because you were the only person on the battlefield (besides Lu Bu) that moved. Yes; the 
 red dots move now! Often towards you, and in numbers. So now you must save allies, bases, and yourself. 
 Amazing... the AI is just great this time around in almost every way.
  
  The new renbu system at first seemed a little boring, but it actually improves the gameplay greatly. 
 The fluidity of the motion feels brilliant, thanks to motion captured kung-fu moves mixed into 
 the regular DW hacks and slashes. 
  
  Overall there isn't too much bad to be said about DW6, I don't really miss any of the old characters, 
 and truly i don't think they destroyed any of the new ones either, i enjoyed all of them. I am 
 looking forward to expansions, and hopefully some new characters in them like they did with Samurai 
 Warriors.
  
  *Crosses fingers for Samurai Warriors 3 to surpass this game like they usually do with DW games*
 
  
  Overall 8.8/10
  
  Fans, check it out; You'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuma_NarooN
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly anticipating this title. After following the series since the 3rd title, but only 
 actually owning the 4th and 5th games, along with the PSP titles and the Warriors Orochi spinoff, 
 I can say I'm a veteran of the series. Always labeled as an inaccurate hack-n-slash version of 
 the famous novel based on real events, Romance of the Three Kingdoms, that accusation is correct. 
 But the series is also known for it's repetitive gameplay. Has this been remedied? 
  
  Well, simply put, no. Is that a bad thing, really? No. For those who don't know, you play as famous 
 generals and warlords of the Three Kingdoms era of Ancient China. In the games, you're given a 
 warrior who has some sort of advanced fighting ability which gives them the uncanny ability to 
 slay literally hundreds of enemies in one sitting. 
  
  The same ol' gameplay that has been there since the 2nd game, is still here. You start out somewhere 
 on a map with your army, and you'll have to complete various tasks and objectives. That's as tactical 
 as it gets. At least 70% of the time, you have to simply kill the opposing commander, but always, 
 just always something will happen, forcing you to listen to your army's ridiculously-intelligent 
 strategist, whom can predict anything and make anything happen.
  
  You'd be wise to listen to what's going on this time around, as battles can be completely broken 
 with one failed plot. Speaking of stories, only 17 of the 40+ warriors have been given Musou Modes, 
 and 7 characters have been randomly cut from the roster. There is no multiplayer at all besides 
 split-screen co-op, which is a huge shame. By now, you'd think Koei would realize that they need 
 some type of online function in their title. At the very least some online co-op with voice chat. 
 But no. It's just split-screen co-op, and if you don't have an HDTV, you SDTV users (like me, even 
 though my tv is still sharp and 32'') will get screwed by nice little black bars whose only purpose 
 is to make the screen even smaller and make your eyes bleed trying to read text which is font size 
 negative 3.
  
  The Musou Modes are the same old thing, besides actually detailing a certain character's entire 
 life from them serving in the military, even going as far to (duh duh duhhhh) alter events so you 
 get the happiest, peachiest ending on the earth! 
  
  Moving on. The graphics, while at first glance aren't the BEST graphics on the systems, but they 
 are pretty well done. The series' trademark draw distance is pretty much fixed. The only problem 
 is, the graphical glitches which plague all maps and characters. Approaching objects like bushes, 
 trees, plants, hell, even flames will cause said object to magically disappear. I've seen Liu Bei 
 ride horseback straight through a tree, then I followed him, with the same result. Textures look 
 sharp and awesome in some areas, and look muddy and rushed in others. 
  
  Animations are nice, and all characters are given new animations to coincide with their new looks. 
 When I say "new", I mean, "what the hell was Koei thinking this time new". Why does Yue Ying have 
 long, flame-red hair, and wears a type of clothing that didn't even exist (most likely) in that 
 time period? Why do characters like Ma Chao (my favorite) and Sun Jian have spiky, DBZ-style white 
 hair? And why, oh why does Zhange He look like the gayest (no offense) thing to happen to Dynasty 
 Warriors ever since... Zhange He? Almost everyone has been redesigned or given weapons/clothing/looks 
 that make them look like Koei has been going through hard times or some diseases or something throughout 
 their offices. I don't know why most characters look Caucasian rather than their native Chinese 
 looks. 
  
  Several new gameplay conventions have been added, such as the ability to climb ladders, swim in 
 shallow and deep water, jump with your horse, call your horse to you, and a heavier emphasis on 
 bases. Too bad most of those are useless or just random. Swimming is available, but gives you no 
 advantage at all. It's just there, and I've had no use for it yet. Climbing a ladder was only used 
 by me once, and that was at Hu Lao Gate. The base system is kind of like the one fromDW5, except 
 there's a counter this time, and you have to just keep killing until it hits 0, which causes your 
 soldiers to spontaneously combust into existence in the base. 
  
  There's a new Renbu system, which was highly spoken of, and is... nothing special. It's a bar with 
 four levels that appears next to your health/status bar. Beat the hell out of people to make it 
 go up, do nothing and take hits to make it go down. The higher it is, the more combos you have 
 available to you and such. Speaking of which, combos never end unless you want them to because 
 of the Renbu system, but don't think it matters since the AI will either accept the rape or counter-attack 
 you somehow. 
  
  There's new level-up systems too. You gain EXP from collecting pouches from fallen foes or accomplishing 
 random special tasks for each mission. Horses can level up too, or did I already mention that? 
 There's a FFX-style skill grid that gives a character new skills (like attack bonuses, more health, 
 etc.) , which replaces the items menu. 
  
  The A. I. is still the most mundane, completely idiotic, illogical piles of crap you will ever annihilate. 
 Even Lu Bu can be taken out, as long as you have a high enough level that he doesn't dodge everything 
 you do. Yeah, R1 is the dodge button, no more bows for you. The A. I. from Warriors Orochi was 5 
 times as advanced as that of this game, and that was one of the few non-sarcastic statements in 
 this review.
  
  The music is still the same cheesy-yet-catchy  
 you will always hear in the series. The battlefield is filled to the brim with the sounds of hundreds 
 (yes, the engine supports at least 200+ characters on screen at once) of soldiers duking it out 
 and the nice ambiance in some places. Only English voices are available here, and while the voice 
 acting isn't as bad as DW3, at least they pronounce the names right this time around. Cow Pee. 
 Hehe...
  
  The game also has support for DualShock 3, and the controls are very easy to grasp and use. No 
 complaints with controls at all on this one. Technical issues include the random transparency of 
 objects even when you're not close to them, and some slowdown when there's a few hundred people 
 on your screen, but it's easy to manage. 
  
  Overall though, if you're a DW fan, just go and buy this now. If not, you're taking a risk buying 
 this. I recommend starting with an earlier title and moving up to 6. It's not hard, but... I don't 
 even know why I just made that recommendation actually, but you should probably do it anyway. Koei 
 only needs to release DW6: Xtreme Legends, and give Ma Chao a Musou Mode, bring back the Create 
 A Warrior mode, and include some online, and it'll be golden. A man can only dream... God... Wonder 
 what DW6: Empires will be like.  _  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, every DW game is good in its own way. Just cause its story doesnt change so what? 
 Neither do the stories for sports games. This game is amazing in its own right.
  
  GRAPHICS 8 OUT OF 10: This is by far the prettiest game in the series. character models look great, 
 water is nice and some castles look indestructible, plus decent particle effects and usually fluid 
 gameplay though the game tends to lag every once in a while
  
  STORY: 7 OUT OF 10 The story is basically the same as all the others, three kingdoms vie for control 
 of the land, and you play in battles to unify the land under your kingdom. There are some slight 
 variations from previous games, but if youve ever played a dw game before, then you know the story
 
  
  GAMEPLAY 10 OUT OF 10: This is where the game shines. Killing thousands of people at a time is 
 a cool feeling, and it doesnt get boring. Every character in the game has been redesigned, with 
 all new weapons and playstyles. Most characters have change for the better yet, a couple are still 
 terrible (Pang Tong) . The new battle system is much better, and the renbu is amazing. Although 
 slight, the new changes like swimming and climbing really make battle seem more real and feel like 
 there on more of a grand scale. Battles are now much larger.
  
  Overall this game is a very good game and although not very innovative its just plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MerrickBFox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 6 was slated to be the biggest and the baddest of the hack and slash series. I 
 had seen previews touting, "Koei reinvents scenematic kung-fu". Wow, what a let down after such 
 a huge statement.
  
  DW6 is a good game, don't get me wrong. But, for all the issues the DW series faces, DW6 does little 
 to solve those or even differentiaite itself from the rest of the series in any meaningful way.
 
  
  You set about as an ancient chinese warrior slashing and bashing about thousands of soldiers, fun! 
 Well, you'd think, but repetitive is more like it. In previous installments you would use 2 buttons 
 to dish out your combos to massive scores of soldiers. Those days are gone. Its all about the one 
 button now folks.
  
  The Renbu system sounds intriguing in principle but in practice its just mash attack as fast and 
 often as humanly possible rinse and repeat. That being said, I wouldn't even necessarily mind the 
 repeated singular button mashing had the move sets that were supposed to increase with higher levels 
 of Renbu actually increased and been more visually stunning as we were all alluded to believing 
 they were.
  
  But, as Renbu increases, you're introduced to a handful of fairly uninteresting additional movies 
 that seem to be a huge waste of these live kung - fu models they supposedly used. 
  
  What should have happened was more finite control allowing the player to pull off spectacular movesets 
 at will that were ever evolving and increasingly interesting as you not only leveled your character 
 but also their Renbu gages. 
  
  The graphics are pretty well done for all the cutscenes and even, compared to older titles in the 
 series, on the battlefield. However, for being on a next gen system, the graphics are still a little 
 blocky, pixelated, and bland. Whats worse is that with all this raw power, there is still many 
 instances were framerates plunge for small periods of time and scores of soldiers appear and disappear 
 on screen seeminly at random. With all this power, graphics should be sharper and your targets 
 should never slow framerate down or fade in and out. 
  
  The sound track is as expected. Wiggity wiggity reow!! pyscho fast chinese inspired 80's metal. 
 Its dull and boring for the most part. The voice acting is still quite bad. The dialogue is tired 
 and uninspired. Although, the battle effects are still quite good and clear.
  
  Climbing and swimming were supposed to add a whole different level of tactics, but in reality, 
 they offer little to deter from the linear gameplay. Maps should be more open ended to make better 
 use of these features. Its rare that you even need to jump in the water and swim or climb up a 
 ladder. The stages were clearly designed in the old manner they've always been with the after thought 
 of, "oh let's allow people to swim and climb! That's a cracker! Put that in there too." 
  
  That all being said, DW6 still holds true to the forumla of its predecessors and if you loved them 
 you'll love DW6. It's all about wasting small amounts of time in brainless hack and slash fashion. 
 
  
  If Koei wants to take DW in any tactical or other meaningful direction, they need a complete overhaul 
 and fresh perspective on the entire genre of hack and slash. More move sets ppl! More play options! 
 Better production values! More stability!! And, for the love of god, bring back the items and ultimate 
 weapons!! (the skill tree was a much needed and valuable improvement that should have been in game 
 many iterations ago) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankiefish84
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  This is possibly the best dynasty warriors ever. The strategy part and the whole new renbu system 
 make the game fun and addicting. It also makes it a little more difficult too. This game is definitely 
 harder but it is definitely worth the money. Buy it. This game has to definitely be the best out 
 of the series, although thats not saying much for a game that you can get away with pushing 3 different 
 buttons all the way through the game. If your a fan of dynast warriors you have to own this. The 
 only bad thing is they still havent fixed the part where theres a 100 people on the screen it still 
 slows down into slow-motion. But other than that the game is great. The game is amazing for graphics. 
 the new costumes are awesome and the new ability system is great too. This game has improved alot 
 on its past titles. The only thing they could have added to make it better was online co-op. That 
 would have been really cool. But other than that the game is amazing enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inseter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  So it has been a while since I've played a DW game (the latest I've played was DW3, i think) so 
 a few of the things are new to me, but it generally is the same as why i liked the series in the 
 first place.
  
  The composition of all DW games is simple: put lots of guys and gals in a large battlefield and 
 the player has to slice and dice through all of them, while most won't take no more than 2 attacks 
 to finish off there is a few tougher cookies: the Generals. But of course, like any DW game there 
 is little strategy to this game and can be enjoyed without really having the need to think about 
 how you're going to play it, but if thats the case you may find yourself dead fairly quickly as 
 with any game you find yourself playing, of course the strategy to keeping yourself alive is fairly 
 simple as well.
  
  The game isn't very difficult, no regular solider will be a challenge, and almost every general 
 in the game can be beaten fairly quickly except maybe Pang Tong, Lu Bu, and i haven't yet found 
 a third guy.
  
  I have mixed feelings about many things in this game, like when you dive into a horde of enemies 
 you may find the game slowing down, generally this is annoying but for some reason it brings up 
 a sentimental feeling (every DW game I've played has this issue) . They also cut down the different 
 types of weapons in the game, though this is more historically accurate it does take away some 
 of the originalities of certain characters.
  
  As far as any fan of the series is concerned the only really big thing they've done with this game 
 is change up the look of just about every character, this is somewhat saddening because they've 
 wrecked a few good characters like Sun Shang Xing who now looks like a crack-whore (honestly, she 
 does) or Gang Ning who is now wearing a shirt and has two small blades instead of one big one or 
 how Zhang He is now de-clawed and more womanly than ever (though Zhou Yu still is the most womanly 
 man in the game) . Not only a huge change to most of the characters in the roster but they have 
 dropped plenty of characters like Xing Cai (even though she was a one timer the two pronged battle 
 fork was still awesome) .
  
  The only other thing that might through fans of the series off is the fact they don't include the 
 fourth weapon any more, just three different types of weapons (you'll probably only use the one 
 strongest group) . There is a skill ladder though, thats quite a nice improvement despite the lack 
 of fourth weapon and of course you can swim and climb ladders in this game so the bumps it up huge 
 points for really simple things that somehow haven't managed to make it into the series.
  
  some people have complained about the renbu gauge, but I can honestly say i haven't even notice 
 the dang thing when I'm playing.
  
  so for the wrap-up, fans will maybe enjoy the game depending upon how much you cared about the 
 old character design... and newbies will be surprised by how good this seemingly overrated series 
 actually is but I must remind you new kids that the professional reviewers have to review these 
 games about 3 times every year so they have a right to be sick of the series. (oh and i didn't 
 look over this for editing, so sorry for any wrong placed words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vnth93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warrior 6 is quite hard and easily confuse, especially when you are newcomer to this serie 
 but when you understand the tricks and concept, the games is really fun and excited. It add some 
 new action and movement so it get less boring and last longer. Character design costumes are fantasic 
 and their face look just like real. Weapon type and design also look better. One thing I like the 
 best about this game is it follow the Romance of Three Kingdoms novel (the story line not follow 
 exactly like I expected, but lot of improve) . You can play and fight, meet the same situation as 
 famous generals in three kingdoms period. The only bad thing about this game is the voice acting 
 get cheesy as always and the game get boring after a while. Another thing is I am a big fan of 
 this series and some how I found that this is too hard. It took me too long just to understand 
 the concept but it took me even longer to play master it and unlock cool stuff like items and horses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion_of_Jrock
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  DW6 is one of the best in the series, it has great graphics and it really uses the PS3 graphic 
 capabilities to the fullest. Having played all of the previous installments I have to say its one 
 of the best so far but I could be mistaken
  
  The best part I would have to say is giving all of the characters fresh new looks and new weapons. 
 Adding that to the mix makes it all the more enjoyable, the combos are outrageous you could move 
 more that 100 times and keep going. The combos are one of the things that makes this game good, 
 unlike in the previous games were you had to stop after the combo was over, hope you don't get 
 hit and then do it all over again is great, it defiantly makes everything move a lot smoother in 
 the long run and you can get things done more quickly.
  
  What even more impressed me is that all of the characters that are available in the musou mode 
 have their own story to tell unlike the other games were they just fit in where ever and went along 
 with it. Every character has their own role to play and that is awesome, what really stands out 
 is the fact that they all have their own cut scenes.
  
  Since I covered the positive it wouldn't be a review if I didn't cover the negatives. Graphics 
 may be all good and well but again like all the rest of the DW games it slows down in certain spots, 
 I find that it happens most when there are numerous amounts of people around you, I find it hard 
 to center myself on my character to make sure they aren't being damage and even if they were it 
 would be hard to get away with lagging game play. 
  
  Musou mode, I loved musou mode and it has to be one of my favorite modes in the game but in this 
 one a lot of the characters have been left out for the free mode, now I don't know if this is for 
 expansion games but most of them that I have played aren't even long enough them selves to satisfy 
 me. I think Koei could have put a little more effort into that, even Samurai Warriors two had tons 
 of character to choose from, what made them change their mind about this game? After playing this 
 game I have noticed that it does get repetitive after a while and that disappointed me a little, 
 after all of the others this one finally showed me the true light of the game..
  
  My score for DW6 is 7 out of 10 because of the dull repetitiveness that had finally been drawn 
 to my attention and the constant lag of game play, if you like the Dynasty Warrior's game I would 
 recommend getting this, and you've got to love the series to enjoy this one fully. If you haven't 
 played I would recommend you not get it, it might disappoint you too much and turn you off for 
 games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfoxmania
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Caution: Purchase or rental of this software may cause severe boredom. A good review should always 
 leave out his own preference (taste) of game genres when writing a review, so before continuing 
 any further let me say that I have nothing against hack and slash action games. I've enjoyed lots 
 of them in the past, but even if I did I would leave my complaints related to the genre out of 
 the door, such as when writing a review for a basketball game I wouldn't give the game a lower 
 score because I wouldn't be into hip-hop music (just a random comparison to make my point through. 
 Let's explain further on the new standard of the term "mess" that this game puts upon:
  
  You press the square button repeatedly until your triangle button meter fills up and then you tap 
 or hold that for a couple of cute spins. I say cute, not because it's a bad fighting move or not 
 enough entertaining, but rather because its attempt to keep you entertained for more than 2 levels 
 of the game is what's cute. This repeating process is OK, I mean not every game can be a Devil 
 May Cry, a God Of War, a Heavenly Sword or an almighty Ninja Gaiden Sigma, but for this it has 
 to make up in other aspects of a game, right? Well, as if it wasn't bad enough, the rest is even 
 more disastrous. Hundreds of clones coming at ya without putting any fight whatsoever, just staring 
 at you or throwing an arm like drunk people with sober purposes. At least if the animation matched 
 the danger they present at you it would have made for a little humor in the game, but I guess the 
 game too itself too seriously. Too bad that the same can't be said about the voice acting in the 
 game. And the lack of drama is such an annoyance that makes the game even more incompatible with 
 itself.
  
  So help me God find myself a reason as to why I spent time to rent and play this game. OK, the 
 tiny tiny variety of sometimes having to climb or swim and destroy other subjects, like doors and 
 key characters, makes for a difference of 0.5 + score for this game. Otherwise this title wouldn't 
 get more than 1.5 from me.
  
  OK maybe those little switches and swimming can make up for more lost points, but when I start 
 thinking about the boss battles I feel like taking off even more points. can't explain it but it's 
 a terrible NOT TESTED part of the game. I could go on and talk about the graphics, but I'm afraid 
 the kids who have rated this game with a high score and are using the video cables that came with 
 the PS3 in the box with their standard definition TVs will call me a liar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreas-Sword
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I am from Germany. I can not speak English well. I translate my letter to the translation engine 
 "Google": 
  
  I think the "Dynasty Warriors" series is one of the interesting series. Although "KOEI" in the 
 game for years no major changes and innovations made, it still makes for a lot of fans are still 
 very fun.
  
  It is true that "KOEI" since "Dynasty Warriors 3" no major changes made. One of the reasons is 
 because it is very difficult for the game "Dynasty Warriors" to make many changes. Because in the 
 game the battle on a big card takes place, and where hundreds of thousands of opponents on the 
 field, and because it is difficult, all in real-time display, even with a live report card and 
 protocol. Because everything happens in real time. And also, there is at "Dynasty Warriors" about 
 40 playable characters, and everyone has a different weapon and various attack-, fight- and Musou-movements 
 (techniques) . It is even very difficult to have a game to produce that have all these properties, 
 and even on the PS2. 
  Therefore, it is very difficult for years been major changes and improvements to make. There was 
 always only small changes and small changes. Some fans wanted so, but some not. 
  
  But, this time the game "Dynasty Warriors 6" is different, for "PS3". 
  At "DYNASTY WARRIORS 
 6" has been very many changes and innovations. Both of her graphics, as well as from her scenario, 
 as well as the characters ... Etc. .. Because, at the "PS3" on the "Blu-ray" Disc you can much 
 more save data, "KOEI" now all of the changes and improvements made, which have been years when 
 PS2 could not do. 
  
  Now, I come to the innovations and changes in the "Dynasty Warriors 6". I have played the "Japanese-Version" 
 of the game "Dynasty Warriors 6", aka "SHIN SANGOKU MUSOU 5". I have played the game total around 
 10 to 15 hours. I have played alone and Coop (2 Player) . 
  
  "Dynasty Warriors 6" is a mix of "Action", "Real-Time Strategy", "Beat'em up" and "Hack&Slay". 
 
  There are a total of 41 playable characters. Of these, 9 have at the beginning of the game. The 
 other 32 playable characters you must unlock. 
  
  
  
  "The POSITIVES": 
  
  + The characters all have a *new outfit* (new look) and *new costumes*. 
  + The characters all 
 have *new weapons*. 
  + The characters all have *new attack* and *new fight techniques*. The characters have acrobatic 
 and elegant attacks. 
  + There are 3 elements for weapons: Fire, Ice, Lightning. 
  + There are 32 unlock characters. 
  + You can either play alone, but also Coop (2-Player) . 
 
  + At the game must be broken the normal doors with sword. And the big doors must be broken (prepared) 
 with batterings ram attack and catapults. (in real-time) 
  + The characters can now *swim* and even on *horseback swimming*. (in real-time) . 
  + Now you 
 can *ride boats* and you can *climb ladders*. (in real-time) . 
  + At the game, there are also a lot of *strategy* elements. (in real-time) . 
  + Especially these 
 characters have very good new weapons and very very good new fighting techniques = For example, 
 "Liu Bei", "Xiahou Dun", "Zhao Yun", "Lu Bu", "Zhou Yu", "Sima Yi", "Yue Ying", "Zhen Ji", "Lu 
 Xun" and "Zhuge Liang". 
  + And you can make infinitely long *COMBOS*. On the screen is a "combo" counter. 
  + And there's 
 the new, for the characters different for each specific *"RENBU SYSTEM"*. The system is different 
 for each character. The system comes with the character development and meet with certain orders 
 always evolving, so that new Fighting techniques appear, and allows the character very long attacks 
 and combos. This is a great innovation. 
  + The scenario and development system is now different. 
  + In the story mode, the characters 
 can go different paths. 
  + During the game, there are many Cutscenes. 
  + *Huge* and *extensive* battlefields.
  + At the game you have high *long-term motivation*. 
 
  + Action-game with *high fun factor*.
  + There is also the new *"CHALLENGE MODE"*. 
  + There are many different and varied opponents varieties. 
  + The *control*, *gameplay* and 
 *camera work* is very good. The *controls* are very fluid. The characters are now much more agile 
 and have multi skills. 
  + With the left stick to move the character. With the right stick can rotate the camera, and the 
 camera can even move up and down, so get to the top and look down. 
  + And most importantly, the *graphics* are now very good, detailed graphics. You can see the opponents 
 very far. You can see all and the enemys of far away. (720p HDTV, 60 frames per second (fps) , Dolby 
 Digital audio) . 
  
  
  
  "NEGATIVE":
  
  - The only thing you could describe as negative is that the opponents almost exclusively from *humans*. 
 The opponents are almost all "humans" in different clothes (varieties) , and with various weapons. 
 (But there are many different and varied humans varieties.) (Sometimes the tigers and wolves attacks 
 the character.) 
  
  
  
  "CONCLUSION": 
  
  I think "KOEI" has done it this time, the game in the "NEXT-GEN" to convert. And it has finally 
 managed to very many different changes and innovations. This is a very good interesting game was 
 what the fans liked very determined. 
  
  In the *"Coop-Mode"*, there are more effects at the combination "Musou-attack" and there are more 
 fun. 
  
  Especially important for me is that the characters can now *swim*, *ride boats* and *climb ladders*. 
 Because these properties needs a mass battle game. That brings variety. 
  
  Another important point is that this infinitely long *"combos"* can take. This too is important. 
 Because it's really fun when you see on the screen how many combos you did. 
  
  And most recently, the new *"Renbu System"*. The system is very new and very interesting. Thanks 
 to this system, you can also very long combos. At the beginning of the game is the "Renbu system" 
 has not developed. But, the more you battles done, and the more the tasks done and special tasks 
 done, the more developed the "Renbu system." Then you can do in the battles for a long time various 
 attacks and combos. 
  
  
  
  RATING: 9/10 (90 points)
  
  ---------------------------------- 
  
  Graphics: 9.0 
  The graphics are now very good, detailed 
 graphics, Next-Gen. You can see the opponents very far. You can see all and the enemys of far away. 
 ( 720p HDTV, 60 frames per second (fps) ) 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0 
  The "control", "gameplay" and "camera work" is very good. The "controls" are very fluid. The characters 
 are now much more agile and have multi skills. With the right stick you can rotate the camera. 
 There are 3 Modes... 
  
  Sound: 8.8 
  This time the game have very good sound quality. "Dolby Digital audio". 
  
  Fun Factor: 9.1 
 
  The game is very fun when you play. Both alone, as well as Coop (2-Player) . There are very much 
 unlockables, unlock Characters. A lot of interesting skills. 
  The game has a high motivation for the *long-term-playing*.
  Action-game with *high fun factor*.
 
  
  ----------------------------------
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhangLiao60
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best idea for a hack and slash fps. Even though it may seem repetitive, i 
 doubt theres a hack and slash game just like this one, and no, not Ninety Nine Knights. I bet if 
 a person that has never played dynasty warriors picks up this game they would just play nonstop. 
 What makes it fun (well in my opinion) ITS SO HARD. instead of the other ones in the series, where 
 musou mode was like 30 minutes to beat, this game is tough, very very tough. The old ones it was 
 just Lu Bu and press square square square. If it had multi player pvp i would say a sword fighting 
 version of Halo.
  
  Now the gameplay and Graphics. Wow I never seen such cool techniques and prettier envrionments. 
 Real martial arts , like the case said it's just like being in a modern day kung fu film. Now everyone 
 misses the six charges six different charges you can do. I think they were going fort realism to 
 some degree. (excluding weapon and clothing) That's why you can die easier..
  Now i love the number of enemies on the field mixed with battlefield, it's a cool feel. My absolute 
 favorite function is the duels. Having the troops make a big circle around while you fight is just 
 great. It feels like the move Hero. And when you win the troops get encouraged. Rather than just 
 completely 
  annihilate your enemies with just square square square. You need to put effort into this roll past 
 your enemies and dodge techniques. Now with guard breaks, rolling, and more realistic damage it's 
 going to take "SKILL." And that's a word never used in the beat em up genre world.
  
  Now you all may miss the 4th weapons but with no charges there really is no reason, besides the 
 new weapon system has different varieties to fit your type of fighting. And the skill tree is pretty 
 much the successor of the items that you could equip.
  
  So with this much effort and comparisons i would rate a 10. Once you play you'll understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakozako666
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan since DW2 and have played DW3, SW, SW2, and SW2 Empires. With my experience I have 
 given DW6 an 8 because of the following:
  
  Positives:
  Looks Great (Though I don't have an HD TV... stuck at 480i..., Might raise the score when I see 
 the quality at 720p...)
  
  Love the new Renbu system since it's a continous attack instead of a certain number of moves with 
 a pause and then a continuation of those moves. 
  
  The new weapons each officer has is refreshing.
  
  The number of foes per screen (single) is 
 great.
  
  Even during normal mode I've had my share fare of deaths. Glad it's not too easy or hard during 
 normal mode. Since... well, it's supposed to be normal.
  
  Love the Skill Tree. It's simple to understand and rewarding for each level up.
  
  The more 
 freedom to move around is great and am pleased at the ability to jump from a mountain to the bottom 
 without having to go around. This also applies to swimming across rivers.
  
  Negatives:
  Story needs more! Lu Bu's story arc is by far the best. Would Koei please add Japanese Voice Track? 
 Such as they did with SW?
  
  Level Design needs more... material.
  
  On the PS3 there are slowdows. Some are rewarding and go swell with a situation but the DW6 does 
 not fully run 60 FPS on the PS3.
  
  Climbing is not so rewarding and the destinations of a climb should be more bang for the buck.
 
  
  Need more Characters!
  
  Conclusion:
  A great buy with its faults that dont overpower the positives (in my eyes anyway)
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I had to go to my local EB Games store 3x just to get this game. IMO this game is the best in the 
 series because it brings something new to the franchise. The ability to swim and climb ladder gives 
 the player the ability to plan their next move. The item inventory is replaced by warhorses which 
 you can level up by killing enemies while on the horse. Also the horses can jump. Which adds to 
 the experience. You can still get powerups that generals drop by killing them.
  
  Each character have their own grappling move, deadlock move, charge move, special move, and musou 
 move. At the end of each level you can upgrade your character by using points that you've earned 
 by killing enemies soldiers, generals and by completing objectives. Each character have different 
 upgrades, but will take some time to complete all the upgrades. The upgrade system work similar 
 to that of the sphere grid in Final Fantasy X. The enemies are much tougher than previous installments 
 and will give you a run for your money.
  
  Now with next-gen hardware you'd think the graphics would trump that of previous installments, 
 but that's where you're wrong. The graphics is BARELY any better than previous installments. Now 
 with texture pop ups. From far away you will see grasses, trees, and etc... but as you get closer 
 and closer they will simply... disappear. And once in a while enemies soldiers will pop out of nowhere. 
 The stages can be somewhat confusing, but you'll familiarize yourself with it.
  
  Overall this is a must buy if you're a fan of the series and if you're a newcomer then give it 
 a rent and who knows maybe you'll like it. :P 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I love the Dynasty Warriors series and have done since I first picked up DW2 on PS2 so as soon 
 as I heard there was going to be a next gen installment I was incredibly excited. Dynasty Warriors 
 has recieved a much needed update since DW5 on PS2 which was released almost 3 years ago now so 
 not only have the graphics been updates theres also a new fighting system which allows for almost 
 infinite combos, better AI and the ability to swim and climb along with others. There's also online 
 challenge leaderboards so one thing this game is not short on is features.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  Okay, the graphic have recieved a major update from the PS2 versions to PS3 
 but they're still not exactly 'next-gen' graphics, granted they do look nice and generally fit 
 the dynasty warriors style but I still feel like they could have pushed the PS3 a bit further in 
 order to get the best out of it. Also this title suffers from some frame rate issues during some 
 of the more insense battles. These are my only real concerns with the graphics overall it's looking 
 nicer than ever before and they have put an awful lot of enemies displayed on screen, I mean a 
 lot as well but this can cause the screen to become very busy indeed so it may be quite hard to 
 see exactly what your doing.
  
  STORY 8/10
  
  Well if you've ever played a Dynasty Warriors title before you should pretty much know what its 
 all about. The main story is based upon the Three Kingdoms story in China and revolves around a 
 massive srap between three kingdoms. This is a rich storyline full of characters. As you play through 
 each musou mode you are given insight into the whole story through one particular characters eyes 
 these stories are well developed for the character through cutscenes and intro text to each battle, 
 also the fact that you can play as many warriors from each of the kingdoms each with their own 
 story. This means that whilst you may have to do the same battle several times in different characters 
 musou modes there will be a difference each time, be it playing on a completely different side 
 or just having slightly different objectives.
  
  LONGEVITY 10/10
  
  There is just so much to do in this game you will not be putting it down anytime soon. There are 
 over 41 characters to unlock each with their own weapons and playing style, hundereds of skills 
 to learn, a levelling up system so your going to want to power up all your characters to play the 
 harder difficulties and get the best weapons and loads and loads of levels there's just so much 
 to do I can't possible think of anything else they could have crammed in so it gets a 10.
  
  GAMEPLAY 5/10
  
  Right, how good are you at pressing the square button? because that's 
 what your going to have to do, alot! basically the gameplay for this title consists of hitting 
 square over and over and now and then throwing in a triangle or circle for good measure. Yes repetitive 
 gameplay mechanics but at least it works the controls are solid and pretty responsive so I can't 
 really fault them there, Lets be honest your can't really break gameplay that's simply hit square 
 over and over.
  
  FUN 8/10
  
  This game is very fun, what could be more fun than hacking your way through literally thousands 
 of enemy soldiers, this is great on your own, brilliant with a friend. Fantastic stress relief. 
 Sometimes the repetitivness can get a bit boring but you'll soon have to return after a little 
 while.
  
  OVERALL 7.6/10
  
  So a brillian game that is let down by some repetitive gameplay but still a very good, very fun 
 title. I recommend it to anyone with a lot of time on there hands so they can attempt the mammoth 
 task of unlocking everything, or for someone who just want some quick fun play and just wants to 
 kill thousands of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacrossBebop
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  As a forward, please let it be known that I review this as one of the rabid followers of the Dynasty 
 Warriors universe. I do not intend to offer this as a "review for everybody". If you've enjoyed 
 the past entries and want a second opinion on this one, you've come to the right place.
  
  Graphically, some of what the critics are saying is true. There could be a lot more details popping 
 out at me. China was renowned for rich details to the simplest pillar or the most ornate vase. 
 There are times where I feel like I'm playing a truly "next gen" game (ps3 and 360 are now current 
 gen, but you get my drift) . Shadows that are detailed such as trees wafting in the breeze are things 
 that would be difficult to do years ago. You can't get around the fact that the engine is old, 
 and throwing some pretty textures over it isn't gonna hack it. This is fine for this game, but 
 fans will deserve a more fervant effort in the future.
  
  Sound Quality is decent. The same over the top metal stands as the anthem throughout the game, 
 as does the more recent tradition of every voice of the slain being heard. Some more traditional 
 chinese instruments are more prominent in the music which helps keep things fresh.
  
  The game mechanics are in place to keep things fresh. Old friends may prove to hold new disappointments 
 as Zhao Yu now wields a bo staff, sun ce a spear, and Dian Wei a ball on chain much similar to 
 a large version of a flail, to name a few. The Renbu System, as I've experienced, plays less of 
 a role then I thought. The frustration of milking whatever extended combos I can from the limitation 
 of the gauge makes me yearn for the old, weapon-based system. In the past, a greater weapon meant 
 more hits and much more satisfying combos. Now, renbu rank helps dictate that, although it is worth 
 noting that the square button combos can be chained infinitely. A much, much more welcome addition 
 is the Special system. It can only be used upon acquisition of a tome, which can be dropped by 
 bannermen throughout the map. Once activated using the L2 button, you begin an invigorated assault 
 depending on the type of special your officer possesses. This is even more satisfying to use than 
 a True Musuo attack. While some may miss the item system of old, there is now a character tree 
 in place, which somewhat reminds me of Final Fantasy 10's sphere grid. You can pick different chains 
 to progress through to activate different abilities, as well as attack, defense, health and musuo 
 boosts. This helps add to the replayability that most rabid fans experience in trying to max out 
 their officers.
  
  It is my sincere hope that this humble offering is but a morsel of what Koei will bring to us in 
 the next offering. I think that all of the additions are good signs of their determination to bring 
 more depth to each character and keep the game feeling fresh. It may not sway those on the fence, 
 nor pique the interest of those that have sworn of the franchise, but the faithful will be reigned 
 in for it's 5th entry in the musuo universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arydholm04
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that this newest installment is a leap in a great direction. I was anxious 
 and a little worried about this game before it came out, but now it's all smiles and joy. 
  
  Graphics: They aren't perfect by any means, but they look a hell of a lot better than previous 
 titles even Samurai Warriors 2 and Warriors Orochi. I like the fact that the colors are more vibrant 
 and there is more detal in the soldiers as well as the officers. The way the dead soldiers stay 
 on the battlefield is a nice touch too. Overall I think the graphics are a step in the right direction, 
 still not perfect, but much more attractive by far. 
  
  Sound: It still has the same goofy voice acting, but I have grown accustomed to the voices of these 
 characters and might even be upset if they changed the voices too much. I would still like to see 
 the option for original japanese voices with english sub-titles. 
  
  Gameplay and Controls: I love the new Renbu system. It isn't as easy to link normal and power attacks 
 together, but it still seems like a much better way to chain combos. I also like the new camera 
 with the right analog stick. It's great how you can position the camera above, right behind, or 
 even at ground level to make it just right for you. No more having the camera get stuck and the 
 awkward angles. It's a much better system. I also like how each character moves quicker and can 
 change directions easier. Overall, the gameplay is a lot more fun for me and the new renbu system 
 seems to add a little bit more depth and flair to the combos. 
  
  Appeal and Features: As a long time Dynasty Warriors fan (since the DW3) I love these games and 
 regardless of what any "professional" reviewer says, this game is by far one of the funnest hack 
 'n slash games in the series and the genre. I really like how they brought the duels back into 
 the game, but they changed it so you stay on the battlefield and the soldiers just surround you 
 and the other officer while you fight. It keeps the battle moving and also keeps you immersed in 
 the gameplay. As I mentioned in the gameplay part, the new renbu system is a welcome change for 
 the combos and the ability to chain a lot more of them together. The new ability to climb ladders 
 and swim through the water are nice touches, but not life changing by any means. For me, I just 
 felt like you should have already been able to do them, so it's great to finally have that option. 
 Although the lack of a bow makes the towers a little less fun to climb. I also love how you break 
 down stronghold doors instead of just defeating a defense captain. The ablility to scale the top 
 of the gates and take out balistas and archers is really great too. It kind of makes smaller battles 
 feel a little more epic.
  
  All-together this game is a must buy for long time Warriors fans and an excellent place for new 
 comers to start. The gameplay is fresh and re-tooled and the graphics are looking better than ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hossen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Will be at the beginning stage of the selection of the horse and a passenger, for example. When 
 on the battlefield, you can risk and jump into the water to kill the enemies who ride on the boat 
 and you lead horse, and you can also swim for minimizing movement between the beach. Fighting style 
 became more smoothly, thanks to the "renbu" new. Japanese this system allows you to carry out attacks 
 and prevarication together. While carrying out the strikes, as the Sooner renbu. Fill the meter, 
 even up to the rank of renbu, which allows you to implement Kombo stronger. If slaps one enemy 
 or stopped beating, and would decrease the meter will decrease with the ranking meter. And will 
 increase as the renbu the highest level when you continue increasing it in one of the battles that 
 we saw the personal phone use bow and shares the strikes Kombo strong at the same time using evasive 
 movements of the game among the many enemies and this has increased as the renbu and allowed the 
 player to implement strong blows Kombo was rescued after the about death and killed many of its 
 enemies and survived herself. Although it has been updated some areas of the game, but remain a 
 game Dynasty Warriors that we continue to play in all these years, and continues to exist in the 
 same stages. Know the process of Musou, the process of Challenge and developed Free. Will be able 
 to play players in the screen divided halves of the game.
  
  
  For the changes that have been added to the playing style will note Is it or not? The answer would 
 be more obvious when lovers Series veterans more than new. While the fighting style is more smooth, 
 and if you do not care for the idea of cutting thousands of enemies repeatedly, perhaps part of 
 the new Dynasty Warriors has not done much to change this idea. Some might think to test the game 
 just to watch the capabilities of the new generation in the world of games and corresponding wonderful, 
 but do not recommend this. Because it seems that Dynasty Warriors 6 developed using half the capacity 
 of the new generation only. But there is little beautiful things to consider it, as some elements 
 of the background in the game, and film screenings are Real Time, but the players (meaning their 
 bodies and the movement is not carried out on strikes) , and the camera seems difficult to control 
 and it took from the old games were improved. As used in this series, is still the engine of illustrations 
 (Visual Engine) is introduced in the form of 60-second, and also fill the screen enemies, and usually 
 is bad to see enemies suddenly appear before you, especially when playing in the process of the 
 screen divided for more than one player.
  
  Dynasty Warriors 6 declaration was surprising in a press conference for Sony in the E3 exhibition, 
 which made this year to make something surprising, especially given that strong games for the new 
 generation will be issued before the last year or beyond. This hope, to give more time to develop 
 the game better, but it seems like Omega Force wants to provide fees strong part of the new game. 
 As for the style of play, About a million people have tried the old part of the game Dynasty Warriors, 
 and judge whether the evolution of the game or the way down, we expect the level of Omega Force 
 to change a lot of character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Not that good. Polished but still looking old, vivid colors, etc. You see the buys who 
 are dead on the ground, wich is cool, but I keep thinking they're just not dead and that they'll 
 jump on their feets in a second, lol.
  
  Sound: Just like a dynasty game. Nothing special.
  
  Control: I didn't quite get how the system 
 works exactly, and I don't have unlocked anything (I played one mission and I died against Lu Bu... 
 I know, I know, I'm not supposed to attack him.. but I always try , lol.) . But the system is looking 
 good. Still, I loved Samurai Warriors 2 WAY more. And I HATE the fact that our character run TOO 
 FAST, it's looking abnormal. 
  
  New stuff: I love the new mission objectives. You have "goals" in a battle that give more XP, and 
 they are fun to do while doing the battle. (exemple: take the gate in less than 10 minutes, and 
 it's a gate really far in the ennemy camp) . For that, the game is great.
  
  Story: Is that really important? Anyway, with one mission, I didn't saw a lot, but it looked like 
 the other dynasty stories.
  
  Finally: The game is awesome with a friend, but small since my TV is SD (32" sony) . It's a dynasty, 
 but not a "super new hot and juicy" omega game, like dynasty warriors 3/samurai warriors 2/warriors 
 orochi were. Still, since those games are pretty rare, and we NEED some hack&slash fun with friends, 
 I recommand getting the game. The missions are fun and the game is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I love Dynasty Warriors series ever since the 2nd, this one is no exception that it also great 
 and wonderful to play. The remade chars are good, but also alittle even though the changes done 
 to most chars are good. The weapom change up from some of the charecters kinda disapoint me some 
 as I always liked starting the series with Shang Xing with her ring blades, but slightly sad to 
 see her cool weapons replaced with a bow and arrow kinda set up. The limited amount of Mosou mode 
 chars also kinda disapoints me as I liked playing mostly in Mosou mode and not free mode, and I 
 feel that could of easily done better by allowing all chars in mosou mode. Although with these 
 kinda flaws, I do happen to still like this game even though I feel it's a couple steps back from 
 Dynasty Warriors 5 which is still my current favorite at the moment. With Dynasty Warriors is great, 
 but not the greatest and hope some hope I liked to see Koei fix these flaws up for perhaps Xreme 
 Legends or Empires with bring back old chars they cut from the series and bring more people into 
 Mosou mode instead of less then 20 chars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting close to a year for this game to come out, so my expectations were quite high. 
 Sadly though I wasn't too impressed or disappointed with the game.
  
  If you played one Dynasty Warrior you essentially played them all. The story follows that of the 
 Three Kingdoms era where feudal lords all try to vie control of the land.
  
  Essentially what I was looking for was DW5 with better graphics and I got that. Everything in DW6 
 looks beautiful from the rivers you have to swim through, to the fort and castle sieges you need 
 to take from enemies. All the characters got total makeovers from their last gen looks. With the 
 exception of a 5 or 7 who didn't make it, most of the cast do return in this sequel.
  
  Gameplay wise I was disappointed. DW 6 is the ultimate 'One Button Mash' game. Utilizing the Renbu 
 gage you get to string combos together in an infinite number of hits. While on paper this sounds 
 interesting, it totally deters from the more manual 2 button combo system that previous DW had. 
 
  
  All in all you only need to keep pressing the same button to see different movesets. They do give 
 you a Power slash button, but its a bit hard to chain that with your regular Weak slash button. 
 If your a button masher, rejoice! The rest of us who were expecting more control, its a let down.
 
  
  Another disappointment is lack of 4th weapons. I love trying to get each characters 4th weapons. 
 I feel that when ur done levelling them up there should be one more final challenge and acquiring 
 weapons is it. Besides lack of weapons there is also lack items, but compared to weapons.... that 
 is a moot point.
  
  Last point of interest I want to talk about are the skill trees. This here is a GIANT step forward 
 in the DW evolution ladder. Your general gets XP, he gets Skill points and they unlock new abilities. 
 I wish they impleneted this sooner.
  
  Overall I have real mixed reviews of DW 6. I love that a new DW made it to next gen, but at the 
 same time I am real sad that they took out a lot of options that made DW quite a hit. Its more 
 of the same, and less of it too...
  
  P. S. On the topic of Next-Gen would it KILL Koei to INCLUDE original Japanese dialogue. Blu-Ray 
 should be able to store more information.. yet we still get horrible voice actors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullSurface
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  great game, non stop action along with all the new features. characters are redesigned and story 
 lines are deeper in character perspectives than just heres the battlefield kill cao cao. theres 
 also more objectives and now targets to achieve for more exp points at the end of each level. although 
 few characters were taken out example Jiang Wei, i hope they release an expansion on it. game is 
 truelly a must buy, especially for Playstaion 3 owners. brings back that playstation feel. I only 
 wished it was an exclusive instead of multi platform. it must play a lil worse on 360 cuz of the 
 controller. PS3 is just right for the renbu attack system along with the combos and musou. Dw6 is 
 a great game, up to date graphics, fun to play, and did i mention best in the series. i lock myself 
 in my room and play all day. lol jp but it's definately worth the hype if not more. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I just want to let you know before you read this review is that I'm a fan of this type of game 
 and so the review will be bias.
  
  The good. There are more things added: Different special attacks, types of enemies, you can call 
 a horse, swimming in water, targets to achieve for more experience point, different ways to kill 
 the leader to gain more experience points, etc. Graphics are fantastic. There are actually animals 
 in the woods that runs out to bite you, though it seems like you can attack them forever and can't 
 kill them.
  
  The bad. What happen to the bodyguards that supposed to follow me around? I'd really like to have 
 them back. What happened to the option to shoot arrows? I believe there are less characters and 
 less forces than previous releases.
  
  This game is harder than the previous. Lu Bu killed me twice in the first level already. I guess 
 the saves are there for a reason, so that you don't have to start all over again.
  
  The game will be more enjoyable to those who like the Chinese Kungfu movies and especially if you 
 understand and see the movies about the battles of this time period.
  
  For those who are new to the game, this will be just a repetive hash-and-slash game that you'll 
 do for every level. This may be a disappointment.
  
  I would actually give this game above a 9 if it actually brings back all things that I wanted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leekong
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Not bad, quite good, I would say the new moves takes a little while to learn it completely since 
 you must be able to upgrade your weapon to learn more different combos, which was nice and fun 
 once you get the hang of it, and the way you control your character is just about the same as the 
 older Dynasty games. Except this time you are able to do more with them, such as run through the 
 woods, run on water and also climb up ladders.
  
  What i dont like about this is that there are less characters and i was hoping there would be online 
 for this, but unfortunately there isnt. Koei could at least added some more levels for players 
 to explore and do battle, but everything is already nice the way it is though but more levels wouldve 
 made me gave this game a 9.5 score. Graphics are smooth like it should be, characters voice needs 
 to be worked, their voice acting is getting there but needs to be worked on a little more. 
  
  You can have co-op with your friend as the same team and run through woods to attack enemies 
 from different directions, i dont know about other people but i just love doing that because it 
 makes it more fun by stirring up the battles and making it seem like the enemies are losing morale 
 since they dont know anything about us hiding behind bushes, and attacking them from different 
 directions. the new features in the game is just to stir up a little more "Fantasy Fun" for you. 
 like running around waters wreaking havoc on ships, or split up with your 2nd player friend/brother 
 etc and killing everyone like crazy one side and the other. 
  
  It depends on how your mind thinks when youre playing a videogame. if you imagine yourself being 
 in the game and actually doing the fight, then i recommend you get this game and play 2 player 
 mode with a friend and whoop some asses taking over terrritory after the next. or if youre solo 
 and just play 1 player for the heck of it, then go ahead, single player has a much larger scale 
 than 2 player, so youll be able to enjoy massive battles.
  
  enjoy!!
  
  
  - Minus 0.5 voice
  
  - Minus 0.5 "I" want more levels!!  _ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
