-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/eatleadthereturnofmatthazard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Clever video game parody.
 Cover mechanics work well.
 Awesome music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Derivative level design.
 Cheap enemy placement.
 Bosses are not fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Vicious Cycle
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 26, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eat Lead's humor carries its lackluster gameplay for only so long. 

  Humorous games usually fall into two distinct categories. There are games that use jokes to complement 
 the core experience, enhancing the already solid gameplay with clever jabs to lighten the mood. 
 And then there are games that rely completely on jests to provide entertainment, hoping that the 
 humor is strong enough to cover for a largely mediocre play experience. Unfortunately, Eat Lead: 
 The Return of Matt Hazard falls into the latter category. Although chuckle-worthy observations 
 are dropped at a frequent rate, the actual combat is not up to par. The game constantly points 
 out the foibles of other popular entries in the genre, but it does so by making you jump through 
 the same arduous hoops, which makes for less-than-thrilling action. Eat Lead is funny enough to 
 cover for some of its many missteps, but you'll have to stomach bland level design, nonexistent 
 enemy AI, and downright cheap boss fights to enjoy Matt Hazard's uneven "return" to gaming.  

 
           Joking about how many warehouse levels there are doesn't make warehouse levels OK.   
    

  Matt Hazard is the self-aware star of his own video game. He was once a prominent figure in the 
 industry, but after using his well-known face to cash in on a number of questionable spin-offs, 
 he quickly spiraled into obscurity. Eat Lead marks his triumphant return, but he is forced to fight 
 for his digital life against a creator who wants to make sure that this is his last game. The story 
 is amusing enough, poking fun at the multitude of real game characters who have overstayed their 
 welcome through the years, but it takes itself too seriously at times. The best moments of the 
 story happen in the opening cutscene, in which Hazard laments his decision to star in Haz-Mat Carts, 
 and during prebattle banter against the various bosses, wherein he mocks their cheesy dialogue 
 and stereotypical dreams to rule the world. However, the plot falters when it centers on Hazard's 
 nemesis. These scenes are simply not funny, forcing you to patiently wait until Hazard appears 
 onscreen once more to pull this game out of banal territory.  

  Matt Hazard's clever quips are able to entertain for only so long; at some point, you're going 
 to have to actually play. Eat Lead feels very similar to Gears of War. The cover system lets you 
 hunker down behind objects until enemies carelessly peek around corners, and it feels really good 
 here. You snap behind barriers with ease, and you can quickly and smoothly get out when enemies 
 flank you. There are a few twists to the classic formula as well. First of all, your fortifications 
 can be destroyed, which means that you won't be able to stay in one place for the entirety of battles. 
 Furthermore, you can aim at nearby objects and push a button to immediately run to them, which 
 makes it painless to move positions in midfight. Although your arsenal is limited, the included 
 guns usually pack a punch. Nailing an enemy in the head with a magnum from across the screen is 
 satisfying, and shooting a grenade into a group of closely packed zombies results in a glorious 
 explosion of flopping rag-doll bodies.  

  When Eat Lead is clicking, the combat is really fun and plays like a faster, bloodless version 
 of Gears of War. But its reliance on parody means that the game frequently stumbles. The level 
 design is bland and uninspired, shepherding you from one forgettable warehouse to another. Although 
 the layouts do an adequate job of poking fun at other games, the formula quickly gets old. Battles 
 are usually staged in large environments with pieces of cover liberally sprinkled around, which 
 makes for a repetitive experience. Hazard jokes about predictable enemy placement and ambushes 
 that never surprise, but just because he is aware of the sloppy level design doesn't mean that 
 it's actually fun to continually play through the same tired cliches.  

  Your enemies are sorely lacking in intelligence, exhibiting only two different maneuvers in combat. 
 During most fights, enemies will stand behind cover, giving you time to meticulously line up their 
 noggins in your sights for a quick death. At other times, they will rush at you, which borders 
 on cheap because Hazard is not well equipped to handle close encounters. Enemies also frequently 
 spawn directly behind you, which can lead to unanticipated deaths if you don't hear them teleport 
 in. At least the enemies you fight are funny. One level has you rescue a green-clad soldier named 
 Master Chef while you mow down a horde of the often-mocked space marines. When you finish one off, 
 you tauntingly yell, "Semper die!" In another level, you battle enemies from a water-based shooter 
 called Soak 'Em, and they shout "Damp if you do, damp if you don't" when you duck behind cover. 

           The master shield temporarily makes you invincible, even against water guns.      

 
  The boss fights are as amusing as the enemies, but finishing them can be cheap and frustrating. 
 You battle one sniper boss on three separate occasions, and his instant-kill gun will lead to repeated 
 failure until you figure out his pattern. Other bosses summon a never-ending horde of enemies that 
 you must fight off while you try to pepper the main baddie from afar. Despite these problems, these 
 encounters are still enjoyable because of the delightful dialogue beforehand. During one memorable 
 scene, you square off against a character pulled straight from a generic role-playing game. The 
 typical cliches are here -- flamboyantly dressed villain spouting meandering statements with an overabundance 
 of ellipses -- and Hazard frequently points out his enemies' annoying quirks.  

  The music in Eat Lead uses the cheesy allure of '80s rock to energize the experience. The standard 
 theme continues throughout the game, and its catchy synthesized riff is enjoyable and hummable. 
 Although it surfaces again and again throughout the game, it fits the mood perfectly and never 
 gets old. Various motifs also sprout up to complement the theme of each level. The two-dimensional 
 Waferthin troops come with their own German-inspired music, and another nice touch is the Japanese 
 tune when you're shooting up a sushi restaurant. The music is a standout; combined with Hazard's 
 many memorable quips, it provides the backbone for this otherwise uninspired game.  

  Eat Lead's reliance on parody is a detriment to its game design. The repetitive levels and cheap 
 enemy encounters hold back what is a fundamentally sound shooter. But though the gameplay frequently 
 stumbles, the humor is able to rise up in its place, which makes the experience more enjoyable 
 than the lackluster action promises. With no multiplayer mode, cooperative play, or hidden goodies 
 waiting to uncover, replay value is extremely limited, but it takes about 10 hours to play through 
 the campaign. Despite its problems, Eat Lead is still a fun game, but its jokes will never make 
 you forget about its many missteps.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Matt Hazard is a 1980's video game action hero who is back to fight for his life because a game 
 creator wants him dead. The beginning of the game starts off by making fun of old games like Haz-Mat-Carts 
 (Mario Karts) and other games. The game is filled with funny one-liners and funny parodies. The 
 game is about Matt Hazard (who knows he is in a video game) trying to stop an evil game creator 
 who keeps changing the levels as you play and with the help of a digital lady (Cortona anyone?) 
 named QA, your goal is to finish the last level so the game can be over.
  So what time is it? It's Hazard time!...... I mean its review time.....
  
  Graphics - 6.5/10
 
  
  The game overall is not the best looking game but some level require the graphics to be less that 
 standard. The character models look decent but the game lacks detail. Some levels use ramps instead 
 of stairs and some walls are just painted a color with no textures or anything. One of my favorite 
 levels is the one where the game mocks Wolfenstein 3D and you actually enter an area with the blue 
 brick walls, the metal door and a large painting of the bad guy in this game. Of course that level 
 would not be complete without the 2D sprites that come after you. If they turn sideways they become 
 very hard to see lol.
  
  Gameplay - 6.5/10
  
  The game seems to try and mock Gears of War with its style of play. You get the behind the shoulder 
 camera and the ability to use objects for cover and dive to the next. The problem is that the controls 
 and movements feel as if you did not wipe your butt good enough. You get that awkward step in your 
 walk. The camera is not the worst but it is definately not the best. 
  There are power-up in the game that give you a shield or extra strength but they are far and few 
 in between. The levels are very straight forward so knowing where to go is extremely obvious. 
 
  
  Parodies - 10/10
  
  I added this category so I could explain more of the humor this game offers. Some characters look 
 very similar to characters in games like: Metal Gear Solid, Halo, Super Mario, Final Fantasy, Resident 
 Evil, and more. One of my favorite enemies resembles Arnold Swartzenegger and even sounds exactly 
 like him. One great moment comes when you have to fight a Japanese anime boss that uses a turn 
 based menu to fight you lol. The game is just filled with funny lines and parodies.
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  The sound is great in this game. Very well done voice-overs and funny mocks 
 of famous video game music really set the stage. As you encounter enemies you get this 80's action 
 hero type music which is hard to explain. Many times you will hear very similar sounds and music 
 from your gaming past lol.
  
  Weapons - 10/10
  
  Again I created this category to talk about the funny weapons in this game. One of my favs is the 
 Super Soaker gun lol. Hey it came out in the 80's and thats what this game is all about. To reload 
 you need to pump the gun with more air and you shoot water at your enemies. But this water tends 
 to hurt them. There are weapons that look like they came right out of Halo. (The plasma gun and 
 rifles) There are your basics like the shotgun, pistol, six shooter, magnum, grenade launcher, 
 machine guns, ect. But its the parody weapons that are the most fun.
  
  Overall - 6.5/10
  
  Even with all the humor the game still lacks in too many places. Bad controls and camera tossed 
 with poor level designs make this game frustrating to play. The humor is in the game if you care 
 to play through to see it all. The game also suffers from poor frame rates. Many times the game 
 gets slow when there is too much going on. 
  Most of the trophies are pretty easy in this game as well. I would have loved to rate this game 
 higher but for now, this game is getting Lethal
  s trophy wh0re stamp of approval.
  
  Pros:
  Very funny 80's parodies
  Funny script
  Funny weapons
  
  Cons:
  Poor level design
 
  Poor controls/camera
  Game is very short (Beat in a single sitting)
  No replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  its hazard time said matt hazard eat lead is probably the best third person shooter ive evr played 
 with is cover system which makes the game really fun and basically everything else though tropies 
 are to easy to earn because i got like 37% tropies in the first one or two hours i played it. theres 
 like pause the game or start a level type though the good ones is like shot two guys in the head 
 with one bullet type stuff. the graphics really arent that good though they are not bad either. 
 the controls are easy to get use to a the sound is perfect. the boss characters the human ones is 
 werid because for most of them you press on screen buttons like in god of war and spiderman 3 though 
 its not a big deal though the squid bad guy is a little hard but when he's down youll be happy. 
 overall eat lead wasnt what i was expecting though its still a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Eat led: The return of Matt Hazard, features a washed up video game action hero from the past named 
 Matt Hazard, played by Will Arnet. Given a contract deal for a companies first next-gen action 
 game, Soon after starting the game Matt realises he has been tricked and now his goal is to get 
 our of the game before the hacker, played by Neil Patrick Harris kills off Matt. Never to be heard 
 from in another video game again.
  
  The game starts off by giving the player a chance to go through a quick basic tutorial to learn 
 the controls, everything expected from a shooter like this is present, (R2) to fire your weapon, 
 the (x) button to lock to cover and the circle button to vault over cover. The standard procedures 
 are required, shoot him, run there, and take cover. After the tutorial Matt Hazard, the player, 
 is sent into his first mission. You goal is to find some money in an old Japanese steak house, 
 unfortunately for the player this steak house is littered with chefs and waiters wielding glocks 
 and sub-machine guns and screaming cheesy one liners. 
  
  Every level you progress through, though interesting at a first glance can often be bland and have 
 an empty feel, where as other levels will feel to littered with objects and dark overly textured 
 surfaces of brick and asphalt, not to mention the bland but sometimes to colourful canisters of 
 gas and drums of explosives. 
  All of the levels seem odd, like said before some levels you will find them to detailed causing 
 frame rate drops but others bland and unusually empty. It makes you wonder if the developers were 
 paying attention to every map of the game. 
  
  Along with the basic details of map layout and cover there is but of course the A. I characters, 
 the characters range from office workers, to cowboy and space marines, this, obviously a pun at 
 the many shooters of the past such as Halo and Red Dead, This variation can be nice, but it would 
 have added to the overall feel if the A. I wasn't so brainless, now that excludes the brainless 
 zombies, but back to the point. The A. I will spot you, mark you as the targeted enemy and run for 
 cover, shoot the cover and they will move to another cover object, Without thought this seems normal 
 but one flaw is left in the open, literally. This action from the A. I is all to inconsistent, often 
 the enemy will spot you, hide and shoot but if you move or destroy their cover the A. I will get 
 up stand in the open mindlessly shooting at you, not bad for the player but if your looking for 
 a challenge, it's sadly just not there.
  
  The player progresses through each enemy littered level for certain reasons, mainly to save a friend 
 or old partner like Dexter, another character from another old Matt Hazard game, the games story 
 revolves around, saving or killing a target and moving on. Each level generally has a quite thrilling 
 and interesting boss battle, these vary from old seventies movie stars, and stereotypical RPG bosses. 
 While making your way through the levels you spend a lot of time communicating with QA another 
 hacker, but not bent on the destruction of Matt kind. She mainly helps you out by dropping hints, 
 and hacking in upgrades and special pick ups like invincibility, and maximum damage. This retro 
 style to a game is quite a relaxing way to play a game, not so generic as most of the games on 
 the market today. Besides the humour this game lacks hugely in replay value, due to the stories 
 length and litter of mindless enemies scattered within the game, It's not worth a purchase, but 
 to any video game veteran this game deserves a play, just don't expect much depth at all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  So Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard seems to be getting very low scores when it comes to critics 
 and I don't understand why. I a world full of sequels and unoriginal games Eat Lead stands out. 
 The game's story is VERY original and yes, it's a third person shooter where cover plays a big 
 part, but to call it a Gears knock-off is basically saying that Gears is the only game aloud to 
 make a TPS shooter. The game-play is good, it's easy to get use to, it has some features Gears 
 doesn't. But it's not the game-play that will get you hooked on this game, it's the story and the 
 voice acting. The story is ridiculous and that's what makes it good, the game is suppose to be 
 a comedy, it's suppose to be weird and crazy which no one seems to get, everyone acknowledges that 
 the game is a comedy and you shouldn't take it seriously, then they go and try and take it seriously. 
 The randomness of the story keeps you playing for the laughs and so does the random phrases Matt 
 says during the game. Will Arnet clearly got into this roll and actually took it seriously and 
 didn't just go "Oh it's a video game, i don't need to act". The game's replay value in my mind 
 is high because it's funny, it's ridiculous and its just fun to play, you aren't tense, you aren't 
 freaking out about doing missions and objectives, your just having fun and a lot of games seem 
 to be lacking in that department. This is a game that when you play it you actually want to keep 
 playing it, you don't feel forced to keep playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  Hello all, like my title says this came out at a bad time, most of you will be buying killzone 
 2 or halo wars or saving up for resident evil or recuperating from repetitve stress syndrome from 
 street fighter when this little sure to be overlooked gem came out.
  
  are the graphics good?-no
  are the controls good?-no (but i got used to them couldnt figure out 
 how to zoom at first)
  is the story good?-not really (it is funny just convaluted and makes little sense)
  is the game 
 fun?-YES IT IS!!
  
  I cant explain this game i put it in and played for a bit and i kept going cause i wanna see what 
 happens next, after all it makes fun of some of my most loved games. I'll sum it up in one sentence, 
 I got this shortly after getting killzone and i am playing this more than killzone. (thats not 
 a jab at killzone, while killzone is fantastic on all fronts this game has just kept my interest, 
 well that and im working alot of overtime and i want to invest all my attention on k2) .
  
  Summary: while this game is not great it is by no means bad it just came out at a bad time so i 
 tell you all write the name down and pick it up later it is worth a play through.
  
  P. S.- please email d3 and ask them to really make a water pistol game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treznick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, it seems to me that many reviewers have missed a lot during the playthough of this game. 
 Mainly the references whether they are allegorical or technical.
  On the allegorical, you should get many of these references if you've been playing since the NES 
 era. If not, you may or may not pick up on them.
  Where the reviewers really get lost are the technical references. Many reviewers caught onto the 
 long load times when in an elevator (snide comments by Matt Hazard helps) , but catch on to the 
 repetitive music, repetitive and short list of enemy and hero quips, convieniently placed cover 
 and explosive items. My favorite technical reference that seems to be lost on most people is the 
 crappy enemy AI. It's only fairly recently, where the enemy AI catches on to run to avoid grenades 
 or to take cover where appropriate. Not here. The enemies get up from behind cover, in full shooters 
 stance with bullets whizzing by to get a clean shot at you (another technical reference... everyone 
 else is a lousy shot) . Don't you remember the games that did that? It wasn't too long ago!
  Frankly, the game is slyer than what the reviewers would have you believe.
  Great, but does that 
 mean this game is good?
  Well, it's good for what it is and what it's meant to be.
  
  This game is a great distraction, something to pick up when you need a break from fragging or being 
 fragged on Killzone 2 or just something simple when you get home from work/school to unwind if 
 you don't like the Zen quality of Flower. For trophy whores, most of the trophies are pretty easy 
 to grab, but there are a few difficult ones. Something else people haven't mentioned... the camera 
 works very well, suprisingly! The tongue in cheek humor is terrific and with GOB and NPH doing 
 the voiceovers, you have yourself a little diamond in the rough.
  
  Bottomline, it's a SOLID rental, but if you have $50 (yes, $49.99, not $59.99) to burn or the trade 
 in credits to boot... pick it up. You play it and put it on the shelf, but I bet that in summer 
 when the good new games are in short supply, you might just put this back in your system for a 
 quick playthough again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otakuboi
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  So, where do I start? When asked about the game by co-workers I would compare it to Serious Sam, 
 but that was before I played it. 
  I wasn't too far off but it is a lot different than Serious Sam. 
  
  One of the games strongest 
 point is its cover system that everyone wants to compare to Gears of War for some reason (like 
 it invented it or something) , It is pretty simple, press a button to go against the wall, there 
 is blind fire and roll to the closest point but what really stood out was the "look at a spot of 
 cover and choose it" option which sent Matt automatically over to the next cover spot, no matter 
 how far away it was or what route he had to take to get there. 
  
  Other strong points are its great voice acting cast, the amount of detail and thought that was 
 put into things that are easy to miss and of course, it sense of humor.
  
  Now yeah, you are ready to go buy it now right? well let me at least hint on the negatives first 
 :) . The little you'll find in most shooters , like repetitiveness, not too bright A. I, a little 
 clunky controls and some may even say that the levels are bland and the graphics are poor when 
 in reality the graphics are pretty good, and the levels are made the way the are purposely. The 
 biggest problem I had while playing were frame rate drops when there was really nothing happening 
 on the screen but when there was a lot happening it was o. k. 
  
  Overall the game is just a fun game to play that even goes as far as poking fun at the expensive 
 of an entire gaming company. It isn't long, the trophies are fairly easy and Matt Hazard's theme 
 song is freaking awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mook-the-man
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  I have been wondering what this game is going to be about for a long time. So I figured why not 
 just try it out.
  
  Eat lead the return of Matt Hazard is an average shooter with a cover system (similar to gears 
 of war) and an array of different weaponry. It also has some good push button sequences and some 
 interesting boss battles.
  
  This game's gameplay wont draw you in automatically, but it is kinda fun once the story develops 
 a little further into the game. Matt Hazard is a pretty good hero, even though he is cheesy, with 
 some funny one liners. At the core this game is a little empty but is not horrible by any means. 
 Definitely worth a play through, but the game itself is not worth the $60. My advice is to wait 
 on this one for a bit and get it for about half of that price.
  
  Overall this game has some really funny moments and Matt Hazard is a character that I think I will 
 remember, but the game's gameplay is kinda shallow, repetitive, and tedious. The story is fun to 
 follow and for some reason you will want to go back to the game. Not a bad shooter for a cheaper 
 pickup than $60. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
