-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enchanted Arms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/enchantarm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Surprisingly natural, funny dialogue for a role-playing game.
 unique battle system is fun and challenging.
 the collectible golems are all unique and useful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful English voice acting.
 too much tedious backtracking through large, vacant, and uninteresting areas.
 aside from some flashy battle animations, the visuals are unimpressive.
 it's frequently difficult to get a good view of the battlefield.
 Sixaxis control features feel silly and out of place.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 651 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: From Software
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 3, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Enchanted Arms is a capable and often enjoyable role-playing game, but it's also one that you'll 
 likely forget as soon as you finish it. 

  Enchanted Arms is a role-playing game developed by From Software, a company best known for the 
 long-running Armored Core series of mech sims. Taking a break from battling robots, From Software 
 has developed a competent role-playing game that isn't overly impressive or memorable but is a 
 capable representative for games of its type. As a result, it's a solid choice as the first Japanese-style 
 role-playing game to appear on the PlayStation 3. The game sticks closely to the console role-playing 
 template made popular by the Final Fantasy series, to the point that even the victory music that 
 plays after each battle sounds eerily familiar. Androgynous characters, melodramatic plotlines, 
 random encounters, and ridiculously overblown battles form the basis of Enchanted Arms, and if 
 you have any previous experience with this type of game, you'll feel like you've seen it all before. 
 Despite that, if you give it plenty of time, you'll find that Enchanted Arms is still worth playing 
 if you have any interest in role-playing games.  

          Golems are magic creatures that can do just about anything: make pizza, guard treasures, 
 destroy the world -- all the stuff that humans can't be bothered with.     

  You've heard this story before. A feisty young man with no memory of his past discovers within 
 himself a hidden power capable of saving -- or destroying -- the world. His name is Atsuma, and he's 
 a student at Enchant University, where he studies a type of weak magic known as enchanting. However, 
 some people seek a more powerful form of magic, which has been lost for the past 1,000 years. Turns 
 out that a millennium ago, humans were quite proficient with magic and used it to create artificial 
 servant creatures, known as golems. As you might expect, the golems one day went berserk and turned 
 on mankind, nearly destroying the world in what's known as The Golem War. The most powerful of 
 these creatures, called devil golems, were sealed away to prevent another disaster. Flash forward 
 to present day, and some conniving megalomaniacs start fussing with the seals to draw upon the 
 powerful magic that lies within. At this point, Atsuma's destiny as savior of the universe is revealed, 
 along with a mysterious power that resides in his right arm.  

  As Atsuma, it's up to you to keep these nasty golems in check, which you do by running around the 
 world battling not only golems, but also the humans who are attempting to manipulate them. Enchanted 
 Arms plays like a traditional console role-playing game. You spend most of the time running through 
 dungeons or down long, linear paths from one city to another, engaging in random encounters, collecting 
 money and items, and developing your characters to make them stronger. Between battles, you'll 
 often be treated to some heavy dialogue or the occasional prerendered cinematic sequence. The story 
 sequences in the game can be quite lengthy, with conversations lasting several minutes. You might 
 be tempted to simply skip through all the chatter, but if you do that you'll miss out on a lot 
 of the charm that Enchanted Arms has to offer. The dialogue, while sometimes overdone, is relatively 
 natural and engaging for a role-playing game. There aren't many characters in the game, but that 
 works to its advantage by letting you focus on the dynamic between four entertaining personalities. 
 There's also plenty of humor, and although a lot of it is downright silly, it doesn't feel forced 
 and is funny enough to prevent your eyes from glazing over during every story sequence.  

  Throughout most of the game, you'll be running on a linear path from one point to another. While 
 in these areas, you'll be drawn into battle with a random assortment of enemies. The encounter 
 rate is usually reasonable, letting you cover plenty of ground between battles. Sometimes, however, 
 you'll find yourself going from one battle to another every few steps, which gets tiresome. It 
 doesn't help that the game requires you to backtrack through these large, empty spaces several 
 times, which is boring and takes quite awhile since you're prone to being attacked every step of 
 the way.  

          The battle system may look complex, but once you pick up the basics, it's quite simple. 
     

  The nature of the combat system in Enchanted Arms results in some often very lengthy battles, but 
 the system is fun and challenging most of the time. Each battle takes place on a flat, 6x4 grid 
 that is divided down the center. Your party is randomly arranged on one half of the grid, while 
 your enemies are on the other. You can't pass the center line into the enemy grid, so you have 
 to plan your attacks accordingly. You can have up to four characters in your party, and during 
 your turn, you can move those characters and assign actions in any order. Once you've done that, 
 you press go and the actions are carried out. The battles all come down to positioning, because 
 each attack has a specific range and pattern. Some attacks will hit only a single square, others 
 will hit a line of squares, and still others will hit an entire area. The battle system doesn't 
 require much in the way of strategy, but it does demand a bit more than simply selecting the attack 
 command over and over. It feels almost like a puzzle game because you have to figure out the best 
 order and position for each of your characters to maximize damage.     

  The game is very forgiving, and enemies will often move within range of your attacks, if for no 
 other reason than to avoid a stalemate situation. Between battles, your characters automatically 
 regenerate both their health points and their ether points, which are required to perform all attacks. 
 However, over time your characters will lose vitality points, and characters with no vitality points 
 left won't regenerate any health or ether points between battles until you reach a replenishing 
 station. This system works well, if only because it gives you incentive to make use of all your 
 characters, rather than using just a few powerhouses throughout the entire game.  

          Running through environments like these gets dull very quickly.     

  Having extra 
 characters is never a problem in Enchanted Arms. Throughout the world, you'll encounter golems, 
 and usually if you defeat one of these creatures in battle, you'll get its core, which can be used 
 along with some other items to synthesize that golem. This is just a roundabout way of recruiting 
 enemies to join your party. There are more than 100 different golems in the game, and they're all 
 quite diverse and useful. Each golem has its own attacks and abilities, and each one can be leveled 
 up and made stronger, just like the human characters. There seems to be a golem for every occasion, 
 from mermaids that can absorb hit points from enemies, to a massive Sasquatch with frosty breath, 
 and even a pizza-headed creature that can shoot fire. The PlayStation 3 version of Enchanted Arms 
 includes an additional 30 golems that aren't available in the Xbox 360 version of the game.  

 
  Other additions to the PlayStation 3 version of Enchanted Arms include the use of the Sixaxis 
 motion controls, as well as a few minutes of additional prerendered cutscenes. The Sixaxis features 
 are completely superfluous. The most prevalent use of the motion controls is to charge up your 
 EX gauge. To do this, you can press the R1 button any time you aren't in battle to initiate a goofy 
 dancing minigame where you have to shake the controller to make Atsuma dance. This then fills up 
 your EX gauge, which lets you unleash super attacks in battle. Not surprisingly, violently shaking 
 your controller isn't terribly exciting or fun. Another significant change to the PlayStation 3 
 version of the game is that it's missing the online multiplayer mode included with the Xbox 360 
 version. It's not a significant loss though, since the online play in the Xbox 360 game isn't especially 
 compelling.  

  The presentation in Enchanted Arms is disappointing for a PlayStation 3 game. The character models 
 are fairly detailed, but the animation is awkward. During story sequences, you'll see large versions 
 of the characters as they jerk and spasm from one fixed position to the next without any sort of 
 transition. The environments aren't impressive, either. You'll see a lot of huge, wide-open areas 
 that show no signs of life whatsoever. The entire world feels empty and uninhabited, which makes 
 for dull viewing. Sometimes you'll see some shiny textures, but for the most part, this game pales 
 in comparison to other PlayStation 3 games, regardless of whether you're viewing it on a standard 
 definition or high-definition television. If you are playing this game on a standard definition 
 display you'll have a very hard time reading all of the text in the game, which is a major problem 
 because there's a lot of text to read in Enchanted Arms.  

  Furthermore, there's the problem of getting a workable perspective in battle. There are a couple 
 preset camera angles to choose from, but none of them offer an ideal view of the battlefield. The 
 heads up display often obscures enemies, to the point that you might not even see an enemy until 
 it attacks you. The camera is also zoomed out to get the whole battlefield in the picture, but 
 that also makes some of the characters appear tiny, and their colors tend to blend into the background. 

  The game does look good in a few respects, though. Most of the attack effects are flashy and exaggerated, 
 but they all look good. In particular, there are EX attacks, which feature more lengthy and over-the-top 
 animations than the standard attacks. In addition to the special effects, the prerendered cutscenes 
 in the game look great. There are only a handful of these, but they're each worth watching multiple 
 times.  

          You can dance if you want to.     

  The sound in Enchanted Arms is also behind the curve for PlayStation 3 games. The English voice 
 acting is pretty bad most of the time, but there's an option to listen to the Japanese voices instead. 
 Even if you can live with the annoying voices during the story sequences, you'll probably find 
 it hard to bear the chirpy phrases uttered by your characters with every single attack. It gets 
 old hearing the same two or three phrases repeated a dozen times or more in a single battle. The 
 music is typical of a role-playing game, and it's mostly good. There are dramatic orchestrated 
 tracks, as well as ambient loops that softly fade into the background. None of the music ever gets 
 annoying, which is perhaps the best thing that can be said for the music in a game that takes 40 
 hours or more to complete.  

  While you can finish Enchanted Arms in about 40 hours, it will take you considerably longer if 
 you spend the time to find all of the golems in the game. The game is paced reasonably well, and 
 although it's very linear, you'll never be stuck wondering where to go or what to do next. This 
 keeps the game moving along most of the time, but it still tends to drag in spots. There's too 
 much backtracking required, and it often takes an inordinate amount of time to get where you want 
 to go. If you have the patience for it, though, you'll find that Enchanted Arms is a solid addition 
 to the PlayStation 3 library, even if it isn't a very original one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is an awesome RPG and this is coming from a guy who has never plays them im more 
 into action adventure games like resident evil 5 and gears of war 2 but i never cared for final 
 fantasy or any game of that type of gameplay but this game just puts a whole new aspect of rpg's 
 to me. The gameplay is easy to pick up unlike most of these games and the game does have a sense 
 of humor which is a good thing the voice acting is pretty terrible but the story behind the game 
 is good and the game keeps you on your toes the entire time and its a long time this game has a 
 ton of things you can do there is over 50 hours of gameplay so i have read on the back of the case 
 i have played this game for about 17 hours and have enjoyed them all. The graphics arent bad but 
 they arent good the game was made in 2007 so im cutting it some slack my guess is they put no effort 
 into the graphics because they were in a rush to get the game out but the graphics dont bum me 
 out because i know that there is something great in this game because i just cant seem to put it 
 down im playing it as i give this review. So i suggest this game to rpg fans and even if your not 
 like i was pick this game up or rent it because its worth the time that you will put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmpereurJon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Well this was a great game. Strong Story, but the voice are quite bad. Actually quite sad. The 
 creature" the Golems" looks sharp and you can pick a team according to what you really enjoy fighting 
 with. But the biggest problem was the New Game +..... No so plus at all. Once I finish the game 
 there was no New Game + At all. Finishing the game will require the New Game+ cause without it, 
 it will take you a very long time to level up to the level necessary to take down those Mega Boss 
 Golems.
  
  Music wise, its quite pleasant, its far from FF Standard, but it suits the game well. If the voices 
 were decent the game would be much better.
  
  Also If you like traveling one way then comeback, then go back, then comeback again. Well your 
 in for a ride. The environment well done just the graphic are a bit sluggish and not work to be 
 on a Blu-Ray, 
  
  The Battle system is in a grid formation that gives you the impression of playing dodge ball. It 
 is very entertaining but the camera view kills it at times. Well I suggest to get a copy and hopefully 
 you'll be able to get the New Game +, plus the Price is good. 
  
  Final verdict, redo the graphic, get new actors, and get a camera where you can see something then 
 your in for one amazing game. Don't forget a New Game Plus that works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game, i bought it for cheap, 20 i think. I was really intrested in it but id 
 thought id have a go and try it out. Im not an RPG fan, the only other RPG game i liked was FF7 (but 
 cmon, that game was amsome!) but this game is great and with a vey good storyline.
  I thought the fighting style was clever, even though it wasnt like my usual adrenailne rushed shooting 
 games. But it is stil so intense and 'close to perfect.' The golems you can collect are brilliant, 
 finding some or buying others (afew other ways to get em like in the casino) but it feels like you 
 can never get all of them, so you have to choose wisely because you dont want some useless ones 
 that will make you lose every battle.
  The storyline is good, you are a student of a magical school, and then a devil golem gets released 
 because of your arm and you find out you are 'special' and your the only person that can stop the 
 golem. But she is released other devil golems to start a war that happened for 1000 years. SO you 
 have to defeat them too. Then (SPOILER) you realise that your professor is also in on it and you 
 have to defeat him too, which is quite hard, but if you are using the right characters/golems then 
 you should be fine.
  All in all this game is good all round and there are also some childish laughs to enjoy. (its alright 
 i thought some of them were funny too) . Also it is a big game so it IS worth the money. If i knew 
 it was this good i would of bought it for full price.
  
  GRAPHICS-8/10
  SOUND-5/10
  GAMEPLAY-9/10
  VALUE-9/10
  ONLINE-N/A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungAngel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Atsuma must learn to control his arm as well as stop the Queen of Ice from takin over the world. 
 Along the way he has help from a group of interesting characters: Reckless and headstrong Karin, 
 Dependable and loyal Ragar, Youthful and ambitious Yuki. 
  
  The locals are great to see since not one location is alike the rest. London City is like London, 
 Yokahoma City reminds me of the US, Kyoto city is like Japan. 
  
  The battle system is a little different than most games I have played. You have to move across 
 a grid board. Attacks occur on certain spots on the grid. Attacks arent strait forward. Really 
 really interesting.
  
  To me this game is a cross with Final Fantasy and Devil May Cry. 
  Devil May Cry because of the arm thing. 
  Final Fantasy because of numerous reasons. The magic 
 usage. The varied group who come to gether to save the world. The whole save the world thing!
 
  
  Can Atsuma save the world? You betcha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azraelpins
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  the only thing i looked forward to upon completing this weak battle system, boring dialogue, and 
 awful soundtrack was the fact that i'de be able to start the game over with all of the items, levels, 
 etc. that i had beaten the game with and tear through it again to unlock what i had previously 
 missed.
  
  Before spending your money on expecting to do the same (as the game features list you can) you 
 might want to know that instead of being able to start the game over- you end up starting your 
 "new game+" before the final dungeon. If this doesnt bother you then i'de suggest waiting for a 
 $10 copy from ebay; but if you bought this game for full price and played through the grueling 
 hours of mediocre gameplay like i have- prepare to be disapointed.
  
  The only good i got from finishing this game is that it made me dig up my old snes and copy of 
 chrono trigger so i could enjoy a gaming era that could actually get things like the new game + 
 feature right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is probably one of those RPG's that you would overlook. I myself will admit to the 
 fact that I overlooked the title. I had remembered hearing that it was first available on the Xbox 
 360 and remembered that it did not seem to look very special. Nevertheless, when I finally took 
 a look at the title in a store for the PS3 ats its new 19.99 price, I knew that I must have it. 
 
  
  
  
  Enchanted Arms starts by allowing you to play or rather control Atsuma, a teenage schoolboy at 
 the prestigious Enchant University. He has two friends Makato and Toya, whom players will grow 
 to like instantly. After leaving the classroom and exploring Yokohama City for its yearly festival 
 the action begins to start instantly as an earthquake strikes and Atsuma goes after his dog, which 
 he quickly forgets about once arriving at the school. Players will control Atsuma in typical RPG 
 fashion of exploring the university at every nook and cranny to discover what happened. Upon reaching 
 the center of the problem, all chaos erupts as Atsuma awakens the Queen of Ice using his powerful 
 arm that can negate all other magic. Upon her awakening, the greatest cutscene emerges as she completely 
 destroys Yokohama City.
  After that, point Atsuma wakes up in a jail cell in London City and meets up with the princess 
 Lady Karin and her bodyguard ex Captain of the Knights, Rygar. They will soon meet up with the 
 final party member the lone wonderer who does everything for money and love Yuki. After this point 
 it becomes a game of trying to do all else to prevent the scenario that happened at Yokohama from 
 happening at the other two cities (the imperial London City and the interesting, Kyoto City) . The 
 quest will embark the player upon many locations and encountering tons of other characters and 
 other subplots. 
  
  
  
  Enchanted Arms uses a modified battle system that is unlike any other in role-playing games. By 
 adding a grid for players to launch their attacks on, it adds a bit of strategy to the typical 
 turn based battles. Most of the skills do have areas of effects so the positioning of characters 
 is vital. It was perhaps a nice addition to make this game stand apart from others but I have found 
 that at times it can make the simplest battle take at least 3 minutes or such. Luckily, for players 
 who like to battle or level grind, there is an option that does allow the battles to be auto played 
 turn by turn. This feature will most likely be utilized heavily once the story gets good at around 
 the 10-hour mark when everything begins to fit together. One of the additional features to the 
 battle system is the ability to use the special EX Special Moves, which are just special moves 
 that usually have a wide array of effects and ranges. The most powerful are of course Atsuma's 
 and they look beautiful (preferably Mega Phoenix) . Battles can also be played out with the games 
 take for animals, golems, which are just tons of creatures that players will encounter on their 
 quest who can join your party. Typically, they are weaker than the human characters but in certain 
 situations their types and attacks can perhaps give the player a winning edge over the opponent. 
 One such is in the beginning a few of the golems know healing moves, so before a player has a healer 
 they will perhaps keep one of them in the party.
  
  
  
  Enchanted Arms sports some classy images at times. The highest setting is 720p and most of the 
 attacks look beautiful on any HDTV that supports that quality. There are quite a few FMV cutscenes 
 in the game and each looks amazing. The most memorable one is the destruction of Yokohama City 
 by the Queen of Ice, another one involves Queen of Ice fighting. The environments are large and 
 expansive as well, and there is occasionally tons of attention to detail. My most memorable one 
 is the attention to the look of London City when viewed from the highest point in the city. 
  
  
  
  Soundwise, the game features a large collection of voice work. The golems still sport 
 only Japanese tracks, which I found to be quite interesting for when they launch an attack or even 
 when they are created from golem cores. The characters all have fitting voices. The Japanese tracks 
 for them are also available for people who are opposed to English voice acting. I listened to the 
 entire game in English and experienced no problems whatsoever. Any supposed emotion for the scenes 
 were all expressed well, and I would like to commend the voice actor for Atsuma, Rygar, Yuki, Toya, 
 Queen of Ice, Sayaka, Makota, Lady Karin was my favorite, she sounded like she was really royalty. 
 
  
  
  
  The game is reasonably well balanced in its play style. There are an abundance of sidequests that 
 can be tackled at any time and reward the player with the strongest golems in the games. They do 
 not need to be pursued unless one wants to the complete the game or is on a second run through 
 with the New Game+ file that is created upon the first completion of the game (stats and characters 
 skills are transferred over) . It is not vital to complete these missions to beat the game. Ignoring 
 what the faqs say, one does not need to level grind to beat the final bosses, simply be around 
 level 50 and it should be an interesting battle (have items!!!!) . I found it to be on the edge 
 of hard at times for the sake of getting enemy types wrong and cheap enemy skills (such as the 
 Ninjas suicide bombs once they go to 0 HP that deals damage to everyone on the field) . All in all 
 the game should very well take anywhere from 40-60 hours to complete the main story.
  
  
  Enchanted Arms for the PS3 is perhaps an RPG that is needed for most players that provides them 
 with a rewarding story, interesting and innovative gameplay, and a lengthy game. Sure, there are 
 some improvements that could be needed, such as the at times underused and relentless shaking of 
 the six-axis controls during a few parts, but there are other parts that let the title shine. For 
 its price, I found the game to be very enjoyable and one of my favorite PS3 games to date. It is 
 truly one of those titles that once you complete it, that you get the great feeling of accomplishment 
 and feel like it was totally worth it. 
  
  
  Final Score 
  
  
  
  7.0 out of 10
  
  
  
  Enchanted Arms storytelling and action is quite compelling however without the addition 
 of the autoplay feature, I could not imagine people getting the game. Luckily, the feature was 
 included so it sped the game up quite a bit, but no one buys a game to just watch it play itself. 
 The characters were realistic and lovable, the action and suspense was quite emotionally driven, 
 and the golems were quite interesting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameseylefebure
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  This is asuch a weird game!! 
  The graphics are good, the storyline is good, the acting... well the acting is as you would expect 
 (altought the gay character at the start will still make me giggle for hours!!) The battle system 
 is your simple grid turn based affair - so where does it go wrong? I honestly don't know. Something 
 just didn't click with me and this game. I enjoyed the characters. Your basic team consists of 
 4 characters, each with an element and a skill of their own. You have your shooter, your tank, 
 your fighter and your mage/healer. But then on top of this you get to create a back up party of 
 "golums" who are like magic robot's that you control. they will fight for you and they will level 
 up, never gain new abilities but get stronger as they grown. It; s a nice touch, but I enjoy having 
 my 4 main characters in my team thank you, so that was wasted on me, unless I was in a dungeon 
 trying to keep people alive!!
  I have tried to play this game twice and neither time have i made it through to the end!! 
  Sorry 
 Enchanted Arms - you just didn't cut it for me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeis-net
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  No, No, No this is a really bad game. The character movement is clunky and reminds you of PS1 games 
 before 3d worlds appeared. Clunky movement, terrible terrible voice acting, shocking linear story, 
 and really really poor combat system make this the worst PS3 game I have ever purchased.
  
  I love turn based games, and get the Japanese franchises, love disgaea, final fantasy which this 
 game tries to be, but just takes all the annoying bits from these games and bundles them together.
 
  
  I dont know where the good games are going to come from on the PS3, but it would appear that UbiSoft 
 are not going to be a shining beacon of quality. Going to try folklore see if there is anything 
 to it, but it appears the PS3 only has shooters or driving games (gutted) .
  
  Rent it if you must, but do not part with any money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a turn based RPG with a good storyline involving magic, Golems (monsters/creatures 
 that live around the world and that are used by humans for their tasks) and fantasy! It's an average 
 game.. with the RPG and evolution component, but it got it's flaws.. 
  
  You fight in a battlefield divided by square areas and move according to that. The battles are 
 quite fun and the story will keep you moving forward.. 
  
  But sometimes the game's pace gets interrupted by some boring parts.. like traveling long distances 
 for example.. 
  
  I found the game quite average and it made me have fun for about 70 hours gameplay (i explored 
 a lot and did all side quests [which are kinda secret] ) . 
  
  You get to customize your characters weapons and attacks, you get to Synthesize new golems to use 
 in combat and even upgrade their stats.. 
  
  Even tho it isn't (by far) in the upper level of the RPGs, it's a game that will keep you busy 
 for a long while and having fun (around the end of the game i wanted the story to continue.. so 
 yeah.. the game isn't as bad as people say it is..)
  
  If the game's price gets cut, or you are able to rent it, I recommend Enchanted Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakozako666
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  From beggining to end this game had much potential. Potential geared in story, cutscences, and 
 a bigger world. Potential that I would say the developers were simply too lazy. It did nail its 
 combat and that made it all the while.
  
  Positives:
  Good voice track, English and Japanese.
  Very nice soundtrack, fits well with the areas.
  
 
  Awesome battle scheme, fast paced, and has a nifty auto feature. Even has a fast forward!
  
  Characters are enjoyable.
  
  Through-out the game, rather than simply using your four main 
 characthers, one may choose to use Golems instead. These range from a plant-like deal to a gothic-looking 
 girl. I was able to beat the game with only two main characther and two golems.
  
  Negatives:
  Would have enjoyed more character development for Golems. 
  Enviroments are highly 
 linear.
  Cities felt small
  Puzzles are to simple. Boring, even.
  
  *Spoiler* When I fought Kou he was the hardest boss (Early -mid in the game)
  
  *Spoiler* A 
 dog dies... Can't kill a main characther but a dog is passable?
  
  Conclusion: A Solid RPG with it's ups and downs and (for me) awesome battle shceme)
  Conclusion:
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2006, Enchanted Arms was an exclusive to Microsoft's Xbox 360. In 2007, the exclusion broke 
 and Enchanted Arms got ported to the PlayStation 3 at the start of that year in Japan, and a few 
 months later for the US and Europe. Enchanted Arms has received many Mixed Reactions, some saying 
 it's good while others say it's bad. I am one of those who enjoyed it. This review is entirely 
 on the PlayStation 3 port, as I have not played the original Xbox 360 version.
  
  It begins in an Enchanter's University in the City of Yokohama. At the university, they study to 
 become enchanters, while learning about topics such as the man-made golems that populate the world. 
 Although powerful self-aware golems fought each other and laid waste to the land 1000 years ago 
 during the Golem Wars, golems in the modern era serve mankind. Atsuma is sleeping through a lecture 
 when the bell rings for lunch. Hanging out with his two friends Toya and Makoto, they decide to 
 skip class and go to the local festival in the city. While at the festival, they find that the 
 city is being attacked by a bunch of golems who have gone berserk. Rushing back to the university, 
 the three find that things are in chaos, and that the mysterious "sealed ward" had been opened. 
 While seeking to discover what has happened, the group meet up with the Queen of Ice, a Devil Golem 
 sealed long ago. The three fight the Golem, but get defeated, and the Queen takes Toya while she 
 freezes Makoto. Atsuma strikes back, guided by a mysterious voice, using his right arm that turns 
 into something out of the ordinary that could harm a Devil Golem.
  
  Atsuma later wakes up in a cell in London City, learning that the Queen of Ice had destroyed Yokohama. 
 After escaping with a mysterious girl named Karin and her bodyguard Raigar, they reveal that they 
 are part of a resistance movement that opposes King Caliban's plans to revive the Emperor of Fire, 
 another Devil Golem hidden right under the city. In exchange for joining, Atsuma wished to see 
 what happened to Yokohama City. It's quite obvious to find that the story has a couple of RPG clichs. 
 Your town being destroyed, and a war 1000 years beforehand. Nevertheless, the story is still pretty 
 good.
  
  I'd like to mention the characters. Atsuma isn't too bad of a character, and has a significant 
 right arm which has extraordinary powers. Toya is a very bright student at the Enchanter's University, 
 and is very popular amongst the ladies. Makoto is.... a homosexual, who has the looks of a woman 
 and literally loves Toya. Karin is the main female, and is rather stubborn, especially towards 
 Atsuma. Karin also has a bodyguard named Raigar. Eventually, you will get another girl named Yuki 
 in your party and she claims herself as the Golem master and she is obsessed with money. Overall, 
 the characters aren't the best, and remain mediocre.
  
  The battle system is rather enjoyable. It is entirely turn-based, with no ATB. Your side attacks 
 first, then the enemy. Therefore, speed doesn't really matter in this game. Battles take place 
 in a 4x6 grid, cut down the middle to create a 3x4 player's side and opposing enemy's side. This 
 line cannot be crossed by your allies of the opponent. The battle system is rather similar to that 
 of the Super Famicom RPG, Live A Live.
  
  Each character can have a set of skills, you can equip five at a time to every character. Skills 
 can be bought the shop, and you can teach you characters these skills. These skills can be attacking, 
 which come up in red and towards the opponent, or supporting, which some up in green and can only 
 be used on yourself or characters beside you. Attacking skills can be short range, long range or 
 wide range. There are a wide range of characters to battle with. Of course there are the four main 
 protagonists, but there are also over 80 golems you can find and team up with during this enchanting 
 adventure.
  
  Bosses vary in difficulty, like any JRPG. Many are rather easy, but then there are the ones that 
 will make you tear yourself apart. The rest of the game isn't too hard, and it isn't too bad finding 
 out where to go if you're stuck. Once you've got the hang of how to play it, you should be alright.
 
  
  There is a lot of exploring involved in Enchanted Arms, especially in towns. Everything is done 
 on foot, there are no world maps nor vehicles. There is a lot of box breaking and treasure hunting 
 involved outside of battle. There are of course dungeons and puzzles, but you'll find that the 
 puzzles aren't to hard, so reading online walkthroughs may not be needed. With the combination 
 of the battles, exploring and the many cutscenes, Enchanted Arms is about 50 hours in length.
 
  
  The graphics are rather decent. As an early 7th-Gen RPG, you can't really expect it to be top-notch. 
 I think they are pretty good. The character graphics are pretty good, but then you find that the 
 scenery looks even better. The graphics are very stunning, and until FFXIII comes out, they will 
 possibly remain some of the best graphics this generation.
  
  The music is rather decent. It may not be the best i've ever heard, you'll find some really good 
 tracks in there. The voice acting is... well mediocre. I've only heard the English voices so I can't 
 really judge, but I will anyway. As I am not a fan of squeaking chalkboards, also known as English 
 voice acting for Anime and some JRPGs, I have to say that the voices in Enchanted Arms really aren't 
 too good.
  
  The controls are fair. I can't really judge them, as it is a turn-based RPG, but the PS3 port introduces 
 SIXAXIS features. You'll be able to shake the controller when you power up your special attacks, 
 and also in several other parts of the game, mainly mini-games. It kind of reminds me of the the 
 Wii Remote features, but nothing special.
  
  Overall, I have to admit, Enchanted Arms is good. It may not be the most enjoyable 7th-Gen RPG 
 out there, but Enchanted Arms is still worth a look. With enjoyable gameplay, not too bad of a 
 story, and wonderful graphics, Enchanted Arms will be one of the RPGs to keep you entertained until 
 Final Fantasy XIII comes out.
  7.5/10
  
  RENT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Wow where do i start, wait first lets put out the positive, not much there but, anyways lets go. 
 Number 1, it has an EXCELLENT story line, number 2, it umm o yea it has very good skils, and it's 
 a very long game. Now we turn over to the negative side (I told you there weren't very many positive 
 things about the game) Alright here we go.... Number 1. Bad battle system, who wants to battle on 
 a grid??!! Number 2. bad voices, how the heck does Akita have a tiny voice, and looks 40, and that 
 one other girl who keeps making fun of him have a cute face, and a heavy voice. The only person 
 i found a liking to was Toya, and Raigar. The downfall of the game was completely that Makato guy 
 confuses you in the begining of the game. You think he's a girl because he LOVES Toya, but he's 
 a guy, and he's guy. WHY THE HECK WOULD YOU THROW A GAY GUY IN THE GAME?!!?! O yea i forgot there 
 was one more positive thing, there are plenty of golems to gain in the storyline. (When you play 
 you'll find out what they are... actually i'll just tell you, because i wou; dn't waste my time playing 
 that game if i was u) Golems are creatures that you obtain in the game, which help you fight, and 
 no they are not rock golems or whatever, they are monsters which alot of them, actually all of 
 them you fight. Well that pretty much raps up this review, this game was bad yep especially because 
 they threw a gay guy in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I can't begin to describe how disappointed I was after playing this game for a few hours. I bought 
 it as it was one of the few RPG games for PS3 around at the time, save for oblivion which I already 
 dedicated 200+ hours of my life to. 
  
  The only real upside to the game is the story, which is solid, and decently intriguing. There are 
 explanations for most events in the game, operating around the history of the 'golem' war. While 
 the golems are interesting themselves, they do make the game a little monotonous.
  
  The combat system, at fist glance is quite a refreshing change, especially the fact it is turn 
 based. However that said, after a few hours thinking 'ah yeah, this combat system is cool and different' 
 you'll instead be saying 'oh great, another pointless battle with this stupid combat system' This 
 is mainly due to the fact that you are constantly bombarded with routine battles during your travels 
 around the gameworld. This makes travel across any long distance an absolute pain. 
  
  I am actually yet to finish Enchanted Arms, after getting utterly fed up with the routine battles, 
 I went and bought Devil May Cry 4. Eventually I will go back and finish the story but after wading 
 through 80% of the game (according to the game itself) I just can't be bothered when there are 
 so many other games out there that are worth my time. 
  
  If you're thinking, 'Yeah I like RPG's, this is something I should buy' I recommend you reconsider, 
 If however you're a fan of the 'collect random creatures and fight battles constantly to level' 
 style of game, then go ahead, you'll probably love this game. Personally for that style of game, 
 I'd get Pokemon or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerokainin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The Game play was pretty good, there were too many random battles.
  It sort of grows on you, but it might take a-while to get there.
  The Graphics were some of the 
 best I've seen in a while, nice flashy EXs.
  The game is pretty long, I like games like that.
  What I didn't like was the battle system, I 
 just don't like the turn based system. This game just made it worse.
  The storyline was one of the best I have seen in a long time. Probably since Two-Thousand Two. 
 The difficulty is hard in some places, like against Kou. In other places it's too easy. And in 
 most places it's Okay.
  If you play for too long in one day you will get pretty boring, and forget about it. They could 
 have done much, much better, and if I made the game I would have made the areas better and a better 
 battle system.
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I admit, the "120 Playable characters" bit on the back of the box threw me off until 
 the price of the game came way down. I picked up a used copy at Gamestop for $17.99 and if you're 
 very patient (patient even for a fan of RPG's) Enchanted Arms will keep you busy for at least a 
 little while.
  
  Graphics - Slightly worse than Final Fantasy XII for Playstation 2. The character models are... eh, 
 cut scenes are few and far between and .... eh, Environmentals are bland with nothing provocative, 
 the whole game visually just reeks of ...."eh"
  
  Sound - Music's alright, voice overs are bad, not horrible bad, just bad enough to get annoying. 
 Characters over-dramatize every roll.
  
  Story - Actually has a lot of unrealised potential. Other than a horrible script and some really 
 unlikable characters, a world where demon creations of man are trying to take over is an ok idea. 
 But anything I can say good about the story is undermined by the fact that you play as a complete 
 idiot. This fact is stressed to you at every opportunity, from the rather degrading description 
 of how to use a ladder to when you learn Gaia and go to fight the Ice Queen. I feel stupider just 
 representing this character, and not many of your characters are much better. They just have too 
 many stereotypical Flaws (hell I was calling Yuki Yuffie through most of the game)
  
  Gameplay - I like the battle system.... sometimes. It's nice, refreshing and new at first, and plotting 
 strategy against enemies can be exceedingly fun. However, it can also be incredibly time consuming, 
 and when you're running around environments with a very high random encounter rate, you just don't 
 want those little battles to take all day. I absolutely hate the fact that you're limited to 9 
 of any useful item. You can hold 999 of those almost useless gholam creating spheres, but only 
 9 Return potions. And you can't heal anyone in your party with items.... just yourself... it gets 
 frickin annoying, fast. The Gholams can be useful, but they get underpowered fast. And I can't 
 express in words my hatred for the six axis shaking thing. Seriously!! it's frickin annoying!!
 
  
  Overall it's not that great. It's a (barely) servicable RPG on a console severely lacking in RPG's. 
 Hopefully we get something else soon so Enchanted arms can take it's rightful place up on the shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverbliao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  i was initially discouraged to play this game due to its garnered reviews. however, i ended up 
 loving this game. it's no final fantasy or dragon quest but it's nonetheless a solid rpg.
  
  the good:
  
  collecting golems, developed storyline, good character design, option to switch 
 speech to japanese, flashy battle graphics, interesting battle system, quirky dialogue, upgrading 
 characters
  
  the bad:
  
  horrible voice acting in english, random encounters can get excessive, six-axis function is a joke, 
 underdetailed backgrounds
  
  overall: if you're looking for a decent rpg for the ps3 or rpg fan in general, this one's for you. 
 it's not difficult to pick up. the game's not too difficult nor is it too easy. can be finished 
 in ~35 hours. despite its flaws, i found this game genuinely enjoyable. *DEFINITELY play through 
 this game with the japanese voice-over because it makes it far more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasope
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  This was my first attempt at this sort of game. Was expecting some pretty involved fight scenes, 
 however was presented with a grid consisting of foes and allies. Movement of your characters are 
 predetermined along with their actions, whether they be attacking, defensive, healing or nothing. 
 At first I thought this was pretty lame, but as I kept playing it grew on me to the stage where 
 I was putting a bit of thought into who I should have as allies based on there strengths and weaknesses. 
 Fights just appear out of nowhere. You walk along a path and all of a sudden you are thrown into 
 battle with a bunch of creatures (golems) who'm you didn't actually see while walking around. As 
 the game goes on these fights are more frequent, and annoying. I got to the stage where I couldn't 
 walk for more than about 5 seconds with another battle taking place. The game has become too frustrating 
 due to it's repetitive nature and is there gathering dust in the cupboard.
  
  The fight and cut scenes can be visually spectacular when using a character's 'special moves'. 
 But again get a bit boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarmanda
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Enchanted Arms is was quite enjoyable. It seemed like a simple RPG 
 that was a good choice for my first PS3 game. The tactical battle style was easy to use and a good 
 change for the more fast paced games that I've been playing lately. The golems were also a good 
 add on making the game more enjoyable. But as I played this game more it really began to drag on. 
 The graphics are not really up to next gen standard and they often look really bad. The dialogue 
 seems to drag on and often becomes too frequent and long. The style of storytelling started to 
 seem like a rip off of Shadow Hearts with many characters been similar. The golems also become 
 more annoying as their numbers increase and I ended up just using my main characters instead of 
 bothering with the golems. Lets not even go near the stupid dance you have to do to use your special 
 attacks. Although Enchanted Arms is flawed it was an alright choice for an easy RPG that lasted 
 me 50+ hours. If you can put up with it dragging on at the end and its flaws than it is an easy 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Having already completed and traded this on the 360 over a year ago, I heard tale of "improvements" 
 made to the PS3 version to make use of the Sixaxis controller so I picked up a copy in a moment 
 of madness, after all, every other game attempts to make use of the Sixaxis and you just end up 
 looking like someone who's having an epileptic fit rather than someone who's playing a video game.
 
  Having trawled my way through this again I have to ask the question why did they bother?
  Even for a port this is terrible, given all the supposed "power" of the PS3 how do they manage 
 to get a JRPG to suffer from slowdown, when all you're doing is running down a badly drawn path, 
 with nothing else in site and only one thing moving on screen.
  Somehow during the port they managed to downgrade the graphics and introduce tearing into the mix 
 as well.
  And how is shaking your controller like a rabid monkey meant to "recreate" and attempt at eating 
 50 slices of pizza?
  What starts out as a promising looking story soon become one of the most clich ridden games you're 
 ever likely to see, heroic student, with unknown and hidden secret power, battles evil teacher 
 who intends to use student to conquer the world.
  Boring, been there before dozens of times.
  Are the golems you fight original? Only if you've 
 never ever heard of Pokemon.
  I knew what to expect having completed the superior 360 version, but given the extra time they 
 must have put in to incorporate the Sixaxis gimmick into the gameplay you'd have thought they'd 
 have tidied up the frame rate issues that mist have been noticeable at a very early stage hoping 
 they'd remove all the homosexual overtones was too much to ask.
  Any connection you may feel for the characters, even Atsuma the main protagonist, vanishes very 
 quickly, especially as they are all ripped straight from Final Fantasy games, and as usual some 
 are so annoying (Yuki I'm talking about you here) that you just want to beat the living crap out 
 of them.
  It's not fun, it's not clever, it's another terrible PS3 port.
  Just another member of a less than exclusive club.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doherty883
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Being a die hard rpg fan i like to give all rpgs a try no matter what other people, s opinion of 
 it may be.
  
  Enchanted arms starts off simalar to most rpgs, something threatens the world and a group of people 
 stand up to fight it.
  After about an hour of play enchanted arms story really does not get interesting at all, the dialogue 
 really does stink... bad.
  I really did try and get into this game but after a few hours i just lost interest, its like a bad 
 ps2 rpg let alone a ps3 one: (.
  The battle system is bland and boring, the graphics are bad ps2 graphics and all the area's are 
 just plain boring... but the most anoying thing by far is the fact you have to take part in this 
 absurd dancing mini game every five minutes to power up your speacial move bar.
  
  The battles do however have some ok speacial moves in them but it really does not justify a full 
 play of this title.
  
  Enchanted arms could have been so much better and the golem collection thing was a nice idea (best 
 thing about the game) but the cons just seriously outway the pro's on this one...
  
  All said i know there is still some that enjoy this title and this is just my opinion;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikgergal
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  what can i say about this game besides the fact that it has horrible voice acting, dated graphics, 
 poor story line, and very linear gameplay. Also the lives of the characters are so boring that it 
 wont be a very memorable game and who honestly cares about things that happen in such a screwed 
 up world where you can use pizza making golems to fight. the only benefit to this game is that 
 its bearable to play between the better games that are coming out, and hey for $19 its much better 
 than one would expect. Go get the game if you're willing to put aside the shortcomings this game 
 is more than worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatt007
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  When ever a game like this comes out, it always makes me wonder what are the developers smoking? 
 The game lack the so called ' next gen' development. It fails to draw you in from the get go, with 
 its poor voice acting along with its game play. Now don't get me wrong there is some parts people 
 may find interesting, for example the battle system which in world of final fantasy and first person 
 rpg like oblivion, gives you something different. It is more tactic based and you cant just run 
 ( literally) in there slashing at your opponents. You work in a grid and take steps and hope the 
 player you want to attack is in range. Like i said above, games like these make me wonder what 
 in God's name are they smoking? it seems such a waste of developing time. Which could be used to 
 make epic games with stunning graphics and gripping story lines. But no instead developers feel 
 the need to make a 'quick buck' game just to pass the time. i mean come on how can you call the 
 next gen era 'next gen' with paper weight games like these. im sorry i think developers really 
 need to start putting in effort into games instead of putting in second rate games. Games like 
 assassins creed, halo, final fantasy and not to forget GTA! THESES ARE EPIC GAMES! we need more 
 out there instead of paper weights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms. It looked good at first but, when I got it, it kind of disappointed me. The English 
 voice overs were very bad and very annoying so after 10 minutes I switched to Japanese. The storyline 
 was good. The graphics were also good. But during the movies I expected it to be smoother but it 
 was kind of rough. The gameplay isn't bad but isn't good either. The special attacks can be annoying 
 with all the shaking but overall the controls were OK. I think it isn't worth the money, but others 
 may argue.
  
  Overall, this is a better than average game with a good plot and graphics, a bit over priced though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TG81
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews and knew that I shouldn't expect much but Enchanted Arms is lacking. The constant 
 tutorials given by NPCs ( There's a Ladder. You can Use it by Pressing X ) seem excessive and redundant, 
 and puzzles (while simple) seemed to be explained before you even get a chance to figure them out. 
 The story is a little less than gripping, but keeps you interested just enough to find out what 
 happens next. But again, most of the conversations seem to be about how to play the game rather 
 than moving the story along. There is also the theme of Golems, and there are tons of them. Within 
 the first hour of playing the game I started getting the feeling that I was suppose to 'collect 
 them all!' but found shortly that it would be a time consuming quest. Golems are basically battle 
 robots that are enchanted using 'core materials' collected (or bought) through the game. Some are 
 cute and useful, other are not so cute, while many are not so useful. The combat system is actually 
 pretty fun, yet seemed awfully familiar. The elements of combat almost seemed self explained, which 
 is great because they dont offer you a lot of help. You pick where the character goes on the grid, 
 you pick what that character does, you repeat the process about three times and they go in that 
 order. Enemies seem weak and easy to beat which makes combat feel more repetitive than anything 
 else. If a party member dies in combat, dont worry, they'll be at full health when your through 
 killing off the last of your enemies. There's even an option for them to fight automatically.
 
  
  The graphics are beautiful, seriously. Everything looks clean and crisp, even the dirt, but lack 
 the epic scale that I've come accustom to in RPGs. Cities seem small and landscapes lack that breath-taking 
 view that should seem massive but isn't.
  
  The bottom line on all this griping is that Enchanted Arms is a great game if you're not into the 
 usual difficulties that RPGs normally come packaged with, like thinking. The storyline isn't bad, 
 but isn't exactly deep. The graphics really are beautiful and well rendered. The save anytime is 
 a great addition to an RPG like this. If you're like me and just need a game to play until that 
 game you really want is released, Enchanted Arms isn't a back pick. But if you want real deep experience 
 with a game, you should probably pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is my first Next Gen RPG of the new gaming generation. Although I am playing a ported 
 version on the Playstation 3 I have never really had a problem with ports if they are good. I would 
 be the first to say Xbox and the Xbox 360 have little to no RPGs on the table but for a $20.00 
 port this showed some promise. Even though I wasn't expecting much from the storyline it was rather 
 interesting and full on entertaining twists and characters.
  
  In this world there are golems a created being which will do the will of its creator or master 
 as it was made. These golems are used for just about any and every activity or labor from selling 
 pizzas to guarding the citizens from foreign threats these golems are also created through enchanting. 
 In Enchanted Arms you play as Atsuma a young man enrolled into a high-class school to learn enchanting. 
 Atsuma is special, he is not like ordinary people he has an arm with a unique ability that nullifys 
 any and all enchantments that it comes into contact with. This power makes many see him as a burden 
 and annoying because enchantments he comes near are in danger and the world depends heavily on 
 enchantments in many ways. Even though many have these ill feeling of Atsuma he is a very upbeat 
 person who doesn't let things get him down easily and it almost always cheerful.
  
  Atsuma spends most of his time with his two best friends Toya and Makado he seems to have an extremly 
 strong bond with these two even though they don't always get along the greatest. One day while 
 the three of them were ditching school going to the fair suddenly the golems of the city began 
 to revolt and charge through the city without mercy heading for the school. Confused of what was 
 going on and afraid more innocent people would get hurt they followed the golems to the school. 
 When they arrived to the damaged school Atsuma saw his pet dog run into the forbidden sector where 
 nobody is allowed to enter and it is usually sealed by a powerful enchantment. To rescue his pet 
 he follows charging blindly deeper in search of his dog until they come across a large icy room 
 next thing they know before them stood a legendary devil golem an ancient and all powerful type 
 of golem used in the dreadful golem wars of the past when the world engulfed in war.
  
  When I began the game there were 3 things that I expected and to my suprise none of them I found 
 these 3 things are amazing next-gen graphics, a lame storyline, and medicore gameplay. One thing 
 I noticed about Enchanted Arms was that although it's graphical prowess was very good it wasn't 
 all that impress for next-gen capabilities. Although there is no problem with the graphics and 
 it doesn't hamper the gameplay in any way I just felt that they didn't push the graphics as much 
 as they could and it could have looked amazing instead of just good. As I played through Enchanted 
 Arms my enjoyment of the battle system is uses grew and grew which was a very good thing because 
 the amount of random battles you fight in this game is intense but at least it makes you gain lots 
 of levels. In this combat system when you arrive in combat your in a 8x6 grid, this grid is split 
 in half in two 4x3 segments. Inside this grid you must stay on your side with your team of up to 
 4 characters and/or golems and on the opposite side would be your opponents which also must stay 
 of their side. In combat you can use a variety of attacks, magic attacks, and special skills this 
 allows you to have different strategies at dispatching your enemies.
  
  Like many games you have HP and SP, HP being your hit points obviously your life when you run out 
 of this you die. SP is your special points the amount of special attacks and magic skills you can 
 use during a battle this can be recharged by waiting your turn instead of taking an action. The 
 reason I bring this up is because in Enchanted Arms every single attack you can use costs a certain 
 amount of SP dependent on its usefulness and/or stregnth. This is neat because after every battle 
 your SP resets to full so unlike many RPGs you don't have to conserve your points for bosses and 
 other hard things you can use as much as you want during every battle at your own leisure.
  
  With a very fun entertaining battle system that i expected to be mediocre, a interesting storyline 
 that isn't amazing but will keep you very interested in the continuation of the story and the characters, 
 and the next-gen graphics that are good but not great as most next-gen graphics are this game suprised 
 me alot. I rate Enchanted Arms a 7.7 out of 10 I expected it to be a random RPG that wasn't that 
 good but for $20.00 this game was very good I know lots of people gave this game bad reviews but 
 it you are an RPG fan and you own a PS3 I would definatly suggest picking it up for the small price 
 tag of $20.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is the PS3s first RPG, and its a 360 conversion. No hype and no fanfare then. The game takes 
 place in fictional versions of cities such as Yokohama, London and other varied but typical settings 
 such as forests, deserts and icy landscapes. The story is about a small unlikely (arent they always?) 
 team trying to save the world from the Ice Devil Golem, a recently awakened ancient demon. Atsuma, 
 the main character has a dark force inside his right arm that is thought to be key to both the 
 destruction of the world and / or defeating the Ice Queen. There are options for the voices to 
 be in English or Japanese. Neither are great, but its worth leaving it on English for Makoto alone. 
 Makoto is the most openly gay comedy character seen in any game to date. He disappears quite soon 
 in the game, but is a blast of amusing fresh air while hes there trying to gain the affections 
 of one of the guys in your party. The party collect Golems (monsters that inhabit the world) by 
 defeating them in battle then using ingredients at Synthesis Stores to create them. There are around 
 100 of them to collect to be used if you wish in battle. Some of them have unique abilities that 
 cant be found elsewhere or have brute strength. Even though they can be levelled up you are better 
 off sticking to your human party members when you can. The fighting is turn and grid based, you 
 move each character into position then decide their action. It takes ages. But wait; by pressing 
 Triangle, an option for auto play comes up. This will let the AI pick what it judges to be the 
 best course of action for the turn; this involves choosing the best position and tactic. For general 
 fights and levelling up it works great and really speeds things up. After a while though youll 
 begin to feel a bit detached from the action as it feels like just going through the motions. All 
 that changes with the more difficult boss fights where you need to step in and take control for 
 yourself as the AI will get you butchered as it will choose to Raise Strength by 10% rather than 
 give an almost dead character any health. For when you do screw up though and get your party wiped 
 out you can choose to retry the battle or reload your game. This is great because you can save 
 anywhere you like so there is no running to a boss for five minutes only to get killed and have 
 to keep running back again and again. After each battle your health and ability points are completely 
 restored, so you can go into each battle and not hold back anything. However you do have Vitality 
 Points which go down by one for every turn a character takes in battle, these can only be restored 
 at restore points and inns. If they run out then the character becomes very vulnerable. Its annoying 
 but only happens once in a while when you get lost. Overall though, the above helps the game to 
 flow along very nicely and encourages you to try anything in battle because you are less than a 
 minute away from being able to reload at any point if you screw it up. At 40-50 hours of play it 
 is quite impressive that you dont have to go back and do loads of levelling up, as the random 
 fights you have while moving between areas are enough to keep your team capable. This game is a 
 rare thing in that its an RPG that actually wants you to finish it. But will you want to? The 
 story is a bit basic and although everything is done to a reasonable standard, nothing shines. 
 Its like watching a TV movie and being pleasantly surprised by it not being that crap after all. 
 But youll never play it again once its finished. (6.5/10)
  
  Presentation: 6/10 Reasonable menu layout is hampered by a hard to read font that isn't very clear 
 at a distance. Most talking is done with a barely moving image of a character with subtitles underneath.
 
  
  Graphics: 6/10 Still backgrounds, not even as good as the old PS2 Onimusha ones. Too few cutscenes. 
 Doesn't really feel next-gen.
  
  Sound: 7/10 The music is nothing special but doesn't irritate. Standard sound effects. Some bad, 
 but some funny voice acting.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 An easy fighting system enables pro's and newbies to enjoy. Too many random battles 
 per distance walked maybe?
  
  Lasting Appeal: 6/10 Good length. Once it's finished there is nothing to go back for. Some extra 
 boss battles if you want better weapons, but they aren't that much better. Pick it up cheap if 
 you're desperate for an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy, where to start, I could really only stomach the first half hour or so of this game before 
 I had to shut it off. Annoying characters and extremely cheesy, poorly written dialog make it very 
 hard to get into. The battle mechanics were ok, but they felt a little ripped off. I was a little 
 skeptical when I saw this game in the store for 17.99 brand new, and I should have trusted my instincts. 
 I really couldnt find any redeeming qualities that this game had. I wouldnt really sugguest this 
 game to anyone, unless you are really bored, or into torturing yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the 20 dollars I spent on it. I really eanjoyed only a few things about it. 
 One was the story line. Gamespot review said that the voice acting was bad, it was not. The voice 
 acting was actually very good, it was who ever wrote the actual words to be spoken who needs to 
 be shot in the foot. Sometimes I thought this game was designed specifically for beginning gamers 
 and young children (under 12) . Another Great aspect of this game was the battle system. Reminded 
 me of a mix between final fantasy tactics and final fantasy 7. Both of which are great games. Now, 
 like I said gameplay was made for kids. There was literally NO side quests or world wandering or 
 puzzle solving of any kind. It was just follow the path laid out in front of you and oops look 
 to the left and there is a chest! HORAY! Lame. Very Lame. Also this game had some golem catching 
 and using aspects. Which was good for the beginning of the game but then there are no use for them 
 after about the half way point and you just keep collecting them for absolutely no reason. There 
 are many aspects of this game that made it very pormising but they didnt do enough with the ideas 
 they had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game off the bat can probably be done in the PS2. It looks like Final Fantays XII but just 
 not as good.
  
  Its a real solid example of a video game that looks good, but the story is just plain stupid. Your 
 an outcasted student trying to fit it. Your best friends with the most popular guy in school and 
 its resident flaming queer One day you skip school and all hell breaks loose. Going back to school 
 mere minutes after you left you proceed down an ancient SEALED gate in SCHOOL GROUNDS!
  (Apparently its okay to have a SEALED GATE in school cause students will NEVER get curious) . Long 
 story short you release some being that destroys the city....
  
  The gameplay itself isn't bad per se. But the HORRIBLE VA from both Japanese and American makes 
 this game want to scrub your ears out with a metal cuetip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  If you are an RPG fan you can't pass on this game, it has an amazing story and great battle system. 
 By no means is this as good as an FF game, but it is a great RPG nevertheless. Voice acting is 
 ok, needs some work though. The graphics aren't much better than a ps2 game lol, very little texturing. 
 The first 2 hours or so aren't the best, since you are learning how to get into the game. The battle 
 system is cool. I love the VP idea, you get so many VP points and depending on how much damage 
 you take in a fight it goes down, if it is above 0 after the battle your health is restored to 
 full, but if it reaches 0 your health is 1 at the start of the battle. You recharge your VP at 
 Healing stations. This is good for casual RPG fans because you can save whenever you want to, not 
 just at save points. In fact, there are no save points. To access a shop you just have to go to 
 the shop marker when you run into one during your journey. The game is fairly easy, you just have 
 to take some time to understand the battle system. Obtaining skills is easy, just buy them at the 
 shop then learn them using SP you get in battle. This is definitely a must buy at $20 for the ps3 
 if you like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  From Software, best known for its Armored Core series, takes a somewhat rare foray into RPG territory 
 with Enchanted Arms, originally released on Xbox 360 and now ported to PS3. Its a pretty standard 
 adventure, featuring most of what gamers have come to associate with the genre, both good and bad. 
 It looks good enough for this generation, but doesnt dazzle. The tactical combat engine is successful 
 without being remarkable. The music stands out, although the voice acting ranges from excellent 
 to downright irritating. For what its worth, Enchanted Arms is a thoroughly mediocre experience 
 which will satisfy RPG fans, at least until some bigger name franchises hit the PS3.
  
  The world of Enchanted Arms revolves around a quasi-magical technique called enchantment, which 
 according to the story is different and less powerful than proper magic, although how is never 
 really explained. Thanks to the abundance of ether, the energy which powers enchantment, constructs 
 called golems are employed to make life easier throughout the land. Atsuma, the protagonist, is 
 number one slacker and borderline drop-out at Enchant University in the city of Yokohama. He and 
 his friends Toya, the city genius, and Makoto, the flaming homosexual fan-boy of Toya, are enjoying 
 the Yokohama Peace Festival when all the golems suddenly go crazy and trash the town. Atsuma and 
 company soon discover that the Queen of Ice, a super-powerful and well-nigh unstoppable Devil Golem, 
 has been released from beneath Yokohama. They attempt to stop the Queen of Ice, and she kills Makoto 
 and makes off with Toya to serve as her magicore; the foundation for her power. But before she 
 escapes, Atsuma nearly destroys her when his right arm unleashes a devastating power that had been 
 hiding within. The Queen then completely levels the city, and thus begins Atsumas quest to save 
 Toya and discover the secret of his arm.
  
  Along the way, Atsuma meets up with a couple other unlikely allies. Karin is the leader of an underground 
 resistance against the king of London City who has a secret of her own. She is accompanied by Raigar, 
 her stoic and terrifically powerful knight/bodyguard. During the Yokohama attack, and several times 
 afterward, Atsuma and his party run into Yuki, the self-proclaimed worlds greatest golem hunter. 
 After subduing her numerous attempts to pay back Atsuma for defeating her in Yokohama, she joins 
 the quest as the final human member. The scripting has highs and lows, along with occasional inconsistencies 
 of character, but nothing really detrimental. Like any good RPG, a lot of the dialogue revolves 
 around the characters coming to grips with whats happening in the world, and their role in averting 
 disaster. One of the main themes, which is handled quite adeptly, is Atsumas struggle to choose 
 between his singular goal of rescuing Toya and using his new abilities to save the rest of the 
 world from destruction at the hands of the Queen of Ice. The other main characters have their own 
 agendas to follow as well, and each has a portion of the story where their motivations come to 
 the fore. Surprisingly enough, their personalities arent too heavily saturated with JRPG clich&eacute;. 
 You certainly wont be flabbergasted by the emotional depth of the characterization, but neither 
 will you be in tears over more cookie-cutter heroes.
  
  The voice acting offers similar variance in quality. Almost all of the dialogue between the party 
 and major NPCs is spoken, and for the most part, it enhances the story. Atsuma and Raigars lines 
 are the best of the bunch, though Atsumas delivery is often over exaggerated. On the other hand, 
 Karins voice treads into highly screechy territory too often for comfort, and Yukis voice will 
 probably have you praying for her death within minutes. And for all his brief appearance is worth, 
 Makoto is a thoroughly entertaining character.
  
  The character models themselves have a high level of detail, which is good since youll be seeing 
 plenty of close-up shots of them when they're talking. Apparently skin care isnt high on the list 
 of cares in this world, as everyone seems to have very shiny skin. Its unfortunate that the developers 
 didnt sync their mouths or body language with the speech apart from a handful of stock poses. 
 They jump from one stance to another unreasonably fast while speaking, and often enough they just 
 dont quite match the mood. In addition the human party, Atsuma can capture or buy magicores to 
 create his own golems to fight with. There are over a hundred different golems to collect, each 
 with their own properties and characteristics. Although golems gain experience and levels like 
 their human counterparts, they have a set list of skills and never gain new abilities, thus limiting 
 their individual usefulness greatly. Its quite possible, perhaps even likely, that youll never 
 end up using any golems after meeting all four human characters.
  Ironically, in direct comparison to the characters, the golems look fantastic. Since each one has 
 a unique model, theres a lot to like here. Its too bad theres very little opportunity to see 
 these models up close since there is no zoom function in the menus.
  
  As you travel around chasing the Queen of Ice, theres plenty of opportunity to enjoy the rest 
 of the game world. Points are scored for cinematography here, as environments have lots of little 
 touches here and there to make them feel authentic, like falling leaves in the forest or fish in 
 rivers and ponds. Although the level of detail is greater than what most other RPGs have had to 
 offer thus far, its still nothing really eye-popping. Thats not to say that it isnt beautiful, 
 but apart from nice scenery, theres no interaction with much of anything outside of combat. This 
 is compounded by the almost total lack of any other lifeforms on the screen, whether in a city 
 or a dungeon. In fact, the cities themselves belie their names by being rather small and unpopulated.
 
  
  The soundtrack for Enchanted Arms is similarly spare, but to positive effect. Most of the score 
 is rather subdued, providing atmosphere instead of a carrying a rhythm, and doesnt grate on the 
 nerves as it does in many other games.
  
  In classic RPG fashion, combat is randomly initiated by unseen assailants, excepting the golems 
 available for capture. Enchant Arms features a tactical combat system that takes place on a pair 
 of matching 3x4 grids. The party appears on one side and the enemies on the other, and attacks 
 and support skills affect set patterns of squares on the appropriate grid. Sides take turns beating 
 on one another until one side is wiped out or the party flees. While your HP and MP are fully replenished 
 after each combat, it isnt a totally free ride. Every character has a certain number of vitality 
 points (VP) which are used up each round you engage in combat. If you manage to finish off a group 
 of enemies before they strike, you wont lose any VP. Conversely, if combat lasts for several rounds, 
 youll lose a lot of VP. Running out of VP means that that character will enter combat with only 
 one HP and MP each until you visit a recharge point. These recharge points are not exactly scarce, 
 but you will want to keep an eye on your VP as you make your way through an area. This system also 
 serves to promote fairly fast combats, as youre naturally going to want to hang on to your VP. 
 To make combat even more painless, Enchanted Arms features a quick-battle option whereby the game 
 automatically assigns combat actions to your party. They wont necessarily take the most efficient 
 or even logical actions, but its a nice way to avoid the tedium of having to deal with minor foes. 
 An option like this is something that many, many other turn-based RPGs should inherit.
  
  The usual gamut of elemental attack skills, heals, buffs and debuffs are represented. Your human 
 party members gain new abilities throughout the game, and there are enough that youll never be 
 stuck with the same skill set for too long. Beyond standard skills, they also have EX abilities, 
 which are super-powerful effects that require a certain amount of EX energy. This energy naturally 
 builds up as you defeat enemies, but if this is too slow for you, you can accelerate the process 
 on the main map by entering an extremely silly dancing mini-game to regenerate power. Calling it 
 a mini-game is something of a misnomer though, as the only requirement is to shake the controller 
 as fast as you can. You can also shake the hell out of the controller before launching an EX attack 
 in combat to boost the power. Since this is the only time youll really use the motion function 
 of the Sixaxis at all, it feels quite unnecessary, and begs the question whether Sony demanded 
 some sort of use be made of it in the port.
  
  There are a couple noteworthy features to Enchanted Arms that do make gameplay more enjoyable. 
 One is the short hints on where to go next that appear in the lower left-hand corner of the menu 
 screen. Its hard to think of a good reason why other games havent already implemented this idea. 
 Another nice option is the story timeline, where you can jump back to any point in the story and 
 read what happened and even watch cutscenes. Losing track of the main quest is pretty easy when 
 youve distracted yourself with some involved side-quests. Ironically, Enchanted Arms doesnt feature 
 much in the way of side-quests, but thats immaterial. In combat, theres an option to fast-forward 
 the action and make things go even faster. Lets be honest, did it really take this many years 
 for developers to figure out that we just might get tired of seeing the same attack animations 
 after the thousandth random battle?
  
  Taken all together, Enchanted Arms is about as middle-of-the-road as you can get with an RPG these 
 days: not too hackneyed but not terribly original, pretty but not gorgeous, fun but not enthralling. 
 Check it out if youre a fan of turn-based RPGs. Just dont expect any miracles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IP_Yamiko
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Quote Game Trailers Video Reviews: Enchanted Arms is the best RPG for next generation counsels. 
 Thats because its the only one.
  
  I must say, both Game Spot and Game Trailers really hit nail on the head here with this next-gen 
 game (if you would call it that) . One thing Id have to disagree with them however is the random 
 placements on the battle system. Because that is what makes this game a challenge in the first 
 place, and therefore fun Also, the fact that you control your party order before it enters the 
 rink, and the fact that you can arrange them however you want anyway, just makes me contemplate 
 over why anyone even considers this so-called pet-peeve to be annoying in the first place. [If 
 you think it is, I swearyoure just like the Comic-book Guy from The Simpsons.]
  
  Gamespot is absolutely right, though: This game will definitely be forgotten in no time flat once 
 you beat it. I havent finished it yet but its just not sticking with me as much as other RPGS 
 I have played in the past. I mean, the plot-line is the most clich&eacute; scenario ever written 
 by our modern media, the graphics just arent completely tapping the full potential of the newer 
 systems (although I cant deny that are extremely good) and dont even get me started with the 
 character Makoto, because what Id say is probably already known by a majority of people. Graphics: 
 7
  Score: 8
  Story: 5
  Value: 8
  Characters: 3
  Game Play: 10
  
  TOTAL SCORE: 6.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a good role playing game overall. The graphics are better than most of the other 
 games currently out for the PS3 and the game managed to keep my attention until I finished it. 
 There is definately room for improvement with it and I would start by giving the game a little 
 more depth and making it a little more difficult but overall I feel I got my money's worth and 
 would recommend this one to anyone that likes this genre. I also think it scores low on originality 
 since everything about this game from the story to the game's format to the music reminded me of 
 final fantasy X. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is not a bad game. It's actually pretty good. I actually waited for the PS3 version 
 cause I heard the reviewers saying the English Dub was really bad and that the PS3 has both languages. 
 I was very sceptical on buying this game for a whopping $60, but I finally bought it at last. I 
 was very surprised how much I like this game. It's not as bad as the reviewers was saying it was. 
 The graphics isn't excellent but just enough for you to enjoy. If you like Anime looking characters, 
 this game has that kind of look to it, which I kinda enjoy. The reviewers was saying that the English 
 Dub was bad. There's no such problem here because you can turn on the Japanese Dialog and English 
 Subtitle. I'm a huge fan of Subtitles with original language. The music is OK, nothing fancy like 
 Final Fantasy games. In this game, you can collect close to 125 Golems, which is awesome. The battle 
 system is simple and easy to learn so no one will actually have a problem figuring out the battle 
 system. I like that a lot, especially with the latest RPGs out there where you have to actually 
 be a scientist to learn the whole system.
  
  Another positive thing about this game is that you can SAVE ANYWHERE you want. This is what I'm 
 talking about!!! We need more of these options in RPGs. Not everyone have time to sit there for 
 hours and hours just to find a Save point. I need to work 5 days a week and coming home for a quick 
 RPG game will not work if I can't save the game anytime I want. This option should be in every 
 game.
  
  There's a few flaws in this game. The frame rate is not constant in certain areas. This has nothing 
 to do with the PS3. This is the developers fault. They did a bad port. I have games that are much 
 more graphic heavier and have no problems with framerate. Ubisoft should do there ports better, 
 this is unacceptable. Another problem in this game is the way how the tutorial goes. In certain 
 areas, when you see a button, the guy that teaches you how to do things will have a whole conversation 
 with you just to tell you to go in front of the button and press X. WTF???!!!!
  
  Overall, this game is good and should be tried out by old school RPG fans. Don't expect a Final 
 Fantasy game and you should be able to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_onefff
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 11, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  In my opiniom this game could of been a lot better but for a first in the ps3 genre it did ok. 
 The graphics of the game really get good when you have a HDTV but if you dont then the text seems 
 a little hard to read and then the graphics might seem a little fuzzy on a regulare tv. The character 
 models are nicely done in the cutscenes and when the is a conversation. The ingame graphics are 
 nice to look at because of all the viberante colors and no lack of detail. The sound of the game 
 is ok. the diologe can be a little quirky at time and then it can be down right silly. As for the 
 dancing in the well its amusing. The gameplay never really was original but if you play with auto 
 the whole time then it is just a breeze to get through the game. The attacks in the game make it 
 fun to watch and there is a lot of varriety in the game with leveling up and adding new skills 
 and golems. The game is ok in almost all its catagories but its just not very orginal so if your 
 looking for a game to keep you going untill something better comes along for the ps3 i would recommend 
 Enchanted Arms. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
