-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Territory: Quake Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/enemyterritoryquakewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge maps.
 Large battles get everyone involved.
 Unique gadgets and weaponry.
 Giant missiles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overpriced.
 Lacks single-player campaign.
 No story or mission briefings.
 Bland textures and environments.
 No customization or persistent upgrades.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 260 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Z-Axis, Ltd.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: May 27, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although the objective-based action is still feverish in this console port of Quake Wars, the lack 
 of any upgrades makes this multiplayer-only shooter feel slim and dated. 

  When Enemy Territory: Quake Wars was released in October 2007 on the PC, it was lauded as a feverish 
 multiplayer shooter for its objective-based action set in id Software's rich Quake universe. Naturally, 
 console gamers wanted a piece of the GDF-versus-Strogg action, so id turned to Nerve Software to 
 develop an Xbox 360 port, and to Underground Development for a PlayStation 3 version. The results? 
 Console owners are subjected to two lackluster ports that fail to improve or expand upon the original 
 in any way, making the game feel dated next to worthwhile console shooters such as Call of Duty 
 4 and Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. Something was certainly lost in translation.  

  If you're not familiar with Quake, you're not going to learn anything in Quake Wars. From screenshots 
 you may deduce that humans are fighting alien-type creatures on a planet that may or may not be 
 Earth. Evil aliens known as the Strogg have invaded, and our last defense is, naturally, the Global 
 Defense Force. We're told that the year is 2065 and that the events in Quake Wars serve as a prequel 
 to Quake II. Sadly, this paragraph features more story elements than you'll find in the actual 
 game. If you want to learn more, you'll have plenty of time to type "Quake" into your favorite 
 search engine during the frustratingly long load screens.  

           Come fly with me.      

  As either the GDF or Strogg, you'll do battle on 12 giant 
 maps, each boasting more than a square kilometer of varied terrain and structures. There's your 
 standard city, jungle, tundra, and desert environments, each of which are very well balanced, with 
 a mix of indoor and outdoor areas that give each character class a chance to shine. You can jump 
 into the combat boots of five different classes on each side each with its own unique abilities. 
 Medics heal, engineers construct defense turrets, covert ops sneak and snipe, and field ops deploy 
 artillery and lace targets for massive missile strikes. Missiles hurt.  

  Cooperation is the key in Quake Wars. To succeed, you and your squadmates will have to coordinate 
 attacks and defense using each class's strengths at the appropriate moment. Each map has three 
 objectives that need to be tackled one at a time, which ensures that the battle lines will continually 
 ebb and flow depending on the skills of your squad. For example, you may have to use an engineer 
 to construct a mining laser that will blow open an entrance to an enemy base. The engineer may 
 run behind a heavily armed soldier who clears a path toward the construction site with a grenade 
 launcher. Meanwhile, a medic may follow along, patching up the engineer until the task is completed. 
 Covert operatives, on the other hand, can set up a radar tower to get a bead on nearby enemies 
 and then take them out with a scoped rifle. Finally, a field-ops agent may neutralize enemy defense 
 turrets by calling in an orbital missile strike. Throw in a mix of vehicles, such as giant mechs 
 and attack choppers, and you have one explosive sandbox. This dynamic, objective-based gameplay 
 is really the beauty behind the Enemy Territory formula. Developing a strategy and executing it 
 is exhilarating. In the words of Hannibal of the A-Team, I love it when a plan comes together. 

  Unfortunately, discovering all of the abilities of each class will require you to whip out the 
 instruction booklet because Quake Wars is one of the less accessible shooters in recent memory. 
 In part, that's because there's no true single-player campaign that might, for example, teach you 
 how to use the covert-ops explosive sticky cam or to call in a dark-matter strike as a Strogg oppressor. 
 The single-player "campaign" features the same multiplayer maps, except that they're littered with 
 bots. The Xbox 360 version does have a cursory training mode that teaches you basic mechanics such 
 as how to call in deployables (for instance, radar towers) , but the tutorial is superficial and 
 the training officer's lips don't even move when he talks. Nevertheless, a poorly animated drill 
 sergeant is preferable to the useless PS3 tutorial video that tells you little more than that Quake 
 Wars has classes and that classes do things. The learning curve here is very steep even for veterans 
 of first-person shooters. When you discover all the different tricks available to each class, like 
 disguising yourself as a GDF soldier and teleporting across the map, you'll be impressed at how 
 much there really is for each class to do. It will just take you several hours to figure it out 
 all on your own.  

           Deploy missile launcher, lace target, enjoy the ride.      

  Without a true single-player campaign, you would expect there to be a silly amount of maps and 
 multiplayer game types, but that's not the case in Quake Wars. For your $59.99, you get 12 maps 
 that feature the same objectives each and every time. As grand as the objectives sound -- plant the 
 explosives, hack the computer, construct the giant laser -- they all boil down to the same thing. 
 You choose the appropriate class, run up to the objective, hold down the action button for 20 seconds, 
 and then repeat. Quake Wars has plenty of great moments provided you're playing with a good team, 
 but with the game costing significantly more than the PC version, there really aren't enough to 
 justify the price. Instead, the player count has actually been reduced from 32 on the PC to 16 
 on both consoles, the graphics are nowhere near as sharp, and there's not even a mission briefing 
 to describe what you're doing and why. For an eight-month-old game, this is a complete rip-off. 
 You're better off playing on a PC with a USB controller.  

  It's interesting that id chose two different developers for the separate console versions. Other 
 than shooting and running, everything is controlled differently. Both versions handle relatively 
 well, although true shooter fans will want to turn off the auto-aim, which is so sticky that it 
 should be renamed "FPS for dummies." Between the two console versions, the 360 iteration has a 
 slight edge. The colors are not as sharp, but the menus are much more streamlined, which helps 
 you change class and spawn points on the fly. On the PS3, you have to navigate through different 
 screens using a combination of shoulder buttons, which is not something you want to do in the heat 
 of battle.  

  Quake Wars boasts extensive stat tracking and a persistent ranking system, but you'll have to hunt 
 to find it. Only on the online leaderboards will you discover that you've ascended to the rank 
 of, say, second lieutenant, and that your preferred weapon is the Strogg accurized lacerator. During 
 each battle, you'll earn experience points from secondary objectives such as capturing spawn points 
 or blowing up enemy radar stations. When you accumulate enough XP, you'll unlock extra weapons 
 and proficiencies such as faster sprint and smaller weapon spread. Unlike in Call of Duty 4, these 
 upgrades are not persistent and are reset after each campaign, which lasts for only three maps. 
 This is unfortunate because the two development teams missed an opportunity to add some kind of 
 character customization, a standard feature in any good FPS these days.  

           Mechs make everything better.      

  Though Quake Wars was by no means a gorgeous 
 game on the PC, it absolutely flounders on both consoles. Textures and lighting are not much better 
 than PlayStation 2 and Xbox standards, and effects are completely underwhelming. An orbital laser 
 strike should rattle your screen with fire and brimstone, burning enemy corpses to a T-for-Teen 
 crisp. Instead, the Strogg dark-matter cannon makes it look like the aliens are firing a giant 
 orange flashlight. The environments are massive, yes, but the structures are uninspired and appear 
 to be designed by Soviet cold-war architects. There's none of the lived-in look you would expect 
 to see in an African village or war-torn European city. Walls are blank. Textures are flat. Explosions 
 are soft. At least there is great draw distance so snipers and pilots can rack up kills from across 
 the map with a great shot. The sound is also mediocre, thanks to the repetitive, raspy voice commands 
 from both the Strogg and GDF alike.  

  In terms of value alone, it's difficult to recommend Quake Wars. You'll love the giant sandbox 
 filled with such distinct classes, high-tech weaponry, and attack vehicles. But when limited to 
 only 16 players on just 12 maps, the gameplay is one-dimensional. Next to so many solid console 
 shooters that feature persistent upgrades and customization, along with a variety of multiplayer 
 game modes  in addition to  a single-player campaign, Quake Wars is incredibly shallow. If you're 
 an online shooter fan who has a good group of friends to play with, give Quake Wars a try... on 
 the PC.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lefevrered
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars should really have never been multiplatformed for consoles, it's clearly 
 a pc game and is extremly leggy for ps3, i can't talk for 360 but i can imagine it's the same.
 
  
  It surely beats older shooters but the lack of a campaign was really dissapointing as i'd have 
 liked to have got to know the storgg's story but hey...
  
  you can't expect every game to live up to it's original platform, oblivion is a good example of 
 this. the different classes' special abilities are cool though with the strogg interceptors ability 
 become viewed as allies by both teams although changing into a human can lead you to being shot 
 by your own team lol!
  
  The mechanics and healers act as the field medics for this online shooter while the infiltrators 
 enter the rival base and pick of the enemies one by one.
  
  Shoot down the enemies while racing to complete your team's task before the other team complete 
 all of theirs. 
  
  8/10 cause it's great but the lagg is a real let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroworld3000
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I heard that Quake Wars was great on the PC port. But ports for consoles are just plain horrible. 
 The controls look so akward and clumsy because the auto-aim function doesn't work properly, and 
 the in-game AI are so tough that they will not give you a chance, and also your health will go 
 down way too quickly and you die! Why can't Id add armour to this game? It's worse than Nightmare 
 mode on Doom!! If you do die, you have to wait 15 seconds or under to get back into action. The 
 command option is also so clumsy too. You had to hold down R3 and then tlit the stick to the command 
 you want to order your fellow troops to do the job for you. In this game, you can be on the GDF 
 side or the Scorgg side. Each team has each kind of troops such a soilder or a medic. The graphics 
 ain't that bad but the controls look clumsy and stupid. And the AI are way to tough for new players. 
 This ports a letdown, get a PC and get a PC version instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is a shooter very similar to games like the battlefield series and 
 should not be picked up because it is located in the Quake universe 
  
  PROS: weapons for the strogg (aliens) are pretty cool looking, average map design 
  
  CONS: terrible 
 AI, horrible graphics for a next generation console, no single player campaign, boring firefights, 
 terrible vehicle controls (especially in flying vehicles)
  
  enemy territory only has a skrimish mode for both single and multiplayer. The more I played it 
 the more boring it got. The AI is bad
  the guns are weak, and the maps are large but the battle only takes place in one very small area. 
 Multiplayer is basically the same as single player except with people instead of bots. and no multiplayer 
 has no upgarding system or anything (except a worthless experience) My advice: If you are looking 
 for a good si-fi shooter, GET SOMETHING ELSE!!!!!!!! Trust me you will not miss out on anything 
 Thanks for reading and hope this helped.
  
  If you have any questions about this or my other reviews, you can email me at red_dawn345@yahoo. com 
 or you can send me a message on the playstaion network. My username is Altairian (I know its a terrible 
 name but i don't know how to change it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfaelan
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  u watch the trailers and u think, yeh this might be fun... it should be but it aint. the main fault 
 is the controls, which are abismal wen in vehicles and questionable when on foot. dont even get 
 me started on climbing ladders. on the plus side, the fact tht u can giv quick orders to fellow 
 troops works well, and team members quite often do work as a team. this game is only worth playing 
 online, as the offline bot AI isnt the best around and theyll generally just run in a straight 
 line towards their objective without working together, just getting shot one after the other.
 
  if your thining of buying this game, dont. there are better online team shooters. in fact id recommend 
 getting the orange box, which contains team fortress 2. hours of tactical/skillful fun
  
  graphics - 5
  gameplay - 4
  overall - 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I wish i could say i had fun, i wish i could say this game was up to the challenge. Unfortunately, 
 this game fails to qualify at all in any funness scale. Its graphics could use a tuning, the controls 
 are weird, loooooooong load times, and incredibly hard to figure out for newcomers. The game does 
 manage to have some good shooting action, and interesting premesis overall, but i just dont see 
 anything out of this game that could make anyone want to pick up the controller. No connection 
 errors is one good thing, and i guess it will appeal to people who've already played it. So ill 
 put it in between, cause it has some good ideas, with some heavy slack weighing it down. It is 
 good in another sense, because it kinda feels cool to be playing a PC game on my PS3. Its pretty 
 good there since it got its start on the PC. Though they really need to stick to common ground, 
 since their new found territory was just a waste of exploring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HawkGamer2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars has no Campaign or single player mode, no real custimization, tutorial, 
 or anyway to know the controls beforehand unless you have the booklet that comes with the game.
 
  
  And yet this game is enjoyable as can be, unless you have no online access. The only playing mode 
 for Quake Wars is online play, so if you have no online access for your PS3 don't even bother. 
 But if you do, this is a good game to pick up. 
  
  Now that that's out of the way, lets get down to business.
  It is fun to as both the Global Defence 
 Force and the Strogg. The GDF are equiped with your standard Rifles, Shotguns, and even a Rocket 
 Launcher.
  Where the Strogg forces have Plasma Guns and other alien weaponry.
  It is incredibly fun no matter which side you fight for. You will die alot though considering your 
 playing with other people online.
  
  Their is no story, just a fun online experience that doesn't get old.
  So if you like to play 
 online, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodofWars67
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is Pure Garbage. The graphics are horrendous! The sound is atrocious! The terrain is 
 bland and boring, if not a decent size to run around in, but who wants to run around in a graphically-deprived 
 wasteland! The game play is essentially PS1 and earlier... I've had more fun with PONG! Some of 
 the weapons are a little fun to shoot, but who wants to waste $60 bucks on a piece of crap where 
 all you can have fun with is running around shooting some guns... it is so boring and mindless you 
 can shoot at anything just for the hell of it. I can have more fun shooting a cap gun in my back 
 yard. The makers of this piece of garbage should be ashamed of themselves for putting out Dreck 
 like this! Just trying to Steal gamers' hard-earned money for their own amusement! I'm So Glad 
 I only rented this piece of garbage from Blockbuster and didn't buy it like I was going to do. 
 I mean the reviews seemed pretty critical, but it is nice to make your own judgment... it turns 
 out that the reviews weren't harsh enough! Word on warning... Don't Waste your Time or Money on 
 this piece of CRAP!!!!!!!!!! Instead look at Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots... a Great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I was sorta interested in this game, I like id and most of there games so I thought it held some 
 promise. I was terrible wrong, this game suffers from bad graphics and lack of any single player 
 campaign. They could have at least attempted to make a campaign like Unreal Tournament 3. What 
 this game is, is a port. No new features no improvements zero zip nada! The gameplay is quick but 
 the guns dont feel right, some are interesting but dont save this game from being abysmal. lots 
 of vehicles that have poor animation, some good ideas here but really not much you'll especially 
 care for. The music is unnoticable, and the sounds of the weapons and vehicles are all a dose of 
 "meh". It's hard to even want to play this game when theres games like Metal Gear Solid 4 out. 
 But people looking for a pure online expierence, they may find some time to spend here. But there 
 are obviously better games out there for that. This game shows no talent in any area. There are 
 some times when you'll think "Oh thats kinda cool" and thats at its highest point. Dont spend 60 
 wendys chicken nuggets on this game, spend it else where! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Man oh man oh man, where to begin. When I first heard about this game I was jumping for joy. When 
 it came out I neglected all the reviews because often times the games I love are the ones no one 
 else likes. However the critics were right about this one. I thought this would bring back the 
 old Quake 3 arena vibe but instead it trys something completely different. 
  
  To be honest at first I loved it and the concept and couldnt get enough of it. The online gaming 
 is solid and thats good because that all this is. It is a bit dissapointing that it has no single 
 player game. Even unreal Tournament offered that. However I have been a Quake fan of the series 
 since the beginning and this one left a sour taste in my mouth. If I didnt meet such awsome people. 
 Shout Out to the Rat Pak. I would have returned it the day I bought it. 
  
  Like I said the Game at first is solid, new and fun. However after several hours and running through 
 the maps a couple of times you soon realize its repititious behavior and predictable bot moves. 
 The game follows the most basic structure offering pretty lame A. I. Another shout out to Ravenloft 
 and Warpig. This one is very upsetting and pissed me off. This would be a great game is the objectives 
 were random and offered weekly downloadable content. Even if you had to pay a couple of bucks. 
 Yet sadly it does not.
  
  This game should not have been a disk based game but a download from playstation live for 29.99. 
 Dont spend your 60 bucks on this especially now that metal gear 4 is out. If you want to make friends 
 this is the game. If your a hardcore gamer that expects a lot especially out of a great name like 
 Quake, then totally pass. 
  
  I love you Quake but you broke my heart.... damnit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcooter
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  yes the sad part was it only had mulitiplayer, and only 13 players are playing it ( as of june14 
 2008 on the PS3 version) who would pay $60 for a game that can easily be beaten by Battlefeild: Bad 
 company? This game is a rip-off, so if you are planning to get it , then switch tracks, get BF: BC, 
 or Cod4, or resistance: fall of man, even lost planet is better. But just to be a bit nice to the 
 makers, and the current players, it is fun to be the strog, and kill the humans with your superior 
 wepons and tecnology.
  I did the folowing cause I had nothing to say: blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Quake 2 is one of my all time favourite games ever. When it was released before the millenium, 
 it was one of the most immersive and radically exciting shooters I had ever played. I was only 
 young at the time, but still to this day it stands to such favourites as TimeSplitters 2, Ratchet 
 and Loco Roco. However in this slant on the Quake universe, things are slightly different, to say 
 the least.
  
  Initially I was impressed at the look of the game, as it is a very handsome game, maybe not to 
 the sheer fantasticness of MGS4 (review v. soon) , Uncharted or even COD4, but in all fairness is 
 it pretty, just not totally encapsulating or immersive. 
  
  One thing that totally gutted me like some sort of helples fish in a Birdseye factory was how bland 
 the character design was. Quake 2 was famous for its spectacular character design, truly uninspired 
 and anticlimactic compared the twisted grotesque nature of Q2's troop of meat clad villains. I'm 
 talking about the Strogg. Lifeless boring models plastered with a slightly different get up, the 
 Icarus enemy for example used to be one of my favourite, now he looks a bit like a disembowled 
 fish with shades. its deeply disappointing.
  
  The learning curve is very swift in this game, and objectives, as easy as they are, seem to be 
 over complicated by a messy map system and objetcive marker that took me about an hour to suss 
 out. Now I'm still not sure. New objectives keep coming up constantly and unexpectedly and half 
 the time, not telling you more effectively in a large flashing text across the screen. it is there 
 you just have to look.
  
  Loading times are disgraceful. It is essentailly taking the piss. Before a battle you could probably 
 drink a cup of tea, whereas between respawning it's simply not on. I have to wait a minute and 
 a half to respawn back at the start away from any objective that I'm aware of. COD4 I wait no tme 
 to respawn at a near starting point, whereas this treats it as if I'm online with 60 players - 
 but I'm not, this is single player. It's so slow and annoying.
  
  It handles pretty averagely too. Shooting is set out very conventionally and probably the most 
 comfortable over anything too intricate. However, some of the vehicles handles terribly, the flying 
 waspy plane thing I flew was incredibly difficult to steer and the Icarus wings are poor as they 
 only allow a short time of altitude and then need charging up, which eats too much play time.
 
  
  Environments are vast in this game and are definately the strongest point of the game by far. From 
 an arctic desert to a tropical island there is a huge variety on offer which will sometimes add 
 to the tactic used in play. They also look pretty cool aswell and the scale of them is pretty impressive.
 
  
  Online is highly competitive, with minor lag issues, but is better suited than the single player 
 campaign. Along with chat options, the real feel for the game starts to shine through, but unfortunately 
 too much focused is placed on the single player and to be honest there are better online games 
 out there, Call of Duty 4 and Warhawk to name a few.
  
  Overall, Quake Wars is too complicated for new comers and outdone by other games for veterans of 
 the genre, it lacks any strong basic plot line and objectives are weak and very simple. Loading 
 times are atrotious, and are particularly disappointing when offline. The reason I would play something 
 as disapointing as Haze over this is perhaps because it's a lot easier to get into to begin with, 
 something that stops Quake Wars from achieveing what it should have done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8.5
  Whether you play as the Strogg or the GDF, the real star of the game is the inventive maps and 
 plenty of vehicles to make this such a deep and involving multiplayer game. You can practice your 
 skills on your own using bots but online is where the real action can be found.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  The visuals are wonderfully crisp, colorful and filled with graphical details 
 that really stand out. The visual effects are more than decent and, while character movement can 
 be way too inelegant, the character models up close look good. Sound: 7.0
  The game's main menu sports some good music and the sound effects are just as detailed as the graphics. 
 Sadly, the voice work is made up of pre-set words that such as "thank you" or "need medic." There's 
 really not much special in the sound department.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  The battlefield will feel like total chaos and that's just how we love our multiplayer games. With 
 so many vehicles, character classes and weapons, you'll find yourself taking advantage of everything 
 the game has to offer in order to help your side. As a single-player game, the bots aren't dumb 
 so expect a challenge.
  
  Concept: 8.5
  Quake fans will love the fact that the game plays up the human-versus-alien conflict just as good 
 as past Quake games. This is more of an online or LAN affair but there's a single-player mode to 
 keep you company when you don't feel like heading online. Oh, and you just have to love all those 
 cool vehicles and massive maps.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.5
  Online is where the game really shines and by allowing up to 16 players on screen you will find 
 that battles flow more smoothly without the clutter. While I would have loved the ability to use 
 voice chat, the fact that the game runs at a steady framerate and the ability to set up a LAN match 
 more than makes up for it.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  First-person shooter multiplayer fans love their battles massive and overwhelming and Enemy Territory: 
 Quake Wars delivers it despite a few setbacks. While the battles are exciting and fun, there are 
 a few problems that make the game feel a tad repetitive and a wee bit frustrating. If you can overlook 
 these blemishes, the overall beauty of the game will keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Well I never played the PC version and I was really looking forward to the console version and 
 I was highly disappointed. Before I got this one IGN had already posted their review and they well 
 they didn't like to much lets just say that. I also read the G-Spot review the day I got it and 
 they gave the same rating as Haze and that is never a good thing so I finally got it.... now the 
 story. Wel to be honest there is no story you just pick your character and go to work. Which is just 
 excuted so badly. It is one of the most tedious games I've ever played you will be bored in about 
 half an hour if you can make it that long. The guns are good and interesting but the action is really 
 dull. The two characters are odd there is a human looking dude and the other is called the Trogg 
 I think.... I don't know but they scare me. The levels are okay but that is all just okay. Some are 
 good some are just really repetitve. There is class'es to choose from which I sometimes hate in 
 games but this one does it well and that shocked me. This is some bad vehicle controls just like 
 Frontlines: Fuels of War it has some bad vehicle controls. There is no real upgrades which makes 
 it the real reason it gets so boring so quick. But one thing that isn't quick is the load times 
 I guess they thought you would want to run out to your nearest Taco Bell and pick something up 
 while it was loading well you get the point. The graphics are another thing they are pretty bad 
 to but there not like Mobile Suit: Gundam bad but not amazing. The frame rate is really bad and is 
 glitchy as hell. Then there is the controls they are really complex and will take a while to warm 
 up to.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: Well this is what the game was obviously made for and it fails miserably here also. The 
 variety of game types helped a little but I don't think anything can help this poor game. But those 
 16 player battles can get pretty intense sometimes but the lag is some of the worse lag I've ever 
 saw in a game I couldn't play a entire match without being hit with crap-loads of lag. The maps 
 are the same as the story mode but with lots more lag.
  
  
  
  Re-play Value-This game has near no re-play value at all. You wont even make it through the story 
 and I'm damn sure you wont play through this twice. And with the super lag in the multiplayer although 
 it is kinda intense and you might have fun for like an hour if that long.
  
  
  
  End It! Well all-in-all DO NOT buy this game and really you don't even wont to rent it unless you 
 wont a game that is filled with lag, no story, bag action, shotty controls, and bad frame rate. And 
 a really bad value because $60 for a game with bad multiplayer and no story well thats your choice.
 
  Real Score:4.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leakepeter
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Well i know what you are thinking that yes you thought quake wars was gonna be good, well guess 
 what its not it sucks its dissapointing but we all have to deal with it, the pc version of the 
 game wasnt that good anyway so you could have already thought that this console port would not 
 be good aswell.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is that it takes hour to learn what your class does and how 
 to do it, this leaves players very frustrated as there is also no tutorial for this game, the second 
 thing is that this game is no Unreal tournament 3 as some people thought it was gonna reach that 
 level, well they were wrong the graphics in this game are also not that good when your compare 
 it to massive hit games such as rainbow six vegas 2 and call of duty the physics arent all that 
 special either, if this game atleast had a decent story maybey that would make up for the uncomplete 
 gameplay because when you see this game you feel entitled to think that they could have added more 
 to it even if it had to be delayed.
  
  on the overall i think this game could have used more but i think the creators rushed it too much 
 and i totaly agree with gamespot on this one.
  
  bye :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  To many people, including the reviewers out there, a game is judged on the first 30 min to hour 
 of gameplay...... and this game will disappoint you in that aspect.
  
  With no clear objectives and no training missions or anything resembling a tutorial, you kind of 
 feel like you are stumbling around in the dark when you play this game at first. The bots drop 
 like flies, but swarm like them too (and since you can die just as easily, don't expect single 
 player bot matches to be very forgiving on your first go.)
  
  The PS3 version of the game is brighter, shinier, and offers a first-person view of vehicular piloting 
 (accompanied with neat HUD for each vehicle) . Other than that it is the same game as the 360 version 
 which is the same game as the PC version. 
  
  'Looking for a great single player story? Go somewhere the hell else. We don't like your kind around 
 here' - Id software's ideology on Quake Wars
  
  You guessed it, no story whatsoever. I personally don't mind and am not smashing them for this, 
 because most people that had a story campaign would just laugh at it and stick to multi-player 
 anyways (in fact I find it hypocritical to knock points off for the game not having a story campaign 
 when reviewers would not focus on it in the slightest if it were in there.)
  
  The teams are humans vs. Strogg. Pick whichever you want, they are both nice and have there pluses 
 and minuses. The combat is great, although because of the quick pace of the game and limited zoom, 
 snipers are kind of useless (HAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Take that! Ya' camp Nazis!)
  
  The only things really bad about this game is the bland visuals, the mediocre sound, and the unforgiving 
 learning curve. Once you push past that though, you find a great example of an online shooter with 
 solid gameplay and interesting character classes. 
  
  Give the game a couple of hours to grow on you and you will be playing it for many hours to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven-Army
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Before i get going on this review let me just say that I had high hopes on this title, the idea 
 behind it really floated my boat. Tactical team based / class based combat on a large scale, i 
 was hoping for a sort of FPS version of war hawk... was I being optimistic?... read on mofos After 
 a lengthy install time running at about 9 minutes and a somewhat generic intro movie I was greeted 
 by an unispiring title screen and after abit of tweaking i found myself able to jump into a game 
 and blah blah blah, i cant be **** arsed to waste my time giving this steaming pile of over priced 
 s**te any less than the beating it deserves and for all the user reviews ive read about it who 
 say "people give this game a bad review because they suck at it!" Pllllllllleeeaaaase I suck at 
 COD4 mother f*****, it doesn't stop the game from being awesome now does it?! The PC game must 
 have been something special to warrent the games lengthy conversion to both XBOX and PS3, but christ 
 guys, i've heard of dropping the ball, but dropping it, rubbing it in sh** and then asking us to 
 pay for the pleasure of playing with it is just offensive. The graphics on this turkey have to 
 be seen to be believed, for example when you zoom in on someone to snipe etc, rather than actually 
 zoom in, the game seems to actually just magnify the character showing the pixels off like crazy, 
 i tryed to snipe one guy but could'nt because i was laughing so hard, i s**t you not, the guy looked 
 exactly the same as one of the sprites from the first ever doom game, no better. Huge maps?, huge 
 empty, dodgy obstacles filled expanses of grey brown nothingness you mean. The controls are something 
 else, obviously with every new game theres a period of adjustment, everyone wants their favourite 
 game controls on the new games but most of the time we have to just grin and bare it, ETQW you 
 are a massive cow, one button to cycle through guns, the other through equipment so you have to 
 quick click to go through it and hope you dont click straight passed your desired weapon, you cant 
 jump over walls that are chest hight, no option to pull your self over?, Auto aim gone crazy for 
 shooting? Check! Online is the biggest lag ive ever experienced, on minute ur running through a 
 brown / grey sh**ty looking battlefield the next you pop up to a brown / grey sh**ty looking house 
 (yes, my connection is fine) To summerize for those with short attention spans *S**t Graphics *S**te 
 Controls *Annoying Sound effects / Voices "im a medic!"... who give a s**t you're useless! *Long 
 Load Times *Depressing Maps *Hilarious Animation "Anything good ?" I hear you say Well if they 
 took some of the weapons / gadgets out, developed them abit and used them in a game that didnt 
 suck its own arse then they could be fun, but here they are just a shiney gold turd amongst a feild 
 of sun dried whit turds highlighting even more what could have been. Oh yeah, and its funny listening 
 to all the people talking on their headsets which normally involves comments like "this game is 
 s**t", "These bots are dumb", "why wont it let me do this?", "Christ this is laggy", "i want my 
 life back" ID + Splash damage... you are time wasters... i wouldnt give you the steam off my p**s 
 1/10 Doc P - Raven Army 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leekiboi
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game rather spontaneously without seeing any reviews for it apart from for the one 
 on PC. I can't say it's a complete let down but I am slightly disappointed.
  
  This game is great once you get in. As there is no tutorial apart from the information given in 
 the manual at first every thing will seem a bit unclear. Getting used to the different objectives, 
 the controls and exactly what's going on will take you a game or two and mastering all the classes' 
 abilities will take a good hour or two even for those who catch on quick.
  
  Game play wise, its just fun with some solid team based objectives. There are only twelve maps 
 and whilst most objectives are similar, each map offers a unique experience both graphically and 
 in terms of game play. For instance the Slipgate map which *slight spoiler* starts off in a desert 
 and depending on how good/ bad you are doing will end in a snow covered planet after passing through 
 a portal. *end spoilers*. None of the maps offer any particular advantage to any class and the 
 only people who may have trouble are snipers as this is a fast shooter and as far as I know you 
 are incapable of going prone.
  
  As mentioned above this shooter is very much like UT3 and other PC based shooters so its very fast 
 passed so expect to die frequently before you start to master the game. This coupled with the fact 
 that you have both very low health and ammo, may put off some players. 
  
  Graphically this game is a bit of a let down, with rather flat textures and quite frankly awful 
 foliage. Also the frame rate dips a bit and when you are in inside locations things can get really 
 bad and you can die before even knowing you have been hit.
  
  Another let down is the fact that the only single player option is bots and there is no storyline. 
 Whilst the bots can be god at times, quite frequently if you have put their tactical skill anything 
 lower than expert they will just run around rather uselessly instead of helping you complete objectives.
 
  
  That's not too much of a problem as this game really comes alive online. Massive battles and tense 
 mission objectives are great especially if you have a decent team and this is where you will spend 
 most of your time playing. At present, however, there is quite a bit of lag which is in need of 
 patching.
  
  The last comment I have is on the xp system. Only if you play online ranked matches will your rank 
 be saved. If you play single player or any other matches, when you start a new game you will loose 
 all your xp. Even then on the ranked games you don't keep your unlocked abilities.
  
  Overall this game is a good laugh but well worth a rent first if you are unsure, or like me want 
 something to fill in the time before MGS4 .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheodenofRohan
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off no game will ever be perfect regardling lag, graphics, ect. The game does lag a bit 
 but you all need to thank the slower hosts for that one not the game. Second the game looks good, 
 again its not perfect but it does catch the eye of any pro gamer... critics that give it a 1.0 
 or close to that usually are whiners an are halo freaks period, bc they cant hack into the enviroment 
 or glitch the maps like COD 4. So heres a word to the wise, jus bc u are horrible at it dont degrade 
 a good game. For all those who are reading this b4 buying, this game is good worth a rent at least, 
 I bought it bc it is awesome to camo myself as the enemy to stab them from behind... amazing!!! 
 Its like i said fun, the sungle player isnt all thats it cut out to be but what shooter was? Its 
 built for online and supported online a lot... if you get on make sure your speed is up to par 
 so u dont screw the makes up, im talking to those who will host a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodake
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  because it was built around a deep understanding of what class-based shooters need in order to 
 succeed... as well as some pretty snazzy graphics.
  Unfortunately, the ps3 version, while still incorporating much of the advanced class-based game-play, 
 doesn't quite live up to its heritage in regards to presentation. The supposedly-amazing mega-texture 
 technology is simply incapable of making the drab and decidedly brown environments look very attractive, 
 and the sound effects seem flat and lack the punch of a decent firearm report. Still, while Quake 
 Wars won't dazzle your eyes or ears, the game-play is what really matters... The game play is rather 
 easy but enjoyable since you can choose any kind of weapon you'd like to handle and choose on witch 
 side you wanna be Global Defence Force (GDF) or the Strogg army. Its not the best game @ this moment 
 but it's worth buying if you are a multi kind of player. Ohh yes don't forget to plug in your HDMI 
 cable works wonders on the graphics :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonicrage666
Rating: 1
Date: May 29, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesturday and never have i purchased a game that i immediately ran to trade 
 in. This game is simply horrible. From the opening to the gameplay. The opening was nothing like 
 what i saw in trailers and the gameplay was so uninspiring. The multiplayer mode was simply seizure 
 inducing from the lag and choppiness. I would not give this game as a cruel gift not even to my 
 worst enemy. Surgery without being sedated is more entertaining. I feel horrible for the creators 
 in which i know the end product is nothing to what they envisioned. Activision has really disappointed 
 me in regards to this game. I only ask that they please don't screw up the next call of duty. This 
 is a pure example of what not to do with a video game. The experience was like clapping with one 
 hand. I lost $40 on the trade in. Again what a waste of a blu-ray disc... I would give it a zero, 
 but the rating option would not let me grade it so low. The mystery package in the back of the 
 fridge is more inspiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gchiu626
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Bought the game in the morning, dying to return it 20 minutes later. 
  
  First of all, the graphics are a disappointment. I run a 26'' hdtv and this game still looks worse 
 than some of my ps2 games, seriously. I thought this is just a problem with me, so i brought it 
 over to my friend's house. Guess what? It's just as bad!
  
  The gameplay... VERY sluggish and hard to control. Just shooting at an enemy alone will take some 
 getting used to. I tried sniping a couple of times and find myself yelling at the enemy to STOP 
 ****ing moving. The movement of other players is extremely choppy and makes the game even more 
 frustrating. 
  
  I didn't play much more after that so my opinion could be biased. I was completely disappointed 
 by this game. The trailers and gameplay videos honestly looked pretty good, but the actual game 
 SUCKED.
  
  Overall: a TOTAL letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JACKAL1883
Rating: 1
Date: May 29, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  I love quake!!!
  
  I bought this yesterday and I also returned it yesterday (thank god gamestop let me do that) . I 
 was so excited to play this game. once it installed i had gotten all geared up headset keyboard 
 mouse controller. i was ready to frag some mother Fr's.
  
  then it happened WTF no mouse and keyboard support. GOD DOOM IT! Mother F'in ID, Why did you do 
 this to us. have you forgotten where you came from, UT3 didn't.
  
  OK i calmed down sat on the couch and gathered my thoughts i will give this a shot (or a bunch 
 of shots that don't hit anything) . i played it, and i was yelling at the strogg to stop moving 
 so i can snipe them. Then i thought this is not fun at all. i got in my car drove back to gamestop 
 and returned this POS. i think to my self I need To build a new gaming PC (there goes $2000 dollars) . 
 i thought I could get away with buying a ps3 and keep it cheep but I will now build a new Rig, 
 DOOM you ID DOOM you all to hell 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
