-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eternal Sonata
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/eternalsonata/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals look even better on the PlayStation 3.
 Charming story is populated by an appealing cast.
 Fantastic soundtrack includes new music.
 Combination real-time/turn-based combat is flashy and fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Easy and linear adventure with little exploration.
 Occasionally erratic framerate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 392 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Tri-Crescendo
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A year later, this captivating role-playing game is still gorgeous to look at and fun to play.

  In 2007, Eternal Sonata served up an unexpected treat to Xbox 360 owners, and was one of the most 
 magical role-playing games to be released in recent years on any platform. Now, PlayStation 3 owners 
 get their chance to roam through the game's beautiful, enchanting dream world, with some extra 
 benefits thrown in for good measure: New dungeons, cutscenes, and tunes, as well as two new party 
 members. These additions are lovely, though they don't change the game in any significant way. 
 But that's absolutely fine. Eternal Sonata is full of joy and old-fashioned romance, and it's set 
 in a gorgeous, fully realized fantasy world. Even better, that soft, chewy center is complemented 
 by an action-packed battle system that continually keeps you on your toes. It will make you feel 
 consistently warm and fuzzy, thanks to its big heart and total commitment to its subject matter. 

           Eternal Sonata's environments glow -- and so will you.      

  If that makes the game sound sickeningly sweet, rest assured that it also possesses a good deal 
 of maturity. Composer Frederic Chopin lays sleeping on his death bad as the clock slowly counts 
 down to his last moments on earth. But the real story is in his mind, where he joins an alternate 
 reality already in progress and multiple stories that eventually converge. His first friend is 
 Polka, a loveable girl with awesome pigtails that can wield magic, but like other magic users in 
 this world, she is destined to die young. Along the way, they are joined by other adventurers, 
 such as street urchins Alegretto and Beat, and goat herder Viola. Two other characters, previously 
 unplayable, also join the party: Prince Crescendo and Princess Serenade. Together, they unite against 
 the rule of the evil Count Waltz, who is turning the populace of Forte into mindless slaves, thanks 
 to an untaxed, addictive mineral powder.  

  It's not the grandest, most epic tale ever told in an RPG, but it's a highly personal one. Chopin 
 must discover what he is searching for in this moving, thoughtful journey. His travel companions 
 are charming, multifaceted characters who develop strong bonds, including Alegretto's touching 
 affection for ever-sweet Polka. You will care for these characters, and if their initial quest 
 doesn't seem all that breathtaking, the passion with which they undertake it will win you over. 
 The story also touches on topics that tie lessons of the past to current events. Blind devotion 
 to the government, the separation of fact from fiction, social persecution, and other themes parallel 
 our own world's political climate. The only problem with the narrative is the pace, which is broken 
 up by narrated segments about Chopin's life and the politics of his own time. These interruptions 
 feature photo stills of such cities as Paris and Warsaw, accompanied by Chopin's famous piano works. 
 But the history lessons, as well intentioned as they are, just don't fit because they force us 
 back into a reality the game does such a good job of letting us escape.  

  Developer Tri-Crescendo has created a beautiful world here. It's easy to get swept up in the French 
 Impressionist color palaette and gorgeous lighting, but incredible artistry gushes from every aspect 
 of the visual design. The clothing of your party members is richly drawn, with intricate stitching 
 and other fine details. The interiors of cottages are filled with meticulously designed decor, 
 from textured linens to finely crafted plates hanging on the walls. Environments are spectacular, 
 even such traditionally clich locations as swamps or forests, which use shadows and mild light 
 bloom to create scenes you would expect to see in a Monet painting. In fact, they look even better 
 on the PlayStation 3 than on the Xbox 360, because the colors seem to pop even more. But all of 
 this 2D art does come at the expense of 3D exploration. You can't freely explore every nook and 
 cranny, nor can you rotate the camera. So there are times you wish you could head off into the 
 rolling hills to check out every valley and crevasse but are fixed to your narrow pathway. The 
 PS3 version does suffer from some odd, occasional frame rate hitches, but make no mistake: Eternal 
 Sonata is a visual triumph and a beautiful artistic achievement.  

           Even this brightly- lit universe has a dark side.      

  As you might imagine, music 
 plays an important role in the game's production values as well, though Chopin's music is usually 
 limited to the edutainment portions previously mentioned. But that's fine because Motoi Sakuraba's 
 score (which features several new wonderful tracks exclusive to this version) is as exquisite as 
 the visuals, using Chopin's romanticism as a starting point for a subtle but sweeping musical journey. 
 The voice acting doesn't reach for the stars, but it is solid enough. Chopin and Salsa in particular 
 come to life vividly, thanks to strong acting, though other voices get too syrupy after a while. 
 Sadly, there are some scenes of extended dialogue that, for whatever reason, feature no music and 
 minimal ambient noise. In a musical score, rests are as important as notes, but these extended 
 silences are jarring.     

  Thankfully, the gameplay is able to match the glittering production values, offering a satisfying 
 combat system that moves at a slick tempo. There are no random encounters, so you can see every 
 monster. Oftentimes, you can simply go around them, though you will be forced into some battles 
 (and some terrific, challenging boss fights too) . Combat isn't a typical series of turns with infinite 
 time in between, though: Eternal Sonata's system is an inventive mix of turn-based and real-time 
 warfare that gets trickier as the game progresses.  

  First up is your action bar. Each character has a limited amount of time to complete his or her 
 turn before it ends. But within that turn, you can move freely about the battlefield. Each action, 
 whether it is an attack, a spell, or a simple movement depletes the bar even more. As your party 
 level increases, the planning time you have decreases, special attacks deplete more of your meter, 
 and other changes are made until battles are frenetic, tactical scherzos.  

           Battles are an enjoyable mix of turn-based movement and real-time combat.      

  Then 
 you have a whole other can of worms: light and dark. If you're standing in the light, you have 
 a different set of skills available to you than if you are standing in shadows. For example, newcomer 
 Serenade can execute a party heal when she is standing in the shadows but a spectacular-looking 
 ranged attack when in the light. Furthermore, these abilities may change depending on how close 
 you are to your enemy. And if that wasn't enough, your enemies can take advantage of the light 
 and dark as well, going so far as to shape-shift when moving from one to the other. Eventually, 
 this system gets complex because enemies may cast spells on you that envelop you in darkness, or 
 you might use items that surround you in a glow of light. And some weapons are more effective in 
 the shadows than in the sun.  

  There's also a real-time blocking mechanic, where a well-timed button press can block an enemy 
 attacking from the front or even execute a counter attack. In the later portions of the game, blocking 
 can make the difference between success and failure. But it's not easy to block, so don't expect 
 to mash the block button when you're on the defensive. You have a tiny smidgen of time, so you 
 are constantly on your toes, even when it isn't your turn. All of these dynamics result in a constant 
 tactical repositioning of each character depending on where you stand, where your enemy stands, 
 whether you're attacking it from the front or rear, and other factors. It's literally the best 
 of both worlds, combining the strategy of turn-based battles with the frantic immediacy of real-time 
 combat.  

  Most of the time, the system is terrific, and the challenge ramps up considerably as the game progresses. 
 But there are some small issues with it. Creatures cast their own shadows, so if you are in one 
 of them, you obviously only have access to your shadow skills. This is usually a great strategic 
 element, but because monster animations cause the shadow to move as well, you could be caught on 
 the fringe of a swaying foe, watching your available actions jitter back and forth. You could end 
 up using a different skill than you intended or wasting some of your precious action bar on moving 
 to another location, thereby getting less time to attack the enemy. It's also worth noting that 
 the enemy artificial intelligence is inconsistent. On the one hand, monsters are quick to figure 
 out which party member is casting the healing spells and will focus their attacks there. On the 
 other hand, they don't quite know how to handle objects on the battlefield, sometimes charging 
 right into a boulder and doing the hokey pokey before turning themselves around.  

           Serenade gives thanks for her experience points.      

  Other frustrations are minor, 
 but they still come up from time to time. Your journey is highly linear, so don't expect to spend 
 any time doing side quests or gallivanting about the countryside to check out the sights. Another 
 odd element is Beat's photography skills, which allow you to take pictures during battle and sell 
 them for a tidy profit. The problem with it isn't the concept -- because it's a great way to allow 
 the party to earn some money -- but that you can make a serious load of gold this way. So if you 
 take the initially powerful Viola and Allegretto into battle with Beat, they can mop up enemies 
 while Beat snaps countless photos. It won't take long to accumulate more funds than you know what 
 to do with, and it eases the challenge considerably because you can load up on floral powder or 
 healing cookies. And interestingly, for a game featuring a famous composer, music isn't integrated 
 into the gameplay itself, aside from a minigame that lets you play bits of music with various friendly 
 townsfolk. It's nice that you can listen to music clips that you unlock, and characters and towns 
 are all named after musical terms. But it's always subtext and doesn't often come to the forefront. 

  The new dungeons are quite good and help extend the length a bit, though you should be aware that 
 one of them is only available to you once you complete the game, which clocks in at under 35 hours. 
 Even with the new content, though, Eternal Sonata is much the same game as before -- which makes 
 it one that you should play, if you haven't already. Its lovely, gentle story and fun combat make 
 for a heartwarming journey that will both draw you in and make you wish you didn't have to leave. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  RPGs have been the center of my gaming for many years now, despite that it only felt like recently, 
 since I first played Final Fantasy VII, the game responsible for changing my ways of gaming for 
 eternity. And now, here I am. On the road again (yes, a Bob Seger reference) . I, Sir Al, the RPG 
 warrior hath risen again to take a stab at Eternal Sonata, a very musical RPG from Tri-Crescendo.
 
  
  Originally released on the Xbox 360 back in 2007, PlayStation 3 users got an enhanced edition of 
 Chopin's Dream a year later. Eternal Sonata (also known as Trusty Bell: Chopin no Yume in Japan) 
 was made by Tri-Crescendo, the folks responsible for the Nintendo GameCube RPG, "Baten Kaitos: 
 Eternal Wings and the Lost Ocean", and it's prequel "Baten Kaitos Origins". Alas, I never had the 
 chance to play either game back in the day. Therefore, I am new to Tri-Crescendo's RPGs.
  
  Eternal Sonata has a fascinating plot, and was apparently based on a dream from Frederic Chopin 
 (pronounced Sho-pan) , a Polish romantic pianist and composer from the 19th Century. This dream 
 was in the final hours of his life, while he lies dying of tuberculosis at the age of 39. The story 
 is divided into chapters, with each chapter being represented by one of Chopin's compositions, 
 and being related to events within his historical life. The story begins with a small group of 
 characters wishing to meet with Count Waltz of Forte regarding perceived social injustices, but 
 eventually evolves into a far-reaching tale, with political espionage and rebellion being a commonly 
 explored theme. The story originally caused a bit of confusion due to a certain vagueness upon 
 initial release, and was modified a bit, in particular the ending, for the PS3 re-release.
  
  Like in any existing RPG, you'll come across a lot of cutscenes. Eternal Sonata definitely 
 has a lot, especially those of the party stopping in a particular area, just to talk for a few 
 minutes. While this may sound annoying, there are also some rather interesting cutscenes, which 
 are significant segments of the story. There are also clips, containing information on Chopin's 
 musical pieces, and the history of his life, every now and then throughout it.
  
  Frederic Chopin is pretty much the main character in Eternal Sonata, but there are a couple of 
 other "main characters" too. Polka is a 14-year old girl with a death sentence hanging over her 
 head: she can use magic, a sign of disease in their world. Because of this, she is shunned by many, 
 but still has a pretty upbeat and sweet personality. The third main character is called Allegretto. 
 A 16-year old street urchin and orphan with a Robin Hood complex, willing to steal to feed the 
 less fortunate. He's confident and strong, but not stupid. Other characters include Beat, a young 
 orphan who hangs out with Retto (Allegretto) ; Viola, a farmer who wields a bow; Salsa and March, 
 sisters who are guardians of the Agogo Forest; and many more characters will join you on your musical 
 quest. (Note that all the characters are named after something musical, as well as locations and 
 other pats of the game.) While I'm not a fan of the characters, they still hold some significance, 
 as they are interesting. However, Beat annoys me.
  
  The gameplay in Chopin's Dream reminds me a lot of previous RPGs, mainly from the 6th gen. The 
 battle system is kind of like Breath of Fire V in a way. You take control of up to three party 
 members, who fight up to three enemies. Battles are turn-based, but not in a Final Fantasy way. 
 Characters can be moved, and have a time limit to do so. When the time reaches zero, it's the end 
 of that character's turn. This applies for every character in a battle. During your given time, 
 you are able to attack enemies, and use abilities (MP is absent, therefore abilities have an infinite 
 usage) . On the bottom of the screen, there are a set of buttons. The 360 version will have A, B, 
 X and Y. The PS3 version will have X, Circle, Square and Triangle. The most interesting part of 
 battles in Eternal Sonata is the light and dark areas of the battlefield. Abilities, and certain 
 enemies vary on your whereabouts. When a character is in a light patch, your ability will be more 
 light-based. When in a dark patch, such as the shade, your ability will be more dark-based. Light 
 and Dark abilities can both be equipped your your allies, and you will learn more of both when 
 they progress in Level. Enemies also have significant differences in light and dark. Sometimes, 
 they can even shapeshift. A weird, but good example would go like this: An enemy may appear as 
 an "onion" in the light, and would transform into a bigger one in the shade. There are a lot more 
 interesting examples. Their abilities may also vary. The battle system in Eternal Sonata is great, 
 and is something a bit new to the RPG genre.
  
  Another thing I like about RPGs, is of course, the exploring. Eternal Sonata has some very beautiful 
 locations, and some pretty cool towns and cities. When wandering around, it feels like i'm playing 
 Final Fantasy X, due to the similar style of exploration. There is no "World Map", nor is there 
 camera control. I'm a fan of World Maps, but I usually don't mind when I play an RPG with such 
 a feature being absent. It didn't bother me too much with this one, and camera control wasn't needed 
 either. What did bother me however was the lack of locations. Sure, there are some pretty good 
 locations, but I thought there weren't enough towns and cities. The greenery was great, but there 
 was a little bit much of it. You do come across a poison field, a snowy mountain, a fire volcano, 
 and some dark dungeons, which are all great. I just thought that a bit more variety would've been 
 somewhat cooler. 
  
  Eternal Sonata is one of those RPGs that doesn't require too much level grinding, but it is recommended 
 for some of those harder and cheap bosses that you'll face. Don't worry though, I actually found 
 this game to be rather addictive, even with the training involved. You shouldn't have any troubles 
 with it. When it comes down to length, I can guarantee that you will spend at least 25-30 hours 
 on the main story, if you are watching the cutscenes as well. There are also side-quests available, 
 such as a secret dungeon and a secret boss. Even a New Game Plus feature. The length is pretty 
 good.
  
  A lot of RPGs these days, i've noticed have had some sort of cel-shading. I've been a fan of such 
 graphics ever since I first put The Wind Waker into my GameCube back in 2003. Eternal Sonata has 
 some pretty good cel-shade in it. While it doesn't have the most amazing artistic graphics ever, 
 Eternal Sonata is still a very attractive game, with some great visuals in it, and a lot of colour 
 variety. No matter what type of TV you have, you will still be impressed with the artwork, and 
 graphics.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty good. While Chopin's original compositions are performed by Stanislav 
 Bunin, the rest of the soundtrack is composed by Motoi Sakuraba, who's music I seem to have taken 
 a liking to lately. Sakuraba is also responsible for the soundtracks of the Star Ocean series, 
 some of the Tales games, Valkyrie Profile and more. It's got a great soundtrack. Voice acting is 
 decent. While I haven't heard much of the Japanese voices, the English voices are okay. Salsa's 
 voice was initially a bit goofy, but thankfully, it grew on me. I hate Waltz's voice though. And 
 Beat's too.
  
  While the Xbox 360 version had a few unfortunate flaws, the PlayStation 3 version cleans a lot 
 of the mess up, making it the definitive version to purchase. Trophies may not be available, like 
 there are with Achievements, but the PS3 version adds two new playable allies, some new locations, 
 and a much better ending. Eternal Sonata is a definite purchase for those who enjoy the RPG genre. 
 It's addictive, beautiful, and it's great! The story and gameplay are also very good. That Chopin 
 must have had an awesome imagination. Unfortunately, tuberculosis had to take him away. May he 
 rest in peace.
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ohno_Kateh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, I am going to say this now. You will need to play the game to the very end to truly 
 be moved by this odd but beautifully touching story.. 
  
  It starts off you seeing Chopin very ill but sleeping and dreaming peacefully. In his dream he 
 meets a young girl named Polka, who is also ill with a strange and incurable disease. He finds 
 that this young girl has indeed a big heart who wants to live her life before she dies helping 
 the people she loves in her home town. Even though Chopin is aware that this is his own dream, 
 he decides to accompany Polka on her adventure.
  
  The battle system used is real-time which will keep your concentration levels flowing. The best 
 part is that you meet any allies along your journey so you will never get bored testing out their 
 new skills. Although the game may seem colorful and childish, in an hour or two I guarantee those 
 feelings will fade.
  
  One downside is the lack of camera angles you have access to (even though it is a PS3 game) But 
 the story and wonderful moving music makes up for it ten fold.
  
  Overall, this is a rather beautiful game to play and experience. Even if you only rent this game, 
 I can assure you that the story will move you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  If you should tidy your games (and not only because your mother says that) this game would be put 
 in the category "odd story"! If the question is why then read the plot. You are in the dreams of 
 the polish song writer Frederick Chopen while he is dieing from a fatl disease. The character which 
 you control is called Polka. It is a young girl that suffers from a non-treated disease. You get 
 to know other children (with music names) to fight the evil wizard Waltz. As a game with a revolutionary 
 idea it is surprisingly good.
  
  The game has a classical value. This results from the wonderful places and the colourful design. 
 The levels are all fascinating and you don't fell like stopping watching them. There will be moments 
 when you will find yourself gazing around with the feeling of amuzement. Unfortunately the camera 
 stays still and that limits you in one view so you can't look everything you want. But the wonderfull 
 cel-shaded graphics and the soundtrack that consist of Chopen's music will make a dream-world that 
 invites you to explore him and it's sure that you will.
  
  The game has of course the features of a classic RPG game (levels, exploration, special powers etc.) 
 but there is some originality too. In the begining of every lap your character can move freely 
 and make as many atacks as he wants. However there is a time limit. Every atack reduces the time 
 that has left so you will have to think carefully before you act and plan you tactic. 
  
  In the PS3 game there are some bonus more than the 360 one. That happens because it is improved. 
 Two extra levels exist the couple of Crescendo and Serenade is available. Moreover the story has 
 been well translated and has some more cutscenes with Chopen as a star. In these scenes everything 
 about the plot is explained.
  
  the game has only a few bad things but who minds! Everything that doesn't happen in reality happens 
 in dreams! A woth playing game!
  
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound:9
  Controls:8
  Gameplay:8.5
  Lasting appeal:8
  
  OVERALL:8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattarthur397
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game based solely on the fact that it had a good review on Gamespot and I have to 
 say I was pleasantly surprised. The first thing to notice when starting the game are the gorgeous 
 visuals. The anime, cel-shaded style is just beautiful and being presented in HD makes it all the 
 more enjoyable to look at.
  
  Eternal Sonata follows the dying days of Frederic Francois Chopin who is widely considered the 
 greatest Polish composer who has ever lived. In his delirious state he enters a coma and dreams 
 up this imaginary world in which the game takes place. On his journey through this world he encounters 
 many interesting people and the plot unfolds very nicely. Also, slotted in at certain stages in 
 the game, are some stories about Chopin's life, accompanied by some of his musical workings.
  
  The best part of Eternal Sonata is the battle system. It combines some traditional RPG battle 
 mechanics with some new elements to create something quite original. Enemies are encountered on 
 the field which takes your battle party to a separate screen where the fighting can take place. 
 You have to take it in turns to move your characters around the screen and attack your enemies. 
 The most unique element however is how your characters special attacks work. Each character can 
 use different attacks depending on whether they are standing in the light or in the shadows. Some 
 characters are better at one thing than the other. This requires you to think about which characters 
 you use and how you utilize them. Throw in the large amount of playable characters at your disposal 
 and you have quite a lot of options. Not only do your characters react to the light and dark but 
 the enemies do too. Moving between the two can cause the enemies to transform, sometimes for good, 
 sometimes for bad. Put all this together and you get a unique experience unrivalled on the PS3.
 
  
  If you are an avid music lover then this game is also for you. Most of the music was composed by 
 Motoi Sakuraba but the game also features a selection of some of Chopin's greatest compositions 
 played by Stanislav Bunin. The music always seems to capture the mood perfectly, which is important, 
 especially since this game is musically themed. If you aren't overly interested in learning about 
 Chopin's life then the game can have some boring moments. Luckily for us you can skip any cut-scenes 
 that don't appeal to you.
  
  Despite the large amount of positives there are a few negatives. Firstly there is the progression 
 of the storyline. While the story is great it seems to unravel very slowly. At a lot of points 
 in the game you might find yourself thinking "when will this cut-scene be over?" The narrative 
 doesn't move very fluently and there is a lot of repetition and stating of things that just don't 
 need to be stated. Secondly it's not very long. The game can be finished in about 25 hours which, 
 by today's standards, is actually a good amount. However for an RPG you expect more and for a game 
 so good you just hope that there's more to do. There are 2 new dungeons in the PS3 version and 
 the hidden dungeon which was in the original however so there are a few extra things to keep you 
 busy. You can also play through a second time to experience more secrets so it's actually not that 
 bad. Upon completion of the game though you just wish the story had been a little more in-depth 
 and they'd thrown in a few more twists just to keep it interesting.
  
  Taking everything into consideration, Eternal Sonata is perhaps the best RPG on the PS3 to date. 
 There are a lot of things to do and the battle system is unique and always keeps you guessing. 
 It has all the makings of a classic apart from the storyline. While it is original it moves quite 
 slowly and there isn't actually much to it. Despite this it is well worth playing, especially for 
 RPG and Chopin fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazingly good but not quite as good. You play as Polka some girl that can use magic 
 but will die if she uses too much and Allegretto some guy with a sword that likes Polka later in 
 the story or what seems like it. And then there's a whole bunch of characters in there that makes 
 ever thing weird. They don't have alot of screen time to be important in any way, especially when 
 the story is pretty weird. 
  
  I like the fact in the story that the whole world is Frederick Chopin's dream, some real life roman 
 or french composer that died long long ago. But most of the story doesn't involve him and the fact 
 that it's his dream. I'm not going to explain the rest because there 's really no point. 
  
  Gameplay is turn based but you can move around, attack and guard or counter. And there's a 
 time limit on a turn so you have to think fast. This is a great battle system I've experienced 
 buy the only thing that takes if back is the story.
  
  The game can be beaten in 30 hrs if your not doing quest. Voice acting is very weird and annoying 
 in battle. Thankfully there's an option to change it to Japanese. Also in the ps3 version they 
 include 2 more characters in the party. But they waste 1 character that was really good. Also apparently 
 in the ps3 version they made the story easier to understand or filled in some parts an the 360 
 version.
  
  Good thoughts:
  - gameplay is easy and fun
  - there's a option to change to Japanese voices
  - 2 more characters
  
  Bad thoughs:
  - 
 story isn't really that great
  - english voices suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tensh1n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Fredrick Chopin brings out a brilliant and creative state of dream story, well more like tri-crescendo 
 did. 
  
  Follow a story of chopin and his illness as he dreams on his bed. his musical Op. pieces and other 
 mastered music background provides a support to the amazing scenery and realistic yet fictional 
 story plot that is told through out the game. 
  
  with the battle system being real-time and the characters are filled with a creative and irresistable 
 appeal, all that is need for a relaxing game is packed into this one rpg that has inspired from 
 Xbox 360 to the PS3. 
  
  customizing, setting the mood, changing the voice acting and bring out a history lessen of Chopin 
 are also a bundle of joy to make this game yell "play", especially when there is not much jrpg 
 for the PS3.
  
  what else does not make this game worth playing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sajoranidem
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I never played a game so inmmersive, so addctive llike Eternal Sonata, for us, the PS3 gamers, 
 we don't have any even "good" RPG but that chance when Eternal Sonata was shown for the PS console.
 
  
  Now with this game, we have the opportunity to play with a legendary once lived Chopin, one (or 
 i must say the best) greates musicians that has ever lived, but now we can put the magic of her 
 music in the magic of the illusion and fantasy behind this game.
  
  And the history is simply amazing, the music is so delightful and the modus game is so sweet that 
 you feel inmersive in the game, you feel like if you are dreaming about your own characters and 
 of course you feel like one of them, they are part of your life in that moment and they help you 
 to understand the way you lived and the way we must feel. Review this game and feel the magic of 
 the Eternal Sonata... "You will see your own destiny" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SickzLife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  When I hear that this game is gonna be in the PS3, I jump for joy. I've waited and here's what 
 I'm going to tell about this game. Great graphics, superb sound, unique gameplay. This is definitely 
 one of the best JRPG out there. The battle system is unique, it won't get boring since it evolves 
 throughout the game. It also told the story about the uprising of Poland during the cut-scene, 
 so you can learn a bit of history from this game. I haven't finsihed the game so I don't know how 
 the story would be, but based on what I've seen so far, the plot for this game is going to be interesting 
 (I don't think it would be boring) . Also the extra content is nice. The whole thing is great... 
 And when you played this game, you'll notice that this game is similar to the tales series, but 
 it has it's different. I strongly recommend this game for tales fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata might be one of the more difficult game to review. 
  
  How would you review it? Will you review it as a game or will you review it as an experience?
 
  
  What I'll try to do is come to middle ground and review it as both as an amazing experience and 
 a great game. 
  
  Best way to describe Eternal Sonata is that it's sum is greater than it's parts. If you look at 
 individual elements of this game, the game doesn't seem that great. However, these not so impressive 
 parts of the game comes together in perfect harmony to become one heck of a game. 
  
  Let's start with visuals. 
  
  Notice that I didn't say graphic. If I did, then Eternal Sonata 
 might be one of the least impressive game on PS3 in terms of graphics. The polygon count is noticeably 
 lower than most games out there on PS3, and it is doubtful that it has more polygon counts than 
 most Wii games too. 
  
  Technically, Eternal Sonata is very unimpressive. 
  
  Art design makes up for it quite a bit, but honestly the art design is not that amazing either. 
 It is bright and colorful, but overall the art design does seems rather typical Japanese anime-influenced 
 design.
  
  If you look at screen shots and trailers, it will be easy to see that this game doesn't look impressive 
 in terms of visuals.
  
  However, magical things happen when you actually start playing the game. You can only appreciate 
 the visuals ONLY when you actually starts playing the game. 
  
  The reason is due to the world Eternal Sonata creates. 
  
  The story, the music, the characters, 
 the voice acting (in Japanese, I didn't bother trying English) , and the mood that gets created 
 by all these elements will absorb you into this dreamy world. Only after you are absorbed into 
 this world, you will appreciate what you see. Once you are part of this world, you will then realize 
 there is not one part you will touch to change. This visual fits so well with the mood the game 
 is trying to create, and it is so delicate that you dare not to think about other possibilities. 
 It's easy to see why Polka had to be designed that way, Why Beat had to be designed that way, etc.
 
  
  Words just cannot explain how beautiful this game is. Don't bother looking at screen shots or video 
 trailers. They just don't do the justice. Only way you will see how beautiful this game is to actually 
 play it. 
  
  It's so beautiful that even the sewer in this game will be more beautiful than the most beautiful 
 location you've seen in other games. That's how beautiful this game is. 
  
  And then the story just follows up the visual so perfectly. If you know anything about Chopin's 
 music, you would know his music is rather delicate and sensitive. It doesn't go deep into strong 
 emotions like Beethoven, but more like brushing the emotion, gently touching it and expressing 
 it more delicate manner. It's difficult to explain, but if you play Eternal Sonata, you will know 
 exactly what I mean since the game does excellent job creating the mood that fits so well with 
 Chopin's music.
  
  The story is so mellow, but not overly dramatic for the most parts (some parts are way over the 
 top dramatic, which is a shame) and it does jump in and out of more logical uncovering of plot 
 and situation characters face, and the poetic conversation that has more meaning than the words 
 being spoken (and actually does it right, unlike Nomura) . Not only that, the best part of story 
 is that this is Chopin's dream. So many of the events in the game is representation of what actually 
 happened in Chopin's life, like a real dream. In a way you will feel like a psychiatrist analyzing 
 the minds of Chopin.
  
  And then there is sound. Beautiful music, followed by exciting and nice sound effects, and add 
 just incredible voice acting (highlighted by super star voice actress Hirano Aya) puts this game 
 near perfection when it comes to sound. Tri-Crescendo supposedly were sound team in Namco, so any 
 less than this might've been disappointing, especially since they use Chopin's dream as main theme.
 
  
  As game-play goes, there are some issues. 
  
  The battle system is deeper than initially seen, but lacks the feeling of having full controls. 
 You can't choose who you want to heal, as it always heals the one that has lowest HP. Also the 
 battle system is rather hectic as you are chased by time limit. Not my cup of tea, but the battle 
 system is enjoyable and exciting. It also has enough depth for you to need to be strategic. Unfortunately, 
 the balance is bit off, and PS3 seems to have difficulty level curse raised, meaning chances are 
 that you will need some grinding. 
  
  exploration is another aspect that has some problems. The game is extremely linear. It might make 
 some sense since this is dream world, and most dreams (at least ones I had) are linear. You know 
 where you are going, and you rarely see other paths in dream. Still, the lack of exploration does 
 make the game bit disappointing. 
  
  Also dungeons might be mostly linear, but they are pretty large. The pacing between story and game-play 
 seems to have ups and downs. Some parts of the game, you might end up seeing more cut scene than 
 actually playing the game, and some parts might make you crawl in dungeon too long, to the point 
 you might get frustrated due to your desire to see the rest of the story. 
  
  Overall as a game, Eternal Sonata is rather average game. Technically speaking, it is quite plain 
 and average. Linear progression, decent battle system, and poor graphic but well designed art would 
 put this game right at the average mark. However, the beautiful storyline, mixed with the very 
 special mood the game creates just breathes whole new life to the game and it morphs into something 
 very very special. This is a game no one should miss. This is a game that proves that games are 
 no longer toys. This is a game that will bring tears to your eyes, and the movie reviewer who said 
 no one has ever cried for video game character. This is a game where it puts 99% of novels and 
 movies into deep shame. 
  
  It's a shame that I can't give higher rating than this. Objectively speaking, the game does have 
 flaws as a game to be rating higher than this. But experience this game provides is just priceless. 
 In a way $60 dollars for this game is way too cheap. You will experience moments that you will 
 treasure for rest of your life. I may be giving only a 8.5 rating, but I recommend this game whole-heartily. 
 If there is one game you cannot miss in 2008, this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacer69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The answer to that question imo is YES. The graphics are improved over the 360 version along with 
 new content to explore. One dungeon is open during your regular play while the other is open after 
 you beat the game. Two new characters currently not in the 360 version. The combat is the same 
 as before but using the ps3 controller felt more natural to me, hate the big bulky 360 controller 
 lol, but just as satisfying. Even the sound was more crisp on this version. I was wondering if 
 Brady games would reprint the strategy guide to include the ps3 version of this game. I doubt it 
 : ( This is the superior version of the game. About time Sony fan boys, like myself, start getting 
 better games for a great system. Even if they are better remakes from the 360 library. Anyone who 
 bought the 360 version should give this a go if you have a PS3 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azrael007
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Role-playing games and the Playstation have always had a dysfunctional relationship. Even from 
 the beginning, Sony was the proverbial rock star luring a hot chick (rpg publishing aficionado 
 Squaresoft) away from her long-time boyfriend (Nintendo) . The PS1 was a sultan's harem of fine 
 role playing games, and the PS2 years were golden years, whence Sony grew fat from the blood of 
 thousands of devoted JRPG exclusives.
  
  Oh, how times have changed! These days Square Enix is demanding a divorce, tossing all of Sony's 
 stuff out of the window, and babbling about how her new boyfriend Microsoft understands her more 
 than Sony ever could. All the hot RPG groupies that were hanging around the PS2 during his rock-star 
 days of fame and glory have left long, long ago, and can we truly blame them?
  
  With the cost of development rising sharply this generation and game finance skewing heavily towards 
 western markets, the once-mighty JRPG seems to be going the path of genres like text-based MUDs 
 or the point-and-click adventure game. The capricious march of technology has made Japanese RPGs 
 a risky endeavor. For those like me, RPG veterans nursed on a steady diet of Dragon Quest, this 
 transition has been a very painful one.
  
  I know, deep within my hear, that I am not the only one who has beseeched the fickle gods of video 
 game development for more quality Playstation rpgs while gnashing my teeth and weeping. As such, 
 as much as I would love to recommend the port of Eternal Sonata as our long-awaited JRPG messiah, 
 I simply cannot. To our review.
  
  STORY
  
  The main character is not a plucky, happy-go-lucky teen with a convenient case of amnesia. You 
 are not the chosen hero destined to overthrow the corrupt Western hegemony and metaphorically restore 
 Japan to its highly-romanticized feudal glory. You are not tasked to defeat the ultimate evil. 
 On the surface, everything seems promising.
  
  The premise? Celebrated Polish pianist Chopin is terminally ill, and in his mind he has been transported 
 to a colorful fantasy world where shadows and light conjure different sets of abilities and everyone 
 is apparently named after musical terminology.
  
  With a premise so bizarre, Eternal Sonata seems rife with the possibility of being a uniquely captivating 
 rpg. Sadly, any pretense of originality is thrown out the window shortly into the story... namely, 
 when you meet your first plucky, happy-go-lucky teen companion (the first of many, I assure you) .
 
  
  What begins as Chopin's terminal illness quickly devolves into the wily adventures of Chopin and 
 Friends, all of whom are plucked straight from the shelves of Anime Stereotypes 'R Us. A promising 
 plot involving two warring political powers (Forte and Baroque) eventually unfolds with bland predictability. 
 The possibility of exploring complex shades of morality during a time of war is lost when the story 
 shifts into a generic battle between good (your party) and a remorseless evil (Count Waltz) .
  
  The story is not without some inspired moments. Polka, one of Chopin's many companions, reminds 
 him heavily of his long-deceased sister, and plot elements involving this contain some scenes which 
 border on being truly tender. Otherwise, even death fails to evoke an emotional response, because 
 it's hard to care for the passing of a character you've known for a sum total of ten minutes.
 
  
  Summary: The amount of cut-scenes are well beyond excessive, especially since most of them are 
 droll, if not entirely pointless. This is not a game like Metal Gear Solid, with forty layers of 
 plot twists, metaphors, and self-references. An original premise also eventually gives way to a 
 story which is largely a paint-by-numbers anime story which could have been ripped from any number 
 of other games.
  
  Score: 6/10 (Fair)
  
  Graphics
  
  Much like the story, on the surface the graphics are gorgeous, but in execution they fail to deliver 
 the sum total of their promise. The world surrounding Chopin is bright and colorful: an ideal setting 
 for any idealistic protagonist wanting to escape his own mortality.
  
  If the art direction had involved more than "lots of bright colors" this could have been a real 
 winner. The animation is stiff; characters only seem to have two or three points of articulation, 
 and lumber around like wooden dolls. The anime-inspired character designs fit well with the vibrant 
 settings, but they are not particularly inspired. Some designs, like Chopin and Princess Serenade, 
 show promise. Others, like Polka, fall flat: you would be hard-pressed to identify some of your 
 party members in a line-up of random NPC townspeople.
  
  Enemy designs fair a little better. Some enemies drastically change appearance between light and 
 shadow, though sadly these unique enemy designs are few. Most of the enemies are standard JRPG 
 fodder, and they lack the visual acuity that works so well in other games, whether it's Dragon 
 Quest's iconic cartoon slimes or the demented demons of the Shadow Hearts series. Like the characters, 
 the enemies fit... but they don't quite captivate.
  
  The game's visual performance is solid. Save the rare stutter in frame rate, the technical performance 
 of the graphics is commendable on a platform that is notoriously hard to port games onto.
  
  Summary: The color palette is lush and fantastical, but stiff animation and standard art design 
 keep the game from being visually captivating. The game's technical performance is solid but not 
 flawless.
  
  Score: 7/10 (Average)
  
  Sound
  
  Save for the rare game that splurges on orchestration, rpg soundtracks tend to be a repetitive 
 cycle of town music/battle music/town music. Luckily, this game had the foresight to include a 
 healthy dose of the famous protagonist's works.
  
  The exceedingly linear nature of the game creates a predictable audio experience; as stated, you'll 
 be hearing many of the same songs or themes over and over again. The game benefits heavily by including 
 the works of a musical genius instead of the usual offering of synthesized music. The original 
 works are, understandably, far less captivating. Overall the experience is not repetitive but likewise 
 it's never transcendental.
  
  The voice acting is much the same. All the performances are solid, but none of the characters bristle 
 with personality. Lots (and lots and lots and lots and lots) of inane, one-dimensional dialogue 
 probably doesn't help. One or two of the characters sometimes become grating. such as the villainous 
 Count. How long do you need to elaborate your various schemes? This is not a 1940's pulp fiction 
 novel.
  
  Sound effects, in general, are solid. Enemies roar but they aren't particularly fierce. Special 
 moves in combat trigger static sound effects. Blasters make blasting noises, fireballs explode, 
 and little teenage anime girls squeal in a decidedly Japanese way when smacked around. You know 
 what I mean.
  
  Summary: The works of Frederic Chopin are timeless. The rest is standard fare. The music isn't 
 overly repetetive and the voice acting is solid enough to avoid jokes about embarrassingly bad 
 dialogue. Sound effects are standard, so move along. For a real musical treat, remove the game 
 disc and pop in a Chopin cd.
  
  Score: 9/10 (for Chopin) , 6/10 (everything else) , 8/10 overall
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ah, what 
 a mixed bag we have here: sparkling jewels and rotten fruit living together in perfect harmony, 
 just like ebony and ivory! (Sorry, one piano joke was mandatory for a game starring Chopin and 
 his Magical Anime Squad.)
  
  Combat is one of the highlights of the game. Each time a character's (or enemy's) turn comes up, 
 a meter starts counting down, and you're given several seconds to walk about and machine-gun abilities 
 as you see fit until time time expires. While simple in premise, in execution it can be quite fun 
 - strategic, even, when combined with the game's light and dark mechanics.
  
  Your character's abilities differ depending on whether they are in light or darkness. Wanna unleash 
 your powerful shadow-based sword attack? Step into your enemy's shadow and pummel him. Wanna use 
 your light-based healing but it's night? Quickly step into a strategically-placed pool of moonlight 
 to unlock your healing abilities.
  
  Combat against weaker opponents is little more than button-mashing till your timer expires. However, 
 as enemies get harder and the light/dark mechanics become more involved, combat can often be a 
 fast-paced game of careful maneuvering as you try to keep the enemies from using their powerful 
 abilities while simultaneously using your own. The turn-based nature of the combat keeps it from 
 ever being truly tense, but often times battles can be genuinely fun.
  
  Sadly, the unique combat system is not packaged with inspired world design. To say that Eternal 
 Sonata's pathways are linear is to say that Pac-Man enjoys his glowing dots a little. You are shepharded 
 from Point A to Point B almost mindlessly, your forward progress through dungeons broken only by 
 enemies and the rare branching path or mind-numbingly simple puzzle. Combat might be that much 
 more fun if there were any exploration elements to be found; as it stands, the fun combat system 
 can't always save you from feeling like a rat in a one-tunnel maze.
  
  Summary: The combat system is inventive and often fun, but fluffy icing can't save an under-cooked 
 cake. The pathways between towns are as linear and predictable as the story. Nary a puzzle element 
 or mini game to be found, really. Character progression is a pretty standard system of leveling 
 and buying new abilities.
  
  Score: 7/10 (Average)
  
  Conclusion
  
  Eternal Sonata was a fun - if uninspired - release earlier on the Xbox 360. Lack of competition 
 on the PS3 does not magically make it a stellar game. The PS3 extras are worth noting: the new 
 costumes are fluffy and somewhat inconsequential, but extra characters are always welcome (two 
 new characters in this version of the game) .
  
  If you're close to the point of cutting yourself due to your desperation for a JRPG to play then 
 pick the game up, but otherwise I'd pass on paying full retail price for this game. If your PS3 
 has any backwards compatibility then picking up some PS2 RPGs on the cheap is probably a better 
 option. If you're dying for a new rpg to play, Valkyria Chronicles releases next week (and White 
 Knight Chronicles and Final Fantasy XIII... eventually) .
  
  Buy/Rent/Pass? Buy it if you love sitting and staring at your massive rpg collection for hours 
 on end. Rent it otherwise.
  
  Story: 6/10
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is my review about Eternal Sonata here we go k the game in first place its awesome great 
 no awesome graphics great story and awesome fighting system somting new :D plus the story in the 
 game it a little bit sad but good :D in this game u can use alot and combos and u open new skills 
 allways as u reach sertain level this game its kind of mix Baten Kaitos with Tales Of The Abyss 
 afcore first time i play it was hard to get use to it when u fight bosses but after its go well 
 easy to use to it u just need ti use tactics plus in this game there is alot and i mean alot of 
 characters to play with its even hard to chose cuz the are all good :D afcorse at the begining 
 i will star playing with kids but after its go all serious :) and alot of cool looking monsters 
 and enemies u gona encounter as well, well i think thats it u just need to play the game and u 
 will understand ;) end of my review for Eternal Sonata 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
