-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/fear2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slow-motion shootouts are good, gory fun.
 Mech sequences provide welcome variety.
 Some cool, spooky imagery.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story offers little mystery or suspense.
 Cliched random scares and level design.
 Multiplayer is drab and disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 432 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Feb 10, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This somewhat scary sequel is a solid shooter, but it can't keep pace with its lauded predecessor. 
 

  The image of a pasty-skinned, greasy-haired young girl has become an iconic one in horror films 
 like The Ring, and the original F. E. A. R. introduced a similar figure with great success. Of course, 
 that game gave its ghostly visions a chilling context, drawing you into the unnerving story of 
 a paranormal prodigy named Alma and the horrific suffering to which she was subjected. F. E. A. R. 
 2: Project Origin returns to this fertile universe, but rather than scrutinize even darker reaches 
 of the soul, it merely skims the surface, offering up a series of eerie visions without delivering 
 a good mystery to bind them together. The good news for shooter fans is that the bullet-blasting 
 core of the experience is sound, propelling you forward with enough intensity to keep the single-player 
 campaign engaging. Most of what's here has been done better before, but the unspectacular elements 
 have been stitched into an enjoyably moody first-person shooter that relies on rock-solid mechanics 
 rather than true inspiration.  

           Blood is good. Blood in slow-mo is awesome.      

  After a short exposition, F. E. A. R. 
 2 picks up where the original left off -- with a bang. The city is in tatters, and as Michael Becket 
 of Delta Force, it is up to you and your squadmates to capture the elusive Genevieve Aristide, 
 president of the nefarious Armacham Technology Corporation. Too much description would risk spoiling 
 the game's few surprises, which are better experienced than narrated, though as it happens, there 
 are few enigmas to unravel. F. E. A. R. 2's story paints itself into a corner, offering very little 
 new to players already familiar with the Project Origin referred to in the title, and nothing compelling 
 enough to wrap newcomers into its fold. With Alma now a known quantity, paranormal secrecy has 
 been replaced by a series of near-cliche bump-in-the-night scares and murky visions that do the 
 unthinkable where a horror-themed game is concerned: They become predictable.  

  Because the pacing and story layout of the game can be a bit predictable at times, F. E. A. R. 2s 
 real scares come from its atmosphere -- and this actually works, sometimes. Expect to jump out of 
 your seat on occasion, when your flashlight flickers and ghostly visages surround you, or when 
 staccato orchestral chords signal the emergence of abominations as they break free from their confining 
 cells. Other attempts at scares just seem stale, given that the game's pacing and level design 
 foreshadow these encounters, therefore emasculating the necessary sense of surprise. However, the 
 excellent sound design is never to blame. A variety of creaks and groans gives ebb and flow to 
 the sense of tension, and musical swells and increasingly hectic clatters and clangs will get your 
 pulse pounding when needed. Unfortunately, the visuals don't paint a picture dour enough to match. 
 Some areas are shrouded with moody environmental shadows, in which light and dark contrast to excellent 
 effect. In other levels, the lack of ambient lighting and accompanying silhouettes are noticeable, 
 and the surrounding frights just feel flaccid. The PS3 version in particular suffers from some 
 rather unfortunate aliasing and occasional dips in frame rate, which further detracts from the 
 atmosphere.  

  The level design also falls victim to a fair bit of predictability, though to F. E. A. R. 2's credit, 
 you'll break away from the endless office corridors of the original and journey through a greater 
 variety of environments. These areas are usually just as claustrophobic, but they won't often deliver 
 that spine-tingling fear of the specters lurking beyond the reach of your flashlight. Trekking 
 through the rubble of decaying city streets is a good change of pace, but the ultraconvenient manner 
 in which the debris holds you to your narrow path is a familiar design ploy. Similarly, there's 
 no more excitement to be found in F. E. A. R. 2's same-old subway than that of any other game. It's 
 at its best when it leaves these stale tropes behind and builds on its roots as a corridor shooter, 
 such as in a nail-biting sojourn through the halls of an elementary school that hides unspeakable 
 horrors. Entering a dusky music classroom to find a hideous mutant pounding on the keys of a piano 
 with abandon is a singular moment, and the ensuing battles are ripe and exhilarating reminders 
 of the series' explosive origins.  

           This is a malpractice suit waiting to happen.      

  Those same inhuman atrocities 
 will spawn clones while emitting ear-splitting, disorienting roars, and others scurry about at 
 super speeds -- though as it happens, you've got a helpful skill at your disposal that helps manage 
 nimble and sluggish foes alike. Like the protagonist of F. E. A. R., you can activate reflex time, 
 which slows the action to a crawl and lets you battle your enemies in a bullet-time ballet. You've 
 seen a similar mechanic a lot by now, but it's skillfully done here. Grenade explosions create 
 impressive visual distortions, bullets leave an airstream in their wake, and spoken dialogue and 
 sound effects grind to a muffled crawl. Landing headshots in reflex time is particularly enjoyable 
 and gives F. E. A. R. 2's gruesome levels of violence a temporary starring role. Foes erupt in red 
 gushers, staining the walls with blood and flailing around in their final moments, an effect made 
 even more effective by robust (and occasionally oversensitive) rag-doll animations.  

  Your instruments of destruction aren't spectacular, but they're varied enough to make shooting 
 a pleasure, even when the flow of time takes its normal path. The two shotguns are particular delights; 
 they feel weighty and dispatch most enemies with a single bloody blast to the noggin. The hammerhead 
 is another delight, filling your foes with neon barbs and potentially affixing them to the wall 
 behind. However, shooter fans should consider playing at higher difficulty levels, given that F. E. A. R. 
 2 feels noticeably easier than its predecessor.  

  The AI can offer occasional challenges, particularly in levels featuring intersecting corridors 
 in which human enemies will flank you, use cover effectively, and tumble to the side should they 
 find themselves gazing down the barrel of your automatic shotgun. They will also tip over furniture 
 or other objects and use them as cover (a trick you can use, though will likely never need) . However, 
 enemy behavior is inconsistent; a table-tipping guard may not follow through, running away from 
 his improvised cover rather than ducking behind it. Some enemies will blindly fire from behind 
 low obstacles but may also do so when in plain view. The best adversaries are those not governed 
 by rules of human behavior, such as ethereal foes that take shape as you enter reflex time. And 
 in some cases, your enemies are so visually elusive that you're better off finding a way out of 
 the dark environs that spawn them.  

  The most notable additions to the formula are a couple of armored-suit sequences in which you climb 
 into a giant metal mech and riddle your attackers with machine-gun spray and rockets. These sequences 
 aren't tough -- you're a powerful death machine plowing down your weakling foes -- but the mech controls 
 nicely and you'll be treated to some impressive displays of environmental destruction and general 
 chaos. You can move through these areas on foot if you like, so these levels do offer a bit of 
 replay value, though you should take great pains to wreak fun robotic havoc when given the possibility. 
 You'll also take control of the turret atop the squad's armored vehicle, but this weapon isn't 
 all that enjoyable to use, and these bits feel like filler.  

           The shooting is solid -- it's just not special.      

  F. E. A. R. 2's multiplayer component 
 also feels like filler, and though we've come to expect online play from most of our shooters, 
 there's nothing special about this suite of lackluster options. For fans of the original, the most 
 notable omission is that of the slow-motion modes, which brought reflex time into an online arena 
 and made for some clever and enjoyable showdowns. Without these modes, F. E. A. R. 2 feels a bit hollow 
 online, serving up helpings of Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, a couple of Conquest variants, Capture 
 the Flag, and a mode called Failsafe that owes a large debt to Counter-Strike. The best of these 
 is Armored Front, in which a player on each team can hop into one of those robotic exoskeletons 
 while his or her teammates capture control points. Otherwise, the shooting mechanics don't translate 
 as well to a multiplayer environment, and the by-the-numbers levels are unimpressive. You have 
 the ability to customize your loadout and level up in ranked matches, but this just isn't enough 
 to breathe life into the musty online play.  

  You'll get the occasional heebie-jeebies from F. E. A. R. 2, but the magic of the first game hasn't 
 been re-created here. Its true that some of the changes in the new game seem like they were intended 
 to address criticism of the first F. E. A. R.: tedious and claustrophobic environments, lack of enemy 
 variety, and so on. Sadly, though these changes were made, the resulting sequel, while fun and 
 well-crafted, seems to have lost sight of the strengths that made its predecessor so unique. Nevertheless, 
 playing F. E. A. R. 2 is a worthwhile way to pass the time while we wait for the inevitable next installment. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Alma's image is of a pale-skinned and filth smeared little girl, with some twisted morals. Not 
 indifferent from the iconic Samara from the Japanese flick "Ringu", Alma terrified players in the 
 original F. E. A. R. An acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, the first game placed the players 
 in the viewpoint of Point Man. Soon after, developer Monolith came off a nasty divorce with Sierra. 
 Losing certain rights to the game, including the name.
  
  Now after two Sierra made expansions, and the purchasing of the F. E. A. R. name, Monolith rightfully 
 had their creation back into their hands. Finally the true sequel to F. E. A. R. is here, and Project 
 Origin is as fun and heavily atmospheric as ever. Now placing the player into a character with 
 a real name and history, Project Origin dives deeper into Alma's past, and unravels any parts of 
 the previous story that may have seem moot. 
  
  Inevitably, F. E. A. R. 2 does not have the same impact as its prequel. Such goes the fate of superb 
 games such as Resident Evil 4, Red Alert, and possibly the future Metal Gear Solids. When the bar 
 is set so high, it is difficult; perhaps too difficult to reach it once more. That said, Project 
 Origin still offers intense action and brutal visuals to go with it.
  
  One of the greatest complaints of the original F. E. A. R. by the general populace was the lack of 
 environments. Monolith clearly showed interest in the forums, the environments are much larger 
 in scope, and in greater variety. Alma's psychic powers have grown, and her ability is shown beautifully 
 in the open streets. Terrifyingly, her rage and powers are so vast that it grips the skies. Players 
 are thrown into the shoes of Michael Becket, a Delta Force operative who's storyline runs very 
 close to Alma's indeed.
  
  Project Origin takes place shortly before the events of the end of F. E. A. R. Point Man's whereabouts 
 seemingly unknown, Beckett and his squad mates are sent to apprehend Genevieve Aristide, President 
 of Armacham. Aristide re-opened Project Origin, in an attempt to profit off of its secrets. Michael 
 Beckett soon learns of his involvement as a test subject in Project Harbinger, a program used to 
 develop psychic leaders. 
  
  F. E. A. R. is best remembered for its horror themes, and brutal slow motion combat. Project Origin 
 brings this mentality back to life. Enemies blasted away shoot arterial spray as Beckett makes 
 Swiss cheese of them. And trademark "Boo!" sequences are heavily populated throughout the game. 
 To accompany a new game, almost every weapon is new too; from the basic sub machine gun and the 
 ACOG assault rifle to the Hammerhead and Type 12 Energy Weapon. Most are satisfying to shoot, but 
 some of the greater weapons are sparsely used. 
  
  The weapons are fun, but the greatest enjoyment lies within using them in the iconic Slow-Mo. It's 
 as satisfying as ever, and more vital in certain sticky spots in the campaign. Mech and/or turret 
 sequences are always a good idea to mix up action in the campaign. Project Origin contains a couple 
 of these sequences with a large and powerful Mech. Placed in a fairly destructible environment, 
 the Mech will tear apart city blocks with ease. Yet, somehow these sequences are not as entertaining 
 as one would think. It feels like a chore to get to one end from another.
  
  Project Origins greatest weaknesses are placed in what differs from the first game. The greatest 
 enjoyment of the original F. E. A. R. was attempting to outflank the opposition. The brilliant A. I. 
 would throw everything they had at you, and would try to push players into weak spots. F. E. A. R. 
 2 employs a cover system. Players can knock over certain types of furniture or objects and use 
 them as protective cover. But this is not a cover system where players can stick to the objects, 
 like in Killzone or Gears of War. It seldom works well, and just detracts from the greatest parts 
 of the game.
  
  Multiplayer is unfortunately not one of the game's strengths. Although it is easily enjoyable, 
 it feels lackluster in terms of options. The most notable absence is the lack of Slow-Mo modes, 
 which made some epic firefights in reflex time matches. Without this, Project Origin's multiplayer 
 feels like a filler. Standard modes are available; death matches and capture the flag, along with 
 Failsafe, a mode similar to Counterstrike.
  
  Throughout the campaign, players will get startled. Players of the original however, will likely 
 feel the timings of the horror sequences to be predictable. The shootings has luckily stayed tried 
 and true and remains great. First timers will have plenty of thrills and frills in Project Origins, 
 but grizzled veterans may feel a longing for a more directly related sequel to one of the most 
 atmospheric, brutal, and downright best shooters out there. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin may not 
 step out of its prequel's shadows at the best of times, but it's a worthy shooter and is still 
 one of the greatest horror genre games to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monochromatic-7
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Seriously the first sequel of F. E. A. R. is the scariest game i've played in years. i was addicted 
 to it and consciously it's the best game i've ever played. great story, horrifying little momma and 
 a psychopath Commander Paxton Fettel have always made me think. thinking how creative can a game 
 be. except some little problems like that frustrating flashlight it deserved to be the game of the 
 year. the first expansion was a good one continuing the storyline and making real horrible scenes 
 thanks to alma and his son. the second sequel was a piece of crap. the story was a bad one but it 
 had some improvements in graphics and music but scary scenes were really bad and rare to find. sierra 
 joined activision, WB bought monolith and it's all changed to money. little freaky girl became an 
 advertising hottie and finally dissapointed all of us. this game lacks of the story. the story is 
 really a dissapointment. we have no more scary music like the first one and all we have is a dumb 
 team trying to reach a dumb target. lovely fettel is a big absent in the game and the money brought 
 us lesser art for sure. to see how ridiculous this game is, Alma has sex with Becket at the end of 
 the game, making her pregnant!!! finally, the only reason i gave this game 8 is i'm a fear fan. a real 
 fear fan and wish for the series to improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:09 am PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R. came out in 2005 it brought new meaning to "survival action horror". The game played 
 with shadows and sound like few titles before it, even rivaling the Resident Evil series in some 
 aspects. Monolith Productions had successfully adapted popular horror movie formulas to scare the 
 living daylights out of players. They took the most mundane of settings and turned them into veritable 
 nightmares. Offices never looked the same. 
  
  The first game was poignant but short, which was a downer because the overall product left many 
 wanting more. F. E. A. R. also disappointingly ended in a cliffhanger, guaranteeing a sequel that 
 would finish all the loose ends. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin unfortunately doesn't quite finish 
 the story (ya, another one of those episodic series) but in the process it improves on the overall 
 gameplay experience with smarter A. I. and sharper action. Though this sequel might be a notch below 
 its predecessor in terms of horror, it surpasses its forerunner in terms of execution as a solid 
 shooter.
  
  THEY GOT ME IN THE AORTA! 
  
  The game begins rather abruptly with Michael Becket and his squad sent to retrieve Genevieve Aristide, 
 the Armacham Technology Corporation executive so frequently mentioned in the first game. It turns 
 out the events of the first encounter were but a prelude to the real crisis involving the omni-powerful 
 telepath, Alma, and the Replica force running loose. Players are again thrust into a chaotic situation 
 as the point man of First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) , a special unit almost as secretive 
 as the evil Armacham Corporation that concocted the whole mess by trying to clone telepathic super-soldiers. 
 
  
  Once the dust settles players end up with more questions than answers but the story finally begins 
 to make sense, maybe because the whole experience no longer feels like a cold shower and because 
 we see reoccurring faces and names. A rundown of previous events would have helped but it's not 
 essential, though it might take players some time to repaint the first game (it took me a few "intel 
 pieces" to remember who Paxton Fettel was) . Regardless, once things start rolling F. E. A. R. 2 presents 
 a better picture than its overly-abstract predecessor. 
  
  Alma begins to show signs of humanity, clearly the victim in the ordeal, and players are no longer 
 alone in fixing the mess. Becket's squad, while not very present, makes a few cameos. Sadly, their 
 company isn't used to the fullest. Most of the game is played out in solo with nothing more than 
 exchanges over the comm. system to remind us of Becket's team, but the exchanges are well executed 
 with some funny lines, especially in the beginning and the end. Besides the gratuitous and forced 
 swearing your mates properly react to your actions, but again, this is very rare -- a mere two 
 or three occasions. 
  
  OFFERS LESS FEAR AND MORE SHOOT 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 shines in the gameplay even though previous melee elements are absent, like kicks and 
 slides. A. I. is smarter and deadlier. Enemy opponents aptly use grenades and various tactics to 
 flush players out. They will often run and gun to move between cover points and you will never 
 see any of them walk through a door only to get blasted one after another. Shooting blindly from 
 behind objects, ducking and jumping over railings is also in their repertoire, which makes the 
 whole experience a welcome change of pace from the various clones out there that have players gunning 
 swarms of stupid targets. In fact, the game prefers to focus on fewer, quality skirmishes.
  
  One negative about the gameplay has to be the lack of side-routes. This aspect of level design 
 takes a toll on action because it's very scripted. Enemies always come out of the same spots -- 
 in front of you because of the linear paths -- and players can't take different routes to dispatch 
 them. Objects can be flipped over for cover, like tables and desks, but that feature will be seldom 
 used since levels have a natural abundance of cove points and because, unlike his opponents, Becket 
 can't shoot around corners. Another bummer is the ridiculously slow sprint mode. Running makes 
 the character increase his speed to a meager trot, which is totally useless during a fight. But 
 overall F. E. A. R. 2 is an excellent shooter. 
  
  Enemies react to hit locations and die in the most realistic of ways. Death animations are particularly 
 well done, as one would expect from armor-encumbered characters. Hit detection is precise even 
 amidst the myriad of objects in rooms. Gun fights in office settings usually leave shreds of paper 
 flying and bullets sometimes create realistic burning effects on solid surfaces. All weapons are 
 perfectly balanced, depending on whom you are facing. All in all, great shooter action. The lack 
 of melee options is not missed. In fact, action is so precise, players will seldom need to use 
 time-reflex mode.
  
  But despite the clean action some elements could have been improved, like limited interaction with 
 levels. Most of it comes in the form of flipping objects over or pressing buttons (lifts, elevators, 
 computers) . Only two instances actually offers level interaction with any creative bearing on gameplay 
 (on one occasion Becket can power a set of subway tracks to zap three opponents and in another 
 he has to shoot an electrical transformer) , but the rest of the game is very straightforward. 
 
  
  AWW, THE MECH RIDE IS OVER ALREADY? 
  
  Levels, however, have a degree of destructibility. Some walls and pillars can be blasted away. 
 Rooms are loaded with trivial objects that fall and explode when shot and hanging lights rock when 
 hit, creating some eerie effects. Speaking of lights, Monolith seems to have toned down the use 
 of lighting to instill fear. In fact, the entire game has fewer frightening moments than in the 
 first installment. Overall Monolith tries to scare players more frequently than in the previous 
 game and that strategy seems to have an adverse effect. Clearly more emphasis was put on action 
 than horror, though a few spots will have you jump. 
  
  Monolith again does a great job designing realistic settings. The game features fewer offices but 
 players are now treated to more urban fighting. Labs, school, cities, subways, offices, hospitals 
 and giant underground facilities create a perfect tapestry for the unfolding devastation. Some 
 parts even have Becket riding a mechanized armored suit. The suit is a great addition to gameplay, 
 which almost acts as a pleasant intermission to the constant tension players feel while pushing 
 onward on foot. 
  
  The Mech compliments Monolith's attention to detail and knack for making the simplest of things 
 look and sound cool. I personally never got tired of the screen going black then seeing the control 
 deck power up every time Becket entered the Mech, or hearing the onboard computer notify me when 
 missiles where ready for launch -- great stuff. Traversing bombed out cities while mowing down 
 Replica soldier is also a blast, especially the sound and effects characters produce when they 
 get nailed with the Mech's powerful guns. Other instances have Becket manning gun turrets with 
 the same gratifying results. 
  
  Levels have enough details to paint a clear picture of the events and their ramifications and make 
 players forget about the linear action. The bombed out city does a great job presenting the effects 
 of a nuclear explosion (come on, all the trailers shows it) . The closer players get to the epicenter, 
 the worse the devastation gets. The school where Replica leaders were groomed conveys the sick 
 methodology used to create future telepaths. Details like the three school test groups (Ladybugs, 
 Frogs and Bluebirds) spread out in the classrooms and the propaganda used to mold impressionable 
 children is subtle but very much visible. Sadly, there aren't enough moments like that. The non-existent 
 intro and virtually non-existent ending also sours an otherwise delicious action-horror-soup. 
 
  
  "SNAKE FIST  LOSE YOUR HEAD OVER IT THIS SUMMER" 
  
  The first game used voicemails to tell the story behind the events. Now, voicemails have been entirely 
 replaced with text "intel items" lying around on the ground. Granted, we still get to hear things 
 unfold through our teammates and other supporting characters, like "Snake Fist", but voice messages 
 have made a very conspicuous retreat in this sequel. Intel items offer a cheap plot-to-game transition. 
 
  
  Voice acting is superb. In fact, sound effects and music are probably the game's strongest point. 
 Some of the better tunes are repeated from the previous game, which is smart from Monolith's part 
 (gives the game a sense of continuity) , but overall F. E. A. R. 2 has perfectly eerie ambient music. 
 A few instances have hard rock and heavy metal, especially at the end. With the amount of moveable 
 items in each level, Monolith did a great job giving most of them their own sound effects. The 
 game is also alive with various spectral moans and groans, maybe one of the reasons this version 
 isn't as scary (you're always on edge) . 
  
  Your character wears a visor that produces a grainy effect on screen and gets wet on occasion, 
 and players get to see their character's body as he climbs ladders or hurdles over pieces of furniture 
 or railings, so attention to detail is there. Cars alarms go off when shot at, broken glass cracks 
 under your feet, fire extinguishers and gas tanks on flamethrower units explode when shot, all 
 of it creates a fully immersive experience.
  
  SUMMARY 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a better shooter than a horror game. Precision and details abound, 
 which make the whole experience highly immersive. Action is a bit linear because of the straightforward 
 level designs, but again, details and solid shooter action make you forget that the game practically 
 plays on rails. Things aren't as scary as in the first title, mainly because levels are oversaturated 
 with scary sounds and ghostly effects. Players eventually get used to the constant tension and 
 become impervious to all the horror parts. Despite being a bit repetitive, action doesn't get old 
 because of its fine polish and the occasional Mech and turret scenes, which are a guilty pleasure. 
 Recommended for anyone who likes solid shooters. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Good details and effects. Nice character animation. Lighting isn't as prominent as in the first 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 85
  Precise shooter action. A few features could be improved. Lack of team interaction and linear levels. 
 Enemies have more moves than Becket.
  
  PRODUCTION 83
  Lack of intro and another cliffhanger ending. Intel items cheaply tie all the loose ends. Unscrupulousness 
 of Armacham Corp. conveyed well in most levels.
  
  SOUND 95
  Great ambient music and sound effects. Sound holds its ground to level details. Excellent voice 
 acting. Too many scary sounds dilute horror experience.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 78
  For some the 10-15 hours of polished shooter action might warrant a second playthrough in solo 
 mode. Average multiplayer. Useless extras.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Previously on fear: An army of telepathetic controled soldiers, created by the biological weapons 
 company "Armachaman" starts to kill people. Really many people.! The soldiers are controled by 
 a crazy and gifted with special psychic powers who leads them to the detection of a young mysterious 
 girl named Alma.
  
  And that was the first game. You were controlling Point Man a dark non speaking person who can 
 slow down time but the real star in the game wasn't he. It was Alma. The sequel begins right before 
 the nuclear explosion in the "finale" of the first game. You are a member of a team that is send 
 there for a mission. To protect the president of "Armachaman" company. His name is Geneviene Aristide 
 and in no case needs to be murdered. Soon things are getting bad. You try to find your way between 
 Replica soldiers that try to kill you. Moreover weird things happen to your mind. Then not only 
 you develop a power that slows down time but you also begin to suffer from visons which depict 
 another older more naked and much more frightening Alma.
  
  In Fear 2 the levels do not consist of simple offices and narrow coridors but you play in flaming 
 hospitals schools streets... .The variety is big. That doesn't mean that you have the chance to 
 explore them. Most doors are locked but nevertheless you have more important things to do like 
 staffing conning towers and fighting a huge amount of enemies while wearing a mech suit. On the 
 other hand those levels deprive the frighten that the first game offered.
  
  However there is a lot of humour in the game and a readiness for playing. The heroe's reaction 
 when he meets the guy who interferfers during your discussions is inestimable. Something like this 
 happens also when he presents himself as Snake Fist. Furthermore the story that made the first 
 Fear famous remains strong with some smart backfalls.
  
  But the novelty isn't the Fear's strong point. The collection of key doors and the locket shots 
 in order to open a gate isn't a rare thing. All in all is a little common. The only unrelevant 
 in searching and with battle collectibles are the boosters which help you slowing down time a bit 
 more and some blue items (I don't know how exactly they are called) which offer you some extra information 
 about the city that Armachaman builted. Although they are little stupid it isn't bad to collect 
 them.
  
  Fortunately the battles are satisfying with a huge variety of weapons and ideal ammo amounts. The 
 shotguns are necessary in the game and work pretty good especially for close enemies. However you 
 aren't going to get close to a lot of enemies unless you slow down time. In the covering system 
 there has been some adds. Now there is a new ability. Your player can turn tables in order to cover 
 or use other items that will help him. In the battles there are of course some dissadvantages. 
 Despite the fact that the weapons are many may dissapoint you. Some guns for example aren't so 
 fun while using them.
  
  To sum up Fear 2 has been greatly improved and it is a game with an awesome atmosphere. However 
 as for the gameplay it is out of date and the final is a big mistake. All in all it is a game that 
 stimulates your senses.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:7
  Sound:8
  Controls:9
  Lasting appeal:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Is the game scary?........... No, but it does have its moments when supernatural forces become the 
 center of attention, but these moments are far and few which is a good thing, because if these 
 moments were around every corner, these good scares would not be scary at all. Alot of the game 
 involves you killing 'fake' soldiers.
  
  First off, F. E. A. R. 2 is an example of evolution. Now before you consider my previous statement 
 a compliment, here me out. The game has advanced both in mode and design, but at the same time, 
 it plays the same role it did before in the first F. E. A. R. The gameplay is entirely the same as 
 in the previous game, which is not a bad thing, but it is kind of a downer. But the game is not 
 bad at all, but it is not great either, it's just right!
  
  So the story is average scripted scary movie material. A girl who looks like a zombie is mad at 
 society, thus she is a threat, so we must kill her before she kills us. I make it seem like crap, 
 but the story is actually convincing and interesting, but also at the same time predictable, except 
 for the weird ending. But I can't get over the fact that the story is presented so horribly due 
 to the fact that you can not hear what people are saying and the stuff you do hear, it is hard 
 to distinguish what is important and was is not. So I thank God every time I die, before I respawn, 
 their is a summary of just what the hell is actually going on. The voice acting is also nothing 
 impressive, but it gets the job done. The acting just feels forced and responses to assessment/questions 
 have wide gaps that make conversation feel like they are read directly from a script. It is quit 
 hilarious, but it also ruins the feel of the game sometimes, but it is not detrimental. 
  
  Anyway, the graphics look nice, but put it next to some o the other games on the market and it 
 may look like crap and may even remind you of PS 2. I am glad that level environments are varied 
 because F. E. A. R. was just plain repetitive. By interval 6, I was bored and annoyed. This game does 
 a better job in this department. Levels include a hospital, school, abandoned city (Resistance 
 2 feel) , and a power plant which all feel different. The game is also kind of long which means 
 you will be getting you moneys worth. 
  
  A. I. in the game is more intelligent than the last game, but still for some reason they flank you 
 at an alarming "untrained solider" rate. I could not believe how many people died because they 
 ran into the line of fire which was very funny. But action is still intense, especially if you 
 do not use slow motion. While playing the game, I felt as if the game was just throwing enemies 
 at me just to make the game longer. You will go long periods of time searching and exploring, then 
 all of the sudden you are thrown into a gun fight that is longer than it needs to be and also you 
 will be wondering, "where the hell did all of these 'random's' come from. 
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is average, shoot this person, find this switch, the same old same old. 
 Can't complain because every game is like this, but the bad thing about this game is their is really 
 no soul or character behind the combat system. Yes you have the slow motion feature from the previous 
 game, but at the same time they have made it less cool and effective. I do not know if this is 
 a bad thing or not, but none of the guns look like what they are. The shotgun looks like a laser 
 gun and it goes on like this. The reason I found this a problem was because I could only identity 
 certain guns by how much rounds they could hold, not actually what they look like. Missle laucher 
 and Laser guns are distinct looking, but sometimes is may become annoying and frustrating especially 
 during battle.
  
  In the end, it is worth the time and one of the better games available on the market. Though it 
 feels like something that has been done already, it is not always bad to relive memories, even 
 if they are not even that great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guideman62
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Fear 2 has what it takes FPS fans. This game is presented well, has clear visuals, awesome special 
 effects, tense, creepy atmosphere, great sound and good control feel. Unlike KZ 2, I felt at home 
 with the control feel. After playing COD4, Far Cry 2, Rainbow 6 Vegas 2, Resistance 2, Battlefield: 
 Bad Company etc., it didn't take me long to get used to the control layout. 
  
  One of the first things I noticed, besides the good control feel, was the tense ambience the game 
 presents. Even if it is a shooter on rails, the suspense factor focuses your attention to the task 
 at hand. The game's AI is above average and will have you trying to implement your Reflex or Slow-Mo 
 ability in order to survive the onslaught of various enemy types.
  
  The graphics are crystal clear and the special effects and explosions are excellent. Its clearly 
 a well crafted game by people who know what FPS fans want. People looking to get frightened won't 
 be disappointed. There are some freaky down right shocking scenes which make for adrenaline fueled, 
 jump in your seat moments.
  
  After downloading the demo from the PlayStation Store I knew I had to buy the game. What surprised 
 me even more is just how much better the entire game was once I bought it. 
  
  I just have to compare how much I like this game even though I did not buy or play the first FEAR 
 game versus the total disappointment I felt after buying Kill Zone 2. I really liked the original 
 Kill Zone game and based on that experience, I immediately bought Kill Zone 2. Big $65 mistake, 
 ouch! One of the best things that I can say about FEAR 2 is that I don't regret for one moment 
 the fact that I sold KZ 2 in order to buy FEAR 2. Its way better.
  
  Online is a blast. Whether you play as a soldier or in an EPA suit, multiplayer only adds to FPS 
 gamer bliss. This game is a definite keeper. It can only get better if Warner Bros. and Monolith 
 offer some DLC in the next coming months. That would be icing on the cake. Score: 9.0
  
  To ALL FPS fans: do not pass this game up. You will not be disappointed
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terminator736
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I went to go get FEAR 2, I first considered getting FEAR instead but I went with FEAR 2. Now 
 I wish I had gotten FEAR. Now, FEAR 2 is not bad game play wise by any means. The game play is 
 fun for about 3/4 of the game, but after that it just gets boring as hell (I had to force myself 
 to finsh the last three levels unfortunately) . The reason the game play is fun is because you have 
 the infamous 'slow down time' ability. This is used in a lot of games, but it is done very well 
 in FEAR 2. Now, the reason I give FEAR 2 a six is because of the story. The story is not bad, its 
 just not as good as FEAR and also not as scary, which is why I wanted to play FEAR 2 in the first 
 place. I got mad at the story because of the ending, thought. The ending is so stupid it's not 
 even funny SPOILERS: Alma rapes you and she is then pregnant with your child and the child says 
 'MaMa' END OF SPOILERS When I finished it, all I could think was 'WTF' So you have been warned 
 about FEAR 2. I don't recommend buying it, but it is worth a rental for the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brian_Furlong07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:21 am PT
Review:  The single player campain is fleshed out, it promises a good horror experience. Don't make the 
 mistake of turning the brightness up too high as it immediatly takes away from the whole experience. 
 You will deffinatly find yourself trying to say it an area if you know its safe as opposed to proceeding 
 to meet your doom as you see Alma appear in the darkness. Not a overly long single player campain 
 but no longer than most in the FPS genre. Gameplay is fluid using good control scemes and solid 
 frame rate. The enviroment is increibly detailed as you will find several rooms that have no purpose 
 but are covered in blood and trashed. The dark enviroment is what makes the game so involving as 
 I can't see myself saying its as great without it. Multiplayer is more of a bonus along side the 
 single player as it is not as addictive as it's FPS compition. Multiplayer maps are plain and mildly 
 repetitive which takes away from the online addition to this game. All in all worth a buy if you 
 are a fan of the FPS genre or are looking for a very involving gripping FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 Review by |Simon  TheDevilDweller|
  
  
  
  Deployed just minutes before the blast triggered by the original F. E. A. R. Team, assume the role 
 of Sgt. Michael Becket, a member of a Special Forces unit sent to recover Genevieve Aristide, president 
 of Armacham Technology Corporation and search for answers as you come face to face with Alma's 
 horrific and immense power!
  
  
  Now before I start with the review I want to get the "Fear scale" (Probably what everyone wants 
 to know first) out of the way. Is F. E. A. R 2 scary? Yes it is. There were moments were I was sacred 
 and I had a few jumps as well, but if your comparing the scares with the first F. E. A. R. (or other 
 game made by the same developers) and hoping for something to really mess with your fear scale, 
 then you may be disappointed.
  The game is pretty much laid out the same way as the first game. One minute you'll be fighting 
 intense gun battles with replica soldiers, and the next minute you'll be alone and in the dark 
 constantly looking behind you. The gun battles with the replica solider have much improved over 
 the first game. The enemy A. I. system will always keep you on you toes and keep you guessing, as 
 they'll pretty much do anything they can from rushing right up to you, too making there way round 
 and trying to flank you from behind. The game-play is solid and if you enjoyed the game-play in 
 the first game, you'll love the game-play in F. E. A. R 2.
  90% of the game you'll be fighter replica soldiers and fearing Alma on your own which will probably 
 make you can't help be think "There's my Team. Why am I always all alone?" There are even moments 
 in the game where you'll rendezvous with you team and then something ends up happening causing 
 you to be on your own again. The game makes it very clear that it is a horror game and you must 
 be on your own, much like the first but the first one was scary because it was the first and you 
 didn't anything about the game. F. E. A. R. 2 is the same and if you've played the first one, it's 
 not hard to know (Or find something skeptical) that something will jump out at you and what not. 
 Yes I will admit I was scared at most parts but to me, it never had the same impact as the first 
 one did.
  
  
  As you make your way through the game and through Alma's terrible nightmare you will encounter 
 some enemies from the pass as well as new enemies through several different mission and levels. 
 Each level designs are great thou some level do make the game feel a little linear with more than 
 a few door being barricaded from the other side, rubble and objects blocking your way. Some levels 
 allow you to deal some meager damage to your surroundings and watch, as pasts of building crumble 
 off. The visuals are impressive and the backgrounds details in a few of the levels are amazing, 
 you could even say beautiful. Other levels it's pretty much dark for you to even notices if a texture 
 is slightly off on an object or what not.
  There are several weapons to play around with, from standard pistols to rocket launchers to really 
 give you enemies a bit of a kick. However, with all the cool weapons to play with, you can't have 
 two pistols at the one time like you could in the first F. E. A. R. If you're like me and liked having 
 two pistols then you may find that a bit of a bummer. Plus like other FPS games you can only carry 
 2 weapons (Which is pretty standers for a first person shooter nowadays) . But what makes these 
 weapons every cooler and more effective? Slow motion. Just like the first F. E. A. R. your character 
 has the ability to move fast, which turns everything into slow motion improving your accuracy, 
 speed and awareness. Like in the fist game, throwing a grenade and watching it explode in slow 
 motion was really cool, but in F. E. A. R. 2 it looks even sweeter. In addition to everything you 
 can do in the game, you can take control of a mech, a big ass robot that deals meager firepower. 
 Jumping in and shooting and blowing the **** out of everyone and everything you see is just amazing, 
 and I personally think that the mech level/s is my favorite part about the game.
  
  
  
  The biggest disappointment in the game (Among other disappointing bits) is the online play. The 
 online play is a joke. It's not the online play itself, rather it's the online sever. It could 
 take you anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes (Maybe even longer) just to find any game to play, even 
 if it's a game you don't like playing. Once your in a game, you'll probably find yourself accidentally 
 pressing the triangle button as a habit to activate slow motion, forgetting that slow motion does 
 not work In online play. That not really the online severs fault for that I know, but if you make 
 a game where the player is going to be used to using something very vital in the single player 
 mode, it should be in the multiplayer mode as well (That's just my opinion) . But how would they 
 make a player use slow motion in multiplayer, hmmm
  Anyway, the online play suffers from connection problems from the game server. If you're playing 
 a game with a handful of people, the game will run fine. But, as (Or should I say "if") more players 
 enter, the game starts to stutter and jerk making it very difficult to play. Once the match is 
 over you are taking back to the main menu where you have to go back into the online mode and look 
 for games all over again. The online play is good if you have friends to host and play with. To 
 me online multiplayer should be fun and easy to find games to play. I respect Monolith for trying 
 to make the online play as god as they could, but with online multiplayer like call of duty, they 
 don't stand a chance.
  Great single play, poor online play. (Good luxk trying to get online trophy or achievements.
 
  
  
  Story  7/10  Good
  Graphics  9/10  Awesome
  Game-Play  9/10  Awesome
  Sound-Effects  10/10  Amazing
  Online Play  4/10  Poor
  Overall  8.5/10  Great Game
 
  
  Overall I thought F. E. A. R 2 was a great game, despite the poor online play, the single player was 
 a great play thought, but I did find some part in the game disappointing. Read below and find out 
 what.
  
  (***WARNING SPOILER ALERTWARNING SPOILER ALERT***)
  
  I was hoping the story would continue from the first game with you play the same character from 
 the original F. E. A. R. (Alma's son) but instead you continue the story with a new character with 
 the same abilities as the original character.
  The ending was a bit confusing and was a big "WHAT THE ****
  None of the characters for the old 
 F. E. A. R. were seen.
  Everyone died.
  The game is easy even on the hardest difficulty.
  Have to wait for F. E. A. R. 3 to understand what the hell is going on.
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treecey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  ok so lets get down to buisness the gameplay can get reppettave just a little but this game plays 
 very well controlwise sharp and responsive the horror atmosphere is great ( very scary) as what 
 you would expect if youve played fear 1. 
  alltho there are some music from the fist fear in this game but it all goes very well into the 
 mix.
  
  there are parts in the single player game where you can get into an armed assult unit wich can 
 fire missiles and has 2 big milliguns on each arm, awesome if you like that sort of thing and i 
 cant think of any other games where you can do stuff like this in such a hardcore techy way it 
 makes you feel great.
  
  all in all it, s very enjoyable but scary expierence thats quite unique i hope there is another 
 fear game commin out in the future maybe in this one they could introduce teamwork like rainbow 
 6 vegas does.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  --Very fun FPS gameplay, characters seem un-polished and have bland personalities. The game has 
 a jumpy scariness to it, a lot of the creepiness is in the environment. Trying to figure out Alma's 
 motives is about as impossible as finding the meaning of life, monolith should have made a more 
 obvious reason for Alma to be haunting and killing everyone around. Bullet-Time is a neccissary 
 component in F. E. A. R. 2's combabt, but I wish it wasn't. Bullet-Time has become a thing of the 
 past. Unless Monolith had used it in some new or important piece to the story they should have 
 just let The Matrix and Max Payne keep their genius use of bullet-time. This games story depth 
 is pale compared to the first F. E. A. R. If you have already played the original FEAR, you may just 
 stay away from spending money on this one.
  
  Key Positives:
  --Overall fun FPS gameplay, quick and easy learning scale
  --Great selection and amount of different 
 weapons. There are some new weapons to go along with the old weapons, but finding ammo for them 
 can be tedious.
  --Fantastic Audibles, Ambience, and voice. This game is best using a good pair of headphones or 
 a good solid surround sound system. Good surround sound can add a lot to the overall scary and 
 jumpiness.
  --The info and objective tool is adds a good amount of detail to the story and back history, but 
 even with this the games story is pale compared to the first in the series.
  --Enemy forces are very smart, they use their environment to their advantage, including knocking 
 or pushing over furniture to use for cover.
  
  Key Negative:
  --Story was difficult to fully understand. Monolith claimed that after beating the game that the 
 player would apparently have some great understanding of why and how all of it happened. Well if 
 their statement was true then I must be and idiot or this game tells the story in too confusing 
 of a way.
  --Characters are bland, their personalities are quite typical and leave no real impression on the 
 player after everything is said and done.
  --Enemy forces seem ridiculously hard when you can shoot more than two 5" nails through their heads 
 and they STILL won't die.
  --As I stated in the positive, enemy forces can use their environment to their advantage. Unfortunately, 
 the furniture, that you use for cover, shields you from NOTHING.
  --It's nearly impossible to figure out why Alma is after your character in this game, Project Origin 
 does a poor job of showing Alma's motives when compared to the original F. E. A. R. --End was was 
 shocking, in the sense that I was surprised that the developers would actually end the game the 
 way they did. I won't ruin the ending, but to me it sucked and left me thinking of all of the ways 
 they could have ended it in a better, more understandable way.
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  I would wait till the price drops, or buy it used. For instance, buy mine on eBay if you want, 
 cause I'm sure it will be posted later today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Look, I know Gamespot is trying to get some sense of credibility back recently, but giving this 
 game a 7? Really? You mean to tell me that this game is as bad as Turok? I couldn't disagree more. 
 Look, the fact is that this game is not as scary as FEAR, nor does it have as much mystery, but 
 it is still an amazing game. Let's start with the visuals. Superb, as you would expect from the 
 sequel to a graphical groundbreaker. The effects? Also great, although they didn't quite give as 
 much environmental destructibility as promised. I mean, I have airsoft guns that can tear through 
 wicker flower pots, and a shotgun can't? But overall, the gore is excellent, the physics are great, 
 and the environmental destructibility that is present is great. Now, I refuse to ruin the story 
 for you, but suffice it to say that Alma is up to her old tricks again and another product of one 
 of Armacham's programs is dead set on stopping her. Everything between there and the end is satisfying, 
 creepy, and mysterious, but not as great as its predecessor. But that's like saying that a Ferrari 
 is short to a dragster, they're both superb. The gunplay is much smoother and slow motion looks 
 better as well, and while neither of those elements needed improvement, it is done to great effect 
 none the less. The sound definitely delivers, and some of the enemies will have you dreading entering 
 the next room. But now for the important part. Would I recommend it? Absolutely wholeheartedly. 
 I advise any gamer to pick this one up if you want a good combination of scares and gunplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phtartist9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  The scary really can't scare you but it is done well. It gives you a sense of urgency to get the 
 heck out of where you are. 
  The weapons are effective and there is a decent selection of them. There is a good choice of cover 
 areas and chances to make your own cover by moving objects. 
  I like pick-ups and there are plenty of those in the form of ammo, intel, weapons and health.
 
  I find zombies annoying but in this game they have a leader zombie in areas that recharge the 
 other zombies you kill, so you know what you have to do. This I found a lot of fun. 
  The storyline is decent, not great, Alma is out to get you among other things your team and you 
 need to get done.
  You have a PDA which keeps updated which helps keep you on target. 
  Well thats it people, I would play and stay a while, visually it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  In Fear 2 the evil Umbrella Corporation... Ah I mean Armacham Technologies built massive facilities 
 underneath Raccoon City... Ah I mean Auburn City, In which they conducted biological experiments 
 for profit... Ah I mean no wait I had that right. Cookie for me. :) .
  
  Resident Evil similarities aside In Fear 2 you follow the role of Michael Becket as you first go 
 to rescue the president of Armacham Technologies for extraction. It begins before the end of the 
 first game, you know before a giant mushroom cloud was looming over the city. Well it appear that 
 Armacham board of directors has decided that cause she opened the vault and cause the whole incident 
 that she should die. And sends in Richard Vanek who commands their mercenary forces to kill her 
 and destroy all evidence of Project Origin.
  
  So while you attempt to rescue her in the first mission and slightly before you meet Alma. She 
 is somewhat pissed but not quite. You follow her to the living room and get a nice view of the 
 mushroom cloud which destroys Raccoon City... Ah I mean Auburn. No but seriously cause the reactor 
 blows up in the first game a decent chunk of the city is gone and the rest is ether in ruin or 
 chaos. Worst yet Alma Is reactivating the Replica soldiers.
  
  So as the game progresses you find out what the company is up to, about Alma, Fight some security 
 forces, Replica forces, paranormal forces, and survivors well that goes under paranormal but still 
 they aren't those ghosts or Alma so lets give them their own category. You go to the underground 
 facilities throughout Auburn city.
  
  Which brings up a good point. Why do these evil corporations slap their logo all over their underground 
 facilities where they conduct evil experiments or stuff which might get them in trouble. I mean 
 come on you might one day need to deny you had anything to do with that facility and trust me it 
 is going to be hard even without your damn logo slapped all around the walls of the place. Really, 
 hmmm I wounder who owns this facility... owe it is Armacham. I am not criticising it I am just 
 commenting.
  
  Anyway back to the game review. The graphics are good with nice effects happening in places. Sound 
 is of course good. Now gameplay is where it counts am I right. Cause you don't play games for the 
 pretty pictures and nice sound though they are important but what matter is if the gameplay is 
 good. Well It is good. AI is good and smart. The environments are diverse and the story is great. 
 Gameplay is great. Lasting appeal. Well it has multiplayer but if you don't have that then you 
 will probably play through the game a couple more times to collect the notes and to achieve achievements 
 or trophies. I give it an good in Lasting Appeal.
  
  And now for my tilt. Well I enjoyed my experience with the game. So my tilt is in favor of the 
 game, but the ending is kind of like a movie ending. (which is probably cause the company that 
 is publishing is a movie company) . It completes the story that is set forth but sets up a sequel. 
 Which is good unless you never see a sequel. XII I am still waiting for the story to be completed. 
 I won't ruin the surprise for you but the journey to see it is worth it.
  
  One last comment. In X-Box magazine it said there was nothing to fear here. A clever pun but dead 
 wrong. I had a spare pair of pants ready. Not scary. There is blood, people getting vaporised and 
 turned into skeletons, and much more. Well I wasn't scared but I was most certainly startled several 
 times. Alma is somewhat scary. Point blank after reading that and then getting the game my comment 
 was "Not scary my ass." The game steps it up from the last one in every way.
  
  So finally the part that matters. Do I recommend it. Cause honestly people are like that is nice 
 but is it recommended. Personally do you recommend it. That is a yes. I recommend this game. personally 
 I thought through most of it that it was good. Your opinion might differ but me I say it is good. 
 That is what my recommendation is.
  
  I hope you enjoyed my new review style and hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud-squallroc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, it is non-stop action that in the end will make you want to play more even when 
 u beat the game. The game is dark at times but that is what makes this game better than all the 
 other "horror" games that are out right now, and also the online play is good, and if you have 
 a mic it just makes it that much better for everyone. Although there have been some reviews that 
 say the game is not that good and its not that scary they are full of it cause some of those people 
 either have too much time on their hands and just play games all day and don't enjoy playing them 
 or they play the demo and that is just that a demo it is not the really game, it is just parts. 
 With the computer A. I. it makes the game even better because they don't just stand there and wait 
 to get shot, they will take cover, fire, and take cover again, and not only that they will come 
 at you from all sides not just from in front of you. I will say there were parts where I thought 
 that they could have done better but I loved the game and the story line was what made it better 
 cause it did go along with F. E. A. R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAZAR21
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Just don't get sucked into the hype. FEAR 2 is a like a movie where the previews make the you think 
 it will be amazing and then it falls just that much short.
  
  Graphics: 8.0 -The graphics are good on the PS3, but not the most amazing. I'd say COD 4 has better. 
 
  
  Story: 6.0 - While the story is okay, it doesn't really have you guessing whats going on like in 
 the first one.
  
  Controls: 7.0 - I never really liked the controls. I don't know how to describe them except to 
 say they just didn't feel that tight for a first person shooter.
  
  Sound: 9.0 - The sound was great.
  
  AI: 9.0 - I thought the AI in this game was better than 
 in the first. THey constantly would try to flank you or get behind or knock over cover.
  
  Bottom line is that FEAR 2 was a good game. It just was built up way to much by commercials and 
 previews. It wasn't half as freaky as the first I thought and it got repetitive at times.
  
  Again, its a good game. I would recommend it. Just don't think its going to be as good as previews 
 would have you believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 is a brilliant game which combines 2 elements - Great action and chilling psychological 
 horror. You get lots of frantic shooting and at times, half a level of nerve jangling terror. They 
 fit perfectly with each other to provide a solid first-person shooter. The weapons are cool and 
 when you use the slow motion feature the gory gunfights are even better. From blowing enemies up 
 with the shotgun to chopping them up with a laser there is loads of variety to dispatch your foes. 
 There are lots of creepy environments to keep you on your toes, like a hospital (with zombie-like 
 experiments loose) and an abandoned school (freaky phantoms charging at you in pitch black) . But 
 most scary of all is Alma - a deranged child with fury for revenge and she wants you! She appears 
 quickly, and at those times thats when it will make you jump, when you least expect it.
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 4/5
  Sound- 5/5
 
  Length- 4/5
  Replayability- 3/5
  
  Good Points: Gory gameplay, scary atmosphere and sound, Slow motion ability, Destroy enemies in 
 mech armor, Great environments, cool weapons
  
  Bad Points: Bad ending to a good story, enemies are quite tough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  So I have a nice PC (8800gtx x2 6000) and a PS3 I love them both. I ended up renting this game 
 from Gamefly for the PS3 even though the demo ran crappy on the Ps3 and wondefully on the PC. I 
 felt like playing this game on my couch and I didn't feel like lugging my PC back and forth between 
 my office and living room (Wife hates when I do that) .
  
  Well this game is NOT meant for a console. Good lord. If I had to guess I'd say there are spots 
 where you are getting 10-15 FPS for minutes at a time.
  
  The game itself is good. Its not great. But its really annoying to see massive slowdowns.
  
 
  The good news is that most slowdowns only happen during boring office/hallway walking. Fire fights 
 are still ferocious and amazing. I still don't understand how come FEAR has low frame rates when 
 their games all take place in generic office building.
  
  Anyways the game is fun and if it wasn't for the stupid slowdown I'd probably give it a 9 or a 
 9.5. The Mech levels are AWESOME. Very little slow down there.
  
  Anyways if you like high frame rates the Ps3 and probably the 360 version is not the version for 
 you.
  
  Good game but get it on PC if you have that option. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  Any game in which you have a small powder keg of gunfire at your disposal shouldn't be scary. It 
 certainly shouldn't be creepy. It shouldn't have you slowly stalking a dimly lit corridor packing 
 a beefy shotgun in anticipation of the grim, blood-soaked ghoul that's lurking around the corner.
 
  
  But FEAR 2 does manage to scare even when you have an assault rifle pointed at the shadows. Like 
 the original shooter it's a strange mix of standard FPS gunplay and graphically gory horror; it's 
 Rainbow Six Vegas meets Akira by way of The Ring and the old head-exploding shenanigans of Eighties' 
 legend Scanners. And when you have that melting pot of influences, you know that you're in for 
 a shock or two. This sequel begins where the original game left off, or rather 30 minutes before 
 the end of the first game. Your squad is sent to the head offices of the sinister Armacham Corporation 
 to take Genevieve Aristide into protective custody, only for things to get very weird. The starkly 
 real corridors become a warzone in seconds: windows shatter, bullets rip apart the furniture and 
 the action crackles with a sharp intensity. Then you start seeing things. Weird things. A girl 
 flickers into view; the screen turns blood red and you're guided into a secret lab. Ten minutes 
 later, there are more shootouts, more headaches, more blood red visions and then from the penthouse 
 window you see the city explode in a cloud of nuclear chaos. What a way to start a game. What follows 
 is a montage of visions that set up the game's key story arcs. Demonic surgeons hack away at Sergeant 
 Becket's body (the hero) ; viewed in first-person, you're in his bloodied size 10s. Are they demons? 
 Are they real surgeons trying to save Becket's life? Are they Armacham surgeons experimenting on 
 his mind for some sinister purpose? Who was the girl in the office? Why the secret lab? What is 
 Aristide's dark secret and who is Snake Fist  the deep-throat source that led you to the office? 
 Answer's are forthcoming over the course of the game's 10 hour journey, and unlike recent story-driven 
 shooters (Resistance 2, we're poking your lumbering confused plot with a massive stick) you won't 
 find yourself fumbling for links between scenarios or trying to work out why character X just tore 
 the head off character Y. Which is a relief.
  
  For anyone who played the original FEAR and found themselves jumping every time Alma cropped up 
  the creepy girl on our cover who had a knack of appearing sporadically, tearing the flesh off 
 anyone in sight and disappearing through a wall  then there are answers to many questions in this 
 sequel. Monolith are adept at creating a believable world that holds a strong story together, then 
 giving you the tools, the big hot led spewing tools, to tear apart that perfectly conceived fiction. 
 Monolith's 'thing' is to take everyday places and screw around with them. The game begins in an 
 office like any other that has a hidden lab where all manner of experiments have taken place. The 
 staples of Monolith's games are all here. There's the primary school with a vast underground bunker 
 beneath it housing telepathic experiments  if you got sent to the head teachers office in this 
 school you never came back. There's a hospital that's anything but hospitable where a hit squad 
 runs riot trying to suppress the truth by peppering the staff with bullets, and bodies skewered 
 on surgical instruments litter the rooms. There's a maze-like tube station, a clinical cold environment 
 that looks amazing lit by torchlight and hides its fair share of twists. When was the last time 
 your commute involved fighting off trapped spirits and psychic hit squads?
  
  This sequel also takes Monolith outside of its safety zone. This is a bigger, more ambitious shooter 
 than the original. The nuclear explosion that kick-starts the game means that a third of this shooter 
 is set in a desolate wasteland. But this is Monolith, remember, and even among the city ruins there 
 are some shocks.
  
  Emerging out into a street we saw a civilian, briefcase in hand, waving down a taxi. Odd. How many 
 taxis do you get in a nuclear wasteland? He turned, looked at us and shrieked. As he did so, the 
 dead bodies of the Armacham soldiers that littered the street reared up, staggered at us and started 
 taking pot-shots. The innocent-looking civilian was their puppet master, the soldiers his deceased 
 shambling show. But who was controlling the puppet master? And why? What struck us as we played 
 FEAR 2 was the attention to detail  it's incredible. Every level features numerous set pieces 
 that will shock, surprise and have you clawing at the trigger in frantic response. There are minor 
 moments: a Boeing careens overhead, engines on fire, crashing into the city out of view. Later 
 you'll be fighting for your life in the burning wreckage of the same airplane.
  
  One moment that made us jump came midway through the subway mission. At one point we emerged from 
 the train tracks to see a crater above our head revealing the sky; the cars had fallen into this 
 hole and lay in front of us. One bus hadn't fallen, but was teetering on the edge, and as we moved 
 forward rubble began to scatter down about the bus. Nothing happened. We inched forward, more rubble. 
 Nothing happened. As we picked up some pace and ran for the new tunnel, the bus came crashing down. 
 We had a split second to inch away and watch it crunch into a heap in front of us. If FEAR 2 were 
 just a series of corridors that lead to wincing set pieces then it wouldn't be a great game Resistance 
 2 did just that and never managed to get the blood pumping. Behind the set pieces, weird visions 
 and the twisting story arc is an incredibly deft FPS setup. The developer has over eight hit first-person 
 shooters under its belt and understands how to make its guns go off with a bang. The general feel 
 of FEAR 2 is weightier than the likes of Call of Duty and Resistance, feeling more like Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. The AI is more tactically acute and there aren't any random respawns, so each room becomes 
 a tactical, trigger-spamming challenge. Each weapon can be tailored to suit the situation too, 
 with rapid and burst fire for spraying rooms or targeted shots for more focused close encounters.
 
  
  These guns are heavy. The bullets crackle from the barrel and affect every part of the environment. 
 Loose a few rounds into an empty room and tiles will shatter from the walls, glass will smash, 
 and bodies will dance as you riddle them with shots. Bigger guns have bigger effects, pillars will 
 fall apart and bodies will be ripped in half. This is a gory game.
  
  The old Penetrator gun has been replaced by the Hammerhead; both are nail guns that will pin an 
 enemy to the wall, leaving him writhing in pain and firing his gun randomly, the floor sparking 
 and walls cracking in dust as he does so. Add in genuinely intelligent enemies who will turn over 
 tables for makeshift cover, flank you and even run in fear, and every gunfight in FEAR 2 feels 
 like a tightly formed miniature set piece all of your own making. If there's one thing that FEAR 
 2 isn't short on, it's epic moments. The only real downside to FEAR 2 is that it doesn't do anything 
 drastically new. The SlowMo effect returns  you can slow time as a by-product of the operation 
 forced on your character at the start of the game (the part we described where your character is 
 on the operation table surrounded with demon surgeons) . It's a neat tactical ally that enhances 
 the gameplay, especially on higher difficulty settings. Slowing time briefly to escape danger or 
 snipe fast targets adds a genuine tactical advantage to many gunfights. But it's nothing new; this 
 feature was in the original game.
  
  As were many of the enemies you'll face  there's a new wall-crawling mutant, but by and large 
 the Armacham forces from the original return, all once again controlled telepathically by Alma 
 from some hidden lair for reasons unknown. It's the same problem that all sequels face. The gameplay 
 can't change too drastically as that's what we want more of, so FEAR 2 delivers everything we loved 
 in the first game, but implemented better and on a bigger scale. Visually, this is a more dynamic 
 game. Each mission is a subtly constructed segment of story with a look and feel all of its own. 
 The early stages are caked in blooming and blurring - it's slick and comfortable. But as we dug 
 deeper into the game, the fuzz would lift and show the world in stark, crisp detail. The mech suit 
 stages, in which you control an Elite Power Armor are fun, almost stress free segments of violence. 
 All that tension built from stalking eerily lit corridors is vanquished in a brief moment of unrelenting, 
 smile-inducing carnage. Rather than distract from the atmosphere, the EPA sections vary the pace, 
 offering an outlet for your trigger fantasies.
  
  For horror and action fans, there are lots of reasons to play FEAR 2. The game also answers many 
 questions raised by the original shooter and does so with Monolith's familiar flair for storytelling 
 and detail. But it is a slow burner and you do need to buy into Monolith's world of fictitious 
 evil corporations holed up beneath schools and offices everywhere tinkering with telepathic child 
 devils that will sooner pull the skin from your bones like you're a KFC chicken wing than skip 
 rope. But what's not to buy into with a scare around every corner, graphic set pieces to battle 
 through, and a tight, subtly-paced script. We can wholeheartedly say that FEAR 2 is gruesomely 
 good fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  Before the review I would like to say I have not played Fear 1 and the demo for this game is nothing 
 compared to how awesome the actual game is.
  
  Fear 2 is a "survival horror" FPS with a great campaign. All the weapons work really well from 
 an assault rifle to a gun that shoots out bolts of lightning and don't make you pissed off. The 
 levels have a nice variety besides the first few which all take place in a hospital. There are 
 also some levels where you get to ride in a giant mecha suit and go on a killing spree. =] The 
 game itself is also a nice length and is not to short. The visuals and effects on here are not 
 really scary, but the developers did an outstanding job on them.
  
  Fear 2 isn't perfect though. The multiplayer is not really fun at all in here. Other multiplayer 
 FPS like Call of Duty, Halo, or Gears of War blow this away, hell even Resistance 2's multiplayer 
 is better!
  
  Bottom Line: This is a great game that should not be missed, especially because it will be buried 
 under Street Fighter IV and Resident Evil 5 early in the year, and totally forgot about at the 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerial6790
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all i want to start off with the settings. Almost every setting in this game is scary 
 and frightening. That's what i like about it. I know a lot of you mst like intense first person 
 shooter games, but this game has a quality and a unique '' type '' of intense. The graphics are 
 phenominal and everywhere you go it feels like you are really there. There's a lot of things you 
 can do in this game but i don't want to spoil it. This game is better and more frightening than 
 the first F. E. A. R and that's why they call it F. E. A. R. So the fear that you keep inside of you 
 come out to this game. Anyway, in a nutshell this game deserves a 9.5 because of the amazing graphics 
 and story and of course the gameplay. Oh and the story is AWESOME. I don't know how to explain 
 but long story short you will spend up to 4-20 hours playing this masterpiece. It's along game 
 and that's what counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertx33681
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Good for a single player game, the online part needs work but is way better than the first. Weapons 
 are fun to shoot, and the next gen blood is great. One of the better sequels I've ever seen. Single 
 play mode takes you through a quite long journey and is not all dark. Good cuz you go inside and 
 outside. Also single player take you quite a while to get through so it's not short. But the longevity 
 of the game isn't the best because of the multiplayer part of it is not the best needs some work, 
 but it has a massively improved multiplayer mode compared to the first one. Killzone 2 will wipe 
 out any game on any console up to date when it's released, people will buy PS3 just so they can 
 play Killzone 2 when word gets around and other console gamers get a chance to play it. Ok but 
 all in all Fear 2 is a really fun game if you like to play FPS games that are COD like but scary 
 and bloody too. Fear 2 is in my opinion way more scary then any other game out there cuz it's not 
 the monster like scary it's the jump in your face freaky scary. Which in my opinion is a lot scarier 
 than any other type of scary. Peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with this. This game is amazing and i recommend it. However the one thing that's bad 
 in this game is the scares. If this is the first time playing F. E. A. R then the scares may give 
 you a sudden heart attack. But if you played the first one for the PS3 or any of them for the computer 
 than the scares are predictable. However a MAJOR upgrade from the first one with the graphics better 
 enemy A. I. a lot more scares and better guns with also red dot sights on most guns. This game is 
 awesome and you should really buy it espicially if you are a fan of F. E. A. R. However not much of 
 a better storyline from the first one and it was pretty easy if you ask me. But its one of those 
 games that has a solid multiplayer and is a very fun game in single player. Just buy it and prepare 
 to F. E. A. R Alma again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzik_mafia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  *SPOILERS*
  
  I have beat FEAR, Extraction Point, and Perseus Mandate, so I know a bit about FEAR. They were 
 fantastic shooters with better horror. So FEAR 2 rolled around, and I was hyped every second. Here 
 are my thoughts:
  
  GOOD: Great shooting, lots of enemy types, fantastic AI. Sweet sound and music, some chilling bits. 
 Fun monsters to kill. Great story, whack-in-good-way ending. Mechs are sick, and leave you refreshed 
 at end of them. Alma. Penetrator return, no kids online.
  
  BAD: Far fewer scares than original, mostly just slight she's-there-then-she's-not moments, few 
 memorable moments. Too much time in hospital building. Online slightly laggy, bad layouts at start. 
 
  
  NICE SURPRISES: Mechs were a blast, some very fun parts, ALMA TOUCHES YOU, story progressed, school 
 level is ridicoulous
  
  DISAPPOINTMENTS: Not very scary COMPARED to first. Wished Snake Fist was Spen Jankowski, from first 
 FEAR, not some nooby hacker. Way shorter than first. No sudden end.
  
  Overall, I liked it alot, just places that could be better. 8.5/ 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_Chon_Go_Bosox
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The story mode and single play was awesome. This game kept me on my toes, there was many scary 
 parts and and i love that you had some lead way to venture off any where you want even though you 
 had one path to chose. I usually dont buy into these type of games but it was worth it. Now I gave 
 this a high score due to the story mode. But online sucked real bad I cut it off after the first 
 5 min. of gameplay it was that bad. I mean it took a whole clip to kill someone. You can tell they 
 didnt try to hard on the online part. But like I said the story mood was awesome even though some 
 enemys were just plain boring and repetitive. This game even thought the story mood was cool I 
 would not replay again! This game is going to be collecting dust. I'm going back to my call of 
 duty world at war on the 360 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DethSkematik
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 2:52 am PT
Review:  The main character, Becket, must have watched that perplexing yet disturbing video from the Ring 
 prior to accepting his latest mission. From the moment you start the game, you're filled with the 
 sense that one very angry ghost is stalking you in the midst of chaotic firefights, and pops out 
 to say hello during quieter moments of the game. Even with the original installment, it was F. E. A. R.'s 
 unique blend of intense military combat mixed with the dread of entering a haunted house that made 
 it stand out so brightly from other first person shooters on the market. 
  
  Although at times, the spook factor in F. E. A. R. 2 is more House on Haunted Hill than the Grudge, 
 mostly because the disturbing images are there, but they don't quite do anything to affect gameplay 
 (although they are creepy) . For example, Alma will occasionally phase in and out of your view, 
 but it seems more like she's trying to warn you of something rather than tear your head off. And 
 at other times she will try and grab you in which you must resist, in which case the ghost sequences 
 kind of contradict one another. And it's not until the wee hours of the game you will start to 
 understand the situation, and where all the pieces fit together.
  
  However, the frequent brawls for survival will keep you on your toes: enemies hop over railings, 
 rappel down from helicopters, burst through windows and pour out of doorways on their quest to 
 ensure that you do not survive. Luckily, like the first game, you have the slow motion ability 
 to abuse at your leisure. Once triggered, the world around you slows to a crawl, and you have all 
 the time in the world (i. e., until your reflex meter depletes) to pick off your enemies. Although 
 this time, enemies shine brightly in your vision once your reflexes are triggered (this being a 
 good thing or bad depends on you) , but other than that, it showcases the same impressive details 
 the first F. E. A. R. had: watching an enemy convulse, or watching a grenade explode and send disembodied 
 lims flying in the air at such a pace that you can actually count the drops of blood that squirt 
 out is a moment to behold. And trust me, you'll abuse this gift throughout the whole game. Enemies 
 in this game look a lot heavier, covered in head to toe in the kind of body armor that laughs at 
 bullets. Even in the later stages, it takes a lot of punishment to bring these guys down, especially 
 since you'll be making best friends with the submachine gun for at least the first three hours 
 into the game. 
  
  Still, fans that want a good scare or crave a good action game will not be disappointed. Unlike 
 the first game, you're not running around the bland, nearly identical industrial settings. The 
 terror is a city wide panic, so you'll storm corporate offices, elementary schools, science labs, 
 basically the kind of levels that would feel right at home for a game like Condemned. In the later 
 stages, you'll also wield devastating weapons such as the missile launcher, the Hammerhead, a rifle 
 that pins enemies to the wall, a laser that slices enemies in half, and a pulse cannon that reduces 
 everyone to nothing but ash and a charred skeleton. And you really have to try these at least once 
 in slow motion.
  
  For a game that relies on the foundation of supernatural terror infused with conspiracies and terrorism, 
 F. E. A. R. 2 is an outstanding sequel that cleverly disguises slow, action free moments into tense 
 ones. When you're not blowing craters into walls from a fierce gunfight, you're walking to your 
 next objective in a narrow hall, or shutting down a valve to stop a fire that is blocking your 
 path. This seemingly menial tasks may sound like nothing special, but try doing that with the feeling 
 that you don't know if the next door you open won't have Alma popping out to drag you into her 
 own realm, or turning around and see her walking towards you. In other words, the seemingly boring 
 tasks are also the ones that will catch you off guard.
  
  And, in a way, to lessen the mood, there's also a few comical moments, where I noticed that dead 
 enemies would get stuck into walls and cabinets, or the time I shot a soldier in mid-air, and he 
 swung back and forth on his chin on the ledge. Believe it or not, the supersoldiers you fight are 
 actually part ghost too. Enviromental glitches aside, these only occurred when I killed someone 
 too close to an object or crawling on the wall (yeah, they do that too) , but these are few and 
 far between, and don't necessarily break the mood. Although, I'm still convinced that they are 
 part ghost.
  
  Still, F. E. A. R. 2 will suck you in, and compell you to keep playing until you tie up the loose 
 ends and find a way to end the nightmare. The storyline, which I won't spoil (not even a little 
 bit) , is well scripted and makes excellent use of its military/supernatural background. So if you're 
 the type that just wants a good ghost story, or one that just wants to shoot everything in sight, 
 this game caters to both crowds with spectacular results. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I played ever FEAR and expansion pack on the computer, then the original ported to the PS3, and 
 now Project Origin on my PS3.
  
  When I first played FEAR, I LOVED the scares. It was so beautiful and I wished there was more, 
 so I got Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate. I thought Extraction Point was equally good and 
 Perseus only was good once you entered the cloning facility. Then after I got a PS3 I got FEAR 
 again so I would have it in my library. It was not a good port and I had distaste for it.
  
  Then I get Project Origin-said to fix all the problem of the first and ignore the later additions.
 
  
  Wow.
  
  Project Origin is beautiful. It retains the scares, less scary but more freuquently Alma comes 
 outta nowhere and tries to kill you. Everything has been revamped and looks beautiful. Sure, the 
 textures are a little bland, but the intense blood effects and detailed enviornments will certainly 
 wow you. The frame rates solid, the audio is good, and it beats the crap out of the demo. Multiplayer 
 is a bit lacking but its no-lag connection and the fact people are on it (as opposed to the original) 
 makes this game a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe71103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  First off i have never played FEAR 1 so i cant compare to the first. FEAR 2 is great its a very 
 addictive shooter the mechanics and the controlls are very well done as with most first person 
 shooters. The graphics are very nice alot of detail especially with the later levels in the game 
 alot of mixed elements within the levels. I cant say if it is scarier than the first because i 
 nevered played it but this game does have its moments especially in certain points in the game 
 (SCHOOL) , the creatures are nicely modeled and the difficulty for killing each enemy is just right 
 not too easy and not too hard. If you are looking for a great game with both action and suspence 
 you should definitely check out FEAR 2 the weapons, enemies and controlls are nicely done i wouldnt 
 say perfect but this game is better than Resistance 2 in my opinion.
  Now i dont know how this game will be compared ot Killzone 2 buy we will have to wait and see.
 
  
  My quick rating for this game 4 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  So I have a nice PC (8800gtx x2 6000) and a PS3 I love them both. I ended up renting this game 
 from Gamefly for the PS3 even though the demo ran crappy on the Ps3 and wondefully on the PC. I 
 felt like playing this game on my couch and I didn't feel like lugging my PC back and forth between 
 my office and living room (Wife hates when I do that) .
  
  Well this game is NOT meant for a console. Good lord. If I had to guess I'd say there are spots 
 where you are getting 10-15 FPS for minutes at a time.
  
  The game itself is good. Its not great. But its really annoying to see massive slowdowns.
  
 
  The good news is that most slowdowns only happen during boring office/hallway walking. Fire fights 
 are still ferocious and amazing. I still don't understand how come FEAR has low frame rates when 
 their games all take place in generic office building.
  
  Anyways the game is fun and if it wasn't for the stupid slowdown I'd probably give it a 9 or a 
 9.5. The Mech levels are AWESOME. Very little slow down there.
  
  Anyways if you like high frame rates the Ps3 and probably the 360 version is not the version for 
 you.
  
  Good game but get it on PC if you have that option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEHOOVER007
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  The game is a great first person shooter. It will draw you in by hour 2. The game is similar to 
 the first, but does have some nice additions. I get the dark scary idea, but don't rely on it to 
 add difficulty to the game. The games AI needs to be better, Resistance and Gears had very challenging 
 AI. The smoothness of the controls for aiming needs some improvement and I think the layout of 
 the controls could be better i. e button for switching weapons does not have to be L1.
  
  I am about 5 hours into the game and would like to see more than a few soldiers at a time. The 
 first had some great firefights where you were confronted by several soldiers while others tried 
 to flank you and others threw grenades.
  
  Over all the game is very good and any first person shooter enthusiast will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Fear 2 is a very solid fps. It does have scare factor to it. It seems a lot of reviewers are nit-piking 
 this game apart. It is a lot of fun with good graphics. 
  
  The first fear bored me!! The environments seemed lifeless and flat in the first game. And very 
 repetitious! It only had 4 environments and all were just variations of offices or warehouses that 
 were very very bland. Shooting alone is not enough to draw me in. The story was also very confusing 
 and it didn't make me want to continue. It was explore drab environs and shoot sequences, rinse 
 repeat until you fight a big heavy and get your arse handed to you. 
  
  Well this game takes it to the next level! The story is way better, it actually makes me want to 
 continue to find out what is going on, who I am, who Alma is, what's going on with my team. Why 
 are these soldiers killing everyone in the hospital? Where did the nuke come from Why am I being 
 hunted. What did these surgeons do to my brain in between chapter 1 and 2. How did alma become 
 what she became. All these questions arise while playing and really make you want to play more 
 to find out through either dailog, intel documents, or cutscenses. 
  
  I loved the environments in this game, there is lots of variation and every room feels packed with 
 real life stuff, not the blank block walls and rooms from the first one. You gain perm upgrade 
 shots, that are hidden in the game and can be explorartion a reward as well as learning more about 
 the story. 
  
  The game creeps you out with some cool horror sequences. I love slow mode, you get to see all the 
 small details. Enemies go flying do to impressive rag doll physics. 
  
  The one thing i felt that some of the graphics are worse then the first. For one the shadows are 
 bad, the flashlight doesn't make shadows like the first, there is film grain that I have no reason 
 why it was used. The explosions and stuff were better in the first but fear 2 delivers on massive 
 amounts of variety which makes up for it. The sound was intense on the ps3 version, I am glad I 
 go the console version as the pc version would of looked disappointing do to it not being the focus. 
 I really wish it was the focus though because as good as this game is it could always be better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  It was 2005 when we were first introduced to a little 8 year old girl named Alma. What happened 
 to this girl was never exactly known....... until now.
  
  In FEAR 2 you will find out why Alma is so angry and why you are not dead......
  
  
  
  
 Graphics - 9.25/10
  
  FEAR 2 comes out with some extremely smooth textures. Unlike in the first game where you could 
 really see those jagged edges. The lighting and environments are very beautifully detailed and 
 there is also a ton of blood. All of the character models are top notch. 
  
  
  
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  In game like this the sound is so very important. Luckily the sound is absolutely 
 perfect. The sounds really creep you out while you play. Walking through a dark hallway with the 
 lights flickering and you hear faint cries and screams. You hear doors open and close and little 
 footsteps running behind you. There is no better experience than playing this game with full surround 
 sound. 
  The other sounds like explosions, gun fire, and voice acting are superb. Some of the best voice 
 acting is in this game.
  
  
  
  Gameplay - 9.25/10
  
  One of the new features in FEAR 2 is the ability to use your surrounds for cover. Down the hall 
 you see 3 or 4 enemies heading your way and you have nothing to hide behind, tip a soda machine 
 on its side and use it for cover. Lots of things can be used this way in the game. 
  The enemy A. I. is much improved too. Do not get used to having your flashlight on too much or you 
 will notice fairly quickly. Shooting the enemy will cause them to dive or kick something over for 
 cover. Of course there are still those bad guys that do not know they are being shot at.
  The controls are very fluid and comfortable as well. The game also offerst trophies online and 
 off to help keep that replay value higher.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer - 8.25/10
  
  I went and played a few rounds of deathmatch and I was surprised at how much fun I had. Normally 
 going online I would get confused as to what I need to equip (COD games) but in FEAR 2 it was easy 
 to select what weapons I wanted to start out with and start blasting. There was absolutely zero 
 lag when playing but this was also just an 8 player deathmatch. (16 player max) I managed to finish 
 in 2nd getting 31 kills with 20 deaths. There is 9 maps right now and few types of modes. Kind 
 of reminded me of Halo minus all the cheaters and glitches.
  There is a leaderboard which shows yours kills and deaths which is nice but this game is no substitute 
 for COD or the upcoming Killzone 2. 
  
  
  
  Overall - 9/10
  
  The moment you put this game in your console you will be glued to the story, graphics, and great 
 gameplay. I love games that make me sit on the edge of my seat and FEAR 2 definately delivers. 
 Toss in a bunch of trophies to earn offline and online and you got yourself a very decent game 
 to hold you off till Killzone 2 comes out.
  
  This game gets Lethal's Stamp of Approval! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dboy012
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game today and I must say that I was disappointed. It's possible that I over-hyped 
 the game up for myself, but when the credits started rolling the first thought I had was "better 
 sell this back ASAP so I get get as much as possible for it." I never played FEAR 1, so maybe I 
 didn't have an attachment to the storyline, but that still doesn't make up for the repetitive firefights 
 and lack of memorable moments. After the first 3 intervals, I had to switch the game difficulty 
 to 'hard' just to feel like I was being challenged and even then all it really required was proper 
 use of slo-mo. The fear factor was minimal at best for me. Sure, there were a few moments that 
 made my skin crawl, but I'd say that Dead Space is much scarier. The guns were pretty cool and 
 it was nice to have ammo everywhere, but they weren't anything I hadn't seen before. The hammerhead 
 was pretty fun at first, but that quickly loses its utility once you're taking on several foes. 
 
  
  I read the user reviews and some people are giving it a 10 or 9, but I really don't see it. I just 
 finished Resident Evil 4 today as well and I'd ranked that well above FEAR 2. I'll have to see 
 some amazing reviews for FEAR 3 to even consider purchasing it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzero14
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game feels very smooth and well integrated. There isn't anything here that 
 shouldn't be. It doesn't try to hard to be something it isn't, and it all just runs together neatly 
 for a very unique gaming experience. F. E. A. R. 2 is a must buy for any PS3 owner. Not only is the 
 single player campaign highly emersive, but the online play can keep you at it for hours without 
 even noticing time is going by. It's one of few games i don't get frustrated with when I die too. 
 Like Halo, I laugh so hard when I'm playing online against someone, and I suddenly explode a bloody 
 mess all over the place. It's quite a fun feeling. The weapons are powerful, and the slow-mo is 
 incredible. You'll fully understand the controls and play the game intuitively after just a few 
 minutes. The demo had me very excited for this, and I was NOT disappointed! :)
  Really pretty. Really fun. Really addictive.
  F. E. A. R. 2 gets a 10 from me.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
