-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/fear/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engaging shooter that blends horror with fast-paced action.
 Awesome firefights thanks to cutthroat opponents.
 Excellent sound that will keep you on your toes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't look like a next-gen game, thanks to washed-out visuals and a stuttering frame rate.
 Really long load times.
 Complex control scheme feels clumsy at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,178 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: Day 1 Studios
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Apr 24, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While F. E. A. R. is still a good action game, it doesn't live up to its potential, thanks to stuttering 
 frame rates and washed-out graphics. 

  When F. E. A. R. originally debuted on the PC in 2005, it delivered a kinetic and spooky first-person 
 shooter experience, capped with memorable firefights and cutthroat artificial intelligence. That 
 same experience transferred successfully to the Xbox 360 last year. The PlayStation 3 version of 
 the game retains the same focus on action, but lacks the level of polish and atmosphere seen in 
 the previous two versions.  

          F. E. A. R. pits the might of an elite military unit against a scary little girl.     

 
  The PS3 version of F. E. A. R. is almost exactly the same as the PC and Xbox 360 versions in terms 
 of content. You play as the newest member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's 
 top-secret task force that is assigned to deal with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. 
 certainly counts as above and beyond the regular call of duty. As explained in the opening sequence, 
 a military commander, named Paxton Fettel, goes insane and takes over a secret army of cloned soldiers 
 that are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers then go on a 
 rampage in a nondescript American city.  

  F. E. A. R. strikes a balance between spooky atmosphere and electric action. The gunfights in the 
 game are impressive. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete and wood, blinding clouds of dust and 
 debris fill the air, bodies are torn apart or slump on the ground, and the deathly silence of the 
 aftermath contrasts sharply with the sheer chaos that erupted only moments before. Gunfights in 
 F. E. A. R. feel  right . This is partly because the weapons you have in the game feel the way weapons 
 shouldpowerful. You have the standard array of guns to play around with, including a pistol, 
 a submachine gun, an assault rifle, a shotgun, and a rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing 
 rifle that's a dead ringer for Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2, as well as an incredibly 
 nasty particle weapon that sears the flesh off of opponents and a few other special toys.  

  You've also got some special abilities at your disposal. For example, you can kill foes with 
 a swift dropkick or scissors kick, which is such an awesome move that even when you pull it off 
 in desperation (like when you've emptied a clip and don't have time to reload) , it still feels 
 incredibly cool. Yet, your most important ability is your ultrafast reflexes, which can be activated 
 in short bursts to create a  Matrix -like bullet time. Now, bullet time has been done to death 
 over the past few years, but the execution of bullet time in F. E. A. R. is still well done. When 
 you kick in the reflexes, everything else slows down, and you can see the vortexes in the air created 
 by bullets. You can activate this ability only in short bursts before it runs out. However, because 
 it recharges at a decent rate, you have it at your disposal in most fights. This slow-motion ability 
 is almost essential for surviving some of the tougher battles, as you'll need it to whittle down 
 the odds. With that said, it would almost be better if there were more of a limit on its use, because 
 F. E. A. R. really comes alive when the firefights are shown in full speed, not slow motion.  

  F. E. A. R. doesn't support the Sixaxis' motion controls, and they're pretty much identical to the 
 Xbox 360 version of the game. Thus, the PS3 version has the same issues that the Xbox 360 version 
 did, because the controls are a bit clumsy for a game that relies on split-second reactions. Also, 
 it's easy to accidentally toss a grenade when you mean to go into bullet time or burn a med kit 
 uselessly instead of using the flashlight. Unfortunately, F. E. A. R. still relies on the overly hackneyed 
 contrivance of having your elite military trooper equipped with a flashlight that has a 30-second 
 battery life.  

          F. E. A. R. captures the visual poetry of a firefight like few games before it.     

  
 Without a doubt, you've got an extremely formidable arsenal at your disposal. And you're going 
 to need it against the artificial intelligence in F. E. A. R. Put simply, these are the smartest, 
 most aggressive, most tactically oriented AI opponents that you'll find in a shooter. The AI opponents 
 are incredibly sharp and will do things that you don't expect, like pin you down while one of them 
 flanks you. Or, they'll pin you down and plop a grenade next to you. These guys move around from 
 cover to cover while communicating with one another, and they'll react to any sound or sight of 
 you. They've got the same weapons as you, and their guns do the same amount of damage to you as 
 yours do to them. So you've got to use cover and lean around corners as much as possible because 
 it doesn't take much to shred your armor and health to zero. This can create situations in which 
 you're pinned down, firing desperately to keep their heads down while trying to figure a way out 
 of your current situation. The AI also takes advantage of the game's physics system and knocks 
 over objects to create cover.  

  You'll take a lot of damage during the game, but thankfully, you can pick up countless health packs 
 and armor kits. You can also collect up to 10 health kits for later use, which you'll use liberally 
 to keep yourself going in the heat of battle. And while there is a way to permanently boost your 
 maximum health level and stamina, sooner or later you'll fall to the enemy. The PS3 version includes 
 only a checkpoint save system, which means that when you die, you'll fall back to the last checkpoint. 
 Although there's no way to manually save the game at any point, the checkpoints are reasonably 
 spaced, so you shouldn't run into any issues where you have to play lengthy sections over and over 
 again.     

  F. E. A. R. features excellent combat, but as good as the AI is, it doesn't take too long for you 
 to get used to taking down small groups of soldiers. And these encounters can feel a bit repetitive 
 after a point. Because you're dealing with an army of clones, you're essentially battling the same 
 guy over and over, which also lends an air of familiarity to your opponent. It's not until you 
 run into the huge, set-piece battles against a dozen foes or more that things get tricky. The game 
 does introduce a few new foes to change things up a bit in the middle of the game, but the cloned 
 soldiers represent the opponent you'll battle most of the time. And while they're solid opponents, 
 it would have been nice to see more variety, such as more of the high-tech ninjas that appear midway 
 through the game. These guys can make themselves invisible with a cloak and climb up walls, and 
 they possess the same ultrafast abilities that you do. The first time you encounter them can be 
 a shock, and it's disappointing that they rarely show up again afterward.  

          The enemies in F. E. A. R. are smart and mobile and will give you fits.     

  The environments 
 can also feel a bit repetitive after a while. F. E. A. R. takes place in three settings: a deserted 
 industrial area, a deserted office complex, and a deserted, run-down urban setting. Notice a pattern? 
 While the levels are designed to allow for wild and wooly gunfights, F. E. A. R. could certainly use 
 more variety when it comes to environments because you'll start to feel as if you've explored the 
 same factory or office complex for the umpteenth time. It would also be nice to have an unpredictable 
 element in the game, such as civilians you need to protect, or at least not harm.  

  F. E. A. R. is heavily influenced by Japanese horror movies, most notably  The Ring . In fact, the 
 game uses many of the same kinds of visual tricks to scare you that you've probably already seen 
 before in a movie, like the split-second appearance of a ghostly apparition when you least expect 
 it. And while the imagery in F. E. A. R. may not be entirely original, it's exceedingly effective. 
 The designers are smart enough to realize that less is more when it comes to building tension. 
 There are stretches in F. E. A. R. when you don't battle anything. And it's unsettling to search abandoned 
 office buildings only to find pools of blood or the voicemail left by family members who are trying 
 to contact their loved ones. Then there are areas where you expect some kind of gargantuan throw-down, 
 brace yourself for battle, but nothing happens. Because there's always some kind of noise or rattling 
 of objects to greet you, or the fleeting image of someone in the corner of your eye, you certainly 
 feel as if you're being watched the whole time. Admittedly, some of these tricks become a bit too 
 familiar, but there are still enough of them to keep you on your toes. And there are a number of 
 jump-out-of-your-seat moments in the game, as well.  

  The single-player story should take you a good 10 hours to get through, which is on par with other 
 shooters. When you're done with it, there's a neat little instant-action mode that serves as a 
 time trial, where you have to get through a level as fast as possible. Your score can then be uploaded, 
 and you can see your ranking on a leaderboard. The PS3 version also comes with a "bonus" mission 
 that's different from the one found in the Xbox 360 version, and it's a bit longer, as well. In 
 this mission, you get to play as one of the cannon fodder Delta Force team members who appear in 
 the game. Meanwhile, the multiplayer component of F. E. A. R. offers up plenty of fast-paced action, 
 including deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and more. A nifty twist in multiplayer 
 is the ability to have one player control the bullet-time ability by possessing a one-of-a-kind 
 power-up. The downside to having the power-up is that it reveals your location to everyone on the 
 map, so you're a major target.  

          Multiplayer is just as fast-paced as single-player, and the ability to slow down time is 
 nice.     

  Unfortunately, the PS3 version takes a number of hits when it comes to presentation. Part of the 
 problem is that it's built around a two-year-old PC game, so it's already looking very dated by 
 the glossy, state-of-the-art standards of 2007. However, that doesn't explain the PS3 version's 
 other issues. First of all, F. E. A. R. looks washed out and fuzzy on the PS3. This is in contrast 
 to the sharpness and crispness of the PC and Xbox 360 versions. The lighting and shadowing effects 
 aren't as atmospheric on the PS3 version, either. To top it all off, the PS3 version suffers from 
 tediously long load times and an erratic frame rate that's noticeable even when there's not a lot 
 of action onscreen. At least the audio in F. E. A. R. is outstanding. In a game that's all about making 
 you afraid of the dark, it's often the little noises that send you spinning around, ready to blast 
 whatever it is that made the sound. Combat also sounds glorious. You can hear almost every single 
 noise in a firefight, such as glass shattering apart, spent brass cartridges hitting the floor, 
 and the thud of explosions. The voice acting is generally good, though the mixing could be better, 
 as it's sometimes hard to hear the dialogue over everything else.  

  F. E. A. R. provides a decent shooting experience on the PS3, but it's inferior to the Xbox 360 and 
 PC versions of the game. There's still plenty of great action and spooky moments, but the PS3 version 
 often feels like a port that hasn't been optimized. And while F. E. A. R. is still a good action game, 
 it doesn't live up to its potential on the PS3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azure-Supernova
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  First point to assault when reviewing F. E. A. R. is the obvious: The graphics and the frame rate. 
 Fair enough, whilst not living up to the graphical prowess of Metal Gear Solid 4, the fact is that 
 F. E. A. R. is still a great shooter and the two main negative factors are quickly outweighed by numerous 
 positive ones.
  
  One of the main reasons anyone should play F. E. A. R. is the story. The rundown is this, you are 
 the newly appointed Point Man of the First Encounter Assault Recon unit. The first mission involves 
 the pursuit of a one Paxton Fettel who is the psychic leader of an elite force of clones known 
 as the Replica Forces. Your mission? Eliminate him.
  Along the way to Paxton however, Point Man uncovers various leads to something known as Project 
 Origin. As he delves deeper in pursuit of Paxton, secrets of a paranormal and inhumane nature are 
 uncovered.
  
  Getting rid of Paxton isn't as easy as it sounds though. The fierce Replica Forces are under his 
 control and will not let the Point Man reach him without a bloody good fight. This crops up another 
 very good point in the game: the enemy A. I.
  I think that even by today's standards, the Replica Forces are very formidable opponents. Being 
 able to move tactically to flank and overpower you will keep the player on their toes, especially 
 when dealing with some of the specialist units such as the Heavy Armour troops. Of course utilizing 
 a variety of weapons such as dual pistols, frag grenades, assault rifles and fictional particle 
 weapons mixed with the Point Man's enhanced reflexes can help make short work of smaller groups; 
 but in the heated battles sometimes taking cover and shooting tactically is the best option.
  
  Another major positive is the atmosphere and the music. Whilst the latter is very subtle, it 
 doesn't in any way hinder the atmosphere, if anything the deathly silence thickens the mood. The 
 sound effects are all simple and too serve only to add intensity to the gameplay, especially during 
 sequences where Paxton and Alma are near. As said, the blood and gore added tot he dark environments 
 and constant visits from the little terror that is Alma Wade, really creates a subtle yet scary 
 atmosphere. And whilst the horror may not be in your face, direct fear, there is definitely a subtle 
 "sitting on the edge of your seat waiting for something to happen, and then being surprised when 
 it does" feel to it.
  
  All in all F. E. A. R. is a great game and I think a must play for anyone indulging in action packed 
 shooters or horror. If you can see past the once incredible graphics and the terrible frame rate, 
 then F. E. A. R. can be a fantastic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sezenem
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Amazing enemy AI, level design and storyline make FEAR a great experience. The only problem I see 
 is that the graphics look dated nowadays (specially for a PS3 game) . If they had make a remake, 
 instead of a simple conversion from a PC game, they could have improved the graphics and the resulting 
 game would be perfect!
  
  The fact that the game doesn't have subtitles is something that bored me too. Deaf people or those 
 who don't have english as the primary language can get lost in the storyline. That happened to 
 me. I'm sure that i could have enjoyed more if i could have understood the story more.
  
  The gameplay is good and the slowmotion effect works well. Running to the enemy while shooting 
 them in slowmotion is really fun! I think that if they had designed the R1 as the fire button (instead 
 of R2) it would had been more anatomic. 
  
  At the end, the game is just great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to say that I did not have high expectation when going in to this game because 
 it came out 2 years ago. So pretty much I felt that after playing some of the greats released in 
 2008/2009, this game would fail. 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a great shooter. If I would of played this game back in the day, I might have given 
 it a 8.5. The story is standard, and I say this because most of the time you know what to expect, 
 but the story does unravel in such a way which I have not seen in a video game. A big flaw though 
 in presentation is when dialogue is being carried out, the score is much louder than the voice 
 acting, making it hard to get a grasp on the story that is unfolding. The graphics are nothing 
 to boast about either because everything is PS2 quality. Even on a great TV, the downgraded graphics 
 are noticeable. On top of this, some parts of the game are unusually dark. Also, sometimes you 
 will be stuck at certain parts of the game because you didn't know you were suppose to take a certain 
 vent or hit a certain lever to advance. Things that you are suppose to interact with seem like 
 objects you can't interact with because sometimes you did not even know they were there. 
  
  Action wise, this game is fun, but after a while it all seems repetitive to say the least. 
 The level designs all look the same, the enemies all look the same, and feeling of intensity in 
 the game feels the same the whole way through. That was a big let down because this game offered 
 really know variety and bad graphics didn't help at all. The game is fairly long so you get your 
 money's worth in that department. The game is not scary at all and even if I did not play Dead 
 Space, this game would still not be scary. I think the only up to this being a horror game was 
 the fact that the character did not move slow, but at the same time, I don't really find a fast 
 paced FPS to be the first thing I look for in a horror game. There are a variety of weapons with 
 their own feel which I can say is the only variety you actually get in the game. The slow motion 
 kill spree is also fun.
  
  Overall, the game was very boring in the beginning, but when it picked up, it picked up, but then 
 after that nothing special really happens except for the story unraveling which you already put 
 together half way into the game. By today standards, this game is nothing special, but back in 
 2007, this would of been something I would have had to play. It is no Half-life or Resistance 1/2, 
 but it's potential is there. Play this game before you play F. E. A. R. 2, so you can notice the improvement 
 or lack of improvement. That is why I played it. A good rental and a distant buy if you can get 
 it for a good price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an okay shooter. It's just a normal FPS, but I don't think it's worth getting. I still 
 give it a decent score, because of the okay story and the scary flicks. After playing the game 
 for a while, it gives people headaches. I mean really. All my friends who came to play it went 
 home with a headache. That's not cool. I don't know what's with that... but it just happens. The 
 game is quite hard too and I haven't played it since October of '07.
  The guns are kind of normal. There's not too much to say about the guns and the slow motion thing 
 is a nice touch. It's cool to play with the Slow Motion, but it gets boring fast. It's also easy 
 to die in the game, as it's hard to find health and bullets. 
  The graphics are a bit strange. It's not the best for the PS3 and I think it could have been done 
 better.
  The controls are fine. There's nothing to complain about.
  Voice acting is okay.
  There were some frame rate issues. Overall, I think F. E. A. R. is not the 
 best game to be placed in your collection and it's probably better to purchase the PC or 360 versions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3NeGaDeAnGeL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was alright. I suppose I was expecting more do to it being so critically acclaimed, and 
 I felt slightly disappointed while playing it. 
  
  The graphics weren't the best in town, but what do you expect if its being played on a PS3 after 
 it came out years before on the PC. One aggravating part of the graphics was the fact that the 
 game is extremely DARK and you constantly have to press your flashlight button to light up the 
 area, as it runs out of batteries in a mere 30 seconds or so... this gets very annoying sometimes. 
 
  
  Another gripe was the fact that there are no subtitles in the game; this wouldn't be a problem 
 for some people living on their own, but with family members in the house it is very difficult 
 to hear all of the story especially if playing at night when others are sleeping (playing this game 
 at night is most fun, after all!) You get bits of the story through phone messages and by hacking 
 laptops; even by lowering the music volume to 1/3 the length and sound effects to 1/3 the length, 
 and having the speech all the way up, i STILL could not understand all that was being said and 
 so couldn't get a good grasp on the story. Let's hope they put a subtitles option in the next game!
 
  
  
  The great aspect of this game is the gameplay. Shooting dudes in slow motion is so much fun, especially 
 when you get powerful enough weapons and can literally "blow them in half." Supernatural sequences 
 were overdone and felt annoying after a while... and the game did not scare me nearly as much as 
 I thought it would. I suppose after playing "Dead Space" its hard to get scared by this 3 year 
 old game. 
  
  
  Overall, rent it and beat it. At least so you have an idea for F. E. A. R. 2 coming out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what i expected much. but anyway i adapted to it and its ok. the story takes place 
 when u r part of an elite millitary orgamisation trained to take down supernatural situations and 
 eliminate it, however somthing goes wrong or somthing basically its very complicated i just know 
 that a little girl (she is supernatural) is trying to kill you and you must kill this guy who is 
 possessed. its confusing.
  i'll make it brief
  GOOD
  -you can dismember enemies with your shotgun
  -lots of great weapons each with different characteristics 
 and feel different
  -AI is inteligent and can out flank you
  -you can do a roundhouse kick like chuck norris
  -you may occasinly get a slight chill seeing 
 somthing scary walking arund and or talking to u
  BAD
  -graphics r not up to PS3 standerd
  -repedative
  -not what i expected
  -no rolling around 
 even though the AI can do it
  -jumping through windows can be awkward
  -flashlight can run out of battery and u need to wait for it to recharge.
  thats all i can think 
 about i may come back and edit this review but all in all its decent fps but i recommemd other 
 games like dead space, bioshock and resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  I LOVE 1st person shooter games. And i LOVE 1st person horror games. I find playing a horror game 
 in 1st person view more scarier that 3rd person. F. E. A. R. is without a doubt a very scary game. 
 But sadly, the expereance playing F. E. A. R. on the PlayStation 3 was nothing like the PC version. 
 If you have a great PC i are looking to play F. E. A. R. i recommend getting it for the PC. You can 
 find my review on the PC version in my Contributions. I found the game-play, graphics and the fear 
 quite poor compared to the PC version but that just probably because i played and love F. E. A. R. 
 on the PC, but F. E. A. R. is a good game indeed no matter where you play it. If you love scary games 
 or better yet, 1st person shooter scary games, F. E. A. R. is for you. PC 
  
  F. E. A. R. is worth playing on the PlayStation 3, but F. E. A. R. is better played on the PC.
  
 
  Version 9/10
  PlayStation 3 Version 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a good game but has it's issues as well the horrible graphics and stupid aim down the 
 sight crap would make it a 3.0 but the scary and amazing FPS makes it jump up 5 points to a 8.0. 
 When you see Alma pop out of nowhere its scary when you see a skeleton behind you its scary the 
 whole games scary Alma could be right behind you and you look back there she is but the horrible 
 graphics made it lower than perfect and lower than superb and the stupid aiming system to where 
 its basically the same as when your not aiming that really makes it bad so if you've seen a bunch 
 of good graphics on the PS3 and you want and buy this game be ready for a huge change you'll see 
 good graphic games like COD4 and Heavenly sword than you'll see horrible graphic games this one 
 is one of them good game though overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  F. e. a. r. is a old game for the Playstation3 now, but still doesn't loose any sparkle. F. e. a. r is 
 a thrilling scary shooter. The story of F. E. A. R. is presented in such a way that only a few minor 
 plot elements are presented in the game's beginning, thus allowing players to experience the adventure 
 as the hero in their own spine-tingling epic of action, tension and terror. The player later witnesses 
 further unexplained and occasionally life-threatening paranormal phenomena, including frequent 
 hallucinations, many of which center around a little girl in a red dress named Alma. Alienware 
 Laptops found during the course of the mission, hacked by Commissioner Betters, provide additional 
 details regarding the background story, as do unread voicemail messages on telephones. Because 
 of this, it is possible for players to miss some of the game's plot by failing to locate all of 
 the laptops or telephones.
  
  F. e. a. r. put's you in control of a first person view on things, with only starting with 2 guns, 
 a few grenades and soem health and armor. Throughout the game you find other weapons ans grenades, 
 but all of which do the same job as other weapons, except the pistol. The pistol is just a waste 
 of time, shooting about 20 bullets to one enemie doesn't get you anywhere. But aside from that, 
 gameplay is good. You can crouch, run and walk and jump. The only problem is that looking downwards 
 at your legs, it's just wrong. Your feet are basically invisable and your legs are made of blocks, 
 but that is understandable coming from a low budget game, and a old-ish game for the Playstation3.
 
  
  The story is complicated, as i stated above. But it comes clear if you get the right signals and 
 do your history in differant locations. It's written like a movie, but is complicated, take my 
 word. If your looking for a smoothed out game with a easy plot, then don't get this game as it 
 makes your mind go bannanna's.
  
  The graphics are good, but sometimes murky and blurred. Liek yourself, and other characters mouthes. 
 Like if they are talking, there mouths don't show the words that well. The best looking thing in 
 the game is bullets and alma. Along with a few monsters and some locations are dazzeling. This 
 brings me onto my last point, voice acting. It has good voice acting, some a bit off cord, but 
 mostly very nicely done. Except some enemies voices sound murked, like the microphone in the studio 
 isn't that terribly good.
  
  So, i would reccomend this game. Scary, action packed and confusing. A nice game, a must have for 
 any shooter fan. A big old 9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  OK I wanted to play this game because to combine a FPS with a horror game sounded like a unique 
 idea. However what we have here is more of a FPS and less horror. I mean one of the only times 
 you see the little girl or ghost or anything remotely supernatural is in the last ten minutes of 
 the game; the rest of the time your fighting solders. Don't get me wrong for a FPS it's not bad 
 it has good moments and the design of the levels are well thought out. The combat was fun and the 
 slow mo. is a necessity at certain points of the game. The controls are good as well as the story, 
 although confusing, I hope the 2nd installment will wrap up some of the loop holes, as this game 
 was kind of confusing. This isn't quite what I had in mind when I bought the game, but was a good 
 enough game to recommend to FPS fans; as for horror fans it's a good starting point for the sequel, 
 if they put a little more fear in FEAR 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisiSlCore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  The game's story revolves around a supernatural phenomenon, which F. E. A. R.-a fictional special 
 forces team-is called to contain. The player assumes the role of F. E. A. R.'s Point Man, who possesses 
 superhuman reflexes and combats an army of cloned soldiers, and at the same time uncovers the secrets 
 of a paranormal menace in the form of a little girl.
  
  Alright...
  
  This is a creepy, scary and a heartpumping game if you have a weak heart or soul. But like me, 
 i love this game bcause it's fun to play and i enjoyed it every step of the way. Start to finish. 
 I found out that it's best to play it when it's dark outside and do yourself a favour a turn the 
 light off inside aswell to get the best experience out of it. There is a bonus mission to be unlocked 
 when you play through the game, it expand on the main story.
  
  This game has good graphics, perfect sound, perfect horror music, decent voice-overs (but in times 
 you had trouble hearing some of the briefings from laptops and some of the messages from the telephones) , 
 superb gameplay, and great online multiplayer but not the best.
  
  The instant action modes is a great way to get into the action and kill of some stupidass clones 
 but it's kinda hard because if you die you have to start from the beginning of the Map you are 
 playing on and don't forget the timer.
  
  This is an amazing game not to be missed. Go out and buy this game soon as possible because it's 
 just that great. But you have be warned, there is some creepy, scary and heartpumping sequences 
 in it. And who knows, maybe Alma will crawl out of your TV so be careful. For god sake, be careful.
 
  
  cYa, maybe......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkytexan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been eyeballing this game since it came out for the PC. I bought it as soon as I got a PS3.
 
  
  Its OK, that is about the best I can say for it.
  Graphics (PS3) are really sub-standard, more like an early PS2 game then PS3. 
  
  I got literally 
 stuck a couple of times where I could not move and had to kill myself. The controls suck as well. 
 I kept changing my weapons versus shooting! I wasted a lot of health packs and grenades to boot.
 
  
  I am a HUGE survival horror fan, and while this did have one or two creepy moments, I would NOT 
 classify this as horror.
  
  One more thing, WHY oh WHY did they not have an option to display dialogue? Heaven forbid you have 
 to turn the volume down because the rest of the house is asleep. If you do, you miss all the voicemail 
 messages and laptop audio files, so you miss the story.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Jesus ****ing Christ... this game is for the Playstation 3?... I've seen better graphics on my 
 Playstation 2! I see that it was a great game on 360 but why so bad for the PS3? The control scheme 
 is unresponsive and really confusing, and I can't stop saying, graphically it is horrible.
  
  People, I am serious. It's not worth the 7 or so bucks to rent. The gameplay isn't very good. 
 As I said, the controls are extremely confusing. Most of the controls have become standard in every 
 shooter nowadays, but the only controls that I've found to be the same as any other games, are 
 square for reload, and x for jump. They aren't very responsive either.
  
  Honestly, I am serious right now. The game is not worth the rent. It may seem cool at first, especially 
 the thought of fighting the undead, but it's not. I dunno why, but they even went with the stereotypical 
 creepy little girl as the big scary monster. Come on, enough is enough. I'll wait for Project Origin, 
 screw learning the backstory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T900
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  I picked up F. E. A. R. about two weeks ago when purchasing a PS3. I remembered hearing about it a 
 few years ago so decided to pick it up. It is a great game but there's a few flaws.
  
  Story -- The story in the game is quite good as it is not a normal focus point of a FPS but is 
 about a paranormal event. There are good elements to the storybuilding in the game also including 
 the answer machine messages and COMlink with your mission leader (although it is hard to hear the 
 leader at times) . 
  
  It'll take you a little while to get to grips with the story but near the end it starts to come 
 together. On a second play through you will begin to understand the story a lot more so it's definitely 
 something to play more than once. 8/10
  
  Graphics -- When comparing the PS3 version to the PC and Xbox 360 versions of this game, the PS3 
 one is quite disappointing. The graphics seem to have been poorly rendered to suit the PS3's power 
 and it looks more like a cross between CounterStrike: Source and Halo: Combat Evolved - a highly 
 polished PS2 game shall we say. 6/10
  
  The physical environment holds up quite well though but you do feel a bit cheated that the PS3 
 looks the worst out of the three versions.
  
  Sound -- The sound in this game is quite amazing. It builds up tension in dark, tight areas and 
 there are clever 'noises' created which will keep you on your toes and sometimes even turn around 
 to see what's behind you when there's nothing there.
  
  The voice acting is also done quite well but is not the best you'll see in a game. At times it 
 can sound forced and quite cheap.
  
  The sounds of the guns you use are very well done. A firefight actually sounds like one and you'll 
 enjoy these a lot throughout the game. 8/10
  
  Gameplay -- The gameplay is very good in F. E. A. R in that the gunfights are extremely fun because 
 the A. I you fight is intelligent and you will often have a soldier appear behind you out of nowhere 
 because they used an alternate passage to your position. 
  
  Being on your toes for most of the game is fun as well. There will be periods where you won't encounter 
 any enemies but will run into a room and something creepy will happen that'll startle you and you'll 
 be turning corners quite slowly for a little while afterwards. 
  
  The environments in the game are quite bland as they're essentially all closed spaces i. e. in a 
 building, hospital and you can't free roam or view other environments freely - but it's kept somewhat 
 fresh because of the intense firefights that can happen in this type of area.
  
  You'll encounter for most of the game the same soldiers over and over which can come a bit repetitive 
 but you will encounter a couple of new enemies which stirs things up a bit and gives you a chance 
 to try your bullet-time ability to it's maximum. This bullet-time ability is one of the best parts 
 of the game as it allows you to enter an 'improved reflex' state and you're able to dodge bullets 
 etc.
  
  Overall I think the gameplay is very good and compliments a lot to the game. 9/10
  
  --
  
 
  I would advise people who are interested in this game to get it either on the PC or Xbox 360 because 
 they look better than the PS3 one but if you only have a PS3, it's worth a purchase! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xriceballx
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  You work for the government under F. E. A. R, "First Encounter Assault Recon". Your job is to investigate 
 and destroy the supernatural very much on your own. You have the ability to slow down time for 
 dramatic decapitating experiences. The clone of super soldiers are under the control of telepathy 
 and they'll utilize the environments to sneak up on you. There's even a creepy little girl name 
 Alma, who appears throughout the game to scare you. Can you survive the challenge?
  
  FEAR is not a new game, in fact it has been ported over from the PC version years ago before heading 
 over to the 360 and finally the PS3. A great game shall always be great, however a great game that's 
 destroyed because of a horrible port will shamefully be a terrible game. The 360 version is the 
 PC perfect port while the PS3 has troubles playing FEAR. Lets see what went wrong.
  
  Firstly, playing this on the Six-Axis controller is unintuitive and idiotic. Whoever mapped the 
 controls needs a new job, both the right trigger buttons are used to fire a weapon while the other 
 swaps weapon. Many times I've found myself in the heat of battle and mistakenly switched weapons 
 in the middle of combat and got destroyed on the spot. The AI is tough, they'll always backpedal 
 and hide behind boxes to get at you. Actually, that's all they do, after getting killed so many 
 times from observing the enemy AI, it appears that all they do is back pedal and shoot. They are 
 also great at pincer moves, leaving you in the middle of crossfire. But I began to notice as I 
 played, are they really surrounding me? After clearing an entire hallway, bullets still sprayed 
 through walls and hit me through the back. I found out it was a glitch after tracing my steps through 
 1o identical halls back and finding a lone soldier hiding behind a desk. 
  
  Secondly, the graphics are absolutely ugly. It looks like a possible PS2 port before switching 
 up last second. The lightings are inconsistent and shadows are nonexistent. Hallways all look alike 
 and every stage feels exactly the same. Why does FEAR feel like a game of cat and mouse? You chase 
 soldiers around repetitive hallways over and over and before the chapter ends, you'll encounter 
 Alma. 
  
  Third, the Loading times are absolutely unforgivable. Game takes anywhere from 3-4 minutes to load 
 a stage. This wasn't apparent on the PC version, let alone in an online match. There's nothing 
 special about the stages that forces the game to load so long. It's definitely a problem when your 
 playing a FPS, a genre that's pick up and play. Fast-paced action combine with sloppy load times 
 don't work well together. You won't be able to tell when and why you die either cause the game 
 cuts straight to the loading screen when your health hits zero.
  
  Onto the game itself, FEAR is definitely a game rich in atmosphere. The background theme fits really 
 well with the creepy story. You'll hear little girls laughing here and there, you'll feel suffocated 
 and alone. It's absolutely remarkable and well fitting, only dragged down by uninspired graphics. 
 The weapons all sound very satisfying and have devastating results upon contact. It's a plus when 
 your able to accurately plant a mine or a well-placed grenade that launches your opponent's torso 
 through a wall. Rag-doll effects are very detailed and humorous, albeit glitches in a good way. 
 The gunfire needs does lock up for some reason, it takes repeated attempts to actually fire a weapon, 
 and repeated attempts to stop firing a weapon. A strange delay between button sequences, it'll 
 definitely cost you a couple of 5 minute load screen, and by that I mean death.
  
  What doesn't work real well are the scare scenes that are supposed to make me jump or give me nightmares. 
 When your controlling a guy who carries a shotgun and has the ability to slow down time, will you 
 be scared of ghost? No, not really. When these ghost do make their appearance, they always have 
 a sharp screeching sound that gets old really quick. I have never been scared by any of the ghost 
 because they are way too uninteresting and pixilated to make any sense. Alma's character do liven 
 up the mood a bit, but saying she's scarier than The Ring is jumping a bit too far. There was a 
 moment where she walked down a hallway burning everything in her path and the game started to lag 
 like dial-up. Not very cinematic when you can't see what the heck is going on because of the lag 
 and blurry graphics. 
  
  What could be better than having some of the most clich pop-up scares in a FPS? Throwing in stealth 
 camouflage ninjas of course! It makes no sense why this game would have clone soldiers, a supernatural 
 girl, and ninjas all in the same game. These ninjas are extremely annoying to battle. They move 
 extremely fast on their feet, they are very short, they do great damage, and they have stealth 
 camouflage. Imagine yourself battling 5 stealth ninjas in the very same hallway. The sudden spike 
 in difficulty doesn't make sense, and the fact that these ninjas constantly hit you and run a mile 
 away from you doesn't make any sense either. 
  
  There will be times where you'll need to pick up the phone and get tips of how to tackle your objective. 
 The codec will also provide you with verbal tips. The problem is, they talk so darn quiet you'll 
 have to mute the background to hear it. 
  
  FEAR for the PS3 is a disastrous port, a broken game, a lagged-up ugly experience that should've 
 never been made. If your expecting nightmares and responsive game play, you'll be sorely disappointed. 
 Why do weapons lock-up? How can a PC port be downgraded on the PS3? Who in the world puts the weapon 
 swap button next to the Fire trigger? FEAR is an excellent example of a game that doesn't want 
 you to play from the get-go. Poised with the most clich and predictable attempts at cheap horror, 
 FEAR has absolutely no originality and a weak story that is too bland to be taken seriously. Gamers 
 shouldn't have to battle with their controllers when playing video games, and a controller should 
 never lock up on a gamer, especially if it's the Trigger button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  I'm kind of on the fence with F. E. A. R.
  
  It has it's good points - a very complex and well thought out story, one or two jumpy moments, 
 some good atmosphere, etc
  
  At the same time it has more than twice the amount of bad things about it - Ridiculously long load 
 times (the longest I've ever seen) , sad excuse for next gen graphics, repetitive gunplay, the story 
 is told through voice messages on phones and in computers, meaning if you don't take the time to 
 listen to them, you'll be completely left in the dark even at the end of the game.
  
  The one thing that makes me sad, is that if they managed to step up the gameplay to match the story, 
 this would be a perfect FPS, but alas, we can't have both it seems. Why make such a complex story 
 for such a lackluster game? 
  
  Also, F. E. A. R. follows the classic "big disaster, let's send in one guy" issue that a lot of other 
 FPS's suffer from. If there's a threat as terrible as Alma Wade floating around ready to kill at 
 will I doubt they're going to rest all of the responsibility on one man, unless F. E. A. R. is a terribly 
 poor squad.
  
  From now on I'm going to call the sending in one man to do a large group of mens job - "Lost Planet 
 Syndrome", but atleast they had a little reason to do so in F. E. A. R. unlike the crappy game I just 
 mentioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has a lot of things to dislike and like about it. The first amazing thing about this game 
 is it's immersive gameplay. The music, sounde effects, AI, and overall environment really put you 
 in the game. Once you progress through the game you will be on the edge of your couch as you run 
 into new creatures that you will need different strategies to kill. The graphics are not that great 
 but they are decent and the extraordinary gameplay makes up for this mistake.
  In the game you are a brand new recruit for the F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) division. 
 Your objective is to find Paxton Fettel, some cannibalistic crazed person (if he is a person) . 
 In the game you run into several different creatures and soldiers you will have to fight on your 
 quest to find Fettel.
  You will find several different weapons including, but not limited to, an assault rifle, a shotgun, 
 grenades, something that resembles a landmine, and lots more. You will find that you will need 
 to switch out some of your weapons for other weapons depending on what you are fighting and what 
 your strategy is.
  In the game you will be able to find medkits and ammo almost everywhere but not always when you 
 need them. You also have a power where you are able to use your reflexes for a certain amount of 
 time which slows down your enemies and environment. It slows you down too but it makes it easier 
 to kill enemies, especially the really fast ones.
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an amazing game and deserves a solid 9.5 out of 10. If you are a fan of FPS's 
 or scary games, than this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When FEAR was first released for the PC, it was met with great critical praise for its unique gameplay 
 and scare tactics, and when the Xbox 360 version was released, it was met with still good, yet 
 slightly lower scores. In April last year, Day 1 studios released the Ps3 version of FEAR. While 
 still scary, the problems that plagued the other 2 versions, in addition with a crappy port, FEAR 
 for the Playstation 3, although still decent, is a big disappointment.
  
  You play as a nameless operative for the government agency called F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault 
 Recon) . Your first gig with this new job of you, has you tracking down a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 some cannibalistic psycho who is controlling an army of clone soldiers, and is wreaking havoc in 
 some sort of facility. When you are sent in to the area, almost instantly this little girl shows 
 up and kills your crew. Throughout the game, all sorts of paranormal activities occur around you, 
 and somehow you, Fettel, and the little girl are all connected.
  
  At times, this game will scare the hell out of you. You'll be walking down a darkened corridor, 
 all is quiet, and then when you turn around, something is right on your ass, and you'll have no 
 idea how long its been there. Other times, you'll see a shadow move, and when you go to it, you'll 
 find nothing there. Lights will shatter, weird ghostly figures will appear out of nowhere, and 
 it's almost like playing the Japanese version of the Ring. It's a real treat to play this game 
 at 3AM with the lights out.
  
  You may have seen my 3.5 score for the story, so you know that I didn't enjoy it too much. Aside 
 from the creepiness, nothing really makes sense, and the things that do make sense, are laughable 
 and very cliche and generic. The characters are very shallow, and one of them actually made me 
 wish he was real, just so I could knock him out.
  
  This character really doesn't fit in very well, and it makes everything seems like a big joke. 
 He plays a big role in the outcome of things, which downright pisses me off.
  
  Even after completing the game, I'm left completely confused on what the hell happened. The only 
 way that the story is told is through odd conversations with Fettel, which are confusing as hell, 
 and through voice messages on phones that seem like they have no connection to you, and what makes 
 things worse is that they are impossible to hear if the volume isn't on FULL. The way that the 
 story is presented is quite poor, and it's a shame, because it had potential.
  
  What does make FEAR shine, is in its gameplay. The enemy artificial intelligence is quite advanced. 
 These guys will yell out tactics to each other, they will point out your location, and a few of 
 them will break off and try to flank. They have superb aiming as well. They keep FEAR a real challenge 
 the whole way through. Weapon selection isn't vast, but the weapons are very well designed. Auto 
 maching guns, snipers, shotguns, rocket launchers, and even the dual pistols are all a blast to 
 fire with. Monolith is a very talented studio, and they've proven that here.
  
  What makes FEAR even more unique is the ability to slow down time. The effects here are excellent, 
 although unrealistic. When you blast a guy with a shotgun in slowmo, he just explodes, and it's 
 really cool. Your slowmo bar recharges frequently, and it's a tactic you'll use plenty.
  
  Every level is very similar, and poorly designed. You'll be running around aimlessly plenty of 
 times (HL 2 syndrome, as I called it in my Dark Sector review) . All the missions are very similar, 
 with poorly planned out objectives that are kind of stupid in some situations. FEAR gets horrifyingly 
 repetitive, as every mission is almost exactly the same. I understand that 90% of the game takes 
 place in the same building, but some variety would be enjoyed. The enemies, although vary a little, 
 are similar with their weapons and tactics. Every firefight feels exactly the same.
  
  The very best part of FEAR is its sound design. Aside from the voice acting, and phone messages, 
 the sound here is very well done. Guns sound excellent and realistic, and enemies getting hit sound 
 like real. It's almost as if the developer recorded people getting shot. The girl's laugh is also 
 presented quite good, and it's the signature of the game.
  
  The 360 and PC versions of the game looked good. It's a pity the Ps3 version doesn't look good 
 at all. Textures are bland, edges are jaggy, the framerate drops, faces look odd, and animations 
 are poor. Nothing looks relatively like a Ps3 game here. It's one of the worst looking shooters 
 this generation, and it would only be acceptable on the original Xbox or the Ps2.
  
  The flashlight plays a huge part of FEAR. You will need to illuminate dark areas, enemies will 
 know you are there if they see your light, and it's your only real companion in the game. If it's 
 so important, why are the lighting effects so bad? Nothing creates shadows, all lights are the 
 same color, and it makes everything look very ugly and bland.
  
  The single player campaign is of good length. It will take you anywhere from 7 - 10 hours. The 
 replay value really just depends on how much you enjoyed it. Instant action is just an arcade mode 
 that pits you against bots, with great AI, and it can be fun when you aren't in the mood to be 
 scared.
  
  Multiplayer is a bit of a mixed bag. Weapons are fun to use, but slo motion can't be used. The 
 map selection is slim, and so are the game modes. It can be fun, but after a few hours, you'll 
 have done everything you want to do. There is no voice chat, and the graphics are even of worse 
 quality.
  
  FEAR is scary, and can be fun at times. However, this terrible port's fun is very slim at times. 
 The story is bad and laughable, enemies repeat, as do levels and objectives. Why spend your time 
 on this, when Monolith's own Condemned 2 is much more scary and unique, and Infinity Ward's Call 
 of Duty 4 is much more fun. FEAR for the Ps3 isn't bad, but it isn't very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  alright ladies stop crying cause here we go with another review by THE KING OF REVIEWS. me. lets 
 start off with the story. it was actually pretty solid and offered a wierd twist around almost 
 every turn and corner that was actually kind of disturbing. the violence is in top notch shape 
 and thats always a plus. as for a next gen first person shooter. well its okay but not the greatest 
 one on the market. graphically it is okay and there is really no difference between this one and 
 the 360 version. its fun to play through once and thats about it. i would say definitely a rental 
 but not worth buying.
  
  as you play through you just feel like it is missing something... i hope that stupid girl in the 
 game doesnt try to kill me now.. man. i would also like to add that there is hardly any body playing 
 this game online anymore so you will most likely have to revert to other multiplayer games. merry 
 christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlthrasher22
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  I'm not a FEAR PC player but was fairly disappointed in this game. The cons: 
  1) the story line is bizaar to say the least (the game never really clues you in as to what is 
 going on with all the flashbacks/premonitions)
  2) you never actually complete any of the mission goals (sorry to be a spoiler but it's ludicrous 
 that the single goal at the beginning of the game - to catch/eliminate the bad guy - is never achieved 
 when you finish the game)
  3) the sound is terrible - sound effects are very loud but you can hardly hear anything being said 
 by characters (namely the commander/HQ that you get clues/info from)
  4) for its lack of story line the game is entirely too long - consisting of hours of the same "run 
 thru building, kill enemies, look for health, hit button, repeat". Very little, if any, creativity 
 for a game touted as highly as this one was.
  5) so-so weapons and graphics - no real creativity - terrible scopes/sights
  6) controls are 
 sloppy - it's VERY easy to mistakenly throw a grenade with L2 (which such a mistake will leave 
 you either dead or short of ammunition)
  7) a ridiculously short headlamp for illuminating dark spaces - the character is state of the art 
 except that his headlamp constantly runs out of charge (but recharges quickly... so why even bother 
 having it run out of battery if the game is just going to recharge it right back up in 10 seconds)
 
  
  The pros:
  1) I would agree with others that the best part of the game is the "dismemberment kills" with the 
 shotgun - but I wouldn't invest in a game that's best feature is a shotgun
  2) the levels/environment are somewhat interesting in that you can choose different approaches 
 into some of the rooms/kill areas (isn't unique enough to really mention but I felt guilty about 
 not having more "pros")
  
  The game had potential but just didn't deliver. Considering the amount of time required to finish 
 it I would recommend playing (or even replaying) numerous other shooters before renting or buying 
 F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mop3000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I brought this game on saturday for 20 from CEX, but I managed to get it for 14 due to a 
 6 voucher left over from my last trade-in. It looked good at the back of the case so I thought 
 I get. 
  
  Got home and the first thing that hit me was the mega long loading times, they must take 2 minutes 
 for each level. Secondly the graphic are between PS2 and Xbox 360 which I was surprised about because 
 the graphics looked fine on the case. 
  
  The sound of the game is terrible, first of all on the second mission I think you start in a helicopter 
 which sounds like it's only got a five second sample on repeat and when it flies off it does fade 
 into the distance it just disappears. When you get your feet wet it starts again, because your 
 feet splash when you run through water, but if you jump into water there is no splash, just the 
 sound of you hitting a hard surface. Then enemy constantly shout stuff when can help because they 
 talk before you've even seen them, which I think is bad because you can prepare yourself better.
 
  
  The only thing I enjoy in the game is the shotgun, because you can shoot limbs off, sever enemies 
 in half and even blow them up completely, which is very fun!
  
  Not tried the online yet, but I got CoD4 for that! 
  
  I would say buy this if you like blowing 
 up people with shotguns and can put up with poor sound and out of date graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a game from Sierra and Monilith studios. It's about a girl named Alma, (which is some creepy 
 sadistic wonder child) you know, terrorizes people. You are a part of a Military Force called F. E. A. R. 
 You will fight these weird paramilitary forces and have all the powerful weaponry by your side 
 to do it. There is a lot of abilities you can perform. You can kick, tackle, even do slow-mo!
 
  
  The slow-mo is alot like the one in timeshift. Alot of people say the graphics and frame rate lag. 
 Well, the graphics themselves are decent, not the best in the world, but decent. The frame rate 
 stays good, especially in heavy and intense firefights.
  
  The length in FEAR is short. It'll take you a good 8-10 hours. It's really not that long if you 
 know how to play it. Online is fun in this game and there are good modes too.
  
  The cons in this game are extremely long loading times, few visual glitches, and you run outta 
 ammo easily. Otherwise, this is a strong game and definetly worth the wait. Pick this game up! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monk0072008
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is just not scary the thing that makes it scary is that littl gril that pops out of noware 
 but when she is about to come out the lights start to flicker so u know shes near but sometimes 
 shes not right in your face but if you look around you'll find her. but thats the only scary thing 
 about the game the story is great but not many people play online so that sucks the most amount 
 of people you'll probly play with is about 4-6 and thats about it. story line is great but the 
 rest of the game is okay and you might want to rent it first. or barow it from a friend but if 
 you don' lick body parts getting blown off when you shoot sombody with a shot gun then don't get 
 this game please because i really don't want you to waist your money on a crappy game. just it's 
 your opinionso remember you might want to rent it before you buy it just sayin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The first things that you would notice obviously is the stuttering frame-rates. Can get very irritating, 
 especially when your in the middle of a blown-out gun fight against a squad of super soldiers, 
 however this doesnt effect the gameplay to an extent that you want to switch the console off. 
 
  The graphics are pretty washed up which we can all agree on. We would of all imagine that the 
 PS3 would of been more aesthetically pleasing, due to the huge power and potential of the console 
 itself. Not to mention to rediculously long loading screens. Remembering the first day of playing 
 it, being excited to kick some ass, I ended up going into a day-dream before realising that I can 
 then press 'X' to start the level.
  
  However, this is fairly compensated with some pretty intense gameplay and storytelling. F. E. A. R 
 combines the elements of a high-octane shooter and supernatural horror game extremely well, if 
 not the best gamers has seen yet. Hallucinations, claustrophobic and dark levels and great use 
 of sound really amps up the suspense. I mean come on, who doesnt find little mysterious girls scary?
 
  
  The games A. I is impressively advanced and depending on your difficulty level, can be pretty relentless. 
 Your enemies can be very tactical in contemporary combat, from taking cover or keeping their distance 
 and taking particular position to take you out in the quickest ay possible. 
  Using squad based combat, you can determine on how many enemies you could be facing or are left 
 in a particular fight, by hearing out for squad commands, giving you the opportunity to be tactical 
 with wiping out your foes. For example, hearing a squad member say "NEED MORE BACKUP!" obviously 
 determines that you've wiped out most of the squad.
  
  Its fair to say that trying to keep up with the storyline during gameplay is pretty much a waste 
 of time, since the situation is updated for you to read on loading screens between intervals, and 
 the fact that it can be occassionally difficult to hear your superior on the other end of a headset.
 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R is a very decent shooter that combines intense FPS action and suspensful horror 
 very well, so if your a fan of both, then its quite a bonus and is quite worthy for anyones gaming 
 collection. So shut the curtains, flick the lights off, and park yourself infront of the T. V, and 
 prepare to learn the true meaning of F. E. A. R. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomslaya64
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  While FEAR is a good game on the pc and 360 the ps3 version has problems that keep it from being 
 anywhere near as good as the other versions. The worst problem in the game is by far the frame 
 rate. The game slowly chugs along and sometimes feels like it dips into the mid-teens. What makes 
 this problem worse is the fact that the ps3 version of FEAR features washed out graphics compared 
 to the other versions of the game. If you are able to get past the poor frame rate and washed out 
 graphics, the core game play is pretty good. The A. I. is great and will flank you and flush you 
 out with grenades even on the easier difficulties. The game also manages to produce some frightening 
 moments. One complaint though is the level design. Many of the levels look and feel the same with 
 very little in the way of variety. All in all the ps3 version of FEAR is very poor compared to 
 the other superior versions, and can not be recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw/played this game on the PC, it wasn't anything new. It was very much like Doom 
 3, dark, confined areas with an emphasis on spooking the player. This game uses what the Japanese 
 horror industry has put out: seemingly harmless little girls that are demons. The scares are what 
 you'd expect, cheesy, and you will develop an ability to predict when you'll trigger one of these 
 scares. It gets repetitive, kill a bunch of soldiers, get scared, repeat. The AI isn't groundbreaking 
 at all. I've always felt that reviewers expect too little from their games. Wow, an enemy took 
 cover, now we'll have to praise the game's superior AI. Unfortunately for me, unless the AI can 
 mimic what actual human players do online, AI will be nothing spectacular. Now onto the heart of 
 the review, this game just really, really sucks. I haven't had any issues with the PS3 before such 
 as slower FPS (and 360 fanboys can keep silent) , but this game is very choppy on the PS3. Every 
 few seconds you'll get a CHOP here, then a CHOP there. Takes away whatever goodness this game has 
 to offer. When I look back at this game, when it came out on the PC it was good, but now the graphics 
 are just terrible. Good games get better with age, I can still play Doom and revel in the memories, 
 but with FEAR, it's just discontent. Save your time and money and avoid this at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcastino
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was supposed to be a brilliant game in my mind from what i had heard about it. it was 
 one of the first games i bought for the ps3 and i was greatly disappointed, which will make it 
 one of the first games i will sell for my ps3.
  
  The game felt all too similar to many other fps that i had played and didnt really offer anything 
 new to the genre. The "horror" scenes gave made the game slightly interesting but i was never on 
 the end of my seat for them and they r definitely not as scary as playing manhunt at 3 in the morning 
 with the sound up loud, the lights out and the curtains closed. The only real thing the horror 
 scenes did for me was break up the mundane fps action . even the surprise appearance at the end 
 didnt make me recoil back into my chair cowering in fear. I felt like saying..."is this it? thats 
 the game people said was so good?" 
  
  The graphics for this was what disappointed me most. I had expected better. The AI was good but 
 was no match for real intelligence which made the game no real challenge.
  
  Frankly i expected better from this game and it never arrived. Its the game on my shelf i try to 
 hide when i have friends over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technixps3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a good game. The AI is well-programmed, the game has some surprises around 
 corners and represents "survival thriller" games in a good light. I am also saddened though that 
 Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate expansions have not yet come to PS3.
  
  Gameplay for the most party is very good. However, it is not an open-ended game... you are restricted 
 to going to certain places. You can't go back to certain areas (even if you could, it probably 
 wouldn't be all that exciting) . The storyline was well thought-out and the cut scenes help deliver 
 a sense of understanding of what is taking place.
  
  Difficulty I found was easy. Controlling your character is good and responsive. You have a few 
 melee attacks you can use (in cases when you run out of ammo or you feel like busting a window 
 open) . AI is done well and uses a lot of tactics that a human may be prone to use (i. e. conducting 
 careful recon, falling back when pressure is on, making advances when least expected) . 
  
  Graphics are decent, but are not the best either. I played this game on PC and at that time thought 
 the graphics were decent, but I was expecting a little more bang for my buck in this next-gen system 
 release. I do have to dock points here.
  
  Sound design was very well mastered. I admit I jumped a few times because of some whispers from 
 Alma and some of the flashback illusions she and the antagonist Paxton Fettel kept throwing my 
 way.
  
  Overall presentation is pretty good. However, I figured with the mission objectives for the most 
 part being the elimination of Fettel, I was rather surprised the game did not finish on that note. 
 The ending left it open for a sequel which is coming soon (Project Origin) . i think this game could 
 have been a bit longer and utilized more environments, i. e. outside, city landscapes, etc.
  
  I'd say this game is worth buying, but definately not worth paying the full price for. $30-40 
 would be a good price for this one, not the full-blown $60. Definately check your prices on this 
 one. I'm out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  (Throw up noise) Yes, this game will make you sick! Glitches, bad graphics, and clunky gameplay 
 make this a peice of you know what! There is absolutley nothing good in this game! Its far from 
 creepy! The only thing creepy about this game is how long the load times are! Might as well grab 
 a Snickers while you are waiting to play it! Gamplay: slow, clunky, and absolutley terrible! Sound: 
 not great, some bugs which you CAN hear! Visual: Complete crap! Blurry, and hard to see in the dark! 
 The guns are no good and when you fire a gun it fires by itself once you press R2, its crazy! I 
 dont want anyone to play this horrible game! No story and to those people who say 'its soo scray' 
 should be slapped! There is not one thing that scared me except the online! Oh-no it was complete 
 junk! Laggey if thats even a word, and no fun! Dont rent, buy, or even borrow from a friend! Must 
 avoid because you will trully waste your hard earned cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLL_SuiTed
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  when i heard that this highly praised game was coming to the ps3 i was really excited about it... but 
 i was extremely dissapointed once i played it i found that it was really not what i expected.
 
  
  it had bad slow responsive controlls and the grafix werent that good either
  
  i thought that it was way too repetitive also it was just shoot hide get health shoot hide get 
 health rinse and repeat
  
  this game was way too over hyped and it was made out to be a instant classic but i deffinetly think 
 that it is a mediocore game at best
  
  this game could have and should have been alot better than it was but i just suppose that it was 
 just another half tried port from pc to console system
  
  maybe if this game had a smoother gamplay and wasnt so excruciatingly linear then it would be a 
 fun game for a First Person Shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI_666
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, the first thing that needs to be said for F. E. A. R. for the PS3 is this...
  
  It is a disappointment
  
  This game was so much better on the PC, honestly. The PS3 port feels 
 less scary, has less detail, and is less fun.
  
  Now that that is out of the way, let's get down to the nitty gritty. The story in this port is 
 exactly the same one on the 360 and PC versions of the game. You are part of a task force called 
 First Encounter Assault Recon, and your mission is to eliminate a terrorist known as Paxton Fettel, 
 who is commanding an full battalion of cloned super soldiers. 
  
  Now that the basic storyline is covered, onto the graphics. Unfortunately, unlike the 360 and PC 
 versions, this version doesn't look quite as good. the textures are watered down, and the models 
 themselves don't look as good either. It just doesn't show the PS3's graphic capabilities. 
  
  Now for the gameplay. The one thing that pisses me off more than anything in this game, it 
 is the slight lag that the game has. What I mean by that is that when you press the fire button, 
 it takes a split second for your gun to actually fire. This is just inexcusable, seriously. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing out; FEAR rocks. It does a great blending of horror and shooting while never 
 feeling old because of its weapon variety, random scary scenes and over the top gameplay. In my 
 opinion, the graphics look just fine, even if they might be washed out. It makes it feel scarier 
 if you ask me. You must be wondering "AceDonald, if you like this game so much, why didn't you 
 give it a 9.5 or 10?" Well my friends, mainly 2 small reasons, and 2 bigger reasons. The small 
 reasons are you don't get to do much shooting at the beginning, and doesn't feel like it started 
 off very well. Also at times it can get hard to see even with your flaslight on, which could effect 
 on where you'd go next. But those things aren't really a big deal to me, its the other reasons 
 that really brought it down. The first reason i mentioned in a blog; FEAR has some of the dumbest 
 in-game advertising i've ever seen! It can advertise real products that you wouldn't think about 
 expecting in a horror game. "Computer advertising, what the @#$%!" And the extremely long load 
 times make this game hard to get into as fast as you'd like. Which is really dissapointing, but 
 that doesn't mean FEAR is a waste of time. Its still got great shooting and horror action mixed 
 together perfectly. If you can get past the long load times, FEAR will become a fav to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djcomputron
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is your basic First Person Shooter with a bit of a supernatural twist. The story does 
 a good job at the beginning of peaking your interest but you have to piece everything together 
 afterwards until the end. 
  
  The gameplay can tend to get a little monotonous at times with you walking through some building 
 until you find a squad of bad guys to kill. You kill them all and then continue on until you find 
 some more bad guys to kill and so on and so forth. As the story begins to wrap up, though, you 
 really do find your palms sweaty as strange things begin to happen. There are many cool weapons 
 in the game, each one with their own benefits and drawbacks. Also, the different kinds of grenades 
 allow for different strategies when fighting tough squads.
  
  Of course the graphics could have been better but the awesome soundtrack, voice acting, and enemy 
 AI made up for it. This game is definitely better enjoyed in Hi-def of you won't be able to read 
 any of the info or objectives.
  
  Overall, I thought this game was pretty good and decided to purchase it so that I could replay 
 the levels and enjoy some of its multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  WOW gold of fear has been butchered for the ps3, the gameplay is almost like the xbox 360 version (noticed 
 I used the word almost) . The problem is that the game runs into a loooooooooooooooooot of issues 
 the frame rate drops like crazy making the game look like crap. The graphics should have been pushed 
 to its limit instead they got a down grade. Gameplay hasn't changed and if you are expecting something 
 new well there is, now you have checkpoints where you have to save, so if you are stuck in a hard 
 part you are going to be playing over and over again. The online isn't as fun as the pc or xbox 
 version, rather its just a big mess where people jump around and try to shoot and fuzzy versions 
 of their opponents. I hate to do this, but ima have to give this version of FEAR a 6.0 I hate to 
 do it cuz in my opinion FEAR was one of the greatest games ever made and possibly the best idea 
 ever though off. I'm starting to realize that any port made for the ps3 is going to be horrible 
 what a shame for a console with such potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_sound
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When I put this game in I felt as if it were not a PS3 game, i felt as if they just took the PC 
 version and placed it on a blue-ray disc. The graphics are horrible and even the gameplay is bad, 
 and I swear I could fall asleep when it's loading. I was very disappointed in this game. The only 
 thing stopping me from giving this a rating of 0 is that it is a spooky environment, and can get 
 a few jumps out of you. Still, I sold this game on Amazon just yesturday because I was so disappointed, 
 i would not recremend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Really, playing Fear I expected nothing. And that's what I got, nothing. The game doesn't really 
 improve on anything in the FPS genre as such games like Resistance or Halo have done. The weapons 
 are pretty standard, and the only really excting thing is the time slowdown feature which slows 
 down time to give you an advantage ina firefight. The story is another bright spot, in some ways. 
 Overall, Fear is just an average game for the PS3, and I would only recommend buying it if you 
 absolutely 100% have to have an FPS for it. But then I would definitely recommend Resistance over 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HATECREWrulz123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Think about the combination of a FPS with the calibur of Resistance: Fall of Man, and horror elements 
 the likes of Silent Hill; this is F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R is one of the most unique games I have ever 
 played, and the ports for X-Box 360 and PS3 do not received the recognition they deserve.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay, the most important thing in a FPS in my opinion. F. E. A. R. contains 
 fantastic weapons, and responsive controls. The SLOW-MO is a fantastic innovation to a first person 
 shooter, and even with SLOW-MO, the game still manages to pose a healthy challenge. The addition 
 of reflex and health boosters gives you the chance to strengthen your character as the challenges 
 of the game grow harder. The only thing I would complain about is the health system. The idea of 
 tediously searching for Med-Kits and awkwardly using manual controls to activate them in the middle 
 of an intense fire-fight really gets annoying after a while.
  
  Next: sound. The sound effects really do make the gameplay intense. The gun-fire starts fire-fights 
 and the clear sound of shells falling to the ground ends them. The sounds of heavy machinery running 
 in certain areas also works to build some tension. The music of the game is mainly created for 
 ambience, but is by far some of the most terrifying music I have heard in a game. Once the static 
 on your HUD starts before some poltergeist activity, the music really works with the visuals to 
 truly terrify you. I have absolutely no complaint about the sound of the game.
  
  Now, the most important part of a Horror game: the scares. F. E. A. R. builds all the neccesary tension 
 as a horror game. With poltergeist activity, and the occasional sighting of the terrifying little 
 girl, Alma, making the hair on your neck stand until all of the tension and terror is released 
 in a distrubing and horrifying vision of a hospital hallway, which is usually decorated with blood, 
 the sounds of a baby crying, and the screams of a woman (part of the story, not willing to spoil.) 
 All in all, this game is one of the most terrifying games I have ever played.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s graphics are not much to be amazed about, but that is on all platforms, not just the 
 ports. But even if the graphics were revolutionary, they would be unoticed because of all of the 
 other positive things in F. E. A. R.
  
  The Story, the foundation for all games. Without a good story to carry the game through its levels, 
 a game is utterly pointless. However, F. E. A. R. contains one of the most interesting, twisted, and 
 mysterious stories I have ever played through. The game begins with the villain, Paxton Fettle, 
 awakening an army of clone soldiers with his mind. You, are a F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault 
 Recon) operative sent in to kill Fettle and deactivate the troops. As soon as you get there you 
 realise something is just not right. Maybe its from the visions of a cannibalistic commander interrogating 
 someone, or the being hit in the face with a board. But as the story goes on you get to learn just 
 what is the reason for all of these supernatural events, and more importantly why can only you 
 see these visions and slow down time? F. E. A. R.'s story will keep you guessing through the whole 
 game, and when you finally reach the end, you will be shocked and amazed by what just happened.
 
  
  Finally, the multiplayer. Honestly, I am not impressed. The multiplayer aspect is what really drags 
 F. E. A. R. down. There isn't alot of variety in the maps, and well it just seems a little boring 
 when you are playing online. I suggest that you stay away from the multiplayer in F. E. A. R.
  
  Despite a few minor annoyances in the health system, and a bad online multiplayer, F. E. A. R.'s 
 positive qualities carry it through all of the smoke and bullets you will see in action. F. E. A. R. 
 is definitely a must buy for anyone looking for a thrill-ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a first person shooter. Here are the GOOD and the BAD points on this game:-
  
  THE GOOD
  -The game has some creepy moments thanks to the great sound quality
  -Guns are fun 
 to use
  -Bad guys and monsters are fun to kill and destroy
  -Blood is used very well
  -Online is funbr / 
  
  THE BAD
  -Graphics are not Next-Gen
  -Nothing to achieve (eg. Medals, 
 unlockables and awards)
  -No ranks or awards online
  -Can complete game fairly quickly
  -Not alot of replay value
  
  OVERALL:-
  
  Graphics - 6
  Sound - 7
  Gameplay - 7
  
 Value - 5
  Legend Status - 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a great game, if you like walking around and shooting at the occasional enemy.
  
  The game itself has a good storyline, however the gameplay is somewhat lacking. I actually 
 found myself walking around a lot more than I did shooting at enemies. I'm not sure if more enemies 
 appear at higher difficulties, but I don't have the patience to walk through the game again.
  Instant Action does add some fun to the game though, as it tends to be more shooter than the game 
 itself is. It also lets you compare how well you did in each of the 4 levels to others that have 
 posted their scores online. The Bonus Mission adds just a little to the game by expanding its storyline 
 just a bit. In the Bonus Mission you play as an ordinary soldier in SFOD-D (Delta Force) , which 
 means no slow-mo which means that its slightly more difficult than the regular game, but not by 
 much. Too bad there's only one mission, which is unlocked about half way through the game. There 
 were some good ways they could have taken the story.
  
  Contrary to popular reviews, I never experiences frame rate hitches and I actually felt the control 
 scheme was quite comfortable. Just about as good as any other shooting I've played.
  
  Overall, if you can get F. E. A. R. for cheap, do so. Otherwise, you aren't missing a whole lot.
 
  
  No actual Delta Force Operatives were harmed in the making of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. or First Encounter Assault Recon begins as you are appointed to the elite F. E. A. R. team 
 as point man. Just weeks after you have joined you receive an urgent and dire mission to terminate 
 a man named Paxton Fettel. The reason you are after Paxton is that he took a battalion of elite 
 experimental clone soldiers and went on an unknown rampage. Your mission is to take out this Paxton 
 Fettel by any means necessary you must be prepared to fight a large amount of elite clone soldiers 
 to get close enough to Fettel to complete your mission. You begin your mission immediately and 
 head out to his location, which you know via a tracking system implanted in him before this situation 
 transpired. As you progress you get various visions from Fettel, a mysterious girl, and other characters 
 leading you on and unraveling the mystery of this girl which the story seems to be centered around.
 
  
  In this FPS you progress through the game alone as the point man of F. E. A. R. useing a variety of 
 different guns such as the assault rifle, plasma sniper, auto shotgun, multi rocket launcher, and 
 a variety of grenades. Also you have a supernatural power that allows you to slow down time and 
 give you heightened reactions allowing you to increase your combat performance. This ability is 
 vital to your survival in normal combat this is mainly used to take less damage and get swifter 
 kills when faced with groups of enemies. When you face stronger better clone soldiers though it 
 becomes very important and at some times necessary when you can be killed very easily, if you do 
 not use your slow down powers you can easily be killed by the more difficult enemies. Although 
 there is a wide variety of weapons you are only allowed to carry 3 at a time, every enemy that 
 you kill drops their weapon allowing you to get ammo easily yet it is more rare for enemies to 
 use the better more extravagant weapons so you will be using the simpler ones more often.
  
  Graphically this game is depressing, being ported around F. E. A. R. doesnt have the next-gen 
 look that you would expect from games on the PS3 and Xbox360. Although it still looks good and 
 I never ran to any graphical errors it just seems that this could have been on the PS2 and without 
 the upgraded graphics it wasnt needed to be a PS3 title. The music was decent nothing that will 
 catch your attention you will be too busy looking around corners to see what they are throwing 
 at you next or you will be busy in a fast paced shootout. The sound effects and visual effects 
 were well done when you blow away an enemy with a shotgun the blast of the gun and the destruction 
 of your enemy looks and sounds realistic but of course with the unrealistic video game twist of 
 decapitations and severed limbs.
  
  The story of the game seems to be more pushed than most FPSs, which are usually just running around 
 killing people at random. In F. E. A. R. however you have a goal you are constantly trying to accomplish 
 as you charge through the game and as you do you constantly learn more about what you are trying 
 to accomplish and why. The game trys to keep you creeped out with frequent sounds and visuals which 
 arent that successful added an extra horror theme to the game that I liked it came nowhere near 
 the creepiness of the Silent Hills but it is more concentrated on fun gameplay. Although I rarely 
 complain about load times between missions there were extremely long load times which got king 
 of annoying and tedious towards the end of the game I have played newer better looking FPSs with 
 much shorter load times so I dont know what the reason for this was.
  
  I would rate F. E. A. R. or First Encounter Assault Recon a flat 7.0 out of 10 for its fun gameplay 
 and interesting creepy storyline, although it wasnt necessary for this to be a next-gen title 
 with its mediocre graphics it was still a good game and is a lot of fun. If you are an FPS fan 
 I am sure you will enjoy F. E. A. R. if you dont think it is worthy of the price tag I would suggest 
 renting it and trying it out cause it is a lot of fun regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault and Recon) , is an intense first person close-quarters combat 
 experience with rich atmosphere and an engaging storyline. The story begins as an unidentified 
 paramilitary force infiltrates a multi-billion dollar aerospace compound. The government responds 
 by sending in Special Forces, but loses contact as an eerie signal interrupts radio communications. 
 When the interference subsides moments later, the team has been literally torn apart. As part of 
 a classified strike team created to deal with threats no one else can handle, your mission is simple: 
 Eliminate the intruders at any cost. Determine the origin of the signal. And contain this crisis 
 before it spirals out of control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  If the graphics were polished up, and the framerate didn't stutter... I'd give this game a 10/10... if 
 you're into creepy FPS, this is definetly the game for you. It's a mix between resident evil, doom, 
 and the matrix. And the sound is simply astonishing. Not many creepy games out there that actually 
 make me jump, but this is one game that did! It'll have you on your toes almost the entire game. 
 And the realism with the shoot outs are extrodinary, I would of loved to see this game with next 
 gen graphics. Only downside to it is the choppy framerate, and maybe the control scheme. But I 
 wouldn't buy it because the replay value of it isn't very much, so I recommend renting it, unless 
 you don't mind spending that much on a game you're prolly only going to play through once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbeez43
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. for PS3 has to be the worst port ever -- stuttering frame rates, completely washed-out graphics, 
 and and glitches galore. F. E. A. R. is a great action game, though, and it's just a shame that it 
 appears this way on the PS3. F. E. A. R's story is great, intense, and, or course, horrifying, and 
 the action is top-notch. Bur I must ell you something -- if you have not played F. E. A. R. yet, and 
 you have a strong desire to do so, then skip the PS3 version. It's as simple as that. Online Multiplayer 
 is fun, but it's laggy ang glitchy. Overall, F. E. A. R. for PS3 is a huge disappointment and just 
 simply comes across as being a lousy port (which it is, no doubt) . I was let down, and you will 
 be, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  f you have played F. E. A. R. on either the PC or xbox 360 in the past, your pretty much getting the 
 same treatment here, only a bit flawed. For those who haven't played F. E. A. R. before, you need 
 to as soon as possible. This is one of the greatest and most original FPS's I have seen in a while. 
 But the PS3 version lacks the perfection on the PC and 360. The PS3 version has glitches as if 
 it was a work in progress. When I started, I got stuck between a door and a wall somehow, my gun 
 didn't fire, and at times I would be twisting in one spot for no reason at all. If all you have 
 is a PS3 and you want to play F. E. A. R. then I would go ahead and get it, but if you have an xbox 
 360 or a close to high end PC, then I would strongly consider getting either of those versions 
 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of the scariest games I've played since resident evil. The story is told in a very 
 smart way and almost never gets boring.
  
  F. E. A. R's gameplay is where it shines most the firefights in the game are amazing you'll never 
 see the A. I try the same thing twice. Their actually very smart and will try different tactics 
 to take you out. As soon as you see them almost immediately there gonna move out of position and 
 flank you from behind, and where ammunition isn't all that common you'll really rationalize the 
 way you fire at things, instead of just running in and holding onto the trigger and going nuts 
 you'll really have to think about how your gonna take em out. F. E. A. R has a lot of scary moments 
 where something will just creep you out and other things will just catch you completely off guard, 
 its really fun to think about whats gonna happen to you when everything goes quiet and your screen 
 start fuzzing. The graphics are probably the only CON of fear they do not look next-gen at all. There 
 are also frame rate issues near the end of the game. Overall the game is amazing and is a must 
 have I spent a good 4-5 days playing the storyline and plus theres online so you can keep coming 
 back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Overall the game play is great. This Artificial Intelligence is awesome. How many times 
 have you seen a foe overturn a chair to make cover for himself? How many times have you played 
 against an AI that throws grenades at you? How about you come upon four enemies, and right away 
 they move to flank you. Not only do they try to flank you, but also they will leave that immediate 
 area to reappear behind you a few minutes later! In this game you have to watch your back! The 
 AI in F. E. A. R is simply excellent. This is also a freaky game, it is meant to scare you and it 
 will. The story is a good one, and you will be looking forward to discovering more information 
 as you play through. F. E. A. R caught me off guard and scared me several times, while playing late 
 at night and in the dark. Graphics: These graphics do not display what the PS3 is capable of, and 
 towards the end of the game there are some frame rate issues. I did get the sense that the graphics 
 did improve as the game progressed; perhaps that was just how the different locations played out. 
 To its credit, some of the games weapons have a scope, and when zoomed in, the detail was very 
 good. Im glad that I did not let the other reviews which trash the graphics stop me from buying 
 this game new. The graphics were good, what I would call a very good PS2 game; some parts were 
 very good.
  
  Sound: The sound was ok, and appropriate for the setting. It added to the scare factor. Although 
 I dont usually like a lot of music playing while I am hunting foes in a level, for this game it 
 seemed to fit well.
  
  Value: It was fun at the easy setting and I liked the fact that you could only carry 3 weapons; 
 this added its own challenge as far as weapon selection The value is here, so there will be a 
 next round at normal difficulty, maybe even a hard mode.
  
  Cons: The controller did take a while to get used to, but after that, it was fine. The suffering 
 frame rate at the end, yeah.... it didn't look good, however it did not effect gameplay. If they 
 make a F. E. A. R two for the PS3, I will not hesitate to buy it!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Overall, it was a great FPS, with the good presentation of the horror aspect and 
 the AI, I felt it deserved at least an 8.0 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Well it was my first time playing FEAR. And it was great. I got into it... then I got out... due 
 to bad sound and long load times. The sound is horrible. I couldn't understand anything anybody 
 was saying. Its hard to be freaked out by footsteps that aren't yours, if you can't hear them, 
 which takes away from the fear load times are really long. I was able to beat 4 rounds in street 
 fighter on my psp just waiting for it to finish. I thought it was writing the level to the HDD, 
 but it really isn't. The loading bar goes slow... stops... and then goes fast. The gameplay is sweet. 
 Its intense and enemies like to kill and so do you. Sometimes they'll get your health really low 
 so you have to duck and hide behind corners and all that fun stuff. But the shotgun, although its 
 good, its only good when it hits the enemy. I can never seem to hit the enemy properly, but that 
 just might be me. And my shotgun doesn't seem to do as much damage as the enemy's. Anyway apart 
 from the wierd shotgun physics, the gameplay is great. The only other problem is the fact that 
 i don't get a proper death screen... sometimes i would but, then sometimes it would go straight 
 to loading...
  
  The graphics. Won't spend too much time on these cuz well, the developers didn't either.
  
 
  Multiplayer's nice. It has the same old type of modes that every multiplayer game has but they 
 never get old
  
  FEAR is great for horror lovers as there's plenty of it. Its good for those that like to be scared 
 in that particular moment in time, and not later in bed when trying to go to sleep... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtf6
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R first came to the PC in 05, and we we're amazed at the gameplay, graphics, and spooked 
 by the sound. Then it came to the 360, while still good, it was missing some minor graphical effects. 
 A year and a half after the PC, it comes to the PS3, But we were not impressed. The graphics are 
 the same as the PC version running with the graphics settings at about low - medium. but saying 
 that, if you haven't seen the PC version {with graphics medium+} or seen the 360 version, the graphics 
 won't seem to bad. The only real advantages of the PS3 version is you get an extra level {that 
 doesn't fit in anywhere in the story} , and an extra weapon, the Waston fully -automatic shotgun. 
 It is pretty cool, but you'd be best getting the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Now what can I say about F. E. A. R.? quite a lot actually. Lets start by saying that Ive enjoyed 
 playing this game. I played it on expert level and thats what you should do too. The difficulty 
 made sure that it took me +20 hours to complete the game, so it was worth the money. As a small 
 footnote: I buy all my games on eBay, theyre available just days after the official release and 
 much cheaper.
  
  Back to the game itself. F. E. A. R. is a pretty standard FPS, the good thing is the creepy atmosphere. 
 Its kind of a mix between The Ring and Resident Evil. The music and sounds contribute perfectly 
 to this feeling. Still I must admit that after a while the horror effects start to fade as you 
 get used to them. Another positive thing is the enemy AI. It is really very good, theyll try to 
 flank you or smoke you out (although you always know when a grenade is coming. A Grenade Away! 
  shout gives the enemies intentions away most of the time) .
  
  On the negative side, F. E. A. R. is just not worthy of a next-gen game. The graphics are ok for 
 a PS II game. Explosions and bullets dont have a lasting effect. Bullet holes, dead bodies quickly 
 fade away. Even most light bulbs seem to have a protective kevlar layer. The number of opponents 
 is limited. 95% of the time you encounter 2 standard enemies. The environments are repetitive. 
 You spend most of your time in an office building and every office space looks like the next one, 
 which is boring
  
  The story behind F. E. A. R. unfolds slowly and difficult. A lot of hints, further explanations can 
 be found in messages left on voice mails that are left behind. The problem is that some of these 
 messages are very hard to understand because they are very silent compared to the background noise. 
 Also, you learn nothing about yourself. Ok, youre a rookie elite soldier suddenly able to kill 
 dozens of enemies like a full-blown veteran  but besides that, no clue.
  
  F. E. A. R is also an online game and that's where it goes really wrong. You can easily log in, but 
 than you have to wait for like ages before being able to enter an online game. It looks like you 
 have to wait untill everybody is logged in and ready (meaning having chosen it's weapons) ... This 
 can take forever and after a while i just got sick of waiting and left.
  
  In short. Not bad, but definitely no next-gen game. Well have to wait for games like GTA IV I 
 guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamepro2421
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Creepy atmosphere; Amazing AI even by todays standards; Great variety of weapons
  
  The Bad: Can only carry three weapons at a time; Confusing story; Inability to customize button 
 actions; Very choppy graphics outdone on PC and 360; Minor bugs; Long load times
  
  You quickly toss a grenade into a small office room and proceed to take cover behind a filing cabinet. 
 Seconds later there is a satisfying explosion as you observe tiny pieces of shredded office paper 
 and cardboard boxes slowly float to the ground. You breathe a sigh of relief; the dust begins to 
 settle. Then you suddenly realize that one of your enemies has performed a superman dive smashing 
 through one of the office windows noticing your grenade. The ensuing firefight has your heart racing 
 while you listen to your assailant frantically calling in for backup on his radio. This intense 
 level of realism and attention to detail displayed in Epic Studios F. E. A. R. is unmatched on the 
 PS3. I found myself wasting grenade after grenade on mobs of enemies because of their level of 
 self awareness and lightning fast reflexes. Enemy AI is smart enough to recognize the differences 
 in situations and adjust their tactical operations as such. If there are five enemies in a room 
 then two or three will find cover (or flip over a table to create their own) while unleashing some 
 suppressing fire while the remaining two flank or toss grenades. This tactic changes mid-battle 
 if you are able to take out three or four goons. In this case, the remaining attackers will acknowledge 
 that their teammates have been eliminated and radio in for backup as they retreat a bit and take 
 a less aggressive approach on your position.
  
  AI aside, the game does lack in the graphics department. Even though the PS3 is a beast of a machine 
 the game maxes out with a resolution of 720p and is unable to attain the same smooth textures and 
 high frame rates as its Xbox360 and PC brethren. The game also suffers from a few minor bugs that 
 will admittedly go unnoticed by most, but can be quite annoying once discovered (ie. A glitch where 
 you make an arm gesture after reloading the auto-shotgun that is normally made when tossing a grenade) . 
 Long loading times between levels may also upset those especially anxious players who just cant 
 wait to get on with the frag-fest.
  
  As far as F. E. A. R. s story goes... meh. The writers try to ride the success of the Hollywood blockbuster, 
 The Ring, as a basis for their story. So, naturally, you have the standard creepy girl with long 
 black hair popping up ever so often just to freak you out. Unfortunately, the rather random slow-mo 
 cut scenes during which you make contact with this girl get old and repetitive early on in the 
 campaign. The writers may have been able to avoid losing their players interests so quickly if 
 they had done a better job at connecting various story elements together. The product of this lack 
 in campaign clarity is a broken experience that leaves you truly unsatisfied in the end. Where 
 the game does lack in sense it more than makes up for in Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, and 
 Strong Language to quote the ESRB label. So those of you just looking to carelessly cripple hundreds 
 of baddies in increasingly brutal ways (think auto-nail gun) without a cause wont be too disappointed. 
 When alls said and done, even though F. E. A. R. on the PS3 may sport a year old paint job, minor 
 bugs, and some lengthy load times it is still a great game and worth the buy if you do not own 
 a 360 or a PC with enough power to run the game. Just be ready to have a recurring dream during 
 which a creepy little girl follows you around in a devastating wake of fire and blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alastor424
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really action-packed game, filled with a lot of scarey events and scenery.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you are briefed on a mission about taking down a man by the name 
 of Paxton Fettel. He's reported to be dangerous due to the murders of several people. Victims were 
 apparently.. eaten... He also seems to be traveling with a group called the Replica Soldiers, a 
 bunch of elite, top-of-the-notch soldiers that show no mercy. You are sent into an abandoned building 
 to search for a man by the name of Charles Haberger. The game is not only a horror game, but also 
 an action title.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is a shooter.. in a way that you do what you want. For instance, you can go run-and-gun, 
 or, you can stay back in cover and let the enemy come to you. By combining jumping, ducking, or 
 just standing with the melee button, you can do a series of melee combos. Instead of your regular 
 punching, you can jump kick in motion, or holding still, go into boxing mode with both your fists 
 by holding the melee button, or my favorite, the slide kick. The enemy AI is really smart. You 
 could be hiding behind a box or any piece of cover expecting the enemy to assault you, but instead, 
 the Replica Soldiers will throw a grenade in order to flush you out. Or, you'll be shooting a group 
 of soldiers and one or two soldiers will go around and flank you. You are also gifted with incredible 
 reflexes. Pressing the Slow-mo button, you are able to slow down time for a few seconds to your 
 advantage.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, but while in a fire-fight, the framerate does seem to struggle a 
 bit. The surrondings are great. Almost every item can be knocked off shelves and kicked around, 
 and the water looks amazing.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is amazing. The Replica Soldiers' voices are awesome. They fit perfectly. 
 The gun-shots are pretty much how you would think they would sound. Also, when the horror-events 
 occur, the noises will scare you.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer in this game isn't so great. It features up to 16-player fights, including Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Slow-mo Deathmatch and Capture the Flag, where one character 
 charges up the slow-mo gauge and slows down everything but him and his team. The servers for this 
 game are horrible. If you have trouble getting connection, don't bother. You won't even be able 
 to get on a game let alone get into the lobby of a game. Voice chat is not used in this game for 
 the PlayStation3. It is fun to play, but it's not so great. The game features no offline battle 
 modes. Not many people play this game online.
  
  Replay-Value:
  The replay-value is alright. Once you've completed the game, you can replay the game on a harder 
 difficulty setting, unless of course you've beaten them all already. You also get one extra bonus 
 mission to play. Or you can play one of the five Instant Action maps. Instant Action is basically 
 where you are thrown into short levels with a lot of Replica Soldiers. You have to get from the 
 beginning to the end, and it's no walk in the park.
  
  Overall:
  F. E. A. R. for the PlayStation3 is a really action-packed horror title with great shooting and even 
 better melee attacks. The multiplayer isn't so great, but it can be fun. It's also fun to just 
 play instant action. Make sure to play this game in the middle of the night, with the lights off 
 and by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Ah, PS3, where are your great graphics and great games? While F. E. A. R is an awesome game on it's 
 own merits, this is a pretty bad port of a 2 year old game. If you have never played the game before, you'll 
 enjoy the smart A. I, cool bullet time feature, and some scary and strange moments in the game. I'll 
 admit, the PC and Xbox 360 versions had some boring scenery, this version looks bad by comparison. 
 Blurry and washed out textures, some annoying load times (15 -30 sec at some points) and what's up 
 with the inconsistant frame rate? I know as well as you, the PS3 can do so much better, but this 
 is a quick and dirty port. I recommend renting this if you don't have the other platforms, otherwise 
 go with the PC or Xbox versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is hilariously, absurdly violent. It's a shooter set mostly in a single skyscraper block, 
 where genetically modified soldiers and psychic monsters have invaded a biotech firm. And you've 
 got it made, because you're just as modified as the men you face. At any moment, you can slow down 
 time, duck behind a pillar, peep out and take away a soldier's legs with a single blast from the 
 shotgun. Holy **** he's flanking us, they scream, as you empty clip after clip into their faces, 
 leaving decapitated corpses spitting blood. Heads are literally rolling. We got him, they rejoice, 
 as you hit the wrong button again and select the now empty sub-machine gun. Uh-oh... This should 
 be brilliant. The mix of ideas are so perfectly balanced: high-action Hollywood gunplay, and a 
 horror plot thats clearly ripped from The Ring. Following you through the building, both tormenting 
 you and leading you on is Alma, a similarly modified little girl wearing a blood red dress. Shes 
 the focus of F. E. A. R. s horror interludes. Shell turn the corridor youre in into a blazing inferno, 
 walk on the ceilings and torment you with visions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The game F. E. A. R. for the Playstation 3 console is what I would call an average game. I owned a 
 copy for the computer previous to the Playstation 3 version, and fell in love with that. When I 
 rented the Playstation 3 version I was disappointed. Although it's the same game as the PC version, 
 I was more upset in that there weren't any new features in the Playstation 3 game. Aside from that, 
 the Playstation 3 game also didn't seem to take advantage of the systems capabilities when I noticed 
 the graphics and framerate weren't amazing either. Online play is also rather slow, and I would 
 still stick with Resistance: Fall of Man if you're looking for a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: douglasthacker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Just finished F. E. A. R. (yeah... I know.... long time, but have been working alot) and I have to say 
 that I disagree with the Gamespot rating. I love horror and suspense films/games and this creepy 
 environment was no exception. The only problem I have with the PS3 port (have both 360 and the 
 PS3) is that it can be sluggish and choppy and unfortunately... in the most inopertune times. The 
 game construct alone gives this game a 8.5 easily... however the poor porting of the game from the 
 360 to the PS3 should not degrade its score. It is not a fault of the PS3 that Day 1 Studios and 
 Vivendi did not take the time to fine tune the programming code to take advantage of the PS3's 
 power. Even with the choppiness (that a word??) , the game is a must have if you like suspense. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  To begin things off with fear you are a soilder that goes to investigate paranormal activity in 
 a old building. You end up meeting a maniac that takes control over a clone army who ends up being 
 very smart and good enemies. You spend most of your time trying to figure out the history and why 
 it is haunted by a small creepy girl. The story is entertaining but a touch complicated. it leaves 
 you asking many unanswered questions. The good things about the game. The game is a twist of a 
 mystery and a horror story. The graohics are great it does a great job of makin the characters, 
 environments, and atmosphere all together creepy but realistic. The audio is okay. The game has 
 top notch action and at times it beomes pretty intense. The action is what keeps you interested 
 in the game. now to the bad things. The audio should have been raised and the music should have 
 been lower, it made it difficult to hear at times. The game is a little short. it only takes about 
 four days to beat the game. Thanks for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  everyone knows the story so lets get on with it first since i havent played it on a 360 since i 
 don't own one and dont have a good pc i though ill just wait for the ps3 one. well wasn't that 
 a let down expecting good graphics get graphics that are looking like an old ps2 game the designers 
 were lazy on this game.
  
  the gameplay game way better but the thing is not a very long game its very eazy you can complete 
 this game in 7 days if you like because thats what i did there are some gory moments but nothing 
 special.
  
  the sound is nothing special some scary sounds but nothing new probaly heard the sounds before.
 
  
  now the online elment is the only reason you would keep this game but it hard to get used to if 
 hitler had a hard on. but very expert players playing so you have to be very good to play.
  
  overall get this game if you have never played fear and only hire the game its good to play 
 but its to easy so if you dont often play fps games and like horror games then get it you might 
 like it but if they make another one i tell you it better be better then this for me to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob971
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, besides Resistance, Oblivion and Fight NIght, there isnt exactly a fantastic selection 
 of games for the PS3. Fortunately FEAR gives you another option. While if you were to compare it 
 to the P. C. or 360, this game is a little dissapointing, It is still a great game. If you dont 
 own a 360 or your PC isnt a top of the line graphics powerhouse, you havent played it yet. FEAR 
 on its own is a fantastic game and if this is your first go, then you will enjoy this fantastic 
 freakfest. FEAR combines a fantastic shooter and a creepy story. The plot will chill any self-re 
 specting gamer to the bone. YOu are constantly seeing ghosts and having horrific visions of impossible 
 things. The small girl who follows you around adds an extra intense scare at the worst possible 
 moments. The main storyline has you joining FEAR or First Encounter Assault Recon. This is a group 
 of well armed paranormal investigators. Turns out a rogue officer has created ten thousand highly 
 trained and brutally armed clones. Guess who gets to fight them all. In FEAR, you will find yourself 
 alone, alot. Any help you get will be scarce. The AI can be brutal at times but if you really try, 
 the campaign shouldnt take to long. The online is great for FEAR, so that will give you something 
 else to do when you finish the campaign. FEAR integrates fantastic shooter gameplay with a great 
 freaky plot. Pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  A full 2 years after the initial release, every gamer and his uncle will have played F. E. A. R at 
 some point by now. Whether on the PC or the Xbox 360, the game has consistently garnered praise 
 for being a straightforward and 'pure' shooter, rising above contrived gameplay mechanics to deliver 
 set-piece after set-piece of adrenalized bullet-time action, with a consistently challenging AI 
 model working to ensure no fire-fight ever feels the same. On a basic level, the PS3 version retains 
 all of the qualities that make the title standout from it's competitors, and yet somehow manages 
 to be the worst version of all.
  
  If you've never had the pleasure of becoming one of the 'First Encounter Assault Recon' squad members 
 before, the game essentially plays out as a horror-shooter in a series of fairly bland office and 
 industrial environments. You're a super-soldier with physical traits 'way above normal' (stop me 
 if you've heard this one before...) , with the ability to utilise short bullet-time bursts and generally 
 survive ordeals that would put any truly mortal man to an early grave. Along the path you'll learn 
 of some strange co-incidences with the genetically-altered army that act as your main enemy, and, 
 well you can probably guess the rest. *Yawn*
  
  So much for the plot then, but the horror aspect is scripted fairly well. I'm not sure who it was 
 that decided little girls could be the creepiest things on earth, but you have to hand it to them, 
 they're definitely onto something. F. E. A. R ratchets up that particular psychological mechanism 
 for maximum effect, placing a small girl with supernatural abilities into the environment to generally 
 mess with your head from time to time. Whilst the shock-value is overly contrived from time to 
 time and somewhat forced, the atmosphere is definitely something to savour. You don't want to shoot 
 a little girl now... do you?
  
  Of course you do, especially when she's intent on throwing you through windows, setting the room 
 on fire and beaming some pretty nasty imagery straight into your cranium. They should really have 
 taught that stuff in school, it'd have been much more entertaining.
  
  As a sweeping generalisation of an entire genre, any decent shooter essentially boils down to the 
 satisfaction factor of simply unloading your weapon and taking down a group of enemies, and this 
 is where FEAR has always gained much praise and a whole lot of hype to boot. Essentially a very 
 linear corridor-shooter, the developers constantly funnel the action to the nearest choke-point 
 in which a group of guards or heavily armoured units inevitably await your presence. Combat revolves 
 around choosing an approach, hitting the L1 button to enter bullet-time and dispatching as many 
 of your foes as possible, before retreating behind cover to reload weaponry and catch your breath.
 
  
  It's a very basic mechanic that worked previously due to two overriding factors; superb AI and 
 an excellent flair for extremely visceral combat. Unfortunately for PS3 owners, both of these elements 
 are a non-starter in this version.
  
  Whilst it is true that no firefight in FEAR ever really plays out in the same manner; two years 
 into the experience the AI routines are generally starting to show their age. Thats not to say 
 they aren't amongst the better examples to be found, and if you've never played FEAR before or 
 any other modern shooter, you'll be in for a treat. Enemies rush for cover, pin you down and generally 
 use the environment to their advantage pretty well. Each encounter plays out in a completely contained 
 manner, making the game ebb and flow to a fairly repetitive action beat, which is fortunately paced 
 pretty decently.
  
  The issue here is that as a shooter fan you probably will have played any number of modern titles 
 released in the last year, and to be frank the F. E. A. R AI just doesn't stand out any longer, particularly 
 in light of titles such as S. T. A. L. K. E. R on the PC (somebody should ban the full-stop from all 
 titles this point forward) . The goalposts have been shifted, and as a straight port this version 
 unfortunately does nothing to improve on the old technology at its heart.
  
  By far the biggest disappointment however are the visuals. Post-processing effects are layered 
 on thickly, smoke particles and dense clouds of dust and debris fly into the air at every opportunity, 
 but unfortunately all at a murky texture resolution that even a mid-range PC from 2005 would have 
 been embarrassed by. Given the stellar graphical performance of the original and the 360 version, 
 to see the game running at effectively minimum detail levels and with a choppy frame-rate to boot 
 is somewhat of a shock considering the power on offer in the PS3 architecture. It all smacks of 
 an extremely rushed and unoptimised effort, and completely undermines the experience as a result.
 
  
  It's not all bad though. Audio effects are clean and precisely fed into an involving surround sound 
 stage, and somewhat surprisingly for a PS3 title, all of the traditional Multiplayer modes make 
 it through conversion largely unscathed, offering up the usual deathmatch and team-based options 
 with the additional novelty value of the bullet-time power-up. Lag is minimal, although for obvious 
 reasons its fairly hard to find a decent sized game at present. With the PS3's extremely small 
 install base it's likely that wont be changing any time soon.
  
  And that really is the crux of matters with this version. As a game that depends heavily on visual 
 prowess to shift the experience, the PS3 iteration simply doesn't hold a candle to the previous 
 titles and falls heavily short of the already-established next-generation shooters Call of Duty 
 3 and Resistance: Fall of Man. If your one of the few people yet to experience F. E. A. R, this may 
 be worth picking up in a few months at a lower price, as the core run-and-gun gameplay is still 
 intact and fairly involving. However, without the same level of graphical candy on offer to accentuate 
 the kinetic battles, you'll blast through the meat of what's on offer here in a day's play and 
 probably wont look back.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is heart pounding and i still dont understand why gamespot gave thisgame a poor review. 
 Well i havent experienced any technical problems with this game yet and i never played the PC version 
 of this but all i got to say that this game is pretty darn cool. The Sinle player missionswere 
 awesome that could freak you out at times and the col firefights that kickup debrie from the wals 
 and ground. the online is ok i guess but it was my first time playing the online mode and i pwned 
 every body on thier but it is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarges24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Game/Play: At first glance FEAR is a good enough looking title. My first impressions were that the 
 controls were a little loose but the game play was still good. I do however have to state my dislike 
 of console shooters as they do tend to be questionable when it comes to controls and aiming. Very 
 few shooters get it right when it comes to control while others offer tweaking of the system which 
 can help FEAR does not; at least not that I could find. That said, despite the loose feel in the 
 controls the game still plays good enough to get past that issue and have some fun. The juice (Reflex 
 booster, or Slow-mo if you will) is pretty cool as well and something I neglected to use for most 
 of the game. Graphics/Sound: The graphics are a little dated and not quite as good as they could 
 be considering we're looking at a PS3 title. However they still look sharp, nice, and are certainly 
 good; via HDMI for video. I also have to note that a few times there was some problems with dead 
 bodies (glitches) . Where you'd blow them up, shoot them, whatever, and they're head be hanging 
 in the ceiling while their body dangled. Overall I encountered very few graphical/game play glitches 
 and they were something easily overlook able. I have to state that some have experienced an issue 
 w/ sound but I had no problems at all. That said the sound is good (digital, not HDMI) . Furthermore 
 the sound effects themselves and how they immerse you in the game and set the tone are excellent....
 
  
  In Closing/Value: I have to note that this was a gift from a friend online. He got two copies and 
 sent me one otherwise I'd have probably not even bothered playing it. That said FEAR is truly a 
 very good game at the very least. I do not see the point of setting the price higher than the PC 
 version and for that I'll have to note that this is a ?able buy. I think that for $4o-5o it's an 
 excellent game and certainly worthy to any shooter fans collection. Personally I don't buy shooters 
 often -when I do it's on PC- but this is a game I'm glad got added to my collection. If you're 
 a shooter fan and don't mind spending $6o I'd definitely suggest buying it. Otherwise I'd say wait 
 for a better price ($40-50) , and if you're not a shooter fan at least do yourself a favor and rent 
 this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a weird first person shooter who puts u in the roll of a solider in the fear recon sent 
 to investagate weird paranormal phnomonons. u realize a guy named fatell has brutally slaughterd 
 all the security and wen i mean slaughter i mean gore and blood and gyts so fettel makes these 
 clone soldiers and others to contol this evil girl so he can rule the world.. so u get to shoot 
 his clone soldiers and fettel and this game is crepy somtimes fettel will whisper to u and say 
 scrary sh#t to u also the wepons in this game r great my favirote is the shot gun. so the good 
 is the gameplay and the shooting and story the bad is the graphcs suck the make the game look bad 
 but wat r u gonna do also somtimes the enimies r to smart the ai is to good at times so overall 
 wen buying this game ur geting an overall great shooter a good scare and some bad graphics so if 
 u like shooting or horror then rent or buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  First Encounter Assault Recon
  
  Easily one of the most creative tactical shooters on the market. Its got solid gameplay, an engrossing 
 story, superb execution, decent graphics, and incredible Artificial intelligence. And now it's 
 available on the PS3 and people don't like it for some reason. But i really don't see what the 
 problem is because besides a minor brightness difference, this game is just as good as the other 
 versions.
  
  The gameplay for one is rock solid. Your character is a sly and slick killing machine against hordes 
 of clone soldiers who are VERY smart. The game does a great job of balancing out weapons making 
 certain guns more accurate or more powerful than others. You have the ability to peek around corners 
 and shade yourself in darkness. The controls are ideal and i don't understand the fuss about them; 
 the shoulder buttons are perfect for bullet time and changing weapons. I particularly enjoyed the 
 aspect of giving and taking damage in the game because it is very realistic, you can't get hit 
 more than four times before going down, assuming you play the game at high difficulty. And you 
 have to hit your foes where it counts to kill them and fast because they have no mercy. The game 
 has some neat touches like destructible environments and creepy story arcs. It's completely ideal 
 to shoot out a window for an opening and enjoy a small side trip into a room filled with blood.
 
  
  Graphically, F. E. A. R. is not the greatest, but it's far from terrible. It pretty much looks exactly 
 like the Xbox 360 version with a little difference in brightness. The environments are stark and 
 creepy, the textures are good, the effects of the carnage on the environments are great. The weapons 
 look sweet, the enemies look sweet. bullet time looks sweet. It all looks pretty sweet. It just 
 doesn't have the GREATEST possible graphics. But it's still VERY GOOD.
  
  Sound wise, F. E. A. R. will scare you to death because it's so good. Enough said.
  
  The only 
 area this game really lack is its value. It's true that it has been released the latest on the 
 PS3 and, in doing so, kind of missed the boat. But it doesn't mean it should be thought of as any 
 different. It's still F. E. A. R. and it's just as great on the PS3 as on anything else.
  
  Personally, i think this game is just great. It's the best blend of horror and tactical shooter 
 gameplay that I've ever seen and it holds it's own just fine on my Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 30, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Now have in mind before you read this that i've played thru FEAR on a supped up PC, playing it 
 the way it should be played. Wee ours of the night, mostly alone with the sound cranked up.
  Now i was just curious about this and borrowed it from a friend. Some 5-6 hours later i just did 
 not care about playing it anymore. In essence it is still FEAR. The scares are there, the firefights 
 are just as amazing as in the original, but the graphics are heavily washed down and you can tell 
 it was rushed as there are just too many little things that just sit like a thorn in your eye the 
 whole time u play the game.
  PS3's extras are nice, and maybe even a juicy bonus for those that can make themselves play thru 
 this but overall dont justify buying the game. Now i know i kept this review short but unlike Gamespot 
 review i just did not feel like going into the details of the game, as i firmly belive that if 
 you havent played it before, you shouldnt play it now!. So unless u already own R: FoM, go get it 
 instead and if you do, well you are still better of with just about any solid game on PS3 including 
 the cheap-o's like Super Rub a Dub, CAC, etc. I'd pass if i was you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyZeRViRuS
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 30, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that manages to create a really good atmosphere by uses of lights and sounds, 
 lets just forget about those graphics. The first thing i realised was you can see your own legs... wow. 
 it isn't the best feature of the game but its a nice touch, same for the bobble of the camera everytime 
 you move. The use of light in this game is brilliant to create an atmosphere thats quite scary, 
 but most will be not scared atall. Its on bits like when a pitch black corridor in an office, and 
 theres one light flickering at the other end, something crawls out the ceiling and the light goes 
 out, you then have to use your torch to slowly and carefully search the office, but theres a problem, 
 the battery on your light drains so quickly, you have to wait until a moment when you really need 
 it.
  The game uses a 'Scary' little girl... but she isn't that scary, infact the moments you see her 
 you can easily just shoot and she crumbles into dust, but there are times when it can freak you 
 out a little bit. I was standing in a room with a glass window that looks at some elevators, you 
 turn on the power for them and go out the door towards them, when everything goes black, you turn 
 on your torch and it dosent work, you waiit for a second not realising its the little girl coming 
 out the lift, coming to kill you. After a few seconds of waiting you run blindly into the darkness, 
 just making out the little girl and you just start shooting. Its moments like this when the game 
 becomes 'scary' but its just not a scary game.
  Online multiplayer is alright, not great thanks to lack of voice headsets, meaning youhave to try 
 and communicate with a flash of your torch, the modes in multiplayer are your normal FPS games, 
 Deathematch, team deathmatch, capture the flag etc. But one thing that makes this game something 
 to experiance is the Slow-Mo mode. this can be used in a special multiplayer match and in story.
 
  Overall F. E. A. R. is a good game, but i suggest borrowing it from a mate or renting it, graphics 
 are dull and gameplays repeitive and hasn't got much replay value so don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAboy06
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  WOW! The graphics are just as good as the PC and 360 version, and the framerate does not get in 
 the way! There is absolutley nothing wrong with this game except the price. The PC version only 
 cost $30, and the 360 cost $50, and this version cost $60. The single player is cool, creepy, decent 
 length, intense, and pretty scary. The online multiplayer is fun and intense. The graphic are highly 
 detailed and look next-gen. The controls are fluent and easy to learn. The lighting effects are 
 probably the best I have ever seen. This game is highly recommended to fans of FPS everywhere. 
 This game is almost better than Resistance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: As far as the gameplay goes this is an awesome game. the story line is great and it gets 
 to be very freaky. But to me a game just isnt about the story anymore, it has to have a good multiplayer 
 mode. Multiplayer: The multiplayer is alright but you cant use your mics, you cant talk to your 
 team at all...
  
  Positives: Great story, very scary
  Negatives: Excessive loading time. When your playing the story mode it takes in excess of a minute, 
 60 Secounds!! thats pretty rediculous in my mind. No achievements is another thing i didnt like. 
 why bother playing it twice or even on a harder setting if theres no incentive.
  
  Final Thoughts: all in all i would say its a pretty good game but it isnt even close to the caliber 
 of resistance.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gunslinger_
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 22, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. for Sony's new next-gen console has been getting a lot of negative reviews, but don't 
 let this stop you from experiencing the fast-paced and suspenseful action that F. E. A. R. has to 
 offer!
  
  The Bad: At some points in the game the frame rate sputters and dips, but its nothing too serious. 
 The graphics in some areas seem washed-out and not up to par with this generation.
  
  The Good: If you want an instant adrenaline rush, look no further! I highly recommend playing at 
 night for the full effect, but make sure you wear a diaper! With plenty of in-your-face action 
 sequences and hellish environments, there's a surprise around every dark corner.
  
  The Bottom Line: Although it may not be as good as the Xbox 360 and PC versions, you owe it to 
 yourself to see what you've been missing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 20, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start you can tell your experience with the game FEAR will be an unpleasant one. 
 This is a FPS and you have three options play the game, with no coop, replay levels you've beaten, 
 or play online. Perhaps if the story was unbelievable or the graphics breathtaking then the lack 
 of options might be excusable, but they are not. Sure from time to time there are some cool effects 
 such as when you shoot a wall and dust floats around, but much of the game feels as if it could 
 have been made for the original Xbox if not even for the PS2. Also a case could be made that the 
 atmosphere of the game is what really sets it apart, and honestly, for me it worked at the beginning. 
 But when you have to rely on tactics like my weak flashlight won't last longer than thirty seconds 
 to bolster that atmosphere you lose all credibility. Why is it this elite soldier is not given, 
 or have, a decent flashlight when I, an average guy has a decent 120 lumen Surefire? How does this 
 happen? What makes this all the worse is that the game takes itself too seriously. If the game 
 were in the vein of Timesplitters then no doubt there would be few questions about why certain 
 things turn out they way they do, but when this game is trying for realism and scary the questions 
 begin to pile. It is hard for me to believe that any version of this game was ever good. This is 
 just not a statement about the graphics or the weak attempts to create atmosphere this is also 
 in regard to the multiplayer situation. Outside of online there is none. There is no coop, there 
 is no offline deathmatch with or without bots. There is nothing. You finish the weak story and 
 go online to shoot, without being able to chat mind you, people you probably have never met or 
 will all by your lonesome. It is as if some developers and gamers have forgotten one of the big 
 reason behind games in general -- social interaction. This game and its ilk are bad for gamers. 
 If you decide to disregard this review because of its ferocity please compromise by renting the 
 game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great single-player campaign that can scare living soul outta you, nice online multiplayer, 
 a lot of spectacular, bloody action, some nice controls, and amazing sound.
  
  The Bad: Although the visuals are decent, they definitely could've been better, some bad frame 
 rates, and other technical issues.
  
  F. E. A. R. for the PS3 is an awesome FPS, and is worth your money. The Single-player campaign is 
 intense, bloody, and will scare you to death, and this is what makes it so great. During the campaign, 
 you will walk through rooms with flickering lights with pools of blood covering the floor, and 
 so on. It just all adds to the game's creepiness. The multiplayer mode is a lot of fun, and will 
 keep you playing the game after you've beaten the campaign. Now that I've talked about some of 
 the good stuff, I'll now talk about some of the bad. The game looks a bit last-gen in terms of 
 visuals, but the visuals are still decent enough, and they shouldn't bother you that much. Another 
 thing that is bad are the frame rates. Frame rates are quite choppy at times, and this becomes 
 extremely frustrating. Now I've said the good and the bad about F. E. A. R., and so I will end here -- It 
 is a game worth getting, if you like FPS, and you will have a ton of fun playing it. Thanks for 
 reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  For those unfortunate enough to have never picked up a copy of F. E. A. R. before, don't worry because 
 F. E. A. R. makes a bold transition onto the PlayStation 3. Though a port of a two year old game originally 
 made for the PC with little improvements, F. E. A. R. can still combine a terrifying, suspenseful 
 atmosphere and extremely satisfying action.
  
  The First Encounter Assault Recon, or F. E. A. R. for short, is a government controlled squad, that 
 instead of fighting terrorism or any other sort of crime, combats the paranormal. You play as the 
 'F. E. A. R. Point Man', and on his first assignment things go horribly wrong. Your task is to take 
 down a psychic called Paxton Fettel, that commands a whole army of clones telepathically, who just 
 infiltrated a facility and started feasting on the victims of his own crime. Easy, right? Of course 
 not! Being a psychic, Paxton Fettel is going to start messing with your head by sending you creepy 
 hallucinations. And to top it all off, your being followed by a very scary, almost ghost-like little 
 girl in a red dress that can strip the flesh off of people in a matter of seconds.
  
  Inspired by Japanese horror movies, instead of what you can see, F. E. A. R.'s horror comes from what 
 you can't see. You constantly have the feeling that your being followed, and you most probably 
 are, but you'll often be finding yourself dreading what's around the next corner and gives you 
 a sense of insecurity and paranoia. And all of this being presented to you in a first-person camera 
 angle, F. E. A. R. can really give you some good scares.
  
  Being a first-person shooter, F. E. A. R.'s action moments are really intense and it has some of the 
 most well done and satisfying shooting ever seen in a first person shooter. Everything feels so 
 right, the guns, the sound, the sense of power... there must be a catch? But there isn't. What really 
 sets the shooting apart from other first-person shooters is the variety of guns, other-the-top 
 violence and the desperate cries from an enemy when you're mowing them down with your machine gun. 
 That's what make F. E. A. R. so satisfying.
  
  Among the obvious weapons for a first-person shooter like the shotguns and machine guns, F. E. A. R.'s 
 most imaginative weapons are the likes of the Penetrator, which can impale enemies to walls, and 
 the particle weapon which separates flesh from bone in the most gruesome way possible. But all 
 weapons can finish an enemy violently, the shotgun, for example, can make enemies explode, rip 
 them in half and blast there limbs off. The machine gun can take there heads off, and make the 
 enemies scream with pain as their blood splatters against nearby objects.
  
  But the enemies don't just stand there and take the bullets, these are the best A. I to ever grace 
 a console. They'll pin you down with a river of bullets, while others will try to flank you. They'll 
 be moving from cover to cover trying to flush you out with grenades. If there's no more cover nearby, 
 they'll make their own by knocking over tables. And when they find out that they're no match for 
 you, they'll call for backup. To succeed you'll need to listen to the clones communicating with 
 each other. If they say that they're going to flank you; move.
  
  When things get to much too handle, you can call upon your trusty SlowMo by tapping L1. This is 
 a bullet-time that gives you the edge against your opponents. While bullet-time has been done to 
 death over the years, F. E. A. R. makes it refreshing and it feels well designed. You can see the 
 wave a bullet makes when it glides past you. You can see the blood and chunks of flesh go flying 
 across the room.
  
  When you don't have time to reload your gun, you could always give your enemies a swift kick in 
 the teeth. The nameless F. E. A. R. Point Man is also good with melee attacks, and can do flying scissor 
 kicks, and the rather boring 'hitting people with the butt of your gun' attack. This also means 
 that you can see your characters feet and shoulders, which is refreshing as not many other first-person 
 shooters have that.
  
  In F. E. A. R. you'll travel to locations such as abandoned warehouses and abandoned offices. Though, 
 these cramped locations may feel a little similar after some time, they really make the game that 
 extra bit scary and make great places for gunfights.
  
  For first-person shooter veterans, the controls may feel clunky at first, but after spending time 
 with the game you will learn to love them. F. E. A. R. takes advantage of the trigger buttons on the 
 controller, by making R2 to shoot your weapon and L2 to throw a grenade. And square is reload, 
 O is to melee and X to jump. L1 is to use SlowMo and R1 is to switch between your 3 available weapons.
 
  
  And once your done with the great single player, there is online multiplayer and a bonus mission 
 for you to try out. The online is great with no lag, a huge variety of modes like 'Capture the 
 Flag' and 'Deathmatch' , there is also a twist. One can use the SlowMo ability online, but only 
 one player can use it, and it marks that player on everyone else's maps, so that player becomes 
 a walking target.
  
  The graphics in this game are a little washed-out and bland when compared to the PC and Xbox 360 
 version, but they still make for a passable and average looking game. There arn't any jagged edges 
 or lack of detail but a little extra polish to the graphics couldn't go a miss. The frame rate 
 is also on a passable level, as you don't really notice it unless you look closely.
  
  Being a horror game, F. E. A. R. always has creepy music playing in the background. The screams of 
 dying enemies have a disturbing edge. But what does let the sound down is the fact that the story 
 progresses through telephone calls and radio communications, and these are very quiet and can result 
 in turning the volume of your television up just to understand what the characters are saying.
 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R. is an unforgettable game that successfully combines horror and action into 
 one of the best game experiences yet. Unfortunately, F. E. A. R. is let down by it's bland graphics 
 and characters speaking too quietly. But with that said, F. E. A. R. is easily worth the &pound;50 
 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_grunge_fan
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is a port of the 2005 PC release and is a fantastic FPS 
 experience. F. E. A. R. put's you in the position of an Elite Soldier trained to deal with supernatural 
 situations and occurences, throughout the game your name, general identity and image is never revealed 
 which lacks the background story of the guy you've been playing with all this time. More of the 
 story; a paramiltary force has taken over and infiltrated a multi-billion compound but for an unknown 
 reason, they have taken no hostages and aren't asking for a ransom price. Knowing this, a Special 
 Forces Team are sent in to investigate and take care of the situation, once the Team get's there, 
 there radio signals are pierced with eerie audio sounds and moments later, live footage of the 
 Team is revelealed which consists of there body parts being ripped apart and so fourth. Eventually, 
 you will learn a crazy guy called Paxton Fettel is controlling the enemy soldiers telepathically, 
 once you get to the end of the game, it will reveal how he is doing this. The First Encounter Assault 
 Recon react to this by sending you in to investigage alongside your team-mates. It's your mission 
 to investigate further with extreme caution. The graphics/visuals used in F. E. A. R. are remarkable, 
 the PS3 version has a lot more detail in the lighting effects than previous versions of the game. 
 F. E. A. R's graphics are designed to ultimately scare you and at some points of the game, it works, 
 for example: you could be slowly walking down a lengthy long corridor in the dark and a wall could 
 come crashing down and the whole mood of the game will change from calm to being scared to death. 
 I like how it does that personally. Throughout playing F. E. A. R, you will notice strange paranormal 
 events in which you will encounter a Ghost of a dead Soldier and as many times you try shooting 
 at it, it won't ever die. I guess placing Ghosts at locations is an attempt to make you scared 
 again, sometimes it works and most of the time it doesn't. Still, a nice tough. A very nice feature 
 F. E. A. R. has to the gameplay is the Reflex ability, if you activiate your Reflex, all time will 
 slow-down and you will have a chance at defeating enemy soldiers really easy with ease, whilst 
 time slows down, it doesn't mean you will neccesarily go into slow motion too. As for the weaponary 
 in F. E. A. R., there's a fairly big selection of various guns and grenades to experiement with. Although 
 most players will use one of the two Shotguns available, you will come across strange guns such 
 as the Penetrator which can basically do some really high damage but you have to constantly press 
 R2 to fire just 1 bullet which can be annoying at hectic gun-fights. You'll come across a Rocket 
 Launcher, a laser-type gun and a lot of Sub-Machine gun type of weaponry, you can carry upto 3 
 guns at a time so if you want a new weapon, your going to have to forfeit one of your old ones 
 at that point in the game but the game offers you the earlier weapons in the game back if you wish 
 to use them. As for the Grenades, you have your basic Grenade that you throw and Boom, it blows 
 up, you have a landmine which you can set and manually decide when it goes off with a press of 
 a button, for example: you can wait for an enemy patrol to walk past and make the Mine go off and 
 there basically dead, in general there's some really nice weapons in F. E. A. R. which will get you 
 through the game. A huge part of F. E. A. R. is the Atmosphere, as said before, you will encounter 
 Ghosts and dark corridors but there's more to that; at a lot of points in the game, you will come 
 across The Girl who can be seen on front of the game cover, she often just walks past without doing 
 anything or you will see her at the opposite side of the room in the shadows but she eventually 
 simply dissapears into the dark. She doesn't fail to scare you. From the beggining of the game, 
 you will be able to use your Flashlight which you will need a lot as a lot of the locations are 
 75% darkness which adds that eerie feeling to F. E. A. R. The lighting effects from your Torch show 
 off really well on the PS3 version and adds up to a great scary gaming experience. Now for enemy 
 AI, most of the soldiers you come across will always be on a patrol looking for any enemies (such 
 as you) and you will hear the Squad-Leader usually say stuff like Keep a lookout , Shh, what's 
 that? and I see a flashflight! etc. When an enemy spots you, the Squad will most of the time take 
 cover and attempt to kill you which makes the AI clever in F. E. A. R. but at some points, the Enemy 
 can be really stupid and try and attack you with no defense. F. E. A. R. comes with Online features 
 aswell; your traditional Deathmatch, Capture The Flag and general Online modes which lack in fun 
 sometimes as there are hardly any other players online. Overall, F. E. A. R. is a great game. If you 
 love Horror, buy it. If you love FPS-games, buy it. If you love both, then definitely buy it. Great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 19, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Except little psychic girls in red dresses that can float, teleport and blow people up.
  
  I was gonna get this for my 360 when it was bargain basement and reduced but as the ps3s list of 
 games are sadly lacking at the minute i though il give it a go.
  
  Well the first thing thats strikes me about this game is the  
 load times. serioulsy no joke 5 minutes after each scenario i feel is a touch to much especially 
 for a ps3 thats meant to be the daddy of games machine.
  
  anyway game starts and second thing that strikes about this game, graphics. next gen, 100% not 
 this looks xbox to me and no mistake, the gs review spoke of washed out graphics n stuff and i 
 agree a bit but in general the graphics just arent very good. i remember being wowed by chronicles 
 of riddick and this is very similar looking graphics.
  
  however what i will say is the gunfights and AI on this game are wicked massive stylee. the buggers 
 lift up couches to hide behind, thing strageically and all sorts of stuff its great
  
  its good in that respect but little else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damaclese76
Rating: 1
Date: May 17, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  PC port from 2005!! Great, yet another game for the PS3 I have no intrest in playing. So frustrated 
 with all the sorry excuses for games comming out lately for the PS3 Im just going to give it a 
 One, That and go buy an X-Box 360 like I should have done in the first place. Any one want to buy 
 a Blu-Ray dvd player! Seriously If sony isnt looking arround going WTF!!! they should be, every 
 thing for me hinges on Grand Turisimo, if thats disapointing thats it! poof gone. I believe alot 
 of people are going to go that same route. Sure next gen graphics but the games? where are the 
 games? I play alot of Koei's Games i love repetitive bashing of clone soldiers cause it keeps me 
 sane. Now il lwait to be heckled and and my spelling to be made fun of cause heh thats what people 
 like to poke fun at when they have nothing better to say. If you love what sony has done with the 
 game im glad your happy and im happy the system is paying off for you, I feel cheated by sony and 
 I think i need to go take a shower like that forest wittaker dude in the crying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandreps3
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., this is the name of this wonderful game of fps and terror together.
  When i started the game, i thought that i wouldn't like it, but with the time, i discovered the 
 game is very, but very good. The graphics, the gameplay, the enemys AI are very good, because 
 when you are in a level, enemies can attack you from many ways, and they are very smarts and difficult 
 to defeat.
  The story of the game is very interesting, and with the difficult of the game, you can be a little 
 bit angry, but is easy to win the game, because i won the game in less of a week. If you like this 
 type of games, just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yankee_In_TX
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 14, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I rented FEAR now that finals are done, I have LONG awaited this game. One of the first PS3 games 
 that is my type of genre and game. So I think my review will surprise some people - as I WAS a 
 staunch defender of this title.
  
  Control: Pretty good. Some of the buttons aren't natural. A few times in pressure situations I've 
 changed guns instead of firing. Worst mistake? I made it to the hostage and instead of handing 
 him a comm link I threw a grenade. Oops. There are alternative configurations, but I wish you could 
 customize the controls. Everything responds well.
  
  Biggest downfall is jumping. A few areas require you to jump across small platforms. You have no 
 real idea where your feet are, and slide a bit after landing. This is RARE in the game, however.
 
  
  Gameplay/Fun factor: At first, it seems fun. Best way to defeat enemies is to draw them into an 
 ambush. Enemy AI is pretty good. They'll try to flank you. Though I always prepare for it, every 
 once in a while they sneak up behind me. After the first few levels they stopped letting me pile 
 up bodies in a doorway. So then you have to get them while they wait in ambush. You can toss a 
 grenade in, but unless its a small room chances are slim you'll kill anyone. Best bet is to slow 
 mo in, cap a guy, then run back to cover. Rinse, repeat.
  
  Ammo and health may sometimes be in short supply after a big fight, but you'll always find med 
 packs and guns in store rooms in between fights. Because of this, you have to fight smartly, no 
 running around holding down the trigger.
  
  Wepaons are mediocre at best. The sniper rifle is hard to kill anyone with as it a) drifts and 
 b) seems to be a delay between trigger pull and the shot landing. I just run around with the shotgun, 
 assualt rifle, and the heavy calibre gun for advanced enemies.
  
  The problem? Monotonous gameplay. Sitting in a stairwell spending 15 minutes to cap 4 guys in a 
 room over and over and over is getting old, quick. And the enemies, as of seciton 5 of level 1, 
 haven't evolved. I've seen 3 enemies the whole game to date: enemy soldiers, advanced enemy soldiers, 
 and the enemies that can turn invisible.
  
  Graphics: Nice. A few glitches here and there. Nice job of details on surfaces and the extras (pop 
 cans, computers, files, etc) . The offices are believable as real offices. No wow factor on character 
 graphics.
  
  Sounds: Good. Standard Redisent Evil type sound. Music goes with gameplay (creepy hallway or fire 
 fight?) , sound effects are well done. Surround sound helps when the enemy is flanking you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 13, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  ok , i loved this game on the PC .. it was great a solid title when it was released on the 360 
 it looked good and ran smoothly , essentially the same game but with a controller ..
  
  the4 PS3 version however is just terrible .... And that's a real shame because this should have 
 been the best FPS on the current gen of consoles ... the extra power of the PS3 , 1080p res with 
 the new and improved analogue sticks on the PS3 controller .... my hopes were high. what we get 
 is shovelware at it's worst .. to me this not only looks inferior to the 360 version but stutters 
 and pauses too frequently to be acceptable , the power of the playstation should lead to smooth 
 impressive graphics not this mess.
  
  And i appologise to anyone who thinks my score is far too low and that i'm over reacting to things 
 that if you've not played any other version don't entirely ruin a fine game. Well let me explain 
 this game can be picked up for about &pound;8 ( $15 ) on PC for about &pound;25 on 360 or &pound;50 
 on the PS3 when far better versions exist on other formats it really should be shunned my PC isn't 
 even current spec .. it's a XP3200 with a 6600gtoc GFX card .. and yet i can still run this game 
 looking better and smoother than the PS3 And if i had a powerhouse PC that could take all the extra 
 graphic features and up the res i'm sure i would be even more offended than i already am
  
  AVOID at all costs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  People are looking at this game all wrong it is over a year old now when it released on PC, but 
 the action and visuals are still just as good. The controller scheme needs work, Id give FEAR Resistance's 
 controller functions if anything else.
  
  This game still freaks me out even though Ive played through the story over 10 times, on PS3 its 
 just as freaky. The story line is a little confusing but it all sorts out in the end. The Artificial 
 Intellogence in FEAR is intense, The AI will flank you, fake thier death when you shoot them, also 
 they will strategize to find the best way to take you down. Some will take cover as the others 
 will flank.
  
  The xbox 360's version of the game has a bit better performance but if you have PS3 pick this game 
 up. Also if you've never played it before then it will be worth it on your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze1552
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Its easy to say it is a good but not what I expected type of game. I have a 360 and no PS3 but 
 my friend does and he bought FEAR it's not what i expected after playing my 360 version. It was 
 creepy, but lacked in graphics and sound.. I also saw that the controls were, atleast to me, harder 
 to understand and get used to than the counterpart version on the 360. Plain and simple, the 360 
 won this round. And for the PS3.... to put it short, Disappointing.......... and from all the commotion 
 I have heard so far about the PS3, heh let's just say it's not doing very well and obviously could 
 have done, so, so, so, much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocknroll
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 6, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  You play a new member of a secret government squad called F. E. A. R., for First Encounter Assault 
 Recon. Their task is to deal with creepy supernatural things, and on your first day on the job 
 you're thrust into action. The telepathic leader of a unit of clone soldiers has gone mad, taking 
 his units with him on a murder n' cannibalism bender. Your character's incredible speed is what 
 got him into F. E. A. R., and the practical upshot is a bullet-time-like power that'll help you wade 
 through the super soldiers that Paxton Fettel has gained control of. Or possibly was the leader 
 of, and has taken them rogue. Or possibly, is only controlling to serve (or fight?) the creepy 
 girl in red, Alma, who appears throughout the game. Suffice it to say that the plot doesn't make 
 a bunch of sense, but it gives you plenty of reasons to fight elite military units in a few different 
 places as you hunt down Fettel. It's more than passable for a shooter's storyline, especially if 
 you like your horror thrillers fairly shocking but brainless.
  
  What makes this title stick in the pleasure centers of your brain, what almost makes the PS3 version's 
 issues forgivable, are the glorious firefights. Rather than a range of weapon types, you have a 
 bare handful. But each fills a real need in combat. And similar to Halo, you can only carry two 
 rifles, some grenades, and a pistol. This is complemented by a selection of enemies that might 
 sound limited on paper, but which you'll never actually bemoan; that's because just like in real 
 combat, you'll be too busy scrambling to survive to care about what the shooter looks like. It's 
 quality rather than quantity which defines F. E. A. R.'s enemy types and weapons. Even with your ability 
 to slow time, you'll face AI that aggressively flanks, clears the way with grenades, uses combined 
 arms tactics, and goes to investigate things like your flashlight beam in tactically sound numbers; 
 it will be a real challenge. I can't overstate what a brilliant job the game does of insuring that 
 you take your enemies seriously. And that, sadly, is where the positives end for this version of 
 the game. It's quite possible that, PC-like, the issues I'm about to dive into will be patched 
 at some later date. But as the game stands, shipped, there are simply too many bugs and issues 
 to recommend it. Most importantly, there's a clear delay between the press of the trigger button 
 and the accompanying gunfire. It doesn't matter if the Sixaxis is running wireless or connected 
 by a cable; if you squeeze that trigger, bullets will start firing late and finish firing late. 
 After I noticed that, I felt like the whole game was out of sync. And that's enough to not just 
 irritate, but to cause cheap deaths, lost rounds of multiplayer, and to just suck you out of the 
 gameplay experience at lightning speed.
  
  Beyond the strange response lag, numerous other issues affect the PS3 game. Multiplayer is a fairly 
 bland affair across all three systems, but the PS3 is the only version with no voice chat options 
 (and no way to fake it, such as with a third-party program or a self-created Live chat) . The game 
 also looks less crisp than the 360 version, for no reason I can understand. And the controls force 
 you to use the R2 and L2 buttons as your triggers. When I played Resistance, I wondered why the 
 PS3's launch shooter didn't use the system's two trigger-shaped buttons, (R2 and L2) as the fire 
 weapon buttons. The reason is that holding your fingers over those two for hours is incredibly 
 bad ergonomics, and the convex shape of them means your finger can easily slip off mid-press. And, 
 like the other versions, the level design goes from slightly repetitive to the same cut-and-pasted, 
 ridiculously maze-like office space real fast. Unlike other elements of the game, this isn't a 
 matter of quality beating out quantity. It's just sub-par level design.
  
  Yes, the PS3 version comes with bonus single-player content. No, it isn't worth the aggravation. 
 If you have a 360 or a beefy PC, buy those (cheaper) versions of this game. If you only have a 
 PS3, Resistance is a better shooter for the system. Although the gunplay is as solid as ever, there 
 is nothing to recommend F. E. A. R. on this platform if you have any other choice. Each individual 
 issue is irritating, but taken as a whole they're arguably not worth the effort. If you don't have 
 a decent gaming PC or a 360, and you just can't face playing any more Resistance, than give F. E. A. R. 
 a try on your PS3. But don't say we didn't warn you. acdcrocknroll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronz070
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 6, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  I'm sure this was an awesome game 5 years ago when released on the PC ... but wow did they miss 
 the mark on it's port to the PS3. If you like games that were only worked on by it's staff on their 
 day's off and holiday's, then pick this pile up. Too many things wrong with this game to list but 
 I will name this biggest annoyances. First would be sound effects, say you shoot an oxygen tank, 
 should it make noise when it hit's the ground?? Maybe it's made of Nerf material it wouldn't, or 
 how you can hear a radio playing some irritating tone from a thousand yards, but can't hear a voice 
 mail when standing next to the phone. Second, visuals, you shoot someone and they completely disappear?? 
 A. I. getting stuck in walls and stairs, it just really gets old. Just plain disappointing. The 
 game's are coming for the PS3, we just have to wait. I know it's hard, I wouldn't have picked up 
 this waste of time if I had patience. Where are the 1080P game's?? It's there ... use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is EXTREMELY CREEPY/AWSOME. you will love it but hate it cause you will have to go to 
 the bathroom about every thirty miniutes to every hour. But it gives you an amazing new FPS expereince 
 like its preddessor Half-Life. No cut scenes that are not completely intied with the gameplay. 
 Example: Cutscene, you can control your character move the head around till its over. Gameplay: 
 NO GRAPHICS CHANGES. Its all the same. You go from the cutscene Then the black bars fill in and 
 your playing just like Half Life. It will give you a kind of feel for it. Now it is pretty hard 
 but if your a long time videogame player it will fit you just fine. You might stop playing from 
 time to time but the story is actually pretty involving and interesting and will probably keep 
 calling you back. And if your a fan im pretty sure your going to love and hate how it ends so if 
 you finish the game Pick up Extraction Point and continue your fantastic creepy amazing journey 
 and fall in love with it.
  
  Thanks for reading my probably not so good review and Have a nice gaming crammed life
  
  sublimnital 
 message: (THIS GAME IS AWSOME) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwiztedMetal
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  OVERVIEW
  First off I want to say I am sorry for those of you that have been duped into not buying this game. 
 You got to think people this game came out in 2005 and now they have made it for people with not 
 strong enough PC's to be able to play it on their PS3. GRAPHICS You will often hear people complain 
 that the graphics are not as good as they should be but they are comparing it to the Computer version 
 and everyone knows that the computer game, with the proper equipment in your computer, will blow 
 any system game out of the water. This game does not have bad graphics at all period. I could see 
 saying it has bad graphics if you were fighting stick men or something but the A. I. you fight are 
 very well designed and have great movement. The atmosphere is top notch as well it sets the tone 
 and mood for the game.
  
  SOUND
  The sound in this game combined with the graphics lead to some eerie play. Some times the music 
 will get real loud and you will think something is about to happen but nothing does but sometimes 
 it does so it will keep you on your toes. The noises you hear in the background will also keep 
 you at the edge of your seat as well. My only complaint is some times the Music/Background noise 
 can drowned out the voices of your team mates talking to you on the radio.
  
  GAMPLAY
  The artillery you use are nice and powerful but nothing to overwhelming. Lets just say they get 
 the job done and they do it well. You can nail people to the wall, snipe, throw grenades, lay mines 
 and more. In mid gun battle you have the ability to slow down the game play with your reflexes 
 and it gives you a big advantage to taking out people when you are out numbered. You can only do 
 this for a short period of time and you have to let it regenerate after you get done using it. 
 The A. I. is really smart and they get even smarter as you increase the difficulty. These guys will 
 run when they feel you have the upper hand and hide around a corner. Knock down things to slow 
 you down from getting to them. They will even call for back up. You get the sense like you are 
 playing online against someone. ONLINE
  First off NO Mics. Online play is fun but it would be nice to be able to communicate with the people 
 you are playing with. Finding games is easy and it is really fun but at first if you are wanting 
 to playing with friends it could be a bit testing on your nerves trying to find the right room. 
 Setting up rooms is really easy just a few options setting and youre ready to go. They do have 
 a invite system so you can invite people to come play in your room which is nice. You can set up 
 a match to last up to 30 min. and have up to 16 Players in a room but the downside to 16 players 
 is you better have a good internet connection because youre the server it will give you a prompt 
 what the required upload and download speed for hosting games that big. Running around shooting 
 people is a blast but like i said before it sure would be nice to have those mics working.
  
  TO BUY OR TO RENT
  If you like First Person Shooters and you like creepy/scary stuff this 
 game is a must have and you should go buy it today. If you only like games for online play this 
 is a game you should rent. But if your a big FPS fan this is a great game to have in your collection 
 because of its Gun battles. I do think everyone that has never played this game should at least 
 go rent it and give it a try.
  
  MY OPINION
  I love this game it is fun to play and I do not regret getting it. I know if people would give 
 it a try they would understand what I am saying. People need to get over the graphics hurdle and 
 take the game for what it is. People need to get back to their roots if people were like this when 
 the first Mario came out do you think it would have made it so big. Graphically it was not great 
 but the game play for that time was out of this world just like this game and common people the 
 graphics are really not bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fotwenty420
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 2, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  The graphics on the PS3 title are so washed out that it makes it look like you are playing a PS2 
 game on your PS3. Don't waste your money on this piece of trash, at least rent it or play the in-store 
 demo before you part with your hard earned $. Gamespot definitely over-rated this title, it may 
 score well in other attributes but lets face it, the PS3 is capable of of so much more in the visual 
 department, and this game falls flat on it's face. It may look okay on the X-box and PC, but you 
 have to wonder if the designers even play tested this turd on the PS3 if so they surely did not 
 compare it to other games of the same genere (R: FOM) . The only reasons people will buy this are:
 
  
  A. they are familiar with the title on a different platform and haven't tried the PS3 version.
 
  
  or B. The lack of available PS3 titles to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  all you people keep saying that it has bland graphics choppy frame rate its all pretty true but 
 have you ever thought to yourselves hard freakin hard it is to make a game i'll like to see you 
 guys make a game and see what others think of it but to me tis was one of the best games I have 
 ever played i was shocked at first when I firsted played because of all the reviews I read and 
 when I played it my mind thought of it but further in the game I didn't think about it so even 
 though one guy said cheap scares so but it got your attention huh? I thought so. They give you 
 a taste of some scare and action and at the end they poured it all on you and I gotta say when 
 I saw the girl grown up and naked I said its about time I would bang the hell out of her if she 
 didn't have the ability to kill when she gets close to you but you get to see her **** and **** 
 but It would of been cool if they had a clearer picture of her not no blurry one but the action 
 was good pretty much all action but the frame rate problem give me a break and the graphics come 
 on guys it's nat all about the graphics unless their nudity seriously..... I believe if it has a 
 good story or plot then thats it its more about that then graphics but you all act like if you 
 stop and end up somewhere else.... But this game was very interesting the freaky was very good 
 the slo-mo was good to but the only big problem for me is the darkness i couldn't see where I was 
 going. But overall it's avery good game you may not like at first but it gets good later on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is another great FPS that I have played on. I would say it is the 2nd best FPS that PS3 
 have seen so far, but not as good as Resistance: Fall Of Man. It is a great game, has a lot of 
 horror and action with cool A. I clone soldiers also. The graphics good be improved though, and 
 the game could be longer to complete but it is still worth getting 8/10.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  F. E. A. R has a great story a good selection of weapons and way creepy horror scenes so it is 
 a great game
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in F. E. A. R could have some improvement to them but still are could enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culley1414
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap a lot of people are so PC and Xbox 360 bias. But anyways, I think this game was only 
 a bit underrated. Lets start with the bad:
  
  Bad: The frame rate does struggle at times. It can get annoying but I've seen a lot worse in video 
 games. Thats about all for the bad.
  
  Good: Graphics are much better than what everyone says. Seeing as it was a 2005 PC game the graphics 
 are still good. Not quite "Super HI DEF" but definitely better than your average game.
  
  Great: Story, Music, AI, Online. The story and scare factor are unbelievable. I don't think I've 
 ever played a game that got my heartrate going so fast and I'm only on the 3rd level. This game 
 sound crazy with all the things you hear in the backround and the creepy "Ring" girl. The Artificial 
 Intelligence is the most realistic I have seen. Anytime the computer has better tactics than you, 
 you know its good. Online is also very addictive but I wish there was more people playing.
  
  The Lies: Like I said, the graphics aren't horrible. Some people including a gamespot editor 
 said the controls were hard. Well, they must not know where the heck the buttons are because there 
 is nothing wrong with the controls.
  
  Bottom Line: This is a game you should try at the least. Its a good game but its not the best on 
 PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is really amazing! Don't look at the other reviews of this game for the other platforms 
 on Gamespot, they don't know what they're talking about. Those guys are so biased for XBOX 360, 
 c'mon, both consoles have the same graphics as PC, which are great, why give different ratings... 
 who cares about the realease date, developers don't always have time to increase graphics for multiplatformers!!! 
 Graphics and sound are amazing, especially on 720p and 5.1 or 7.1 surround! Gameplay is just as 
 good as the XBOX 360 version, although the PC version was the best in my opinion, which deserves 
 a 10/10 score. The added features give this version an edge to others however. The story is the 
 same of course and still so well laid out. Have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smith447
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I don't get how gamespot can rate this a 7.1. Sure it's not better then the PC version of this 
 game, in fact the graphics aren't as good. The gameplay is awesome and the instant action missions 
 are great, so i don't know how something as simple as graphics and supposivly framerate being bad 
 drops the rating so low. The could have done better I know, but to me it's the second most intense 
 shooter on the ps3. It is great to just really get into the firefights. Guns blazing, blood splattering. 
 Also, it's very creepy. I guess what i'm trying to say is, gamespot is right about the load times, 
 the graphics could have been better, but satisfying to me, the framerate is fine, i don't know 
 what they are talking about, but still it is a great shooter for ps3 and you should definetly buy 
 it. I kind of suck at writing reviews so heres a little better outline:
  
  Gameplay: 9.0 Starting off kind of slow, the gameplay on F. E. A. R. PS3 is perfect for anyone who 
 likes Horror movies with lots of action. So it's like a cross between an intense shooter and a 
 survival game. Once it gets into the story more, it becomes really freaky and bizzare. The slow-mo 
 is great. It's awesome to see bullets flying through the air . You can even dodge them. It's kind 
 of like a more intense version of the matrix. With better guns. Graphics: 7.5 I can see what gamespot 
 is talking about. The graphics are choppy, if you wanna get picky. If you compare it to PC you 
 aren't going to like the graphics. It's just as simple as that. But what did you expect? No one 
 ever really makes a perfect port of a PC to console game. All though somehow the Xbox360 version 
 got a better rating. Eh, again us PS3 users get nothing but shame. Loading is slow for missions, 
 but multiplayer it's fast, obviously. There are also a few graphical glitches.
  
  Sound: 10.0 I havn't noticed anything wrong with the sound. Sharp.
  
  Value: 9.5 You should 
 buy this game, but once you've beaten it, all you'll be intrested in is multiplayer, which will 
 end up being boring because you dont have much of an insentive to be first on the top of the leaderboards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petejams
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  There really is no excuse for the PS3 version, after several delays, to be inferior in framerate, 
 graphics and load times to the 360. This game should at least be on par and its a reflection of 
 some publishers right now feeling they can make lousy ports for Sony's new system because its challenging 
 to program for. Well dear friends, let your wallets speak, because companies will listen to that. 
 If we buy these crappy ports, they will just keep making them. FEAR is a great game that looks 
 mangled on the PS3. There really is no excuse for the PS3 version, after several delays, to be 
 inferior in framerate, graphics and load times to the 360. This game should at least be on par 
 and its a reflection of some publishers right now feeling they can make lousy ports for Sony's 
 new system because its challenging to program for. Well dear friends, let your wallets speak, because 
 companies will listen to that. If we buy these crappy ports, they will just keep making them. FEAR 
 is a great game that looks mangled on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_xport
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Overall:
  Ok, this is my first review and is a ligit one. I purchased FEAR on release date and sold it to 
 my friend for $40 after 3 missions. This review is for those who had played the PC version but 
 is curious and want to try the PS3 version. I have played the PC version back in mid 2006 with 
 a PC equipped with 7950GT graphics card. I liked it... a lot. The game on PC ran soooo smooth (more 
 than 50 fps in 94% of game) and the textures was clean, crisp, detailed etc... Basically, if you 
 have played the PC version of this game. AVOID IT! The PS3 version is not worth at all. This is 
 my Review.
  
  PS3: Ok, the game graphics is a huge disappointment. There are so many flaws that i don't know 
 where to start. Anyways, lets begin with:
  
  RESOLUTION: I played the PC on very high resolution (forgot, and too lazy to check) . On the other 
 hand, the PS3 FEAR seemed to have reduce the resolution to a mere 800x600 (i have an HDTV and not 
 standard so don't confuse the cheap graphics resolution with my TV) . And for those who are not 
 clear on resolution. When resolution is decreased, the overall graphics is reduced TREMENDOUSLY. 
 The texture is bland due to reduction of resolution, the colors are not vivid, and details is lost 
 overall. Everything you see is not SHARP, very dull. (I hooked my PS3 to TV with HDMI cable)
  
  FPS: The frame rates is just DREADFUL. It lags soooo bad, even when there's no action on screen. 
 The game's frame rate drops variably even when your walking around. Very choooppppyy frame rates. 
 This can get very annoying the longer you play. The PS3 version is just too slow (30 fps) for a 
 first person shooter. However, the cut scenes are quite smooth, but I think it just HD video playback 
 and not real time rendering.
  
  ONLINE: Online play suffers the same frame rate problem. The sever or the game slows down much.
 
  
  CONTROLS: The idea of using a PS3 controller for any FPS is a joke.
  
  SOUND: Perfect.
  
  I LIKE or NOT: The scare gets old second time around, and the story is quite 
 engaging,
  
  SUMMARY:
  - If graphics (resolutions, fps, details) is your breaker, this game will disappoint you. STAY 
 AWAY!
  - This is not what a nexgen system should perform. I believe PC or Xbox360 ports to PS3 is damaging 
 it's name, hardware, console reputation, and Sony themselves. Stop with the ports!
  - This game is about 2 years old. The PS3 is not even a year. I believe the the programmers who 
 ported FEAR to PS3 is an Xbox360 supporter? How can PS3 graphics fall behind if not equal to Xbox 
 (even if it had unified shaders) . The other, this game was rushed.
  
  MY ADVICE: In the future, and I'm sure there will be plenty of ports. Take my advice and rent the 
 game first or borrow it from someone before you buy it. B/C once you opened the game, it's no longer 
 worth that hard earned $64. That's if you don't like it.
  
  Extra: I have many reasons to believe that those who claims PS3 FEAR as awesome probably had never 
 played the PC version. So take this into consideration when reading the biased reviews. I have 
 friends whom PS3 is their gaming PC replacer; many of which do not have powerful graphics card. 
 Not bright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkkkkkkmm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Not even half as bad as some reviews are making it... not ugly at all...
  
  As a matter of fact, i even think its better looking here than i remembered when i first played 
 it on the 360... if not better its the same at worst... i don't know.... at less this game didn't 
 hang or freeze as i've played it straight 4hrs. The sad thing is.. the blood effect is just the 
 same as the 360 version also.
  NO BETTER NO WORST imo.... if you've watched the ign video review and think it look alright, play 
 it on ur own hd tv (hdmi output) it will even look better than the vid... and if u have a good sound 
 system to play the game with, you're even in a bigger treat.
  
  The words, WORST LOOKING THAN THE 360 VERSION by far , and
  WHERE IT DOESN'T STAND A CANDLE TO 
 THE 360 version... 
  is just a really not fair statement for this ps3 version and a 360 fanboy statement in mind imo.
 
  
  SOUND
  The sound is really good in this game... crystal clear audio effects.... from left to right to far... the 
 audio and sound effect is the best thing, blessed its on the blu-ray ps3 disc, true uncompressed 
 audio in effect.
  
  LOADING
  Loading in the other hand is not as quick as the 360 version.. but ps3 loading time is around 30sec.. 
 i'd say... i didn't use a time watch, but am sure it can't be 1min as some has made up. At the very 
 less the death RETRY loading is lighting fast.
  
  GAMEPLAY / VALUE - Highlighs
  F. E. A. R. is the most intense action impacted shooter i've ever played.
  F. E. A. R. has the best 
 shoot-outs in any fps by a long shoot..
  physics, rag-doll, smoke, sparks, and booming gun firing sound makes a real true shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 80style
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's a fun game, I mean I have not played it on the PC, but I have had fun for the past 
 few hours
  
  Graphics: Next Gen, whatever, nothing breathtaking at all
  
  Sound: Very good use of sound to add to the feel.
  
  Value: 60 bucks is way too much for this 
 game, IDK I am a little dissapointed
  
  There is a serious lack of good ps3 games out there, this is one of the good one I guess, but it 
 runs a little choppy sometimes, with low FPS, so that makes me kind of mad for the price. If you 
 haven't played it, and don't have a good computer, I recommend it. But I would not buy it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna be straight forward................... You will have a good time when you play the first 
 few levels. Then you'll realize, ITS THE SAME GRAHICS OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 The backgrounds get so repeatative that you just wanna beat the game and be done. The graphics 
 aren't all OHH AHH anyway. Sure, the killing is cool because you get to blow people legs off and 
 in half. That aspect is fun for a little while. Trust me, IT GETS BORING FAST!!!!!!!!!!!! RENT 
 THIS GAME FIRST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Online is ok, thats only because you get to play against real people 
 (thats new huh?) . DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE!!! RENT THIS GAME OR WAIT FOR THE BARGAIN BIN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmilerAl
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Yes! It's finally here! Despite what most major game web sites say about this game,
  F. E. A. R is a fantastic game! Maybe not as good as Resistance or Gears, but it includes unique stuff 
 that neither have or can achieve.
  
  Game play is some what of which makes this game as good as it gets with the Matrix style bullet
 
  time that just slows down time for a moment but its done so well you'll think its original!
  The A. I in this is, how should i sey, THE BEST EVER there's just so much detail of what the enemies 
 can do, the'll of course take cover and shoot but theres just so much they to keep you
  on your toes! Thell'y call out to they team to flush you out via grenades oor place traps
  mid 
 battle and they'll react to what ever you do. Chuck a grenade they'll jump cover, run out
  guns blazing with a shot gun they'll shout OH SH*T! and just dive out the way begging not to be
 
  shot!
  
  Graphics is what lets this down but you got to realize that this game is 2 years old and there
 
  is NO DIFFERENCE between the Xbox 360 and the PS3 not even the brightness (That just deliberate 
 to make
  out there is a difference) Sound is pretty nice, Lots of scary sounds and dialouge with weapons 
 sound the way there
  supposed to and the made up guns sound so nice and powerful, shoot a rocket launcher and you can 
 just feel the power when its fired!
  
  Value right now is a bit to much, the on line play sucks BIG time, theres no nice and easy lobby
 
  and its has no freinds part or what so ever, plus playing on line is really bad, theres far to 
 many 1 hit
  1 kill guns and they come whith lodes of ammo too, its also far too easy to get a head shot which 
 reasults
  death and the biggest flaw is your charters SPEED! Its so bl**dy slow its like some one in a weelchair 
 (No offense)
  
  All in all this game is GOOD but not brilliant, the online modes is bullsh*t but the single player
 
  is the king and it has some of the best gun fights imaginable! Get this game WHEN it comes down 
 in
  price other wise you'll feel a fool after you realize how thin it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  A hard game to review being an old port of the pc classic.
  From the moment you play this game its easy to recognise this game was developed for the pc in 
 mind.
  Having played the original pc version, not much has changed bar some new multiplayer maps, a new 
 weapon and a new level.
  
  The graphics are similar to splinter cell actually. They are sharp and most of the time very repetetive 
 throughout but the lighting can be excellent with special effects along the way. Outdated today 
 though but as you would expect being a remake, however does not bring the ps3's capabilities to 
 justice.
  
  The gameplay is your typical 1st person shooter but with bullet time which is also out of todate 
 and has been used many times before, but this works a treat in the style of max payne. Enaballing 
 this mode you can take precission aiming and with more given time carefully pick off multiple targets 
 at once. With this comes some neat touches all round such as the sound which will also go into 
 bullet time, also decapatating of enemies looks fantastic in slow motion with full blood that spills 
 out on walls and floors etc.
  
  The sound is very clear but at times has a very slighly delayed reaction with the actions performed, 
 mainly by the guns themselfs, plenty of variety in the weapons letting you carry up to 3 weapons 
 at a time and also different types of grenades. Theres the usual familiar weapons and also a few 
 extra special.
  
  The games pace is carried well with your reflexes and actions becoming more powerful througout 
 but without you noticing that much as the enemies get tougher as well which is well balanced overall.
 
  
  The game is a lenghy one for this type of game and although repetetive is enjoyable as the F. E. A. R 
 side of the story grabs your attention to your otherwise standard 1st person shoooter. Whilst next 
 to no cutscenes the story is displayed though gameplay with visual effects throughout. Plenty of 
 blood and gore and mystery on goings keeps you playing right until the end which is a slight dissapointment 
 being too easy and not much shooting involved but more to the freaky story.
  
  An easy game on normal difficulty by my standards and another good 1st person shooter for the PS3 
 if an old one at heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The PS3 is capable of better graphics than this. In fact the Xbox 360 is capable of better 
 graphics than this. How do I know? Because the Xbox 360 manages to display the exact same graphics 
 with better lighting effects while maintaining a solid 30fps. The PS3 version looks bland by comparison 
 and the frame rate struggles throughout the entire game. Even in confined spaces, turn around using 
 the right stick and watch how the graphics judder across the screen. Pathetic. On the Xbox 360, 
 F. E. A. R. looked like an old PC game, jazzed up with next-gen graphical effects. On the PS3, it 
 just looks like an old PC game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is excellent, although no better or worse than the PC and Xbox 360 versions.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Apart from the odd movement (your character bobs up and down like a Muppet as he walks and always 
 takes full steps, making it impossible to move around with any precision) , the controls are fine 
 for a console first-person shooter. The game is also extremely atmospheric, with some genuine shocck 
 moments. It plays a bit like a cross between Half Life and Silent Hill.
  
  Overall:
  I really wanted to like this game, but the biggest obstacle was the long load times for each level. 
 In the PC and Xbox 360 versions, the levels loaded instantaneously, but on the PS3 version, for 
 some reason, you can wait anywhere between 30 seconds and one minute for the loading screen to 
 finish. Worse still, sometimes, the loading bar appears to freeze in one spot for about 20 seconds, 
 which makes you think the game has crashed. I'm sure there's no good reason for this (although 
 Motorstorm has long load times just for the vehicle selection screen and PS3 demos seem to require 
 installing to the hard drive) so I will just put this down to a bad port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The game play.
  It was good but it do have some bugs in the game that it was just not fun at all.
  The loading 
 time were really fast and that what I like about this game. They could have add on more things 
 to this game that makes it different from the PC and 360 but they did't.
  
  The Graphics.
  
  It was just amzaing and breathtaking for a game for the PS3.
  
  Ths Sound.
 
  
  Sound was perfect for a game on the PS3 it sounded like I was shooting something real off.
  
 
  The Value of the game perfect.
  
  the Reviewer's Tilt is just perfect.
  
  So over all if you are looking for a solid shooter for the PS3 I would Buy this or Resistance: 
 Fall of Man.
  
  Thx for reading this. :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
