-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FaceBreaker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/facebreaker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent create-a-boxer options.
 Stylized visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad, button-mashing gameplay.
 Cheap AI.
 Many frustrating ways to lose.
 Very few game modes.
 Feels more like a bad fighting game than a boxing game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 4.3, 186 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Boxing
Date: Sep 3, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FaceBreaker's impressive boxer-customization options are overshadowed by terrible gameplay. 

 
  There have been many great arcade-style boxing games over the years. FaceBreaker is not one of 
 them. It looks pretty good, and the deep customization options mean you'll never want for new brawlers, 
 but those two things are about all this game has going for it. The fighting mechanics are awful, 
 the AI is cheap, it's light on game modes, and most of all, it's not any fun.  

  Creating a boxer using your own photos is easily the game's best feature. You can use a PlayStation 
 Eye, Xbox Vision camera, or download pictures that you've uploaded to easportsworld. com. It takes 
 10 minutes or so to render your face, but the results are worth the wait. Male characters look 
 fantastic and have a number of body types from which to choose. However, females aren't so lucky. 
 There are only a few female body types and long-hair options available, so women typically end 
 up looking pretty rough. If you're willing to put in the time, you can make some truly impressive 
 boxers and share your handiwork online, too. You can also download others' creations -- an excellent 
 feature because some people out there have a knack for making cool brawlers -- most of which are 
 celebrities such as George Bush, Borat, The Joker, Macaulay Culkin, Austin Powers, and Jackie Chan. 

           Boxer-creation options are literally endless thanks to the ability to import photos.  
     

  Unfortunately, there's nothing fun to do with your boxer. The game's particularly light on play 
 modes. The only offline single-player mode, other than a Quick Fight, is Brawl for It All mode, 
 which couldn't be shallower. This is essentially a tournament where you work your way up the ladder, 
 with the goal of winning all five belts. It only takes a long time because the AI is so cheap (more 
 on that later) . Couch Royale mode might sound intriguing, but it's nothing more than a round-robin 
 tournament in which you try to collect the heads (a trophy head; you don't actually rip them off) 
 of your foes. Online play does support leagues, but thanks to the extraordinary advantage gained 
 by the person with the best connection (they seem impossible to stop) , there's little reason to 
 go online in the first place, much less join a league. A lack of game modes really doesn't matter 
 much, though, because FaceBreaker's awful gameplay means you won't want to play long enough to 
 finish Brawl for It All, much less want for more modes.  

  FaceBreaker is more of an ultrafast, very shallow button-mashing fighting game than it is a boxing 
 game. Bouts are three rounds, and you need to knock your opponent down three times to win. If three 
 rounds pass but nobody has been knocked down, the fight goes to sudden death overtime and the first 
 person to be knocked down loses. Overtime is a quick way to end a fight, but it's frustrating to 
 have dominated your opponent in the first three rounds only to go into overtime with basically 
 a level playing field. Controls are simple but often unresponsive. You can unleash high or low 
 punches, a haymaker, and a throw -- that's it. Defensively, you can block and dodge, but you rarely 
 need to do so. Rather, it's easier and more effective to parry punches. Just because a game has 
 simple controls doesn't mean its gameplay can't have some depth, but you'd never know it from playing 
 FaceBreaker. Each of the game's over-the-top fighters has his own style, but this is mostly irrelevant. 
 All you do is mash the buttons to throw punches as fast as possible and mix in the occasional parry. 
 Matches are typically determined by who hits buttons the fastest and who is able to stay out of 
 the corner because once you're backed up against the ropes, you're hosed -- unless you're the CPU. 

  FaceBreaker has some of the most infuriating AI you'll ever experience, and the game is far more 
 frustrating than it is fun. When the CPU decides it's time for you to lose, it'll back you into 
 a corner and absolutely pummel you. No combination of dodging, blocking, or parrying can stop the 
 onslaught -- all you can do is mash buttons and hope for the best. Even when you've managed to grasp 
 the best cheap tactics to beat opponents (cheap moves are the only way to consistently beat many 
 fighters) , they can still crush you in seconds with overpowered facebreaker moves. These are earned 
 by connecting punches in a series and filling a meter. When it's full, you can use a haymaker to 
 send your foe right to the canvas. Once your opponent is down, the game tells you to break his 
 or her face. Then, with the press of a button, you unleash a wild finishing move and essentially 
 break the person's face. Not only does this come off as excessively brutal, but it's an aggravating 
 way to lose a fight -- especially when you're getting obliterated in less than 20 seconds by a monkey 
 in consecutive bouts. The game warns you that you're going to lose a lot, but it's the cheap way 
 in which you lose as well as the seemingly random trial and error nature of the gameplay that often 
 make Facebreaker maddeningly difficult until you figure out some cheap tactic or exploit to use 
 against the CPU.  

           The only thing this game will break is your spirit.      

  The cartoonlike presentation of FaceBreaker is one of its better features. The large, mostly bizarre 
 fighters are nicely animated. Although some pugilists share the same body types and/or fighting 
 styles, there's quite a bit of variety to be found. Generally, they feel different from one another, 
 even if a lot of the character designs are a bit unoriginal. Punches cause real-time damage when 
 they land, but the game moves so quickly that you're not likely to have much time to admire the 
 swollen cheeks and bruises you've caused until the fight is over, which is when a close-up of the 
 vanquished brawler is shown. Audio doesn't fare as well as the visuals. Voice acting is nothing 
 special, and outside the sound of punches landing, there's nothing to hear during a fight.  

  FaceBreaker fails to be engaging in any way. The boxer-customization options are nice, but there's 
 little point in taking the time to create a fighter when the game is so bad that you won't actually 
 want to use him or her in the ring. Don't let the commercials with Snoop Dogg talk you into going 
 toe-to-toe with this stiff.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkmatter12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought FaceBreaker yesterday for $10, and at first glance, I didn't know what to think. It looked 
 like a boxing version of Hot Shots Golf, which intrigued me. When I got home, I popped the disk 
 into my PS3 and started it up. When I first started to play, i immediately realized that this game 
 was pure button mashing, which isn't bad, most of those games are fun, at least for a little while. 
 This game had a pretty steep learning curve, but it is easy to overcome due to the simple controls. 
 The Brawl for it All mode (I think that's what its called) was pretty fun, but I didn't get too 
 far due to the fact that I suck, but it was fun watching the little cut scenes of your opponents 
 badmouthing you before and after the fight. The characters in FaceBreaker were funny, cartoonish 
 and unique, and my favorite has to be Steve, the overweight ninja superhero. The venues in the 
 game are all pretty bland, but I only have 4 or 5 of them, so i dont know about the others. Graphically 
 wise, FaceBreaker is what you expect. I'm still not sure what to think of this game, so I'll give 
 it a 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csista
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game lives up to it's horrible rep. I'm not usually one for bashing games, but this was ridiculous. 
 
  
  I admit to being a button masher, and this was too much even for me. I thought it would be temporary 
 fun, especially for the price I paid for it. It looked like that exaggerated boxing game that Bart 
 and Homer played on that old episode of The Simpsons, so I figured it would give me some entertainment 
 just on a goofy nostalgia level. Nothing. It just made me frustrated. 
  
  I will say, though, that if they cleared up the playability issues for a sequel, this could be 
 a lot of fun. This could have been a really good, really entertaining game. They got the look and 
 attitude right. There was potential here, it was just completely wasted.
  
  The one good thing about this game, is that I paid $5 for it, and traded it in for $10 credit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplord
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Let us start from the beginning. I saw the preview for this game on G4 during this year's E3 convention 
 and I was really intrigued by a new arcade style boxing game. They haven't touched this kind of 
 game since Ready 2 Rumble back in the Dreamcast glory days. As I'm watching the gameplay, I'm thinking 
 to myself wow this game looks awesome. It was fast paced, punches were thrown everywhere and then 
 comes the special combos and I'm like, "Whoa! I can't wait to play this." ......... let's continue, 
 shall we?
  
  The game comes out, (and thank God I decided to rent this first) , I rent it once I got off of work 
 think I'm in for loads of fun. The game gets going and it's cool at first, but one thing after 
 another brings the game down. 
  
  Here's number 1: Square and X are the only punch buttons. I let this slide at first, but it gets 
 more irritating know things are the only buttons you need for dodging, parrying, etc. Button mashing 
 gets old really quick.
  
  Number 2: The incredibly cheap AI. OK, by some trial and error there's almost no simple way of 
 winning. I played on medium first to jump into it with a little challenge. This ninja guy Steve 
 is the worst case of cheap AI, but that's a story for another time. You constantly have to time 
 your button presses, but half the time it doesn't work very well in your favor. Most of the time 
 you will receive a really nasty flurry for your trouble. I then decided to put the game lever on 
 Easy which didn't make much of a difference. So, moving on.
  
  Number 3: Automatic Sudden Death?! I didn't pay attention to this at first. I though I was just 
 getting my butt handed to me and I stopped and realized, "I knocked him down twice!" Come to find 
 out that the 3rd round is an automatic Sudden Death. So, if you were giving your opponent the business 
 like Clubber Lang Vs Rocky, when the 3rd round comes the AI turns into the winning underdog and 
 knocks you out and the fight is over. You can't imagine how many times I cussed out the game. Fair, 
 or no?
  
  Number 4: Lack of gaming modes. Aside from unlocking other boxers, there's not much you can really 
 do. They don't have many different ways to play and Online really doesn't make it all that interesting 
 either.
  
  In the end, I all I can give this game good points for is idea. The rest of the game lacked so 
 I say this to you, EA Sports. Close, but no cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Realist
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has one word: wow.
  
  Facebreaker is the worst thing EA has to offer. EA Sports Freestyle is having a very bad start 
 with Facebreaker. If EA Freestyle can't hurry and make another "Street" game, EA Freestyle will 
 be gone just like EA Chicago.
  
  Facebreaker had good music but gameplay is bad. Difficulty is insane... even on Easy. Brawl For 
 It All is tough even on a easy difficulty or not. Button Mashing, cartoony graphics, and online 
 glitch where game freezes after choosing boxer which sometimes result as a win or loss automatically.
 
  
  I'd rather expect a better game from EA Sports Freestyle.
  
  Overall: The game is awful. Don't buy or rent. Give the arcade boxing skills to Midway. Ready 2 
 Rumble was good enough.
  
  If you're looking for a game to smack the taste out of someone's big mouth, trust me, it's not 
 this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Martyr
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  I like to think of Facebreaker as irony: the company responsible for giving us the best boxing 
 game has also created the worst. Yet at the same time, begs the question on how a game this idiot 
 simple can hold so much frustration within.
  
  This is clearly one of those games that when you win, you feel no satisfaction, but when you lose, 
 you feel very cheated. Mostly due to the way the standard rules are set for the game. For one, 
 you have three bouts of 90 second matches, in which either fails to get three knockdowns in that 
 manner, a sudden death becomes the fourth match in which the winner is declared on that specific 
 bout. 
  
  What's frustrating about this particular rule set is that the very short time limit combined with 
 the agressive opponents never give you any opportunity to win a round with your control. In other 
 words, in every match I've won, I never once felt like I've earned my knockout. Every facebreaker 
 I've pulled off or any combo I landed made me feel like I was cheating to win.
  
  Sadly, it's the only way to succeed in this game. You can wail on your opponent until his health 
 meter turns red, but since it replenishes each time you don't land any hits, you're forced to resort 
 to every cheap tactic in the fighting game book to get a win in such a short manner.
  
  But, then there's the sudden death round if you fail to knock your opponent down three times. In 
 this round, it's all about who gets lucky first. Imagine the disgust one would feel when during 
 all three rounds he was the dominating force, two knockdowns, in good condition, only to lose the 
 entire match because he got knocked down once during the last round. 
  
  Brawl For It All, the game's "career mode," seems pointless. Opponents seem more agressive than 
 normal, one loss can lead the player restarting from the top of the ladder to the bottom again, 
 and offers no real rewards unless they really want new venues that bad. New fighters can be obtained 
 by simply playing exibition matches over and over, and seems to be the only way of ejoying this 
 game. Here, you can customize the speed of punches, the time limit, and the number of bouts. The 
 Fight Night rules seem to be the best, mostly because it's the only mode that makes this game actually 
 feel like a boxing game.
  
  With the cartoony violence and toddler friendly controls, it's one of those games I bring with 
 me when I have to watch over kids. I am seriously confident that I can pop this game in and put 
 the controller in their hands, and they won't once bother me with questions on how to play the 
 game. Because the only enjoyment I can see out of Facebreaker is two people goofing off together 
 trying to see who can annoy each other the most.
  
  Honestly, with the meager content and shallow gameplay, Facebreaker just feels like it should have 
 been a $20 Live Arcade or PSN download instead of a full priced game. If you've played the demo, 
 you've just about played everything the entire game has to offer without warranting such a regretful 
 purchase. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'll start with what I was expecting. I thought this was gonna be a humorous, freak-styled 
 punch 'em game with some unique, bizarre characters. Sound fun? Well, its NOT!! The game play is 
 absolutely horrible. If they were two ad a little skill level, better moves, and techniques and 
 what not this would be a totally different game. This would be a good game. But with the choppy 
  moves you're really limited to having no fun at all with this 
 one. Not even a little fun. The game blows people. Don't even waste your money renting it!!! 
 
  Wait! This game does have a very interesting redeeming quality. The character customization. You 
 can use the EYETOY to take and upload a pic of yourself or whoever you wanna punch the hell out 
 of and place the face on a pretty large number of boxers. Then you choose hair, color, clothes, 
 etc. Stretch the face to completely change your appearance from normal to demonic or alien or whatever. 
 This is actually a pretty awesome feature. In fact, if this were just a game where you get to upload 
 your face and change your appearence it'd probably get a perfect ten. But its not. Its SUPPOSED 
 to be a freakin boxing game. But its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teb60
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm guessing now that these days our real and true gamers are now becoming one with the time... 
 By saying that I mean come one people games are so easy to beat now or are all on the same premise, 
 and now they bring us something totally different something that i would like to say is "ball breaking" 
 as some of my friends may say, "I love this game" just had to put that out there. It's the button 
 masher that we've all been waiting on because in the end its mostly about strategy and rhythm and 
 just because you mind isn't fast enough and u don't have any rhythm doesn't give reviewers leverage 
 to just comment any type of way; I really claim to be a true gamer, i would like to commend this 
 developing team for coming up w/ this crazy scheme; what other game is really giving you the personalization 
 of your character like this game does, and then you get to pummel and i do mean pummel any character 
 your heart desires to download; "shoot do what I did get a picture of your boss or someone whose 
 wrecked havoc on your nerves, cause you know you have a picture of them or can at least get a head 
 shot of that person put their personalized character on the game and whoop the mess out of them", 
 its a great stress reliever and its really fun too; I like this face breakers game. Okay no there 
 aren't any multiple modes but you only expect that out of a game like fight night when you actually 
 have to train to improve your fighter, well in this game the fighters are all different and fight 
 differently and any one of them can beat the other its all about strategy and rhythm.... If you 
 are a real gamer like myself you will want to get this game, "GET THIS GAME"!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokeydodongo
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Awards:
  Worst Boxing Game Ever.
  Worst Fighting Game Ever.
  Worst Game where a character wore boxing gloves or shorts for that matter.
  Worst Game to Feature 
 a Russian Character.
  Worst game that requires less than four buttons to dominate.
  Worst Game that wasn't sold at Burger King (although I'm pretty sure those were more fun than this 
 but hey I don't name the awards)
  Best Waste of Money.
  Worst Game Ever.
  Best Reason to Play Castle Crashers.
  Best Reason to Give up Gaming.
  Best Reason to Fire your 
 Game devs.
  Best Reason to Fire an entire Game dev department.
  Seriously this game shouldn't be played by anyone if you think that it is fun than you have a malfunctioning 
 funometer you should get that looked at. If you payed for this game than I truly feel sorry for 
 you I would tell you to try to return the game or sell it yourself to some hapless yokel (see above) 
 but really this is more important than the money burn your copy burn it right now if we all come 
 together we can wipe this curse from our world... until next time... you know when EA wants to release 
 their next crap title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majere613
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  So, Facebreaker. If, like me, you played the demo and thought it looked sort of interesting, you're 
 probably wondering whether to take the plunge and buy the full game. The short answer is- no. The 
 long answer is- try to get someone else to pay for it..
  
  With any fighter, be it boxing, 2D or 3D Tekken-style, there's two basic types of play, vs a human 
 or vs the CPU. Facebreaker's biggest problem is it can't decide what to go for and falls straight 
 down the gaping chasm in the middle. If beating the tar out of a cpu opponent is your bag, you'll 
 mostly have to play the Brawl For It All mode, where you face boxers in a set sequence in a bid 
 to conquer venues and win belts. Sadly, however, rather than make this a proper gamemode in its 
 own right, the developers have chosen to make the mode a sort of glorified tutorial. So once you 
 get a few fights in, you'll face opponents who will beat you like a government mule until you twig 
 the single strategy that you're meant to use to beat them. Helpfully, the game will tell you what 
 to do before your third try. Unhelpfully, it then kicks you back one match if you lose again.
 
  
  The effect of this boneheaded design decision is devastating. If you struggle to get used to the 
 exacting timing needed for one opponent, you soon find yourself facing the previous one again, 
 often needing a radically different playstyle. Lose to them, and back you go again. And given that 
 a basic punch combination in Facebreaker is delivered by hammering a single button at the speed 
 of a hummingbird's wingbeat, fatigue and frustration set in fast.
  
  Facebreaker's core boxing engine is actually quite good and fairly deep. There are dodges, blocks, 
 parries, power attacks and throws, and the defensive system feels natural and is easy to pick up. 
 Some characters are of such radically different sizes that a 'low' punch looks high or vice versa, 
 but that's not a problem unique to the game. And those characters are at least pretty diverse and 
 get messed up well by repeated punches. Between rounds, you see the fighters shaking out the cobwebs 
 in the corner, which can be amusing, and there are pre- and post-match talking heads which add 
 character. The ditzy ring-girl is probably a love-hate thing.
  
  One thing that deserves a mention is the vaunted 'boxer factory', which allows you to take a face 
 and map it onto a boxer body. It's an amusing idea, but the available outfits are very limited 
 (you basically just change the color and texture) and created boxers look very odd compared to 
 the ready-made ones. Ladies will find the choice of only two female boxers to work with very limiting, 
 especially since one is effectively a midget and makes your character look about 12. There's usually 
 only one special ability setting one boxer apart from another anyway, so it's all in the cosmetics 
 and they're not up to much.
  
  Multiplayer is well supported, with a few modes and online play. I've not tried it myself, but 
 given that the timing in Facebreaker is extremely tight, I would expect any lag at all to be utterly 
 fatal to the game online. Then again, I've not yet played an online fighter that I thought worked, 
 so if you find Tekken or SC4 work that way for you, it may be worth a look. In the end though, 
 Facebreaker is a characterful, good-looking game, crippled by some terrible design decisions and 
 a much-hyped feature that actually adds very little to it. Rent or avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  So begins September, and the massive run up to the Christmas season, we have tons of brilliant stuff 
 to look forward to in the coming months for PS3, nfortunately things kick off with this highly 
 tepid arcade boxer reminisant of Ready 2 Rumble.
  
  Facebreaker is the most unsatisfying sports title this year so far, and unless EA bring out a game 
 based on curling, it will probably stay the most unsatisfying and dull sports title of 2008.
  
  The game is aimed at the growing casual market - which for a start I hate, as though it's positively 
 expanding the industry, it is shooting itself several times in the foot by releasing more and more 
 unsatisfactory titles for the hardcore gaming hobbyists. EA's new branch Freestyle is the new casual 
 gaming division of the company and this is their debut game. Not a very promising one really.
 
  
  For a casual game it's considerably difficult to land a hit or perform any sort of manouver on 
 anyone and the controls are unwelcoming and the AI is unforgiving. This is Facebreaker main problem, 
 its lack of accessibility toward it's target audience. And once you have sussed out the controls, 
 the actually boxing is very underwhelming.
  
  There is a lack of power or any brutality within a punch, I know it's a kid's game but there has 
 to be some kind of force there, the feeling of knocking someone out, it just isn't there. The fighting 
 feels flimsy and very like a cardboard cut out scrap.
  
  The character design is also very generic and very dull, there is no one I haven't ever seen in 
 another game somewhere else. There's your tough black guy, your moody blonde, your rocker chick, 
 and your fat fighter which is obviously an attempt at trying hilarious and stating fat people can 
 fight and look funny whilst doing so. And there's another generic tough black guy.
  
  Graphically it is visually interesting, with rings looking very colourful and alive. As in the 
 cave ring where your see crabs scutting about ringside, and there is a lot of attention to detail. 
 But unlike what was suggested previously, a punch does not morph a boxers face and therefore kind 
 of defeats what the game initially went out to do - create a fun boxing game.
  
  There is a very in depth character creation mode called Boxer Factory, which yet again, is far 
 too complicated for the target audience, even I got confused. There is too much to change and still 
 once you've completed your character it looks shoddy in comparison to the games main boxers unlike 
 Soul Calibur 4 which has a brilliant customisation mode. They've basically cut and paste the Create-A-Golfer 
 Mode from Tiger Woods into this game.
  
  Overall Facebreaker is Gamebroken. Nothing balances and the controls are over complicated and unaccesible 
 towards the casual market. Nothing about this game has or leaves any impact and everything feels 
 very flimsy. A totally lacklustre and underwhelming fighting game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
