-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/fallout3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Freedom to explore what you want, when you want.
 Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways.
 VATS combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters.
 Outstanding art design makes for a desolate DC.
 Rewarding mixture of excitement and atmospheric exploration.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story and characters can feel a bit sterile.
 Combat feels mildly clunky.
 Marked aliasing and other visual blemishes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.1, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 3,468 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fallout 3 is a profoundly engrossing role-playing game just waiting to reveal its deep, dark mysteries. 
 "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Fallout 3 Review for 
 PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Kevin VanOrd uses V. A. T. S to get through GameSpot's video review of Fallout 3 (may contain spoilers) . 
       Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Freedom to explore what you 
 want, when you want  &nbsp;      Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying 
 ways  &nbsp;      VATS combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters  &nbsp; 
      Outstanding art design makes for a desolate DC  &nbsp;      Rewarding mixture of excitement 
 and atmospheric exploration.                The Bad            The story and characters can feel 
 a bit sterile  &nbsp;      Combat feels mildly clunky  &nbsp;      Marked aliasing and other visual 
 blemishes.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?         
       Update:  Trophy Support    Posted: Feb 2, 2009 5:26 pm PT      Not to be outdone by the Xbox 
 360 games achievements system, the PS3 version of Fallout 3 now features trophy support. There 
 are no fewer than  51 trophies  introduced with the free version 1.1 update, including a platinum 
 one that can only be earned by first getting the other 50. This update also fixes a number of bugs. 
 &nbsp;               

  A lot of games make a big deal out of player choice, but few in recent memory offer so many intricate, 
 meaningful ways of approaching any given situation. You fulfill or dash the spiritual hopes of 
 an idyllic society, side with slavers or their slaves, and decide the fate of more than one city 
 over the course of your postapocalyptic journey through the Washington, DC wasteland. Your actions 
 have far-reaching consequences that affect not just the world around you but also the way you play, 
 and it's this freedom that makes Fallout 3 worth playing -- and replaying. It's deep and mesmerizing, 
 and though not as staggeringly broad as the developer's previous games, it's more focused and vividly 
 realized.  

           Welcome to the wasteland.      

  This focus is obvious from the first hour of the game, in which character creation and story exposition 
 are beautifully woven together. It's an introduction best experienced on your own rather than described 
 in detail here, but it does set up Fallout 3's framework: It's the year 2277, and you and your 
 father are residents of Vault 101, one of many such constructs that shelter the earth's population 
 from the dangers of postnuclear destruction. When dad escapes the vault without so much as a goodbye, 
 you go off in search of him, only to find yourself snagged in a political and scientific tug of 
 war that lets you change the course of the future. As you make your way through the decaying remnants 
 of the District and its surrounding areas (you'll visit Arlington, Chevy Chase, and other suburban 
 locales) , you encounter passive-aggressive ghouls, a bumbling scientist, and an old Fallout friend 
 named Harold who has, well, a lot on his mind. Another highlight is a diminutive collective of 
  Lord of the Flies -esque refugees who reluctantly welcome you into their society, assuming that 
 you play your cards right.  

  The city is also one of Fallout 3's stars. It's a somber world out there, in which a crumbling 
 Washington Monument stands watch over murky green puddles and lurching beasts called mirelurks. 
 You'll discover new quests and characters while exploring, of course, but traversing the city is 
 rewarding on its own, whether you decide to explore the back rooms of a cola factory or approach 
 the heavily guarded steps of the Capitol building. In fact, though occasional silly asides and 
 amusing dialogue provide some humorous respite, it's more serious than previous Fallout games. 
 It even occasionally feels a bit stiff and sterile, thus diminishing the sense of emotional connection 
 that would give some late-game decisions more poignancy. Additionally, the franchise's black humor 
 is present but not nearly as prevalent, though Fallout 3 is still keenly aware of its roots. The 
 haughty pseudogovernment called the Enclave and the freedom fighters known as the Brotherhood of 
 Steel are still powerful forces, and the main story centers around concepts and objectives that 
 Fallout purists will be familiar with.  

  Although some of that trademark Bethesda brittleness hangs in the air, the mature dialogue (it's 
 a bit unnerving but wholly authentic the first time you hear 8-year-olds muttering expletives) 
 and pockets of backstory make for a compelling trek. There are more tidbits than you could possibly 
 discover on a single play-through. For example, a skill perk (more on these later) will enable 
 you to extract information from a lady of the evening, information that in turn sheds new light 
 on a few characters -- and lets you complete a story quest in an unexpected way. A mission to find 
 a self-realized android may initiate a fascinating look at a futuristic Underground Railroad but 
 a little side gossiping might let you lie your way to quest completion. There aren't as many quests 
 as you may expect, but their complexity can be astonishing. Just be sure to explore them fully 
 before pushing the story forward: Once it ends, the game is over, which means that you'll need 
 to revert to an earlier saved game if you intend to explore once you finishe the main quest.  

 
  Thus choices are ruled only by your own sense of propriety and the impending results. For every 
 "bad" decision you make (break into someone's room, sacrifice a soldier to save your own hide) , 
 your karma goes down; if you do something "good" (find a home for an orphan, give water to a beggar) , 
 your karma goes up. These situations trigger more consequences: Dialogue choices open up, others 
 close off, and your reputation will delight some while antagonizing others. For example, a mutant 
 with a heart of gold will join you as a party member, but only if your karma is high enough, whereas 
 a brigand requires you to be on the heartless side. Even in the last moments of the game, you are 
 making important choices that will be recounted to you during the ending scene, similar to the 
 endings in the previous Fallout games. There are loads of different ending sequences depending 
 on how you completed various quests, and the way they are patched together into a cohesive epilogue 
 is pretty clever.  

  Fallout 3 remains true to the series character development system, using a similar system of attributes, 
 skills, and perks, including the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system from previous games for your attributes, 
 such as strength, perception, and endurance. From there, you can specialize in a number of skills, 
 from heavy weapons and lock-picking to item repairing and terminal hacking. You will further invest 
 in these skills each time you level, and you'll also choose an additional perk. Perks offer a number 
 of varied enhancements that can be both incredibly helpful and a bit creepy. You could go for the 
 ladykiller perk, which opens up dialogue options with some women and makes others easier to slay. 
 Or the cannibal perk, which lets you feed off of fallen enemies to regain health at the risk of 
 grossing out anyone who glimpses this particularly nasty habit. Not all of them are so dramatic, 
 but they're important aspects of character development that can create fascinating new options. 

           The VATS system makes for some awesome-looking battles.      

  Although you can play from an odd-looking third-person perspective (your avatar looks like he or 
 she is skating over the terrain) , Fallout 3 is best played from a first-person view. Where combat 
 is concerned, you will play much of the game as if it is a first-person shooter, though awkwardly 
 slow movement and camera speeds mean that you'll never confuse it for a true FPS. Armed with any 
 number of ranged and melee weapons, you can bash and shoot attacking dogs and random raiders in 
 a traditional manner. Yet even with its slight clunkiness, combat is satisfying. Shotguns (including 
 the awesome sawed-off variant) have a lot of oomph, plasma rifles leave behind a nice pile of goo, 
 and hammering a mutant's head with the giant and cumbersome supersledge feels momentously brutal. 
 Just be prepared to maintain these implements of death: Weapons and armor will gradually lose effectiveness 
 and need repairing. You can take them to a specialist for fixing, but you can also repair them 
 yourself, as long as you have another of the same item. It's heartbreaking to break a favored weapon 
 while fending off supermutants, but it reinforces the notion that everything you do in Fallout 
 3, even shooting your laser pistol, has consequences.  

  These aspects keep Fallout 3 from being a run-and-gun affair, and you shouldn't expect to play 
 it as one. This is because the most satisfying and gory moments of battle are products of the Vault-Tec 
 Assisted Targeting System, or VATS. This system is a throwback to the action-point system of previous 
 Fallout games, in that it lets you pause the action, spend action points by targeting a specific 
 limb on your enemy, and watch the bloody results unfold in slow motion. You aren't guaranteed a 
 hit, though you can see how likely you are to strike any given limb and how much damage your attack 
 might do. But landing a hit in VATS is immensely gratifying: The camera swoops in for a dramatic 
 view, your bullet will zoom toward its target, and your foe's head might burst in a shocking explosion 
 of blood and brains. Or perhaps you will blow his limb completely off, sending an arm flying into 
 the distance -- or launch his entire body into oblivion.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Fallout 3 Review for PlayStation 3 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   
 function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   GameFAQs :  The top 10 most tiring games    //               GAMES:    
  GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome 
     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search                       
         iPhone Gaming:  With over 8000 games on the iPhone, we decided...               Terminator 
 Salvation Q&amp; A:  Producer Per Juhlen explains...               Fallout 3: Broken Steel DLC Q&amp; A: 
  Designer Al Nanes...               X-Men Origins: Wolverine Launch Center:  Hes the best... 
                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS    
     community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports     
  tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top 
 Games     All PS3 Games     PlayStation Network     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark 
            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                          
              Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg              
                 Fallout 3 Review          

 Fallout 3 is a profoundly engrossing role-playing game just waiting to reveal its deep, dark mysteries. 
                The Good            Freedom to explore what you want, when you want  &nbsp;     
  Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways  &nbsp;      VATS 
 combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters  &nbsp;      Outstanding art 
 design makes for a desolate DC  &nbsp;      Rewarding mixture of excitement and atmospheric exploration. 
                The Bad            The story and characters can feel a bit sterile  &nbsp;      
 Combat feels mildly clunky  &nbsp;      Marked aliasing and other visual blemishes.            
           After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy 
 Support    Posted: Feb 2, 2009 5:26 pm PT      Not to be outdone by the Xbox 360 games achievements 
 system, the PS3 version of Fallout 3 now features trophy support. There are no fewer than  51 trophies 
  introduced with the free version 1.1 update, including a platinum one that can only be earned 
 by first getting the other 50. This update also fixes a number of bugs. &nbsp;               

 
   

  This anatomically based damage is implemented well. Shooting an Enclave soldier's arm may cause 
 him to drop his weapon, shooting his leg will cause him to limp, and a headshot will disorient 
 him. But you aren't immune to these effects, either. If your head takes enough damage, you'll need 
 to deal with disorienting aftereffects; crippled arms mean reduced aiming ability. Fortunately, 
 you can apply healing stimpacks locally to heal the injury; likewise, a little sleep will help 
 ease your troubles. You can also temporarily adjust your stats using any number of aids and healing 
 items. Yet these, too, come with consequences. A little scotch or wine sounds delicious and offers 
 temporary stat boosts, but you can become addicted if you drink them enough, which results in its 
 own disorienting visual effects. And, of course, you will need to deal with the occasional effects 
 of radiation, which is a problem when you drink from dirty water sources or eat irradiated food. 
 Radiation poisoning can be cured, but you'll still need to weigh the healing benefits of certain 
 items versus the resultant increase in radiation levels.  

           Quests are often more than meets the eye.      

  This all makes for a remarkably complex 
 game that's further deepened by other elements that add some gameplay variety and help the world 
 feel more lived-in. Lock-picking initiates a decent, if odd, minigame that simulates applying torque 
 to the lock with a screwdriver while twisting a bobby pin. The hacking minigame is an interesting 
 word puzzle that requires a little bit of brainpower. Or if you fancy yourself more of a blacksmith 
 than a wordsmith, you can earn and purchase schematics to help you create weapons using the various 
 components scattered around the land. More of an interior decorator? No matter: Should you acquire 
 the deed to an apartment, you can decorate it and even outfit it with a few helpful appliances. 
 The jokester robot comes free.  

  Although you'll be spending much of your time wandering alone out in the wastes, or perhaps with 
 a companion or two, there are some memorable cinematic sequences. You will join soldiers as they 
 take on a giant boss mutant, spearhead an assault on a famous DC landmark, and escape from a doomed 
 citadel while robots and soldiers fill the air with laser fire. It's a good mix, paying off the 
 atmospheric tension with an occasional explosive release. Your enemies put up a good fight -- often 
 too good, considering that enemies that were a challenge early on can still be tough cookies 5 
 or 10 levels later. This scaling difficulty makes your sense of progression feel a bit more limited 
 than in other role-playing games, but it feels somewhat appropriate, considering the game's open-ended 
 nature and inhospitable world. After all, if skulking mutants weren't a constant threat, you wouldn't 
 be afraid to peek into the dark corners of the Fallout world. It should be noted that unlike previous 
 games in the series, you cant take a completely peaceful approach to solving your quest. In order 
 to complete the game, you will have to get into combat and kill off some enemies, but since the 
 combat system is generally pretty satisfying, this shouldnt be a serious problem for most players. 

  Fallout 3 takes place in a bombed-out, futuristic version of Washington DC, and in the game, the 
 area is bleak but oddly serene. Crumbling overpasses loom overhead and optimistic 1950's-style 
 billboards advertise their products with sunny catchphrases. It looks impressive, and you move 
 around the wide-open wasteland with nary a loading time, though you will encounter loads when entering 
 and exiting buildings or quick-jumping to areas you've already visited. Numerous set-piece landmarks 
 are particularly ominous, such as a giant aircraft carrier that serves as a self-contained city, 
 or the decrepit interiors of the National Air and Space Museum. But the small touches are just 
 as terrific, such as explosions that produce mushroom-like clouds of flame and smoke, evoking the 
 nuclear tragedy at the heart of Fallout 3's concept. Character models are more lifelike than in 
 the developer's prior efforts but still move somewhat stiffly, lacking the expressiveness of the 
 models in games such as Mass Effect.  

  It's a shame, in light of these impressive design elements, that the PlayStation 3 version is shockingly 
 inferior to the others from a technical perspective. Although the Xbox 360 and PC versions display 
 the occasional visual oddity and bland texture, these nitpicks are easy to overlook. Sadly, the 
 jagged edges, washed-out lighting, and slightly diminished draw distance of the PS3 release aren't 
 so easy to dismiss. We also experienced a number of visual bugs on the PS3. Character faces disappeared 
 several times, leaving only eyeballs and hair; limbs on robots went missing; some character models 
 had an odd outline around them as if they were cel-shaded; and the day-to-night transition may 
 cause odd streaks on the screen as you move the camera around. This version doesn't even offer 
 trophies, whereas the Xbox 360 and PC versions offer Xbox Live/Windows Live achievements.  

           While there is plenty of somber exploration, you'll still find lots of action.      
 

  Aside from a few PS3-specific sound quirks, the audio in every version is marvelous. Most of the 
 voice acting is great, some sleepy-sounding performances notwithstanding. Any game's atmosphere 
 can live or die by its ambient audio, and Fallout 3 rises to the challenge. The whistling of the 
 wind and the far-off sound of a gunshot are likely to give you a chill, and the slow-motion groans 
 and crunch of a baseball bat meeting a ghoul's face sound wonderfully painful. If you get lonely 
 and want some company, you can listen to a couple of radio stations, though the frequent repetition 
 of the songs and announcements grates after a while. The soundtrack is fine, though it's a bit 
 overwrought considering the desolate setting. Luckily, its default volume is very low, so it doesn't 
 get in the way.  

  No matter what platform you own, you should play Fallout 3, which overcomes its issues by offering 
 a deep and involving journey through a world that's hard to forget. It has more in common with 
 Bethesda's Elder Scrolls series than with previous Fallout games, but that is by no means a bad 
 thing. In fact, Fallout 3 is leaner and meaner than Bethesda's previous efforts, less expansive 
 but more intense, while still offering immense replay value and quite a few thrills along the way. 
 Whether you're a newcomer to the universe or a Fallout devotee, untold hours of mutated secrets 
 are lurking in the darkest corners of Washington.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (215 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pat12kenny
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  Fallout3 is an action RPG from bethesda other games they have made include elder scrolls 4 and 
 morrowind. Fallout places you in vault 101 where you get to creat your character for the first 
 hour or so when he/she is created you get to play as a baby a 10 year old then you take the G. O. A. T 
 to determine what your carer will be. 3 years on yor dad escapees vault 101 and the vault is thrown 
 int chaos. you escape the vault with the help of your Amata. The capital wasteland awaits you as 
 you exit vault 101 its very bleak and their isnt anyboby insight but you have to search the nearby 
 town of megaton for clues on where to find your father. Its here that you meet a man named colin 
 moriarty who has some information on the where abouts of your dad but its not free you need to 
 do a job or two foe colin. The gameplay is solid the only complaint i have is the game is very 
 glitchy and the story takes off quite slow. Fallout is must own for RPG fans and FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fz1994
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  The best way to always go was in the subway tunnels which are freaky!@
  The graphics are pretty awesome but the way he walks is retarted...
  The game is 100% unwinnable 
 without a guide or help
  everything is too expensive without the game
  the story is nice and totally unexcepectable!
  Game is worth buying if you really like suspense, 
 getting ambushed all the time from darkness and getting heart attacks , seeing monsters blow up 
 and heads exploding. the annoying this is you have a carry limit you cant carry lots of stuff at 
 the same time that sucks... After playing for a while you can have your own house with a robot sevrvant 
 which is awesome! and you can decorate your house although its a pile of junk! The story is about 
 your dad running away from the vault which you have been living in and you following him through 
 the wasteland of USA!
  Seeing mutated people and giant Mole rats!
  Its fun! But not always! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:21 am PT
Review:  This is a game to be lived. In this very time we are living, far from the fear of being erased 
 from earth via nuclear war (A false sense of security by the way) this game feels just right. 
 
  I have played it with some friends of mine. All of them enjoyed the visual show. Just amazing. 
 Sometimes it feels a bit repetitive, but, trust me, never boring. Whole 50 or so square kms to 
 be explored. Even bigger than Oblivion. And the level design (Well I mean in an open enviroment 
 like this you can go through many different missions at your pace) is just amazing. It really traps 
 you in and does not free you till the end of the game. Even there you will find yourself asking 
 for more (And I am not one who likes replaying games)
  Simply one of the finest looking adventures I've had the honor of witnessing.
  Again I have to 
 congratulate Bethesda for risking with projects like this. World is a better place with you in 
 it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the tale of the world after the Great Nuclear War. All that is left of our former 
 capital, Washington D. C. , is the Capital Wasteland, our new home. 
  
  We begin life inside the confines of Vault 101 as a baby. We develop our characters' specializations 
 and personalities. 
  We celebrate a birthday, get a Pip Boy 3000, take the G. O. A. T. , and get our first weapon...
 
  
  And then Dad freaks out and leaves the Vault for some reason...
  Where did he go? Why did he leave? Why did he leave me? What the hell is going? 
  
  You fight 
 your way out of Vault 101 and enter the Capital Wasteland... the closest city is Megaton, a city 
 with a live nuclear bomb, in its center. You're looking for dad, but there's this whole world out 
 there to explore too...
  
  The Wasteland is full of evil. There are Super Mutants, Deathclaws, Radscopions, Raiders, Slavers, 
 and then some really random things like, The Ant King...
  
  There are other Vaults to explore too... Vault Tech Bobbleheads to collect...
  
  Take over the 
 airwaves and meet legendary DJ, Three Dog, on his downtown D. C. located, Galaxy News Radio. Meet 
 the Brotherhood of Steel. Or, their exiled Outcast brethren... So 
  many possibilities...
  
  Who is John Henry Eden? Is there really such thing as a real, living tree out there? Who are 
 the Enclave?
  
  What I've described only scratches the surface of all that is Fallout 3... the world is a genuinely 
 interesting world to explore. There are so many things to collect. Like Nuka Cola Quantum. You 
 can use the Quantum to make powerful weapons like a Nuka Grenade... genius! 
  
  Combat is handled from a 1st person perspective with Vault Tech Assisted Targeting (VATS) . VATS 
 allows you to stop time and target enemies' body parts when attacking. You can zoom and shoot in 
 real time, at any time, but can also use VATS if you have enough Action Points. I like the VATS 
 system. It allows me to enjoy the combat a lot more. 
  
  So yeah, the world is HUGE, it is interesting to explore, and it is full of main quests and side 
 quests and overall exploration. It encourages exploration by offering trophies for completing side 
 quests and collecting valuable items. 
  
  I've beaten this game once on the PS3, once on the Xbox 360 (with Operation Anchorage) , and am 
 working on getting the platinum trophy in the future. This time I'm going to play on the hardest 
 difficulty. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks good and runs well. I had it freeze on me once in 50 hours of play. 
 The required patch when you start the game seems to have cleared up any problems that were reported 
 at launch. I had no freezing when people came up on my Friends List. 
  
  I'm hoping that a Game of the Year Edition of Fallout 3, with full optimization, a la: Oblivion, 
 is released sometime in the next 18 months. I'll gladly buy that game again.
  
  I bemoan the lack of DLC, for now at least, but that shouldn't take anything away from the core 
 experience. A 150+ hour core experience I'm talking about here...
  
  People, this game is a classic. And in my opinion ranks top 3 all-time, with Final Fantasy VII 
 and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic being the two others, for best RPG. 
  
  If you have a PS3 and are even remotely interested in RPG's, shooters, interesting stories, immense 
 replay ability, and/or trophy hoarding, you owe it yourself to add Fallout 3 to your collection. 
 
  
  If I wasn't such a Metal Gear Solid nut, this would've hands down been my GOTY. Instead, it's a 
 tie with Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arconic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing game. This game is truly one of the best RPGs ever created along with the 
 amazing combat system and the tons and tons of content and not to mention how much the karma and 
 choice system can affect how the game plays out and how it will end. (Spoiler) The game starts you 
 out great with choices such as giving the caker and old lady gave you for your birthday to a smart 
 ass bully to killing your best friends father (End of Spoiler) . The story is well driven and although 
 the main story length is short, and its extra quests are just a few in comparison you its Oblivion 
 counterpart, the way in which you can play each and every quest will make you want to replay it 
 until youve expirienced every single thing. The world of post-apocalyptic washington DC or the 
 "Capital Wasteland" is a beautiful and aminous world where you can save the inhabitants from certain 
 destruction or save a scarce humanity. The sight of gory explosions of your enemies body parts 
 falling off or their entire body exploding will leave you laughing siniterly while you plan your 
 next evil plan. The chills and the... amazement you feel when you look at the crumbling washington 
 monument will make you feel the impact of the apocalyptic world that you ( or your character) live 
 in. The amount of weapons is amazing. From an average assault rifle to a rocket launcher that fires 
 mini-nukes, you will probably not go through one playthrough using all the avilable weapons, not 
 to mention the loads of available armor. This is definitely a game that all RPG lovers should have 
 in their collections. Dont forget your nukes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzbegner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have it, buy it. This is a game that everyone should play. It can be played as a 3rd 
 person or 1st person shooter, but its better as 1st. This game takes place in the capital wasteland 
 of DC ruins and there is so much to do you will forget to go to work or head to school. You take 
 the role of either a male or female and follow your dad out of the secure vault that has kept you 
 safe from the wastes. When you enter the wastes you will be confronted to make morale descisons 
 that will determine how the ending turns out and how people treat you. There are a massive amount 
 of weapons to choose from. From the combat knife to the fat man you will never get bored with the 
 weapons. You can even build your own weapons out of junk in the wastelands. Lets not forget about 
 the new VATS system that lets you target your enemy as the game pauses. You can select different 
 body parts and what will hit them based on the % chance that you will hit. The VATS system can 
 offer some very epic bloody deaths and will be satifying every you do it. Overall, except for the 
 once in a while game freeze, this is a great game for the PS3 and you should own it PERIOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  For starters, Bethesda did manage to make this more of an RPG than Oblivion was, and that is indeed 
 commendable. As this game truly excells at that and makes for a solid playthrough. Unfortunately, 
 for being an RPG, I found the replayability to be void. As the lifeless characters with horrible 
 animations, dry story and barren wastelend takes it's toll on you after you beat it the first time. 
 By the way, you cannot even continue your character after you beat the game. Even Oblivion let's 
 you do that, not to mention the world and quests are far more interesting and engaging.
  
  Graphics at least on the PS3 version are a bit washed out and the draw distance is fairly muffled 
 as well. Considering the bang up job that Bethesda did with Oblivion on the PS3, to say this is 
 suprising would be an understatement. Aside from that though, the gameplay is fun and framerate 
 is smooth enough most of the time. I admit, using the V. A. T. S. system is extremely satisfying, 
 even if it makes the game feel a bit too easy at times. Very fun though, but still not enough to 
 make me put the kind of hours in like I did with Oblivion. Fallout 3 may be more of an RPG, but 
 Oblivion sure as hell had more replayability, horrible level scaling and all.
  
  All in all, it was a very fun game, but a highly overrated one in my view. When I buy an RPG, I 
 usually expect to play it through multiple times. However, in the case of Fallout 3, I just had 
 no desire to even beat it twice. As I could only stand to make it about half way through my second 
 playthrough before I was just bored to tears. Bring on The Elder Scrolls 5 please, Bethesda.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  This game is based on a time after a nuclear bomb. You get to escape from a closed hidden area 
 to the wasteland. A place where no one ever enters... and no one ever leaves.
  
  In the beginning when you are born... you get to choose how you look like when you are older. After 
 that you will spend sometime as a baby in the so far happy Vault 101, after that as a little kid 
 where you get to have your birthday party, and then as a teenager where you will get your first 
 weapon. After that you are fully-grown.
  
  This game really feels like a real adventure, because you can choose if you are a good or evil 
 character, or something in the middle by playing the game further and making decisions. The wasteland 
 is huge (atleast over 50sq kilometres?) and there are lot of interesting places to explore. There 
 are though bugs because of the big area. The wasteland is full with scary monsters born by the radiation 
 of the bomb and you can't avoid the gore. :)
  You can choose if you wish to play in First person or third person (and change it any time you 
 want) , so that problem is solved right away.
  
  There are many side quests in addition to the main story, that can be completed whenever you want 
 (if you have the access to the place) .
  
  One thing worth mentioning is the shooting. You get to stop the game and choose, which body part 
 to aim at. You can't of course do this all the time though. I would say the shooting still consists 
 of this pretty much. But it's cool, because you can see how big the chance is in percents to hit 
 the part of the body.
  
  One thing I liked in the game too were the weapons and all the skills you can choose, whenever 
 you level up. You are even allowed to make own weapons.
  
  This game was maybe the best single player I've ever played.
  
  And in the end: Who would I 
 recommend this game to?
  If you like a good story, exploring, gore and roleplaying. You must be an experienced player too, 
 because this game was hard even on the easy level.
  
  
  + Story
  + Huge open world
  + Feeling
  + V. A. T. S.
  + Detailed places
  + Items to look for in many places (you can almost 
 pick up anything you find)
  + Quests
  + Roleplaying
  + "The growing up thing"
  + The leveling up system
  
  - Bugs
  - No kind of multiplayer / co-op
  - Doesn't fit everyone
 
  - Monsters can be frustrating to kill
  - I got bored after playing this 1 time through... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9matty9
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to decide where to begin with this review. To start with the good points to Fallout 
 3, the visuals are stunning and the script has been thought out very well. The dialogue can often 
 be funny but it's simply the large amount of responses that you have to each situation with any 
 given city dweller that makes the game so varied in what if offers. One good example is about 2 
 hours in where you are given the option to either disarm an unexploded atomic bomb at the centre 
 of a city, or arm it to explode once you have retreated to a safe distance and watch the stunning 
 fireworks. This kind of variation is where the highlights of Fallout 3 ends though, with the gameplay 
 often feeling sterile and accompanied by a real sense of not knowing what to do for a very long 
 moments at a time. Make the mistake of 'accidentally' shooting a city dweller and be prepared for 
 then entire town to turn on you. If you try and escape to a nearby building then other characters 
 will magically appear through the door and if you die, expect to be respawned exactly where you 
 started from with the same angry mob after you, making escape almost impossible.
  
  Much has been said about the Wastelands in Fallout 3 and how impressive they are and while from 
 a visual point of view this is certainly true, much of the time you will be wondering around, not 
 knowing where to go and being attacked by VERY annoying large rats that are very difficult to escape 
 from. Movement is slow and deliberate, but not in the tense way as seen in Resident Evil 4/5. It 
 almost feeling like its trying to behave like the Resistance series, but fails horribly.
  
  The levelling up system is very enjoyable though and its rewarding to see your additional lock 
 picking or computer hacking skills used to full effect.
  
  To sum up, Fallout 3 is certainly worth playing, just don't go expecting anything near the quality 
 of combat as seen in the Halo or Resistance series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Normaral85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for an PS3 owner much like Killzone, which I haven't picked up yet simply 
 because of lack of funds at this time. I pick this game up a full retail price and I was fully 
 satified at the time of purchase, because the title is so indepth and have many many hours of gameplay. 
 I personally, only feel disappointed a the lack of DLC support, not because of this titles satifying, 
 but because I just fell left out. I know some PS3 owners are extremely pissed at the fact that 
 Xbox360 owners got all the love as far as DLC is concerned, but to me it only slightly bothered 
 me. I played the game for hours up on hours and haven't been bored yet. I have a life so I have 
 personally completed my first play through, but this game warrants multiple play throughs just 
 in the fact that you can't achieve all of the trophies otherwise. With that being said, I personally 
 believe that to fully realize the game you have to play it through 3 times to get all out of the 
 title. And because you can play it though all 3 times to completion and to even explore the vast 
 map leaves much to be desired for even a fourth play through to just go nuts and explore. With 
 trophies like the bobblehead and reaching a certain amount of kills for certain enemies, the game 
 begs to be ran though several times. I'm not saying that DLC wouldn't be welcomed, but it's should 
 detour newcomers from pickin it up based sole on the fact fact that it's a awesome game that will 
 have you entertained for months and more. After one reads reviews from gaming sites that state 
 that graphically it isn't up to par with it's PC and Xbox360 counterparts, possibly a buyer would 
 be put off by that fact. But in all honesty this game isn't as bad looking as other would you believe. 
 Slight difference, is what I would give as an exact description of the difference. They put soo 
 much effort in the smallest of details what one would hardly notice with out a side by side comparison. 
 In conclusion, pick this title up and you'll be fully satified in your purchase. The only thing 
 left for this title on the PS3 is for possibly down the road DLC with will an addtion and only 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 had made me immerse in a new world were i was not oblige to follow the routine good guy. 
 It was almost therapeutic !
  Fallout 3 is not a repeating sequence of action for getting higher levels and better weapons. It 
 is a book that you live, but the conceptors had given us the total liberty of action with normal 
 consequences that would occur in real world.
  
  Altough, you are slightly pulled in the main story but you even notice that this happens, it's 
 amazing.
  
  I've ended the game but there is so much questions, places to be discovered, guns and weapons to 
 be tried. I'm in a hurry to get into the game again to explore further this fascinating world that 
 really could be true.
  
  My first benchmark 10 years ago was Baldur's Gate series on PC.
  Second was Oblivion on PS3.
  Fallout3 on PS3 is my new benchmark ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  By now, I'm sure you have read a majority of the reviews floating around the Internet. Most of 
 them relate Bethesda's take on the Fallout franchise as an instant Game of the Year winner. I however, 
 cannot say as much. It's not that Fallout 3 is a bad game in any right, other than a small number 
 of technical issues, that is. It's that Fallout 3 doesn't do enough to distinguish itself from 
 Bethesda's previous game, Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
  
  If you were ever going to copy an open world role-playing game, then yes, Oblivion should be on 
 the top of your list. But what Bethesda did with Fallout 3 felt almost like they were too afraid 
 to take a chance on the game by almost mirroring everything about Oblivion, just in the Fallout 
 world. 
  
  Exploration, interaction (especially poor voice acting) , and even some of the game's quests feel 
 lifted straight from the medieval RPG. Like Wired pointed out in their review, a vampirism quest 
 in Fallout feels out of place. Why not a quest where you turn into a ghoul? If this is in there 
 forgive me, I haven't been through 100 percent of the game even on two playthroughs. 
  
  However much Fallout 3 may feel like Oblivion, all is changed with the combat system. Mixing both 
 a first-person shooter and the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System (V. A. T. S.) just works. Using 
 V. A. T. S. to get in a couple of well placed shots followed by a last second finishing stand-off 
 in a hail of bullets (or lasers) both feels natural and is the best way to progress through combat. 
 For the brave, combat can be taken as a first-person only affair but it for some reason it doesn't 
 feel right and since you can't solely use V. A. T. S. due to Action Point limitations, mixing the 
 two is the best way to go. 
  
  Along with bringing the V. A. T. S. system along, Bethesda also squeezed in the dark humor that the 
 Fallout games were famous for. Nuking towns, grenades-in-the-pants, and enslaving your fellow citizens 
 with head popping collars, Bethesda brought what is perhaps the most important trait of the Fallout 
 series (other than the nuked America and Radscorpions) . 
  
  For those that are still wondering whether or not there really is a difference between the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game - there is. Despite what you may have read on message boards 
 and where else, there really is a noticeable difference between the two versions in terms of graphics, 
 but nothing that gamers with only a PS3 should worry about (you guys just worry about the no DLC 
 thing) . The differences come down to the Xbox 360 showing more in the environment's distance along 
 with brighter colors while the PS3 version showed less distance, darker coloring (no the coloring 
 wasn't affected by the time of day) , and jagged models. 
  
  PS3 owners will also have to put up with a few more bugs than Xbox 360 owners thanks to a particularly 
 annoying bug that freezes the game whenever your friends log in or try to contact you on PSN. Outside 
 of that there are some technical issues with animations, ghouls flying through stairs, and some 
 slowdowns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Massive- While not as large as Oblivion's world was, Fallout 3 is still absolutely massive. Along 
 with the main quest you have numerous side quests which should last you over 30 hours if you choose 
 to take your time with it. These quests are full of variety, ranging from simple fetch quests to 
 blowing up the enemy base with a giant, Anti-Communist robot at your side.
  
  Combat with VATS- VATS, which lets you target specific enemy body parts with your weapons, refines 
 the combat from Oblivion. Nothing is as satisfying as leveling up to gain the Bloody Mess perk 
 and blow off an enemy's head to watch it fly off and the blood splatter.
  
  Choices- Unlike most games where the choices you make are pretty black and white and don't really 
 affect the world much (see Fable II) , the choices in Fallout 3 basically defines what you do in 
 the game. Save a town from being blown up by a nuke and you'll be hailed as a hero of that town 
 and frequently receive gifts from its inhabitants. Or you can just blow it up and gain lots of 
 money.
  
  Perfect Atmosphere- The dreary, barren wasteland, the savage raiders wandering around, and the 
 vintage songs from the 30s and 40s do nothing short of truly immersing you in the world.
  
  Replayability- Fallout just inspires you to replay it over again once you beat it. Play through 
 it once as a good guy saving all who needs rescue and only level up your stats and perks for heavy 
 weapons. Now play through it again as an evil slaver leveling up your speech, sniping, and stealth 
 skills.
  
  Modding Community (PC Version) - Just like the other Bethesda Softworks games like Oblivion and 
 Morrowind, Fallout is perfect for the modding community. User-created quests, items, weapons, perks 
 truly make this game shine for multiple playthroughs. 
  
  Liberty Prime- The coolest giant robot in the history of video games. It's the reason you should 
 be buying this game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Animation- Just like the other Bethesda Softworks titles, the animation on this game is terrible. 
 The way characters walk and move in their clunky fashion, especially once switching to third person 
 mode, destroys the immersive feel of everything else.
  
  Poor Coding- This game is (at the time I wrote this review) still filled with bugs and glitches, 
 some which can be game breaking. Hopefully they will be eventually fixed by Bethesda, or at least 
 the modding community like Oblivion.
  
  Combat without VATS- VATS relies on a collection of action points to use, once you run out of those, 
 you have to wait for them to refill, effectively bringing you back into the clunky combat of Oblivion. 
 Although it's not that big of a deal, and thankfully the action points recharge fast enough. 
 
  
  No Modding Community (360/PS3 Version) - Unfortunately, the modding community usually defines games 
 made by Bethesda Softworks (see Oblivion) . Without the ability to download new user-created quests, 
 items, weapons, perks, etc., I'd have to give the 360/PS3 versions an A instead of an A+.
  
  Overall: A+ for PC, A for 360/PS3 (An amazing RPG, my personal Game of the Year for 2008)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  "What's up wastelanders, this is pspitus here, *BARK* coming to you live here from gamespot and 
 I'm here to bring you my Fallout 3 review!" (Major props to anyone who can find the origin of this 
 quote.)
  
  I'm going to tell you now, nuclear war isn't pretty, and no other game reveals it better than Fallout 
 3. Fallout 3 takes place in an alternate universe where two of the world's greatest nations, United 
 States and China, engage in a war filled with blood, mayhem, and more blood. At the height of the 
 war China decides to resort to nuclear weapons, and Washington D. C. becomes a lifeless, barren 
 wasteland. But enough about them, the main focus of Fallout 3's plot is about you, the player.
 
  
  When the bombs fall, when everything turns to chaos, where will you be? In an underground vault 
 of course. As a child who was born in a vault, you have all your life necessities spread out in 
 front of you. Why you've got an endless supply of food, plenty of fresh clean water, a childhood 
 girlfriend to make you feel better, and of course an annoying snobbish bully. What more could you 
 ask for? Unfortunately all heck breaks loose when your father, your only family, decides to *gasp* 
 leave the vault. Confused, angered, and threatened you decide to follow in your father's footsteps 
 to see why in the world he would do such a thing. This is where your "adventure" begins
  
  Fallout 3 is a first person shooter, but that's not all it is, it's also aget this. an RPG! 
 You will spend most of your time adventuring through the D. C. wasteland, completing missions, saving 
 innocent civilians, uncovering hidden treasures, defending yourself from a variety of monstrosities, 
 and killing people who you just don't fancy, whoops did I just say that? Scratch that last part. 
 After killing an enemy or completing a mission you earn experience points. With enough experience 
 points you can level up and select one perk you wish to use at your disposal. The perks vary from 
 increasing your health to increasing the amount of damage you can do with a weapon. 
  
  In the wasteland there is one universal rule to follow: kill or be killed. Luckily for you Fallout 
 3 utilizes something called the V. A. T. S targeting system. With V. A. T. S you can stop time and select 
 which body parts you want to sever with your weapon, after you've made your selection your character 
 will aim for whichever body part you selected and attempt to shoot/cut it off  what makes it even 
 better is that it's done in slow motion. You don't necessarily have to use V. A. T. S you can simply 
 just shoot your opponent; however, watching an enemy's head get blown off in real time isn't as 
 cool as seeing an enemy's head get blown off in slow motion. But in the end it all depends on the 
 player's preferences.
  
  Fallout 3 is an incredibly huge game, and when I say huge I mean super gigantically enormously 
 HUGE! Don't be so surprised if you find yourself exploring one part of a level and an hour later 
 you're still looking around. This is the beauty of the game. Fallout 3 grants the player absolute 
 freedom, you can do anything you want whenever you want. If you want to go explore that old abandoned 
 bicycle depot go for it, if you want to shoot a mutated cow in the udder then by all means shoot 
 that udder! 
  
  Fallout 3 is an ugly game, and when I say ugly I mean beautifully ugly (this is a compliment in 
 case you're wondering) . It perfectly depicts of what the world might be like if a nuclear war had 
 actually occurred. The environments are absolutely breath taking as well as terrifying. The people 
 at Bethesda certainly know how to immerse the player into the game with their open world levels. 
 But beauty only runs skin deep, if you look closely at a person with perfect skin you may find 
 pores, a scratch, a pimple, or in this case.. a wart. Where am I going with this you ask? Well 
 keep reading..
  
  As I played Fallout 3 I began to realize that there were a lot sound failures, frame rate problems, 
 glitches, and texture popping. Overall it wasn't a terrible problem; it was pretty bad, but not 
 enough to make one drop the controller in a furious outbreak. However, one of the most dramatic 
 parts in the game (I will not state it, avoiding spoilers) was absolutely consumed by all the problems 
 I mentioned before. This was a real heart breaker for me, here I am, at one of the most pivotal 
 moments in the game, and I can't even enjoy it because the game is having problems, no that's not 
 right. 
  
  Overall: Fallout 3 is a splendid game; it somehow combines what we love about first person shooters 
 and RPGs to create a unique and riveting experience. If you can get pass some of the technical 
 issues the game contains, you will find yourself scouring the wasteland for countless hours. Say 
 goodbye to your loved ones.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyphysince86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  God !!!!!!!!!! This game right here For real like really opened me up to the first-person shooters. See 
 back in the day I use to hate first person shooters but since I picked up Fallout 3 Man !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 The way you can set up your S. P. E. C. I. A. L that's cool the V. A. T. S that's cool as hell to when you 
 load up all your shot to the enemies head, arm, or leg. the enemies are cool because you have zombies, 
 super mutants, raiders, robots, you can preetty much shoot anyone good or badand there is so much 
 to do in the game other than the quest you can go around the wasteland and explore maaaan !!!!!!! 
 you'll find schematics for weapon's so you dont have to buy any. There's no end to this game really 
 this game Fallout 3 a definant title to own for a gamer who love's first-person shooter and if 
 you don't like first person shooters get the game anyway's because this one in particular is actually 
 worth getting seriusly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game started out very good with the vault storyline, then it picked up with the loose free 
 storyline that had no direction outside of the vault. Then I felt the fact that you could do anything 
 you wanted outside of the vault was very entertaining. Though I felt later that the game is just 
 a hap hazard run around and that your not really achieving anything. Not to mention it feels like 
 there is a gravity factor in the game until your character needs to jump or avoid running into 
 something. As far as the character goes, it looks very stoic as if his or her joints don't work 
 properly. This makes it very hard to battle enemies, and even almost trivial to even attempt to 
 pass a group of raiders guarding an area. The first person view makes the aiming go out of whack, 
 making it hard to shoot something that stands in front of your gun and says shoot me. I will give 
 this a 8.0 because it has a cool factor to it and the concept is good. The physics were not up 
 to par, and the lack of direction and lack of accomplishment of anything useful during your travels 
 through the wasteland causes confusion. I just don't feel I should be on a roller coaster ride 
 of approval while playing a game, it just isn't appealing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  FREEDOM!
  that basically what the definition of this game is
  
  Bethesda (game developers) wanted to give the player as much freedom as they could, and they did 
 a fantastic job. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Ok, im going to say the "GOOD" things about the game first: 
  
  - the game gives all the freedom in the player's hands ( from the way you look, to your personality 
 AND your every descision is UP TO YOU, even if its a bad descision )
  
  - THE ENORMOUS MAP!
  with freedom AND a huge map with so much to do, you will be playing this 
 game for a long, long time
  
  - amount of content in map
  its one thing to have a huge map, but having nothing to do is a bummer, luckily, Fallout 3 truely 
 shines when it comes to the amount of quests and people to talk to, there is really no end
  
  - the amount of different weapons will definately keep you killing for a long time ( plus, with 
 the fact that your weapons can wear down with time, it gives you something to do, which is maintain 
 your weapons )
  
  - THE REALISTIC FACTOR OF THE GAME!
  if we were to go into a nuclear war, and we all went into vaults like in the story, and suddenly 
 came out of the vault one day, IT WOULD BE EXACTLY LIKE FALOUT 3. There is just so many things 
 that could go wrong when you're trying to survive, and this is an amazing image on how you will 
 have to live in a nuclear wasteland
  
  - the conversations
  since everything you do in this game can have an impact on the story and on your survival, simply 
 talking to someone could mean obtaining a partner to follow you around, or a fight that could nearly 
 kill you. The dialogue choices are astounding in that a consersation can have amazing impact in 
 so many areas. Not only is what you say important, but what you say is literally influenced by 
 your personality and how much you know. For, example, if you choose to raise your intelligence 
 level, you can have interesting dialogue choices when it comes to talking about observation and 
 technology. 
  
  - the leveling options
  Bethesda made it so that whenever you level up, you can choose what skills you want to raise. There 
 are A LOT of choices, and being able to customize your abilities means that you have the choice 
 to adapt your character to certain situations
  
  - perks
  i like how they allow you to choose perks as well
  perks are specific skills that you can earn 
 by choosing perks. By choosing the right perk, might decide if you are resistant to radiation, 
 or able to absorb sunlight into HP, or tons of other stuff!
  
  - partners
  the partners is always a good thing to have around because the wasteland is a horrible place when 
 your alone
  
  well thats all of the good thing that i can come up with, AT THE MOMENT
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  now for the "BAD" things about the game
  
  - partners are really dumb. You can tell them a few commands, but they still seem to sometimes 
 get into trouble more than help you get out of trouble. Make sure you get a good partner, of else 
 he/she might make you play superhero and save him/her. Plus, one of the most annoying things about 
 partners is that they have trouble traveling on terrain that requires them to jump. If they need 
 to jump over an obstacle, they will try to go around it, and that might slow you down, OR, might 
 make you lose your partner. And what i mean by "lose" is that if you jump over a a simple rock, 
 the partner will go around it while you are obliviously still going forward, thinking that your 
 partner is still following you. I have lost partners for two days (in game time, not real days) 
 in the game just because i was trying to scale over a cliff and my partner tried to go around it, 
 even though the cliff was really long and it would and take forever to go around it. When i noticed 
 that my partner was going around, i quickly jumped down, but my partner didnt come back. He kept 
 running away to get around the cliff, EVEN THOUGH I WAS RIGHT BEHIND HIM AND NOT AT THE TOP OF 
 THE CLIFF! I ended up chasing him all the way around the cliff, which took forever. 
  
  - another problem is that the X360 and PC versions of the game get bonuses and an expansion pack, 
 but PS3 owners who have the game dont get any of it
  
  - the game seems to be a little too hard in the beggining of the game
  when i first exited the 
 vault, i RAN INTO A FREAKIN' DEATHCLAW that was attacking a radascorpion near megaton (deathclaws 
 are dinosaur like things with huge claws) And the game is easy when you have a lot of slim packs 
 and guns with plenty of ammo, but in the very beggining, it feels hard to get to that point. You 
 might have to end up using your fists a lot in the beginning, just to save up on ammo. (i recommend 
 staying near a colony of people for safety, much like megatown, and when scavaging, dont go too 
 far from the town.)
  
  - THE ABSOLUTE WORST PROBLEM IN FALLOUT 3 IS THE LEVEL RETRICTION!
  to prevent players from running 
 around with "ultimate" characters, they only allow you to go up to 20 levels. And no, 20 levels 
 is NOT enough to maximise all of your stats. But all of this was intentional. They dont want ultimate 
 characters because they wanted the game to be slightly difficult, even with 20 levels, so that 
 the game can still be fun. Well to me, killing enemies thats only SLIGHTLY hard to kill isnt really 
 fun. Personally, i would have a lot more fun trying to maximize my stats than being able to face 
 tough enemies.
  
  - the game can be very glitchy sometimes, but they are going to release a patch ti fix them for 
 all of the platforms
  
  - the graphics are kind of crappy, but i dont blame them for this because it would be a lot of 
 work trying to make every single corner of the enormous map look like killzone 2 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  even though some of the problems are major prolems in the game, the level of fun in this game 
 is still worth the time AND the money
  
  i say this title is a "must buy"
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada_konke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  When I was reading the manual, I was bored out of my guts since I couldn't figure head from toe. 
 I was regretting about buying an RPG in the first place as I'm a FPS fanatic. When the game began, 
 I knew this game was going to be intense. Since I couldn't find time to play it everyday due to 
 my work, it took me nearly 3 months to finish the game. One of the few problems I faced with the 
 game was the slow framerate during multiple firefights. The system also hanged on various occasions, 
 does this always happen with PS3 versions? I also got stuck in few situations like on top of the 
 closet, between big rocks & radioactive pits. Apart from this, was I addicted or what!? Good Soundtrack 
 especially the title track; Wide selection of weapons - Gattling Laser, Combat Shotgun, Shishkebab, 
 Plasma Rifle, Rock-it launcher, etc; Facinating creatures - Deathclaws, Mirelurk Hunters, Giant 
 Radscorpions, Super Mutant Masters, etc. The most oustanding module of the game was the use of 
 V. A. T. S. where one can cripple any particular body part. When I finished playing the final quest 
 of restoring Project Purity with the aid of Liberty Prime and Lyon's Pride; the only disappointing 
 part was I couldn't continue roaming the wasteland like GTA IV. I must say I have began to appreciate 
 RPG's with their only downfall being Time-Eaters...!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameducky
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Same: Despite what Gamespot says, there is no difference between different versions of Fallout 
 3.
  
  Gore: Bloody, horrific fun!
  
  Graphics: The wasteland has never looked so good! Actually it's never looked good, but you get 
 what I mean. Feels right: All weapons feel just right.
  
  Story: Engrossing story
  
  Ending: Multiple endings
  
  V. A. T. S: Never gets old, never gets boring, never gets useless. 
 
  
  Bad:
  
  Glitches: Game freezes and you might get stuck in small areas. End: No continuing on after story 
 mode. Summary:
  Fallout 3 is the greatest RPG. It is not like Oblivion and it is awesome fun! Moral choices and 
 deep story mode make this game a winner! It is worth the money and you won't regret it. But beware: 
 Only the bravest, boldest, and more hardcore bastards can survive the wasteland! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perocare
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  This was the game I have been waiting for my whole life, A mix of great graphics, gameplay and 
 amazing replay value and of course BLOOD!
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Amazing graphics, just like oblivion. The detail is as precise as possible to each little bit, 
 NO CLIPPING or colour overlap.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  From voice overs to gun noises, the sound is perfectly done.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  A great 
 mix of RPG's and FPS/TPS mixing.
  
  Replay Value (10/10)
  For achievements or trophies, it has replay value. Sure no PS# dlc, but still consider 360 and 
 PC.
  
  Online Value (N/A)
  No online... yet. Overall (40/40) = 100%
  Move over MGS4, this is the masterpiece I'll be playing until something better comes along. Bethesda, 
 I demand more! This is the reason I actually play video games, for masterpieces like this, MGS 
 series, Halo series, and much more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricaneu71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best games I have ever played till date. It has really accomplished its 
 goals at boosting up the gaming world. Just like any other game, it has its flaws ( glitches ) 
 and is missing some attributes. Graphics in my opinion are a 9.5! Game play is definitely a 9.5 
 and replay value is of course a 10! Most of the quests are great and fun to play and are pretty 
 much straight forward. 
  
  Flaws in my opinion would be a hacking system that makes no sense other than guessing and trying 
 again. They made up for this by installing a great lock pick system. No other means of travel other 
 than walking around the wasteland when there is working helicopters and vehicles everywhere. Another 
 one that really bothered me was the fact there's no way of joining any group like the enclave, 
 outcast brotherhood, brotherhood of steel, raiders, talon company, Reilly rangers other than one 
 very small exception.
  
  
  Something that would improve the game play in my opinion is the ability to customize your weapon 
 to your likes, having a scope, silencer. Same with your attire. Having more houses around the wasteland 
 wouldn't be a bad add either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpin21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Story: After you create your character, you are "born" into Vault 101, and the vault serves as 
 a geenral tutorial of how you play the game. After about an hour you are pitted out into the Capital 
 Wasteland to fend for yourself while searching for your dad who left the Vault.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played Oblivion then you will love this game. The engine is about the same. 
 You are free to switch between 1st person and 3rd person. The general objective of this game is 
 to explore the desolate bombed out world at your own pace, have crazy and fun gun fights with the 
 V. A. T. S shooting system (freeze frame targeting) . And finally to do quests and reward experence 
 points to level up and gain stronger perks.
  
  Graphics: Very well done graphics. The world is about as barren as you can get but it is sprinkled 
 with well designed cities and villages. Lighting effects were decent, but not the best. Also the 
 aimation is a bit choppy, but not noticable unless you look closely.
  
  Sound: The old music from the 1900's sets a tone for this game, it is very upbeat for a very downbeat 
 setting, balancing it out. Gunshots, voice acting are supurb.
  
  Overall: One of the best RPGs and Videogames of 2008. A must buy for any shooter, rpg, or action 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  If you are a veteran gamer, you start realizing that a lot of the newer games simply do not have 
 the substance you are looking for. Lame story lines, boring maps, lack of depth and weird game 
 dynamics. Fallout 3 erases all those lines and puts together a truly immersive, complete gaming 
 experience. It brings the best of FPS and RPG worlds together in a very unique way. It's like Oblivion 
 "for the rest of us". The leveling up system is simple and you are able to go through the main 
 story line without having to be a level 30 and have spent 60hrs on the game. The graphics, storyline, 
 game physics, sounds are all about a 10/10 in my book. An epic. So, if you are uninspired by the 
 last flurry of game releases, you need to pick this one up and experience one of the best sci-fi 
 game storyline of the 2000's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooMan89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  FALLOUT 3
  
  RPG
  I am going to firstly review fallout on its RPG aspects, as that is what it is. As soon as you 
 start the game you get to choose your characters gender, looks and special skills (Strength  Perception 
  Endurance  Charisma  Intelligence  Agility  Luck) . All these are good for the RPG aspects 
 although, I found that for base skill it did not tell me enough about what they will do later in 
 the game (shame) . I found myself with a lack of points on the better skills. After that you do 
 a personality test then select your main minor skills there are only 13 unlike the prequels with 
 18 (Barter Big Guns, Energy Weapons, Explosives, Lockpick, Medicine, Melee, Weapons Repair, Science, 
 Small Guns, Sneak, Speech, Unarmed ) a good wide range of skill which you select 3 to be your main 
 skills. The levelling system is very good, as you do feel like you are getting better and stronger 
 every time you level up. Experience can be given for all kinds of things which forces you to play 
 in different ways, example of things that give you xp: killing, lockpicking, hacking, sneaking, 
 completing quests and some others. All these elements makes fallout 3 stand out as one of the best 
 RPG's out there.
  
  10/10
  
  SHOOTER
  As a fist person shooter it is surprisingly good, controls are solid and vats is a welcome help 
 when you get into trouble. The AI is sadly stupid you find a lot of the time bag guys running straight 
 towards you but this by no means spoils the experience. There are wide range of Guns that sound 
 and feel good. If this game were a stand-alone shooter with no RPG elements, it would be a good 
 one not grate but good.
  
  7.5/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  As soon as you leave the volt is where the game really gets going enter the fist town megaton and 
 start doing quests. Form the word go, you can start gaining good or bad karma. This affects the 
 way people talk about you (i. e. on the radio) and the ending you will get. I found it highly entertaining 
 to hear Three dog, on the radio, talk about what bad thing I had done. It also shows the amount 
 of variation in play, as you can either talk or shoot your way out of a situation. The size of 
 the map and amount of quests will keep any one entertained fore a long long time. The main story 
 is ok but you will find you spend most the time wandering the wastes looking for quests. The quests 
 are varied and all fun, some ask you to save a man stuck in a tree others ask you to find a violin 
 or nuke a town. All together this is a monumental game that every one with a PS3 Xbox or a PS should 
 own. I just hope it's not the last one in the series 
  
  10/10
  
  All together 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiABeasts
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  ========================================================
  I don't own this game but my brother in law who lives with me does and I've seen him play it and 
 it is pretty hard and really long. I don't like the game play on this game because you have to 
 slow it down most of the time when facing an enemy or you will probably get killed and i think 
 slowing down the action and choosing where to hit them and what to hit them with makes the game 
 play boring and non-time consuming. This game also does not have any multi-player online game. 
 Anyways, overall i gave this game a 8 out of 10 and it is o. k. I think The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 was a better style and had better game play then this game. I think you should only buy this game 
 if you are into RPG games. I don't think this is the best game, but it is a really good RPG game.
 
  ======================================================== 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevman7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  I have been an Elder Scrolls/Bethesda Softworks fan ever since I spent months of my life in middle 
 school playing Morrowind over and over. Fallout 3 is awesome. When I played Oblivion, though it 
 was a great game, to me it felt like a slightly improved version of Morrowind. I hadn't played 
 any other members of the fallout series so I was absolutely stunned by Fallout 3. The story concept 
 is fascinating. Even better, the environment Bethesda makes in Fallout 3 is incredible. Everything 
 from the trailer parks to the destroyed neighborhoods to the mutated creatures made you believe 
 you were actually in a world that had suffered nuclear holocaust. What I also found exciting were 
 the different skillsets you could develop. Rather than swords and axes as in the Elder Scrolls, 
 you know learn small guns and explosives. Oh another thing I enjoyed was finding the bobbleheads 
 hidden throughout the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bio0Shock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this game is extremely fun. There's so much to do and after your finish u can play 
 again but take different choices. One of the reasons I like this game is because there are so many 
 ways to do one thing. For example: There's someone walking by you can either. 
  a. Put a live grenade in his/her pocket.
  b. Snipe his/her head
  c. Launch a rocket launcher
 
  d. Get a baseball bat and beat him/her up.
  e. Shoot him/her with a rifle or any made weapon.
  and many more.
  
  Graphics: 9.7/10 Sometimes 
 random things just pop out of no where but the graphics are still pretty amazing.
  
  Sound:10/10 Amazing sound.
  
  Blood:9.5/10 The blood could have been clear and the game could 
 been more bloodier. 
  
  Game play:10/10 Just simply amazing.
  
  Function:9/10 Crashing can sometimes happen. It happened to me and it crashed 5 times in a row, 
 but after finally not crashing. It never crashed again. I think it crashes because the system gets 
 so hot.
  
  Quest:10/10 Beautifully written and so many different approaches that you can do for one single 
 quest.
  
  Extra Content:0/10 There is no extra content. Only friggen Xbox 360 and Computer have it. The Fallout 
 3 group really crushed me with this, they should have made extra content for Ps3. It's just not 
 fair.
  
  Overall:9.99999999999999 etc./10 The crashing and extra content mark the 0.000000000001, but overall 
 this game is a must buy and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3
  The Fallout series has originated on the PC, but now, it has come to the consoles. While hardcore 
 fans wanted the same crazy Fallout game world, this game is more console orientated, it's more 
 casual. That's not necessarily a bad thing you may say, and it isn't always but there are times 
 when you wish you had the same crazy world from the original PC games. That's of course if you 
 even played it. And if you haven't you won't care much. But for those who did play Fallout 1 and 
 2 on the PC, this game doesn't resemble the original formula at all.
  The first games were just crazy, crazy stories, crazy quest, an overall crazy experience. In Fallout 
 3 there isn't that much craziness. The game isn't shallow ,but sometimes you just wish it had more 
 to it. The developer, Bethesda, also made a RPG in 2006, Oblivion. Most of you may be familiar with 
 this game, and so, will also be familiar with Fallout 3, as it's basically the same game, with some 
 small differences, which aren't necessarily improvements.
  The game is set in post apocalyptic wasteland, surrounding Washington D. C, in a wasteland full 
 of bio-hazardous radiations and heavily mutated humans and animals. It all begins with you being 
 born in a vault, Vault 101, where people live and die so they won't be infected by the radiations 
 from outside the vault. As soon as you come out of your mother's belly, you're asked to choose 
 a gender and customize your appearance. It's the same thing as in Oblivion, you have almost the 
 same haircuts and facial customizations, with some small Fallout specific aspects, like crazy hairstyles 
 or weird looking beards. After the whole customization, and one year later, you see yourself as 
 a baby discovering the basic controls in the game. As your mother died at birth, you are being 
 raised by your father, voiced by the Academy Award Nominee for Schindler's List, Liam Neeson, which 
 you may also know as Qui Gon Jinn from Star Wars Episode I. Anyway, you go through your childhood 
 pretty briefly, setting your stats and skills which will determine your type of character. While 
 in Oblivion you could create your own class, or choose one from a variety of classes available 
 ,in Fallout 3 they are completely nonexistent. You will just choose some major skills which will 
 then lead to your minor skills, if I may call them the same way as in Oblivion, which will influence 
 the way you play.
  The story goes on with your father running away from the vault, and you trying to find him by leaving 
 the vault. So far the game isn't that impressing, until you leave the vault. After first seeing 
 the wasteland, you will just be amazed, by the grandness of everything and the scale at which is 
 all realized. Also, another huge factor is the view distance, which is phenomenal. You can see 
 miles and miles of virtual wasteland. The game-world is huge and you'll discover very soon, when 
 following your father's footsteps along the huge map. The story continues with your quest of looking 
 for your father by going from one city to another, in a liniar way, and finding more and more clues, 
 which will finally bring you in the end, at, well, the end of the game.
  The side quests are enough to make the casual player happy, but for those who played Oblivion before 
 they won't be enough to satisfy. They are a little more diverse than in Oblivion but the fact that 
 there are just not enough of them makes you feel that too much attention has been put into the 
 main quest while the side quests were just put there to be there. The whole reason they feel more 
 diverse than in Oblivion is because with so few of them, it's easier to think they are more diverse, 
 while in Oblivion, the sheer number of them is impressive, and the only reason to believe they 
 are similar is because of the huge number of them.
  The best part of the game is the atmosphere. Beginning with the huge wasteland and the cities destroyed 
 by nukes and radiations to the population living in the major cities around the wasteland. The 
 wasteland is huge and beautiful. You may find a higher cliff from which you can see very far away 
 and just me stunned by the whole scale of the game. The presentation is pretty well done, until 
 you come close to things. The game uses the same engine as Oblivion. Oblivion was one of the best 
 looking games of it's time, but by today's standards it's pretty old. From far away Fallout 3 looks 
 great, but when you come close to cliffs, trees, buildings bridges, everything looks washed out. 
 For a 2008 game, Fallout 3 looks pretty bad. Basically the whole terrain is low resolution. There 
 are a few high resolution spots, insides of some buildings and the roads sometimes look really 
 good, but mostly, if you played other games from 2008 you'll realize that the graphics in this 
 game are outdated. Also, it looks just like Oblivion. Not the art design ,but it feels like Oblivion, 
 the way buildings look like, the way people look like and even the water effects, even if the water 
 in this game is a lot muddier. The whole Oblivion feel is just to much for someone who has played 
 Oblivion before. It just seems old.
  The gameplay is good throughout, but you will have some moments of frustrations from time to time. 
 You can play either from a first person perspective, or from a third person one. Just as Oblivion 
 ,Fallout 3 is meant to be played from the first person perspective, because the 3rd person view 
 looks creepy, and the character just slides over the terrain, as if he were on ice. First person 
 is the way to go. Combat is essentially pretty easy. You will encounter plenty of enemies, starting 
 from humans, to zombies, mutated humans, mutated bugs, rats, dogs and all sorts of mutated beeings 
 from the radiations of the wasteland. The combat is pretty simple. You have two options of playing 
 the game. The first one, is the one from Oblivion, only this time you have guns. You have a button 
 to attack or fire your weapon, and another one for blocking, if you're not using a range weapon. 
 The other option of combat is VATS. VATS is probably the best thing in Fallout 3. It is a combat 
 mode, in which you are le to pause the game, select an enemy, select a body part and spend some 
 action points to attack the desired body part. These action points are gained by engaging into 
 combat without the VATS system. After choosing the body part of your enemy, you'll witness a gory 
 and brutal attack. If you for example use a shotgun, and choose the head as the enemy's body part, 
 you will see how likely it is for your character to hit the chosen body part. When using VATS the 
 camera changes into a cinematic one and let's you see the carnage, that if you even hit your enemy, 
 cause it does happen not to hit him, at least at the beginning of the game, when your stats are 
 lower. The combat in Fallout 3 is very satisfying, but it's also very rewarding. The multitude 
 of weapons and objects to collect are just as many as in Oblivion but they look better, and the 
 weapons are also a lot better realized. You will encounter tons of enemies across your journey 
 through the wasteland, and with great guns, the kill of every enemy will be satisfying. 
  The game progresses in a real simple way. When you kill an enemy you gain experience. When you 
 finish a mission, you gain experience. It's not like in Oblivion, where heavy use of a skill will 
 result in gaining more experience for that skill. The progression here is a lot more simpler, and 
 to be honest, just seems a little rushed. You can however continue through the main quest despite 
 you having a low level. This is a more casual approach from Bethesda, also used in Oblivion. In 
 older and more serious RPGs you had to do many side quests to gain experience and then be able 
 to advance through the main quest, as you needed higher skills level to be able to further the 
 game. This approach is very casual, and works well for the casual RPG fans, but for the hard core 
 and classic ones, it will just be annoying and without depth. The best RPG element of the game 
 is however, the choice making. You will be able to choose from a pretty large variety of choices 
 which will affect the way you progress though the game. This is one aspect of the game that is 
 perfect. Even if it's obvious sometimes which choice is good and which is bad, the choice is all 
 yours and that is very well implemented. As you make your way through the game, you'll gather either 
 good or bad karma depending on your actions. 
  The sound design is adequate throughout, with small good performances like Neeson's , as the father 
 or the DJ, Three Dog. In comparison to other games, like Mass Effect and of course Oblivion, the 
 voices are pretty weak. There aren't many notable performances, and even if there is a ton of voice 
 in this game, the performance doesn't rise to the level of other similar titles. The character 
 animation is one of the most disappointing aspects of the game. While the characters in Oblivion 
 seemed very real and full of expressions, in Fallout 3, beside the fact they are all ugly, they 
 also look the same and the animations and facial expressions are almost not there. You will meet 
 many notable characters through the game, but unfortunately none to be remembered, even if their 
 importance is high, the bad voice acting will make them look inappropiate with the scenery. A good 
 thing though, is the in game music. You have a couple of radio stations you'll be able to listen 
 while playing. They all contain old music, from the 30s and 40s introduced by the local DJ's. The 
 DJ's, most notably Three Dog, will comment on your progress through the game, many times saying 
 what you've done or where you're headed, calling you most of the times "the kid from vault 101" 
 . The music is great and fits the game perfectly and brings a lot of depth to the entire experience. 
 
  There is a lot to do in Fallout 3. Exploring is one of the few but probably the most satisfying 
 one. Just wondering through the huge wasteland, killing mutants near the Washington Monument is 
 just plain fun. The side quests are enough to satisfy the casual player. The minor faults can be 
 overseen if you fall in love with this game, it doesn't really matter in a game how good it is, 
 most important than everything is the fun you have with it. So even with it's many faults, Fallout 
 3 can be a lot of fun.
  Fallout 3 is a hard game to recommend. But it all comes to two things. If you've played Oblivion 
 or not. If you have played Oblivion before, you probably won't like this game, as it lacks the 
 depth and the beautiful story and is also the same game as far as gameplay goes for. You'll just 
 want something else from this game, a new experience, something to suck you in like Oblivion did 
 two years ago. If you however haven't played Oblivion before, you won't know this is just a copy 
 of that game, and you won't care. You'll enjoy Fallout 3 a lot and well, I would recommend it to 
 someone who hasn't played Oblivion. But with Oblivion in your collection, you'll most likely not 
 like this game.
  My Score 8.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archangel_hp
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game was a roller coaster ride for me (it had its ups and downs) . I had not played this type 
 of game before (a FPRPG) , so at the beginning it was kind of difficult for me to get used to it 
 (specially after beating Dead Space) . However, as I kept on playing, I found out that the game 
 has so much depth and liberty that it really hooks you up. The game world feels amazing, it really 
 feels like you are in DC. All the customization options available make each started game a different 
 fulfilling experience. The karma system gives a really nice edge to this already amazing game. 
 The only things that make this game look a little bit off its tracks is the frequent glitches and 
 the not so awesome ending. Besides that, I think this game is a great acquisition to your game 
 collection and you will sure get your money's worth in hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naedeslus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was an ambitious project. I played a bit of Fallout 2 and felt it was very good, yet 
 at the same time it was not an instant classic in my mind. Perhaps if I played it when it first 
 came out I would of thought differently yet Fallout 3 reintroduces the series. 
  
  The story is fairly non existent. While the main storyline is in fact pretty good, it still lacks 
 that approach. Though that is not in fact a bad thing, because it makes it easy to get lost in. 
 The characters you meet that are not even apart of the main quest are fairly unique in their ways, 
 and the game makes it easy to get sucked into. Yet the main story as stated before indeed is very 
 good and is written well. With the exception of some of the worst endings ever, but the rest of 
 the games plot is very good.
  
  The music is an interesting choice. You get a few songs here and there on radio's which sound like 
 songs from the 1930's. It sets up an interesting 1950's classic science fiction approach, and oddly 
 the songs fit in very well. It could of used more songs, or even the ability to upload your own 
 songs, but it's not bad.
  
  The sound is good too, the sound effects are spot on, the voice acting is terrific and really draw 
 you into the atmosphere. It is some of the best voice work done in recent years.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. Everything is detailed very well. Also what makes the visuals so 
 good is the atmosphere it gives off. The second you step into the game world, and outside of the 
 Vault you can see a huge draw distance. It makes you feel like the world indeed is very huge. There 
 are many subtle touches, and the animation is fairly smooth. On the unfortunate side there are 
 some glitches, some are pretty funny actually while others bog the experience down. Luckily the 
 frame rate is pretty stable for the most part.
  
  The game play. It plays like a FPS but at the same time it doesn't. It lacks a certain punch that 
 FPS's need to be interesting. Yet because Bethesda probably noticed this, they created a genius 
 system, the VATS system. It works extremely well and is very entertaining. You probably could get 
 by with just using VATS, I know I mostly used it. It is very cinematic, gorey and just plain awesome!
 
  
  The world as stated before is huge, and there is a lot to do. I finished the game in about 20 hours 
 which is decent length. Yet there is a huge world to explore and the main quest is only scratching 
 the surface. I find it easy to believe the game can take you well over a 100 hours if you did everything. 
 You get your moneys worth.
  
  With the big world it is unfortunate that you cannot use any vehicles. It would of made the experience 
 better, considering there are cars lying around. Most sure are destroyed but it looks like there 
 may be some that would of been able to be used if it was implemented. Also a dock without a boat? 
 Yeah. It is a small gripe.
  
  The game also suffers from a few glitches. Freezing occurs and sometimes you can get in a tight 
 spot due to these glitches. Save often in many spots because the auto save feature can set you 
 back if you make a bad step. Considering the karma system it uses, that is fairly easy to do.
 
  
  All and all, Fallout 3 is an excellent RPG and worth playing. In fact play it and love it.
  
 
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  Graphics: 10./10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Final Score: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Well now after far surpassing 100 hours in the bombed at remains of the United States Capitol (which 
 as a Canadian can't help but look upon with a mixture of joy and wonder) exploring, improving and 
 Destroying the landscape as need arose or wants were filled (destruction and want were connected) . 
 With this in mind I will attempt to make an adequate review with little spoilers of the story. 
 
  
  Now as a survivor of the Apocalypse in which nations finally pissed each other off to the point 
 were Atomic and Nuclear Weapons seem to be a bright idea (when will people learn that Nukes are 
 a bad idea) , as a survivor of the Vault experiment, you wonder the Capitol wasteland helping or 
 harming people as you see fit. On your travels you will encounter the surviving peoples including 
 Ghouls (Looks like a Zombie, Don't shoot them in the Head) , super mutants (the come in supersize) , 
 Raiders (Mad Max on crack) , the brotherhood (Neo-Knights with a lot of tech) the remnant American 
 forces (Strangely Fascist) , as well as your standard human settlers who have built towns at defendable 
 points ( Bomb Craters and Aircraft Carriers for starts) plus a few more (do you smell panda poop) . 
 With these there are the creatures of the land like the mutant crab, robots, and naked mole rats 
 plus the feral form of ghouls (Romero style Monsters, free to shoot in the head) . Now with this 
 in mind as you explore you will see the best and the best of the worst of human degenerate behaviour 
 (Abe and Martin would be crying) . So the big point here is that you must explore, explore, explore 
 and then explore some more.
  Gameplay wise there are carry over's from the oblivion system as well as the past fallout games. 
 Your weapons and armour will degenerate over time. There is a limit to how much you can carry (I. E 
 a supply base does come in handy) , you can get one of two houses' in the game (To nuke or not to 
 nuke) . The perk system makes a return with both useful and useless skills that help the character. 
 Where in oblivion a character raised his skills to go up a level, Levelling up in Fallout 3 is 
 based on XP to get skill and perk points to improve stats. As the game does away with the old style 
 turn base style from the past Fallout games in favour the First person shooter style, it does add 
 the V. A. T. S targeting system which slows the game down to plan out attacks and shows it in Bullet 
 Time (Matrix strikes again) , this can been done so long as a person has the Action points (Mana) 
 to use the ability. Where Oblivion had large amounts of pointless ruins to explore, Fallouts Apocalyptic 
 landscape has few pointless non quest related ruins that aren't for travel and those that do exist 
 either are home to weapon caches, mercenaries, or some truly random events (Look an ICBM) that 
 are not repeated any where else in the game thus making the exploration much greater an adventure 
 as there is not much repetition. Minions (A great word) make a great appearance in the game as 
 mobile pack mules and gun monkeys which can get in your way when in combat and are a vary lot of 
 freaks and geeks who are trying to leech out an existence while helping you. The AI is while acting 
 intelligent and does seek cover in controlling of the human and robot; the characters do only come 
 with two settings hide and shoot, or charge and strike (Animals only act this way) . While the game 
 draws on heavily on the past games both the fallout series and Bethesda games it does improve on 
 the reused elements.
  The Capitol Wasteland is one of the most beautiful dark depressing examples of post apocalyptic 
 environments in which the city has rotted away with semi standing buildings, ruined monuments (White 
 house didn't hold up to well) , this with the semi natural lifelike humans and monsters makes this 
 to be one of the best looking games, even with gray brown and black being the most commons colour's 
 and most of the environment is rocks hills and building and burned out trees it does have a vary 
 natural looking design with the 1950s cars and cold war feel of the buildings. It does look great 
 as a game but is some cases do look a bit rougher in appearance which fits in with the overall 
 design. Computers have a single colour green and the OS on them is like that of the desktop earliest 
 computers (a bit better then DOS) . Okay so to put it simply the game is one of the best looking 
 games out there.
  Sound is pretty standard far with good voice acting that does use more the six voice actors and 
 is well done. The music is very good and while as with most games I rarely remember the main orchestral 
 score as they often sound similar, but it is the radio music which adds a great feel to the game 
 as the only surviving songs are that of the old music of the fifties which while it is uplifting 
 choices the music is also depressing as it is a reminder of how far the ingame world has fallen. 
 The radio is home to some of some of the best example of humour in the game as you have speakers 
 telling to different sets of stories both trying to improve how the people should improve themselves. 
 While the story does follow a dark world, the sense of humour is there with finding people addicted 
 to the Nuka Cola, making drugs; vampires and all sharing there view of how the world can be improved 
 in there own dark way.
  Fallout is one of the best games out right now and is worth playing. The world is large and must 
 be explored to find all the weirdly fun things as well as seeing the wonder of the post Ragnarok 
 (Norse word for the end of the world) World. Go explore and have fun learning all you can.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a good game and it certainly isnt bad but the gameplay and story is somewhat stiff 
 and just isnt fun. The creators, Bethesda, (who also created the far more superior Oblivion that 
 was far more fun to explore) seems somewhat have taken onto something that just isnt their area. 
 I love the elder scrolls series but this was just as interesting as to play morrowind without any 
 of the buildings or interesting places. To me i hate this game it was just a bad mere shadow of 
 the scrolls series. Hate me or agree with me do what you want, but this is how i felt about this 
 game.
  
  You start out as from the very first day you where born, where you get to select gender, hair colour, 
 race etc. After that you play as infant (very short period) where you get to learn basics and set 
 your atributes. Later on you grow up to becoming a 10 year old, and are now at your birthday party. 
 And later on as you grow up you finaly step out of Vault 101 (the place where they live) to later 
 on explore the veeery fuun ruins...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattLayden
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Fallout game that I've played, it looks good, plays good and will certainly take 
 a lot of my time away from my normal life. 
  
  The environment is beautiful and isolate. It's like Mad Max for the 21st century. It's not like 
 your average FPS, you need to calculate your battles because ammo is scarce and those baddies are 
 hard to kill. 
  
  The controls handle very nicely and don't be afraid of all the stuff you can do. Watching someone 
 play the game might be intimidating because there is so much stuff you can do you can easily get 
 confused. But once you start to play and the story draws you in, you will no doubt get the hang 
 of things. 
  
  The animation and voice work are well done and with so many options to choose from during conversations 
 and different paths to choose, it's fun to talk to others to see how their journey is different 
 from yours. 
  
  Fallout 3 is a winner and fans will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  Yes i think my title can explain how i loved the game. it is really legendary. After Oblivion Bethesda 
 showed his power again and made a great job. Thank you Bethesda really good work.....
  
  The game is really hard to describe because you can not have the fun of it with our explanations 
 u must play it. if you like lvl ing rpg games and also action don't miss that game!!!! Because u 
 can find everything in this game RPG, Shoot em up, Action. For me shortly this game is a mixture of 
 Oblivion and Stalker. But better than them :)
  
  Game is based on the ruined America (USA) after the big nuclear  
 Soil are some examples fom the world we live in. After the nuclear war Radiation dominate everywhere. Because 
 of Radiaton animals and some people fall into mutation and weird creatures taking their places 
 in this weird finished world. But ambiance is good and impressive.
  
  Because of this dangerous world outside people created new settlements and most of them are well 
 protected. Some of them are outside some of them are at the underground and they never go outside. They 
 live in underground for their whole life. They born there, they grow there and they die there.
  
  We are a character who borned in one of that underground settlements named vault 101. You start 
 the game as a baby :) You grow up and one day you will have to escape from Vault 101 to the out 
 world which is really dangerous.
  
  From this time you explore the world u find new cities, settlements and new people. You get quests 
 from these people and you earn money and experience from these quests. Also according to ur play 
 ur character will be good, natural or evil. You will choose your character with your game style. According 
 to your character you will get new quests and new opportunuties even new followers .Yes in the 
 game you will have the opportunity to get a follower who will help you in fights and will try to 
 protect you in this dangerous world. Also you will have to opportunity to get a new follower which 
 is my favorite a Dog named DOGMEAT. i know it is a weird name but he's my best friend :) if someone 
 attacks you Dogmeat will protect you at the cost of his life.
  
  But the problem is Dogmeats strength is well calibrated but his life bar is not enough he can die 
 easily. For me Bethesda couldn't calibrate Dogmeats health. Dogmeat must be more powerful and hard 
 to be killed than that. Many people think like that and if he dies you can not bring him too life 
 thats too bad!!! But believe me Dogmeat is one of the most beautiful part of this game. Also you 
 can get a human follower too next to Dogmeat you can clothe and arm him as you want. Follower really 
 makes the game more and more enjoyable but as ialways say Dogmeat is my favorite. When he starts 
 to growl you can understand enemies are nearby :)
  
  Whatever as you play as you do quests you gain lvls as you gain lvl you'll gain new skills and 
 perks. There are many skills in the game like  skill 
 to repair your armor and guns its really expensive at vendors and it'll decrease the weight on 
 u. Because you combine weapons to repair it so it'll decrease the number of weapons on you and they'll 
 be at good condition and more expensive after repair is done. Also it'll decrease the weight) Science (hacking 
 computers) Small Guns and Big Guns, Bartender, Speech (You'll impress people with your taalking) etc. etc. Skills 
 are good and usable. nstead of skillsyou get Perks. Perk is some kinds of talents which will 
 make you stronger in the game. Like animal friend perk (animals won't attack u after this perk even 
 they'll attack the people who attack you) Nice isn't it? There are many Perks like that. Buut you 
 have many Perks so it'll be hard to select which Perk to get :) 
  
  in combat there is a mode named VALTS which lets you to attack spesific parts of the body and you 
 will see the percentage of chance hitting this part. But after you made ur selections camera angle 
 changes it changes also to slow motion and you'll really enjoy watching this part. it is so enjoyable 
 :) Also it is BLoodY thats why i love this game more :DD You can rip the oppopents heads, arms or 
 legs from their body. Niiiice and Enjoyable...... Also if you shoot the opponents legs he'll have 
 difficulties at walking and his speed will decrease. if you shhot his gun guess what :) His gun 
 will drop down. if you shoot his head he can die but if he is too powerful he won't fall in single 
 head shot but he'll have problems in eyes or difficulties to see you :) His visual will decrease 
 and he'll have difficulties to target u :) There are many many many more things lots of cities, lots 
 of people, lots of weapon and etc....
  
  i don't want you to tell the game more not to spoil it just play it you'll see how perfect game 
 this is. Honestly my idea about gamespots score 8.5 for this game is low..... it must be higher than 
 that. They give 9.0 on pc and x360 are they aganist ps3???? Maybe.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The Fallout series isn't one of the best-known series in gaming today. I admit I had never heard 
 of it until this game arrived in retails. However, Bethesda has revived the series with a fun, 
 long adventure that you won't forget for a while.
  
  The story of Fallout 3 is simple, but is pretty big when you get further into the game. You have 
 been living in a vault all your life, which is, of course, not so fun. One day, your father suddenly 
 disappears, leaving you all alone in an unstable vault community. You escape to search for your 
 dad and stumble into the vast wasteland, which is almost completely empty after a massive nuclear 
 war that happened long ago. The story then branches out and you are really free to do anything 
 you want after you escape the vault, which ultimately makes the story not so impressive or interesting 
 but it's OK in a sense.
  
  The main focus in Fallout 3 is ultimate freedom, and the game delivers regarding that. You are 
 completely free to do anything you want, be a merciless sadist or a saint-like beneficiary. The 
 sky's the limit in this game. This, however, sometimes makes you feel like you don't know what 
 to do next in terms of side-quests and other stuff, and it starts to feel a bit empty after a while. 
 However, it's not all bad, and being this free is also liberating in a way. 
  
  The combat is different, and might not be what you'd expect. Your choice of weapons is pretty vast, 
 but it all boils down to VATS (Vaul-Tec Auto Targeting System) . With VATS, you lock onto an enemy 
 and the game pauses. You can then choose which part of the enemy's body you want to target in your 
 leisure. However, there's only a certain chance you'll hit any given body part, and each successive 
 attack uses energy points, which slowly regenerate over time. When you attack in VATS, the game 
 closes in on the enemy and shows the attack in much detail, which makes head shots extra gruesome. 
 This is a fun and revolutionary way to fight but the game relies to heavy on this system and just 
 shooting a gun or swinging a weapon feels pretty clumsy and clunky. This ends up making the combat 
 pretty repetitive after a while.
  
  The enemies are basically divided into three groups: Raiders, mutants and wild beasts. The last 
 of the group are just a bunch of renegade animals which have been exposed to radiation. The raiders 
 are a bunch of dissolute people who live by their own rules, and sometimes run whole slave camps, 
 which you could join or fight. Mutants are the most interesting enemies, but they ultimately lack 
 variety, and their gibberish gets annoying after some time.
  
  The environment and atmosphere of Fallout 3 is typical for a nuclear fallout: It's a barren wasteland, 
 with no hope, joy or happiness to be found anywhere. Though this is a well-made premise, it gets 
 tiresome, fast, and there's no real variety to be found here, which could easily have been implemented. 
 Still, there are rare moments where the game takes bold leaps out of the ordinary, which are great 
 moments in the game, and stand out as memorable instances.
  
  The game uses a tried and tested level system, where you add points to one attribute, and then 
 choose a special ability every level. This really makes you plan ahead, and you can shape your 
 abilities completely to your liking. There's really no attribute better than the other, and this 
 adds another sense of freedom to the game. Fallout 3 takes a step in the right direction by making 
 the level of enemies set beforehand, instead of making them level up with you like in Oblivion. 
 Therefore, it feels more accessible to play, unlike Oblivion, which sent a constant stream of difficult 
 enemies your way.
  
  The graphics in the game look extremely similar to Oblivion, which many may recognize, but not 
 only that, Fallout 3 is the only game that looks noticeably worse on the PS3, which is not a good 
 thing. There are texture pop-ups, ugly rocks and walls, and some technical irregularities to be 
 dealt with. Furthermore, the game tends to freeze frequently, especially when activating VATS, 
 which can really spoil the experience. The characters are, however, quite better regarding looks. 
 Their faces are more realistic and their responses and questions are better crafted than it's older 
 counterpart, Oblivion. 
  
  In regards to sound, the game doesn't do that much, though occasionally, you'll hear some classic 
 tunes to soothe your mind, which adds a surrealistic feel to the overall atmosphere of the game, 
 but it doesn't use this as uniquely as, for instance, Bioshock. The voice-acting is pretty good, 
 and Liam Neeson lends his incredible voice to the main character's father, which is a smart move.
 
  
  The game is long, which of course is apparent when you look at the scale of the game. There is 
 a lot to do and explore in the wasteland, and there are many surprises to be found, so for the 
 roving mind, there's much exploration to be done.
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is an enjoyable experience, which is easy to recommend, but it feels too 
 familiar for its own good. However, if you like shooters, and liked Oblivion, there is no doubt 
 that you will find this game a fun and incredible adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimchance33
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has taken the best of two genre's ( first person shooter and RPG ) and merged them into 
 one outstanding game . The graphix are amazing, just watching a head explode or limb blown off 
 in slow motion using Fallout 3's all new VATS shooting system is awesome . There are so many different 
 ways to play this game that no matter how many times you play it, you'll always get a new experience 
 and feel for the game . You can be the hometown hero and save your city and the rest of the world 
 or you can be the notorious thug who just goes around blasting everyone and destroying whole towns 
 with a push of a button, or maybe you wanna be a middle man and be both, a thief, and good samaritan 
 at the same time, the possibilities are endless . If you feel like going on a killing spree, do 
 it ! You wanna shove a grenade down someone's pants, step back and watch limbs blow off !.... DO 
 IT ! Or maybe you're more into helping a newly orphaned young kid find a new home ...... DO IT ! 
 The possibilites are endless, the world is huge, there are no rules, just have fun ! That is why 
 I think Fallout 3 is an INSTANT CLASSIC ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soroosh1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  so those who want a game to spend a lot of time on it this is the right game for you
  
  Combination of RPG and the right FPS . . .. so behold the FALLOUT 3 FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3
  FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3
  v
  FALLOUT 3
  FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FFALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3ALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 33FALLOUT 3FALLOUFALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 
 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3FALLOUT 3T 3FALLOUT 3.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUCIFERATEME
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  i finished this game a while back and i only wish now that i would not have stuck so much with 
 the story and gone on a few side missions but more on that later.
  the game starts with your birth in a bunker vault 101, then you come of age and your father leaves 
 one day and you follow him outside, the world above is a nuclear waste land with nothing but old 
 buildings, rust and monsters. you have to find out why your father left and where he is, the thing 
 is you will meet a lot of people and they will give you other missions to go on so you can get 
 rewards and better weapons and food/rest. i would advice anyone playing it to explore everywhere 
 and not stick too much to the father story so much or you will be kicking yourselves when you finish 
 the game as i could not play it twice when i knew the ending, my heart was not in it. even though 
 following the story took well over 20 hours!, you really do get a lot of game for the money with 
 this title. 
  it has the vats shooting system where you can choose a body part to shoot at and it gives you a 
 percentage on whether you can hit that part or not, or you can just blast away!. the graphics and 
 atmosphere are great in this game and you really get the feeling of what it must me like living 
 there, its a real s//t hole!
  it can sometimes get a bit daunting due to the size of the place and travelling about but thats 
 all part and parcel with the feel of the game. its an endless wasteland and the decay is everywhere. 
 there are monsters and infected humans who you will meet and its great blowing off heads with the 
 vats system. 
  throughout the game you are given choices on whether to help people or not and your chice will 
 have an outcome on the game. i would recommend this game to anyone and personally i liked it a 
 lot better than oblivion.
  great and huge game with plenty to keep you occupied. enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammersd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has gotta be one of the longest games ive ever played on for the simple reason that you 
 don't have to do the story missions and none others and there are more sub-missions than you can 
 count!
  
  
  Well personally I think this is one of the longest games you can play if you're like me, and are 
 one of those people that has to explore the entire map and do all the possible missions. I spent 
 ages trying to find three dog so i explored Washington, and as it happens it is huge, absolutely 
 massive.
  Its packed full of content too, the landscape is varying with enemies and terrain as well as packed 
 with different people to meet, places to see and missions to do. Some of the features in the landscape 
 include underground lairs, military barracks, an oasis, the washington monument, a floating metal 
 ship city, various metro subways and even a downed alien ship! I'm also the type of person that 
 looks in every buliding i can and in every draw of every desk so the game took me about 3 months 
 to do properly.
  The good thing about the game is that it doesn't matter if you prefer first or second person games 
 as it compensates for both. The strange thing is i love 3rd person games and much prefer them over 
 1st, however for some reason i kept 1st person in this all the way through and loved it more.
 
  Anyway for a hardened explorer and someone who likes mysteries this is a great game.
  Some of the best features are that you can chose the paths the game takes you on, essentially being 
 an a**hole or a nice guy throughout influences your gameplay and how you get on throughtout the 
 game, perks or punishments. Its like there are 100 different things that can happen to you throughout 
 the game depending on what you do to who. As you traverse the capital wasteland you will discover 
 many differnt factions, some of which oppose each other and depending on who you chose to help 
 affects what happens to the land and your karma (what determines whether you're good for bad) . 
 The game has a very realistic feel to it and the accuracy to washington is astouding, you really 
 do feel included in the time zone.
  A few gripes i have with the game is that game play can be a bit slow so it requires patience to 
 be a real explorer. The radio can also get quite annoying, with only a few songs played. However 
 the broadcasts change as you go throughtout the game which is very good. There could also have 
 possibly been more enemies and interesting clans or sights but there are definatly enough to keep 
 you on your toes already.
  
  However this is totally nit picking as the majority of the time there is something intersting to 
 find. The story you follow is not that long but all the side missions more than make up for it 
 and you find yourself uncovering many many different and progressivly darker stories about the 
 wasteland. WIth a variation of weapons, enemies places, friends and companions, people to meet, 
 attire and items this game is very hard to fully complete without giving you a long eventful ride 
 to before hand. Fallout is a definate buy for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craftieman05
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This one is going to be short.
  
  This game is a lot of fun. There is a lot to do in the game. The main story quest is short, I don't 
 have a time estimate becuase I didn't do the main quests at first, I did all the side quests. That 
 is where the length and main enjoyment in this game comes from. The main story in the game is ok, 
 but the atmosphere is where the game really shines. All the backstories of people or buildings 
 and businesses that you will find exploring the wasteland really add to the story. Also there are 
 so many different outcomes in the story and so many different ways to do quests becuase you have 
 a lot of freedom to do it how you want. You can make good are bad choices. That adds some sort 
 of replay value it the game.
  
  The graphics are good. Nothing to special. I have played mostly played the game on a SDTV in my 
 room at college and some on my HDTV at home. The HDTV really brought out the graphics, so if I 
 had the choice I would play the tv at home and would recommend that you play it on a HDTV. As far 
 as what version, Xbox 360 or PS3, graphics are better. I would say they are the same. I have only 
 played the 360 one on a sdtv, so I am comparing them on a sdtv level. They looked the same to me. 
 
  
  The controls are good too.
  
  Now the things that are not so good about this game. My main beef that I have with this game is 
 that it freezes all the time. At any given time in the game it could freeze, whether playing for 
 hours or 10 mins. You will be thanking God that there is an auto save in the game. There are some 
 weird things that happen in the game. Sometimes when you enter a room things will fall into place, 
 like creatures you kill. Every once in awhile the graphics won't load properly and you may come 
 up on some ground that looks really bad. Sometimes when you are in vats mode the body part you 
 want to aim at won't be highlighted. There are weird sfx things happening at times and sometimes 
 no sfx at all when firing a gun. 
  
  Well, those were the main bugs really, or all the ones I could think of right now. If I think of 
 more I will add them somehow. As far as the 360 bugs, well I know there are some, but I don't know 
 what they are, seeing how I have only played a little bit of the 360 version, so I can't compare 
 bugs really.
  
  I have to say that I enjoyed the game a lot more than I thought I would. It kinda suprised me becuase 
 I didn't really enjoy Oblivion that much, but that may be becuase I played my cousin's character 
 and didn't really know what was going on. It is pretty much Oblivion with guns. But it is a good 
 game. I would recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 isn't just a great game, but an addictive game. From the moment you leave the vault to 
 one of its multiple endings you will be immersed with great amounts of freedom and one of the best 
 gameplay machanics ever created: VATS. There is so much area to explore that you probably won't 
 come across all the locations. Many of these also have their own little intricate side quests with 
 their rewards at the end of it such as: Get paid (currency is bottle caps) , get given a weapon 
 schematic or gain or lose karma.
  
  The VATS combat system is also one of the most violent gameplay features in a game to date, with 
 the player having the ability to literally freeze time and choose what limb to blow off, which 
 ends with a mini cinematic showing the gory finisher you created. I would really recommend this 
 game to anyone with a longing for amazing action and tremendous adventure in the open world genre.
 
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 5/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 3/5
  Sound- 2/5
  Length- 5/5
  Replayability- 5/5
  
  Good Points: Amazing wasteland area to explore, 
 Gory combat, Lots of variety for quests, great visuals, lots of items to pick up and use
  
  Bad Points: Long distance combat can be difficult, got to repair weapons frequently to be good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexD337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 IS an instant classic.
  
  Story 2.5/3
  Fallout 3's story is pretty original and well executed. You are playing as a vault dweller in search 
 for your dad that suddenly ran out of the vault you live in. From the moment you step out of your 
 vault, you are faced with many (and I mean many) choices. Every single one effects the outcome at 
 the end of the game.
  
  Graphics 2/2
  The graphics of Fallout 3 are incredible. From the rocks on the ground to the Lincoln Memorial. 
 For being a huge interactive world, they really worked hard on the graphics.
  
  Gameplay 3/3
  The gameplay is original, and it never gets boring. You can kill your enemies, 
 or your friends, in SLOW MO NOW! The controls are really comfortable and youll get used to them 
 quickly. With hundred of items to pick up around the DC area and dozens of weapons to choose from, 
 its always exciting entering the Capital Wasteland. 
  
  Sound/Music 2/2
  The sound and music really stood out in this game for me. Fallout 3 gives you a couple of radio 
 stations to choose from, whether you enjoy politics or plain music. The songs played in the game 
 give it and eerie feeling by singing about love, family, and how great the world is, considering 
 you are living in a post Nuclear War world. 
  
  Replayability 1/1
  You would enjoy playing this game over and over again. Chossing different paths in the story, or 
 different weapons and upgrades. Theres an entire world
  to discover and you cant visit every place in 40 hours, from my experience.
  
  You will stay 
 up all night playing this game. Thats a guarantee. Atleast for a week. So buy it, dont rent it, 
 because it will not be enough time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  As said in the title this is a great title, full of adventure and the many "sub-missions" that 
 have become the trademark of bethesda's elder scrolls and fallout franchises. HOWEVER the porting 
 is extremely poor, firstly only offering 720p output (which I can live with) but then having virtually 
 NO ANTI-ALIASING! Which causes the game to look much poorer than its PC counterpart (360 is fine 
 im told) . Its impossible to play with on 480 SD. Honestly, i tried when I left my HDMI cable at 
 a friend's house and even on a 42 inch its terrible SO MANY JAGGED EDGES. With the HDMI cable its 
 a little better...
  
  but back to the plot its really great! up until the end that it is :P There are several great "side" 
 missions and the whole plot (coming out of a fallout shelter) is pretty awesome. I honestly loved 
 those ppl in the vault living in a dream world under the crazy doctor (vault 102 or something) . 
 overall i enjoyed it, though, doesn't beat oblivion however :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GABRIELLE46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:05 am PT
Review:  Bethesda , what can I say. "Spectacular!" You made me believe in Freedom once more. In a previous 
 preview I ranted about gaming companies leading the common gamer like yester years packman creators 
 did . down this isle ... no that isle.... Look not to step on any ones toes packman was the best 
 ever game , THAT TIME. Times has changed though. Any way before I get carried away again.... Bethesda 
 created Oblivion which was a game in a different league , what was nice is that 95% of oblivion 
 was used in Fallout3, it just looked different. Swords replaced guns and arrows an abundance of 
 ammo. A few extra things were added though. I do not wanna go into more detail because it could 
 spoil the magnificent magnitude of this superior game.
  Bethesda rock , they did an excellent job the programmers had a few problems which made the game 
 glitch and freeze at times, but the effort that is clearly noticeable over ride the few hick ups. 
 Well done !
  Now the downside of the game , Why I do not score it a perfect 10 is as follows.
  Number 1 :
 
  The game sometimes gets very lonely and systematic. The run and gun get a little boring. The transportation 
 system is very limited. At least in oblivion you could ride a horse. Fallout3 make you walk endless 
 roads.
  Number 2:
  The game glitches when you save , making it impossible to load the save game again.
  Number 3: 
 When talking to someone the world seem to stand still. 
  Number 4: The game is very basic although it is very large gaming area. ( Bethesda leave a lot 
 of room for improvement )
  Number 5: Multiplayer? Where?
  
  All in all . You must buy this game it you can play it after 3 years again and you will find something 
 new.
  The game is made for the explorer type gamers.
  This is for sure one of the greatest games ever. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rknaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  long, fun, challenging, good looking, it is a one of the kind and it is a great game. the only 
 flaw is exclusive down loadable content on 360 and pc, we all bought the same game so why is that 
 ps3 is excluded in the download able content i mean it is very unfair and because it is only on 
 the 360 and pc many people will be left out if they have a ps3 and have fallout3 i hope in the 
 game of the year addition but still fallout3 is a great game i highly recommend it, it will take 
 a lot of time to complete every free form, side, and regular quest and to find all the Easter eggs 
 wile trying to make a character with 100 in everything. the game play is a first person shooter 
 explorer (there is a 3rd person mode but it sucks a lot) and you explore the environment like a 
 little kid first seeing the outside world wile killing super mutants, mutants bugs, and ghoul afide 
 Chinese soldiers ( you rarely see them though) , and the secret enemy ( i won't reveal whom they are) . 
 I'm sure you will love this game unless you hate shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexcooke900
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have only had this game for a short period of time but these are my first impresions. I think 
 the graphics are impresive and couldn't really be improved. the start is very clever in the vault 
 and after you get out of the vault the view is incredable. I like the radio and the AI is fantastic. 
 The senery is very grand and in D. C it is Imposible to get anywhere unless you use the underground 
 routes and above ground is cralling with supermutants. All around a great game. I love this game 
 and would make it a must have in my collection. I must include that the toilet drinking is quite 
 desturbing and it would be better if they didn't swear. The game is also quite difficult. it may 
 just be me but it is very hard but the first impresions are everything and this gamer says
  
  "Yes We Can" Buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zartan3000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I've played this through all the way to the end mission as a 'good' character but am about to play 
 it all over again as a 'baddie'. Why? Because it's twice the game... Even though I played it all 
 through... I was playing it today and doiscoveredl like a whole orther part of the map I never even 
 went to before! The addition of trophies should help to guide players down the good and evil sides 
 I hope. But this really is the game where it's up to you where you want to go and what you really 
 want to be. This is Bethesda's strongest point as an RPG maker I think. It's not the first person 
 view, or the character building of dialogue or even the fantastic graphics (all of which are supurb) 
 it's the vastness of the world they place you in and the feeling you can keep going forever. (SPOILER 
 ALERT) I was a bit disappointed that it ends after the final mission but am considering getting 
 the anchorage ex. pack so we'll see how all that fits in. Hear they're gonna increase the max level 
 to 30 too I think. VATS is very cool. As is the partner angle, travelling with dogmeat is cool 
 and the other characters. Put it this way. In a year without MGS4, this is Game of the Year 2008. 
 No question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This was the game I have been waiting for my whole life, A mix of great graphics, gameplay and 
 amazing replay value and of course BLOOD!
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Amazing graphics, just like oblivion. The detail is as precise as possible to each little bit, 
 NO CLIPPING or colour overlap.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  From voice overs to gun noises, the sound is perfectly done.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  A great 
 mix of RPG's and FPS/TPS mixing.
  
  Replay Value (10/10)
  For achievements or trophies, it has replay value. Sure no PS# dlc, but still consider 360 and 
 PC.
  
  Online Value (N/A)
  No online... yet. Overall (40/40) = 100%
  Move over MGS4, this is the masterpiece I'll be playing until something better comes along. Bethesda, 
 I demand more! This is the reason I actually play video games, for masterpieces like this, MGS 
 series, Halo series, and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TRAUMA-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  I am not quite understanding why this game received .5 less on ps3 than 360 and PC, gamespot may 
 claim blemishes but to me, i find the graphics better on the ps3, lighter and more detailed.
  
  This game overall is absolutely addictive, i've never played anything quite like this, a first 
 person shooter with an RPG makes a spectacular combination with your character being customisable 
 not just on how he looks but his agility, strength, perception etc.
  
  The game takes place in a post-apocalyptic wasteland which was Washington DC, 200 years after nuclear 
 bombs were dropped, but instead of the human race rolling over and accepting their fate, they fight 
 back and survive, just another dark chapter in the history of mankind.
  
  Many live on the surface but many live in vaults which are underground communities built for people 
 so they do not need to survive the wasteland.
  
  You play as a 19 year old who escapes the underground vault that he/she lives in to find your father 
 who has left the vault on a quest. Your quest to find him will lead all over the wasteland.
  
  As you progress through the game you can choose good or evil effectively, taking a good karma 
 path or a bad karma path, this is also affected by what you say to people, whether you are rude 
 or polite.
  
  There is a large range of weapons, pistols, rifles, machine guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, all 
 kinds of melee, missile launchers, grenades, mines, mini-nukes etc
  
  The game is so fun I even managed to enjoy the tutorial, if you own a ps3, go out and buy this 
 game now, this game was effectively runner up to MGS4 for game of 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parvie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:34 am PT
Review:  When I finally decided to grab a copy F3, it was because of the immense amount of hype that seemingly 
 trailed wherever it went as well as my love for the Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion (Bethesda's previous 
 RPG) . Now, of course there are the vast amounts of reported bugs found all over the internet pertaining 
 to the overall functionality of the game, but I've honestly only encountered one game freeze; so 
 do not let that impede you from buying this game. The game itself quite literally defines the term 
 "immersion". Never have I seen any game lure me in quite like F3 did. From the deep character customization 
 to the even deeper stat building mechanics, the folks at Bethesda surely knew what they were doing 
 and succeeded in crafting a game that is enjoyable on innumerable levels. The graphics, though 
 not the most extravagant or lavish the PS3 has seen, are indeed beautiful, considering that RPGs 
 occasionally sacrifice graphics for gameplay. The gameplay itself handles nicely, though this is 
 NOT a hardcore first/third person shooter. Actually, if you're a die-hard FPS fan, you'll be surprised 
 at how slow the FPS aspect of F3 is. The storyline is actually well-crafted and makes you care 
 for the numerous occurrences in post-apocalyptic D. C. Side quests is where this game truly shines 
 brilliantly; the sheer number of them is astounding (and they're enjoyable) . Enemy A. I can be "dumb" 
 in some areas but thankfully an option to adjust the difficulty at will is available for further 
 modification. In order to obtain the most out of F3 and discover its greatest secrets, you MUST 
 stick with the game throughout its entirety. Do yourself a favor and check this game out; well 
 worth the full price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMadman94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is simply one of the best RPGs of recent years. Everything, from its story to its satisfyingly 
 gory gameplay is spot on (and the addition of Liam Neeson as your character's dad is the icing 
 on the slightly irradiated cake) . This game has received its fair share of cynics, however, seeing 
 as the gameplay is nothing like the original two. The gameplay is actually more similar to the 
 Elder Scrolls games than anything else, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Bethesda have changed 
 it so that it's familiar to Elder Scrolls fans, but not so much that its can't be classed as a 
 Fallout game. The main storyline is as follows. You live in Vault 101 with your dad (Liam Neeson!) 
 and one day, when you're character is 19, Daddy takes of and leaves the Vault without telling you 
 where he's going. The Vault Overseer ain't too happy about that and sends his men to capture you 
 so he can question you about it. Commence baseball to head bashing. Anyway, you eventually escape 
 the Vault and set out on your quest to look for dear ol' Dad. Now, you could just go out and look 
 for your dad, but that be taking all the fun out of the game. There are dozens of other quests 
 and secrets out there in the Capital Wasteland (blown-to-bits Washington D. C.) to undertake before 
 you complete the game, adding hours of play-time. There is also, like many RPGs, the choice of 
 being good or evil, which comes in the form of Karma. You get positive Karma for good deeds and 
 negative Karma for bad deeds, each with their unique bonuses. Combat has also been improved from 
 Elder Scrolls with the addition of VATS (Vault-tec Advanced Targeting System) which allows you 
 to freeze combat and specifically target a limb on one enemy. It also decreases the chance of hitting 
 your allies, which, let's face it, was annoying in Elder Scrolls. That being said, first person 
 is still the best way to play it as you still look like you're skating along the ground in third 
 person.
  Anyway, my advice is absolutely get it. If you don't then you're missing out on one of the best 
 games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is here on 360/PC/PS3 and it takes the series to a whole new level, using not the RPG 
 genre the series was known for but using the Oblivion engine and taking everything into a first 
 person perspective. But this game is more then just Oblivion with guns it holds it own as something 
 a bit fresh with a some quirky humor known from the previous Fallout games.
  
  You play either a Male or Female character in which you can use any name either your own or I'm 
 sure with many people out there a "Creative name". The minute you start the game your less then 
 3 minutes old and get to choose how you'll look, of course with the other characters around you 
 saying "You're going to look exactly like your father when you get older", Who is of course voiced 
 by bad ass Ra's Al Ghul himself Liam Neeson. Of course when you get older your father escapes the 
 vault you were born in and you must escape to go find him. Of course once you exit the vault you 
 come into contact with ravaging mutated animals trying to kill you or the Wasteland inhabitants 
 ranging from cannibals, maniacs and even huge super mutants with big guns.
  
  While in the game you'll also have many attributes to add to your personality, skills or weapons. 
 Of course with your personality, you can be a total do Good guy or a complete Jackass it really 
 depends but doesn't affect you to much later on in the game, if your a really super good guy, good 
 things will happen to you if your not and decide to be a maniac killing machine jackass, people 
 will either try to kill you or just not be very nice to you or give you stuff. There's also a few 
 side quests apart from the short main quest to help you gain levels new weapons and experience 
 or even new friends. 
  
  The games controls are fairly easy and take around a good half hour to get used to but after a 
 while become second nature and of course with your Vats system which stops time and helps you pin 
 point which body part you'd like to blow off, of course aiming for the head doesn't always work, 
 sometimes blowing off a guys arm or leg slows them down or makes them drop there weapon. But no 
 matter how many times you use the vats system it's always still a guilty pleasure to see some poor 
 guys head or body part fly in different directions in slow mo. 
  
  Of course the game does come with a few problems on each system. On the Xbox 360 I had glitches 
 and characters of whom i had killed come back and sometimes missions would not end even after completing 
 the quest and occasional freezing. On the PS3 i had problems with quests and characters and sometimes 
 the game would boot me out on my XMB, and as for PC well i had an easier time on there only thanks 
 to the console command and help from the internet, but had freezing and quest problems as well. 
 
  
  Overall it's not something to be frightened about or to make you detour yourself away from the 
 game. The game is brilliant and looks brilliant, with an engaging story and some great characters 
 and humor Fallout 3 is a great buy for huge RPG fans and even those who don't enjoy RPG's all that 
 much , will find a good quality towards Fallout 3 within. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i didn't like rpgs before i played this game. Im glad i tried and played this game. 
 Because this is what i needed from a game. It is kinda different than other rpg games. Because 
 this game is the combination of rpg action adventure first/third person shooter with a decent story. 
 This game basically stopped me playing my other games until starting playing this game to finishing 
 it. This is the first game i played non stop seriously, it is that good. Almost 100 hours of gameplay. 
 It is also not that hard to get your platinum trophy i got mine today. If you arent a rpg fan like 
 me u still gotta play this game. you wont regret it. This game is for anyone from 15 to 50 years 
 old people. They would all enjoy it. It is very fun and very addictive. You dont wanna play your 
 other games until you finish this one. The story is very dark and you keep want to know more. The 
 graphics are good, gameplay and shooting is awesome. The only problem is there is some glitches 
 in the game but you wont mind it cause the game is terrific. The game might freeze once in 5 hours 
 of gameplay it is really ok. Cause there are autosaves and easysaves. As i said you wont mind it 
 cause the game is very fun. The other good thing is the you can play this game in fist person mode 
 and third person mode. Shooting is surprisingly great much better than some most games around. 
 This game really deserves a 10. If gta and mgs got 10 this should get 20. Well trust me this game 
 is better than what you are playing right now. Go and get it..
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Value: 10
  
  Tilt (fun) : 10
  
  Story: 9.5
  
  Overall: 
 9.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  yeah.. after playing over 40+ hours or so. i've never even come close to completing the game. most 
 of the time spend in the game is collecting good weapons and finishing up Side Quests. which of 
 course is enjoyable. there's just sooo many ways to do things in Fallout 3. that doing everything 
 in less than 24 hours is PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE. the theoretical state of United states is really 
 a HUGE MAP. really huge. Washington and parts of the Maryland. you could try walking from the satellite 
 arrays up on the northwestern side of the map and walk all the way down to Rivet City and it'll 
 take a whole lot of time.
  
  the story of the game. well. not important actually. this is probably the 1st time i played a game 
 and that i am not really interested in the story. more like. i am totally immersed by the gameplay 
 itself.
  
  the gameplay really shines alot. what with S. P. E. C. I. A. L and its perk and traits. and of course. 
 the whole setting of a Bombed out State. and of course. having 2 different ways to play is a good 
 thing. go with 3rd person to view the reality after a Nuclear Holocaust and go into 1st person 
 to kill some stupid Raiders, Those Hunk-a-Junk robots and of course your Green Mutants. 
  
  but. they say its a mix of 1st person and RPG together. yet. the 1st person part of the game is 
 Slightly negatively useless. i mean mostly we'd just go into V. A. T. S (not sure what that is. but 
 its a good way to kill faster) since. killing by shooting a gun is pretty hard since you can't 
 really focus on the attacker up close (as in.. someone trying to Melee you and you'll try shooting 
 at him/her/it)
  
  yet there's so much to do in the game.
  why don't you all just pick it up and try it for yourself. you'd be amazed at how well this game 
 is made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just finished this game after what shows a little over 60 hours on the final save. Just 
 like Oblivion, they had the game end right when I was getting a little tired of it. Very good timing 
 on their part. It looks like it's very open to replay too because one of the final "perks" I got 
 was the ability to have all locations revealed on the map, and WOW, even though I finished the 
 game it looks like I only saw about 25% of everything. 
  
  One of the reasons I finally finished when I did instead of exploring more was they do cap your 
 experience level at 20, which I reached about 80% of the way thru the game, so I wasn't getting 
 any further fun from gaining experience the last few hours of play. Kind of a bummer but I can 
 understand why they did that - to sell you the expansion packs that will lift this higher.
  
  I have to say as a veteran of the original 2 Fallouts, I really enjoyed their take on the fighting 
 mechanics, and really enjoyed the VATS system complete with slo-mo video and bell ringing sound 
 effects. Very cool. For those whining about how it's not the same as the old Fallouts, I suggest 
 you go back and play the old games. I did and was surprised at how slow-paced the old games were. 
 I could never play a game like that now. I happy to see the changes they made.
  
  In summary, I thought this game was fantastic. My only complaint was there was a little too much 
 reliance on using the same looking subway tunnels to get from one location to another. It was a 
 little too overdone. I would have liked to see them make the map smaller, than to rely on repeating 
 the same subway sequences over and over again to make it seem bigger.
  
  I was very lucky to play 2 back to back fantastic RPG games on my PS3 in the last few months, first 
 Bioshock and now this. I'm looking forward to part 2 of both of those.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-U-K-E-D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  To start off, i know allot of people have had trouble with the game due to bethesda softworks not 
 double checking before its release, but dont let this ruin the game.
  
  Fallout 3 is one of a kind (Aside Oblivion) , i feel as if people do not appreciate this game enough 
 due to its past flaws (Bugs, freezes etc..) Trust me when i say i dont know anybody who doesnt 
 actually like the game, everybody has said "Yes, its a great game but i wish it wasnt so buggy 
 on the ps3". Forget about that, most problems have now been fixed, so im showing a bit more positivity 
 towards the game.
  
  Moving on, the game itself is really REALLY enjoyable, there is soo much to do and so many possibilities 
 to take hold of. You can mould the game and play it how you want to. You want to be evil and steal 
 from the poor... go ahead, Or are u a goodie goodie and would never do anything wrong, thats kool 
 too. 
  Basically the game cant get any better, i loved oblivion and i love fallout 3, so should you. If 
 you are reading this and you havnt played this game, dont bother renting it, just go and buy it 
 NOW....... Its Awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergod317
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This was my first time playing a RPG game; I am just glad that it was Fallout 3, because this game 
 is definitely representing for the game genre. I think it is fun how you can pick up almost anything, 
 and all of the exploration that you can do is great to. I just wish that it was downloadable content (DLC) 
 for the Playstation 3. I think that the way the game was built is superb and I like the little 
 surprises like UNCLE LEO! I never knew what RPG was until Fallout3 came out. I was a little nervous 
 dropping money on a game I had no idea to play, but It grew on me; no I find myself playing one 
 of the most addictive games that I no to date. I just wish on a later release of Fallout, that 
 they give us the consumer and gamer the choice of playing this great game online. I would like 
 to see friends and enemies made online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratavaquera
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Oh yea, i enjoyed this game, A LOT
  
  First you dont like, you get bored but once you have a good weapon, some perks and enough experience 
 you see that its an awesome game!
  
  You start as a baby, then you are 10 yrs old, 16 yrs old, etc... thats the boring part (but funny) 
 but it is just the Tutorial. Once your father escapes from Vault 101.. the game gets better!
  
  Im not goin to tell you all the story but , it is an awesome experience , you can see the "Post-Apocalyptic" 
 City, lots of molerats, some SCARY and DANGEROUS Deathclaws and more...
  
  The Radio its funny, the perks are good, you can play it lots of times and i bet its different 
 each time, the Karma thing, its aweesome, it affects almost everything. If you are bad, the "bad 
 boys" respect you and might help you, some perks unlock special Speech ability, the game its fun 
 and good, but with a dissapointing ending... 
  
  You can repair and make weapons, hack terminals , you have a lot of FREEDOM, you can do what you 
 want and you can be Good or Baaad. xD
  
  I recommend you this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I have played through this game 3 times. Twice on PS3 and once on PC. That being said, there's a 
 few things that should be said upfront about Fallout 3 on the PS3.
  
  PS3 owners will be sad about the lack of down loadable content (DLC) , but don't let this stop you 
 from playing this game. It's awesome. But, if you do own a 360 or a PC good enough to play it on 
 maxed out video settings, you might want to consider getting it on either of those platforms just 
 for the DLC.
  
  Also, PC users can have hours of fun mod'ing and tweaking their games with user created content 
 and the official G. E. C. K. game editor.
  
  In terms of visuals, the graphics comparisons you see on GameSpot are a joke. I would have refunded 
 my PS3 or my HDTV (40" Samsung 650 Series) if a game looked that bad. The game is amazing on all 
 3 platforms (which i have personally played on) , and with a solid PC you can get the most out of 
 it graphically. But this game looks amazing in HD on the PS3. Period.
  
  Now that we've got that out of the way lets move onto the game review that will cover any platform, 
 as gameplay outside of DLC is identical. 
  
  The game is a really neat mix of adventure, FPS, action and RPG. The stats, menus and dialogue 
 have a very RPG based feel to it. 
  
  You name your character, decide how they look, give them personality and traits and even watch 
 them grow up in the first hour of the game.
  
  Once you get into the wastelands you are overwhelmed by the size and scope of the wasteland. The 
 map is huge. There is lots to do. You can do it anyway you want.
  
  My favourite part about the game is the ability to handle situations different ways and get different 
 outcomes. Be a jerk or be a saint. You can play the game anyway you want. 
  
  The bonus to playing on a PS3 or 360 is that you get Trophies and Achievements. These are very 
 helpful in suggesting things to do in the wasteland. It also gives you an idea of how much you 
 can do! The first time i beat the game i had about 21% Trophies.
  
  The V. A. T. S. aiming system I personally loved. Die Hard FPS fans may not like the pause in the 
 action but I found it to be very very entertaining. I love slow motion graphic violence. And there 
 is a lot of this in Fallout 3.
  
  Every game should have limb dismemberment like Fallout 3. I hate when I shoot people with guns 
 and they just fall down and go to sleep. I want to see limb and heads flying and splatting. You 
 get this in Fallout 3.
  
  The characters are fun and interesting. I enjoy listening to them and cared about them more then 
 I expected to. My only beef with this part of the game is that talking to people looks unnatural. 
 I think Fallout 3 could take some tips from Mass Effect. I love the flow of the dialogue in that 
 game. It's much smoother and less... clunky looking.
  
  There are a ton of weapons in the wasteland. Some rare, some common, some just plain awesome. You 
 can even find parts to build your own guns (which I love) . 
  
  There is so much to see and do in Fallout that I can't possibly review it all here. You will just 
 have to check it out for yourself. This is one of those games that you say "Okay 45 min then time 
 to sleep." 3 hours later you end up going to bed, the next day you are exhausted at work and you 
 don't care. It was worth it and you'll probably do it again tonight.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone with a platform to play it on. I don't care what system 
 you buy it for, just do it. and do it now.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is immersive, disturbing, brilliant and so many other adjectives I could fill up the 
 entire page with. This game litterally has not a single weak element. The story may appear simple 
 but unfolds to be a complex and interesting masterpiece. The visuals are atmospheric and spooky 
 in thier own way (and kind of depressing) . The gameplay is this kick ass breed of real time shooting 
 and V. A. T. S ( V. ault A. ssisted T. argetting S. ystem) Which lets you choose a speccific limb to target. 
 There is so much variety in this game its kind of...... overwhelming. Between exploring the massive 
 D. C area or completing the hundreds of quests, or tackeling the main story line and finding dad, 
 it's totally your call. If your fan or not you need to play this game. But please don't rent of 
 borrow, you need to buy this game and devote some time to get the full incredible experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_utdmasta
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  I first started playing Fallout 3 on P. C but decided to get it on PS3; this is because it is a 
 quality game.
  I like how when you start you actually get to be a baby for a while and make gargling baby noises 
 and take a G. O. A. T test to see what you will become, 'supposedly'. The first few levels inside 
 the vault are really quite fun. Starting fights with the local gang and annoying the crap through 
 your friend. But when you finally have the chance to and leave the humble Vault 101 and go out 
 into the Capital Wasteland, choosing whether to kill off everyone in the vault first maybe or leave 
 them all for a later cause.
  There is so much to do once you are outside 101, you can either decide to follow the main storyline 
 and find your father and Project Purity. Or take a more indirect route and do some side quests 
 beforehand which can be quite fun but tiresome. And the last route you could take, which is not 
 much of a route to the end of the game, is to just run around the wastes and explore and kill almost 
 anything. That's a good thing about F3 you can kill anyone you like, almost. This will have an 
 adverse affect on the gameplay obviously, but if you aren't going to save then can be quite fun 
 nonetheless.
  I'm not going to go into too much detail as it may reveal too much about the game so I'm just going 
 to say that Fallout 3 is a must buy if you like RPGs or even FPSs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Well i really don't have much to say about this game other than the fact that i have grown addicted... 
 Didn't think i ever would but bam, it happened... ANYWAYS
  
  The Good:
  ~ The games story is a simple, yet amazing one that has many different paths you can choose, all 
 of which change the outlook of the game.
  
  ~Good? Neutral? or Evil? Choose by your actions, and see how people react to you as you even simply 
 just walk by them, you can even hear most of the actions you have done from quests on the radio.
 
  
  ~The apocalyptic environment is amazingly designed and planned, making the game a beautiful, yet 
 at the same time weird and disturbing one
  
  ~While on the subject of visuals, i'd also like to point out that the sound design is also very 
 well-done.
  
  ~The time of play for the main storyline alone is 14 hours (at least that's how long it took me 
 my first time) , 60 hours if you are willing to do all the other quests, and about 100+ if your 
 trying to get all the trophies. This will last you a long time, trust me
  
  ~The enemies in this game are all fun to kill and each have their own combat style
  
  ~There 
 is a wide selection of weapons and armors, as well as ones that are hidden AND ones you even must 
 make yourself, don't worry, the weapons you make really aren't that difficult to make at all.
 
  
  ~There are over 100 different locations to visit within the post-apocalyptic Washington D. C.
 
  
  The Bad:
  ~There were a few glitches, but all of them have ways to get around them, glitches such as (Not 
 being able to take the G. O. A. T and an odd yet very rare freeze glitch)
  
  ~The radio stations can get rather annoying after awhile for the fact that its the same 5 or so 
 songs and the radio-stations host repeating themselves over and over....
  
  ~Once you beat the main story in the game, or even enter the last room at the end, you can NOT 
 do other quests or travel, your kinda forced to start over...
  
  That's about it, overall I recommend this game, even if you have never played an RPG before... 
 However, if you really haven't then you should rent first... If you have played an RPG before and 
 know how games like this work i recommend just buying it, with over 150 hours of play and a rumored 
 expansion, this is a game that will keep you occupied for quite some time!.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty_elders
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. From story to gameplay this is a masterpiece when it comes to gaming. 
 I don't normally go much for FPS, but Fallout 3 is by far the best FPS I have ever played.
  
  The story is just simply amazing. I mean thats all I can say about it. Now I will admit that 
 I haven't finished the story yet so I guess it could end up being a let down... but so far (about 
 70% through) it hasn't let me down once. And that is all I can really say about the story... just 
 amazing.
  
  Gameplay... oh wow... where do I start... perfect? I mean they took the great things about oblivion... improved 
 them... then took the crappy things about oblivion and improved those too. I mean oblivion basically 
 had a male voice and a female voice (with a few exceptions) when it came to npc's... now Fallout 
 3 doesn't just have the generic voices... they do get repetative... but with probably 1000 npc's 
 in the game... it would be kind of hard for everyone to be unique. The environment... while gloomy... perfect. 
 Beautiful graphics (yes glitchy but with such a huge game... i mean come on... its as close to perfect 
 as you can get) Some of the glitches are even humorous.
  
  Music... great and perfectly appropriate.
  
  Now... my complaints. I can't help but feeling the 
 ps3 definitely got the shaft. No forseeable DLC for the ps3. Now if noone got DLC, the game wouldn't 
 be lacking in anyway... Fallout 3 doesn't NEED DLC, but if I payed 60 bucks for this game, I should 
 have the option of getting some DLC. So I'm hoping Bethesday does the normal and makes a GOTY version 
 for the ps3 and hopefully that will include some extra stuff. Which leads me into my next and last 
 complaint. On the ps3 I won't ever be able to get past level 20. Why is that? Because once again, 
 that patch comes with the DLC that XBOX is getting. Now you might say oh thats not a big deal. 
 Well I didn't think so either, until playing about 10 hours without getting any experience for 
 anything. It takes a certain element out of the game.... I liked blowing a Super Mutant's head off 
 and hearing the "KAAA-CHING" sound and getting some experience. There are so many perks that I 
 wanted and didn't get.
  
  This game is close to perfect and if I owned a 360 and got it on that... it probably would be getting 
 a 10 from me. But simply put... once all the DLC comes out... the PS3 will have Fallout3 0.7 and 
 XBOX will have Fallout3 1.0. Now if Bethesdy comes out with a GOTY and I get to eventually go past 
 20 and play the extra stuff... i'll come back and re-rate this game. But until then...9 is all you 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funnimationgt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing but you can miss so many thing due to the fact the game is so life like. many 
 items you can easily miss due to how flushed they are with the surroundings. I recommend you buy 
 the strategy guide or go online for help since many great items are easily missed. the game does 
 have its glitches, for example on my 2nd play thru i am stuck on my bed when i tried to put some 
 teddy bears on it, very frustrating. and for some reason on ps3 you can only go to lv 20. i hope 
 they fix these problems becouse i love the game and hope for some add on and expansions. also i 
 would like a few more post enclave battles since it seems after you get power armor there really 
 isn't much to do with it. i decided to reached lv 20 before continuing with the main story and 
 there wasnt much else worth using the armor on. i would also love if the t51b armor was better 
 and could be repaired since its a great armor but looks ugly and other than dr not much to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuRai_JeDi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me say, I was on the fence at first about getting this game just like you probably are reading 
 this review. Let's begin shall we?
  
  Gameplay: 8.5. The game is as long as you want it to be, but if you make it long the gameplay can 
 be quite similar. VATS is a great way to target opponents and really is fun to use. You can still 
 do critical hits if you're hidden and even place live grenades in opponents pants, awesome. The 
 missions and interactions with characters along with various decisions to make, make the gameplay 
 a blast to play. Which leads me to my next category.
  
  Story/RPG Elements: 9.0. The main story line is honestly the (I don't want to say worst) most forgettable 
 part of the game. It's not so bad, but it is forgettable. The side quests are really fun to play 
 and pretty much make the game. The various decisions you have to make while talking to people and 
 playing the quest actually make you pause for a sec and think of the consequences, epic. Every 
 time you level up you can pick perks, which really are awesome. The only thing that kinda sucks 
 here is the level cap of 20 and the fact that after you beat the game, you can't continue roaming 
 around, the game is finished unless you start over. That's why it got a 9.0.
  
  Guns: 9.5. There are numerous guns and weapons in the game, all of which do different damage and 
 are better for different situations. Depending on your style of play, you can use and be more efficient 
 with different weapons. There are also special weapons dispersed throughout and are fun to play 
 and dismember foes with. I kinda wish you could upgrade your weapons, but upgrading is basically 
 done through repairing your weapons, which isn't too bad.
  
  Sound/Music: I'm not going to give a score on this one, because I don't have surround sound and 
 I'd be a bad indicator. I feel like the music in Oblivion in the caves made me a little more weary 
 if you know what I mean. This isn't bad at all in the game though.
  
  Is the game worth $60.00? Yes, if you have the time to get into the game and enjoy searching around 
 for people and creatures to blow up or turn into ashes. Too bad ps3 isn't getting the DLC and a 
 rise in the level cap. Oh well, great game.. think I'll go play some (2nd play through and playing 
 evil is FUN!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba41025
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Hi Here is my fallout 3 review. This game is the best game in the world and I dont sse anything 
 that will beat it. This game is amazing. You will love it. At the start you create your own guy. 
 You start of as a baby and then you create what you will look like when your older. At the start 
 you choose your strengs and weakeneses. Then the next 9 years its your brthday. Getting all these 
 presnts and bullies annoying you. You dad give you your first gun. Then you must take a test to 
 see what skill you have. Then few years later your dad is gone you have to escape form your area. 
 Everyone is trying to kill you exept your friend. who is helping. Eventually you move on and you 
 became A big man with stacks of things. You have to find your way around the places you go. So 
 be prepared. So I could say alot more things about this game But I dont have time. This game is 
 for everyone. I am absolutely love it. Yeah wo wo wo ow ow ow ow ow ow wo wo wo wo wo wo wo wo 
 wow ow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyleger
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Great game with big map.. The game didn't have to be that long but has a lot of fun quest and side 
 missions. I like that you can be good or evil and play the game the way you want to. The story line 
 is easy to follow with realistic map that is huge. On the ps3 saving takes up allot of room on 
 my hard drive but it is worth this great game it should of got the ratings it did because this 
 game is great. You can also customize you character and go through your characters whole life, 
 even as a baby. I also have a game made by the same company, oblivion the game is very similar 
 to fallout 3 that is why I bought this game. This game has so much game play that it will probably 
 take half your life playing it that is why it is worth your money. I only buy games I know are 
 going to be good that is why I bought this game. A well rounded game for all kinds of players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THOMJOHN3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who thinks that F3 is Oblivion with mutants needs to check that misconception at the door. 
 As a hardcore Oblivion fanatic, I can see that F3 is clearly a different game. One of the things 
 that I love about F3 is the attention to detail given to the game world. The garbage left by the 
 apocalypse really adds to the overall feel of the game. Blasted out buildings are full of the crap 
 one would normally expect to find - broken beds, computer terminals, coffee mugs, pencils, or whatever 
 is appropriate to the setting. The wasteland is equally impressive, scattered with the remains 
 of gas stations, grocery stores - stuff one would expect to find if our own world was destroyed 
 in a blinding radioactive flash. Exploration, one of the great components in Bethesda's many games, 
 is also evident. The number of places to find and examine is really boggling. Quests are fairly 
 fresh, and cover a range of mission (escort, find, recover, help, etc.) topics. Combat relies on 
 either FPS-type mechanics, or using VATS. While the FPS basics are intact, using a mix of FPS and 
 VATS is really the best way. As an afterthought, one can play from a 3rd person perspective but, 
 the game really shines when you play from a 1st person view. The biggest complaint I have is a 
 platform-centric mindset. On the PS3 and a 1080p/i HDTV, the game is gorgeous. However, the PS3 
 video hardware (7800GTX equivalent) is unable to smooth out rough edges, and provides a limited 
 draw distance. On a high-end PC running a GTX260core216 on an Acer 26" HDMI monitor, you get the 
 best picture with antialiasing and eye candy cranked up. Regardless of platform, I think that F3 
 is GOTY material. IT MUST BE PLAYED!!! Yes, F1 and F2 are classics that are very different from 
 F3, but each game is awesome in its own right. DONT MISS THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  The past 10 days have been very busy for me. I've broken into countless military bases, taken vast 
 quantities of drugs, and have shot several hundred people in the head. I've stolen the Declaration 
 of Independence. I've moonlighted as a contract killer. I've helped to run a warped presidential 
 election. I've even gotten really sick after drinking from a toilet bowl. But enough about my holiday 
 trip to New York - let's talk about one of the biggest releases of 2008.
  
  Fallout 3 is a massive, massive game. This magnitude exists on a number of levels: for a start, 
 there's the game world itself - a scarred post-nuclear Washington, packed with decrepit survivors, 
 mutant beasties and marauding raiders. Then there's the enormous degree of change since the last 
 game - a shift of developer and a move into full 3D graphics. There's the huge degree of anticipation, 
 both from enthusiastic newcomers and from the more sceptical Fallout hardcore. It's probably due 
 to a combination of all these factors, but for whatever reason Fallout 3 feels like the biggest 
 game I've played all year - so much so that I've already run out of synonyms for the word 'big'. 
 And despite a number of flaws, it's also one of the best games of the year too.
  
  For the benefit of the uninitiated, here's a quick recap of the backstory to the Fallout universe: 
 In the year 2077, World War III turns most of the Earth into a giant nuclear ashtray. A small percentage 
 of the US population survive the conflict by fleeing into Vaults - giant underground shelters built 
 by the VaultTec corporation. The first Fallout placed you in the skin of a jumpsuited resident 
 of Vault 13; when your water purification chip breaks, you are chosen to set out in pursuit of 
 a new one - braving the wasteland of post-apocalypse California. After a remarkably downbeat ending 
 to your adventures, your Vault Dwellers set off to found a small village of their own. Fallout 
 2 cast you as a grandchild to the first protagonist, offering a much larger play area and a greater 
 variety of distractions from your quest to find a GECK - a powerful piece of technology with the 
 power to save your dying tribe.
  
  Fallout 3, set some 36 years after its predecessor, shifts its focus to the East coast of America 
 - to the claustrophobic confines of Vault 101. The game begins with your birth, generating your 
 character's gender, name and appearance. After this you'll spend about 20 minutes speeding through 
 your childhood and adolescence via a neat quest designed to introduce most of the game's key concepts 
 and mechanics - including the much-discussed VATS combat system. At the end of this brief introduction 
 your rebellious father disappears; his sudden departure enrages the vault authorities and causes 
 a minor riot - leaving you with no choice but to follow him. You emerge from the underground, your 
 vision blurring under a sun you have never seen before - and then you set out across the Washington 
 wastelands.
  
  What follows is really up to you - in the short term, at least. You'll be given a pointer about 
 where to look for your Dad first, but the world is more or less your oyster. Since this is an RPG, 
 your main priority should be to get some experience and to start levelling up. The area immediately 
 surrounding Vault 101 isn't too lethal, but if you immediately head to the far corners of the map 
 you'll swiftly find yourself in trouble. Bethesda has largely abandoned the mechanic used in Oblivion 
 which scaled random enemies to match your capabilities - so if you go wandering off into a dangerous 
 area, you're bound to come a cropper. As a result of this design choice, the wasteland immediately 
 feels a threatening place - something further compounded by the devastated scenery that surrounds 
 you in every direction, thanks to a rather spiffy draw distance.
  
  As you might imagine, the thermonuclear apocalypse has had a detrimental effect upon public transport 
 - so you'll be doing all your exploration on foot. In all likelihood, you'll be viewing proceedings 
 from a first person perspective - a third-person option does exist, but most people are likely 
 to get fed up with the slightly floaty way your hero moves. Either way, you'll soon find that the 
 landscape itself is the star of the show. Bethesda have done an amazing job in creating a ruined 
 environment: from burnt-out towns and twisted highways to the looming metropolis of downtown DC, 
 the in-game scenery drips with a tragic, ruined atmosphere. This is probably just as well, since 
 it takes a fairly long time to walk from point A to point B. On the plus side, once you've discovered 
 a given location, you'll be able to instantly fast-travel back there at any point you wish. To 
 be honest, I was initially fairly uncertain about whether or not I thought this was a good idea: 
 It's certainly a convenient feature, but its not a particularly realistic one - and for a while 
 I was concerned that it would dilute the dangerous atmosphere of the wasteland itself.
  
  After spending a decent length of time with the game, I've come to the conclusion that this slightly 
 odd warping is simply a necessary evil. You'll end up doing an awful lot of to-ing an fro-ing in 
 Fallout 3 and if you had to do every journey on foot, you'd probably get very bored. As weird as 
 it may seem, the warping mechanism allows you to set up camp somewhere - probably the house that 
 can be acquired early on - and once you get into the habit of periodically returning to your base, 
 you'll find that you start thinking a bit more tactically about the weapons and kit you'll need 
 for the road ahead. At low character levels you'll probably spend a fair bit of time looting corpses 
 and lugging your treasures back to the nearest merchant, so it's often handy to travel light.
 
  
  On all but the shortest of journeys, you're bound to run into some form of enemy. Combat is conducted 
 via a mixture of real time shooting or fighting, and targeted attacks made using the VATS system, 
 which pauses the action and allows you to queue up a limited number of actions. You're probably 
 sick of hearing about this by now, but it's worth confirming one more time that the whole stop-start 
 thing works really well: it lends a tactical edge to battles, but it doesn't slow things down too 
 much at all. Fighting outside of VATS takes a little getting used to: while it may look and feel 
 as though you're playing a FPS, attacks are calculated along the lines of standard RPG rules. In 
 other words, unloading a clip into a bandit's leg won't automatically cripple them unless you score 
 a critical hit. It's a strange hybrid of action and strategy, but it's highly satisfying once you 
 get used to it - and for some strange reason you'll never get tired of watching the slow-motion 
 deaths of your enemies.
  
  In terms of the weapons at your disposal, there are five skill classes available - small, large 
 and energy-based firearms, plus a selection of melee and hand-to-hand weapons. To be honest, the 
 former fair distinctly better than the latter: from super-mutants to hard-nailed mercs, most of 
 the antagonists in Fallout 3 have some form of ranged attack, so you're far better off wielding 
 some form of gun. You'll also find that close-range swipes and punches look a bit weird - the character 
 models don't always connect as well as they might. In any case, the guns simply sound better: the 
 magnums boom and the rocket launchers whoosh - and during a VATS kill these noises are slowed and 
 distorted to excellent effect. While we're on the subject of killing, we have to flag up our love 
 for the sloppy way that enemies melt into the ground when you hit them with a plasma rifle. It's 
 gruesome, funny and very reminiscent of the old-school Fallout death animation.
  
  Another favourable comparison between Bethesda's sequel and its Interplay counterparts is to be 
 found in the way skills are used. As you level up through experience, you'll be given points to 
 spend on improving your abilities. Aside from combat, you'll be able to improve your training in 
 areas such as medicine, science and speech. While boosting any of these has a benefit in its own 
 right, you'll also find that raising certain skills will unlock new dialogue options when conversing 
 with NPCs, opening up alternative ways to complete quests. Such moments are highly pleasing, since 
 they reward you for growing your hero in a particular way and make you feel connected to the character 
 you've built up - which is surely half the point of playing a role-playing game in the first place.
 
  
  Indeed, I'd go so far as to say that the overall quest design in Fallout 3 is one of the game's 
 strongest elements. In the early stages you'll find most quests to be relatively straightforward, 
 but once you get stronger and travel a bit further afield, there's all sorts of stuff to be done: 
 one minute you're raiding the National Archives; the next you're a private detective, attempting 
 to locate an android who looks identical to human beings. This last quest, a clear nod to Ridley 
 Scott's Blade Runner, is a perfect example of the way in which players are allowed to follow their 
 own morality. Finding the missing robot is a task of itself since he's undergone facial surgery 
 and has had his mind wiped - and then once you finally find him, what should you do? Do you inform 
 his master, or do you kill the master and let the machine live in peace? But then again, the android 
 no longer knows he's an android - so perhaps you should tell him what he is? It's up to you to 
 decide.
  
  This open approach to morality is more prevalent in some quests than in others, but there's always 
 several ways to approach the task in hand - and you're frequently rewarded for thinking outside 
 of the box. One quest will send you on a mission to assassinate four characters across the world 
 - but if you do a bit of digging around, perhaps you might be able to work out why your employer 
 wants them dead. If you play your cards right, you'll discover what it is they really want. To 
 say much more would be to spoil one of Fallout 3's better adventures - but let's just say that 
 seeing the full extent of this quest will take you several hours. You could just go ahead and do 
 the hits if you're a cold-blooded sort, but if you're the curious type... well, I'll let you see 
 for yourselves.
  
  The main quest in Fallout 3 can be ploughed through in about 30 hours or so, but the chances are 
 that it'll take you much longer. Indeed, if you complete the game in this length of time then you're 
 almost certainly playing it too quickly. Most people will take far longer - if only for the fact 
 that it's so easy to get distracted by things. There are so many places to visit and things to 
 do - and it seems that every time you head out to accomplish one thing, you find three others you'll 
 want to do later. Once it grabs you, Fallout 3 is one of those games that gets into your head and 
 lays eggs. You'll be at work, or on a bus somewhere, and you'll find yourself meticulously planning 
 where you'll go and what you'll do when you next boot up the game. When you finally do rush home 
 and play, you'll find that time whisks by - it's 2am, and you've still not explored that old military 
 base you saw. So you keep on playing, and find yourself zombified at work the next day. Not that 
 this will stop you from making further plans - or returning to the wastes that very same evening.
 
  
  As you can probably gather, I like Fallout 3 a hell of a lot - and as a long-time fan of the Fallout 
 series, I had my fair share of reservations about the way this game could have turned out. There 
 are, however, a few problems that need to be mentioned. The biggest single problem is the scriptwriting, 
 which varies in quality throughout the whole venture. Most of the time it's fine, but every once 
 in a while you'll hit upon something that's wincingly overblown, or else simply not appropriate 
 for a Mad Max-style wilderness. The worst offenders here are the Brotherhood of Steel - the guys 
 in power armour who dominate the game's artwork. In previous Fallout adventures, the Brotherhood 
 were a group of isolationist, technology-obsessed knights who looked after themselves and pretty 
 much ignored everyone else; they helped you out when they had to, but only when it served their 
 own interests. Here they've become shining protectors of the downtrodden. That's not such a terrible 
 shift, but their righteous pseudo-Jedi dialogue is really quite cringeworthy. "Steel be with you!" 
 cries the guard to the Pentagon, with apparent sincerity.
  
  Bethesda's attitude to radiation is also a little unbalanced. The melancholic tone of Washington's 
 ruins and the ramshackle depiction of the few human settlements are bang on the money as far as 
 Fallout tone goes - so why ruin that by including a weapon that fires miniature nukes? Firing one 
 of these babies will wipe out an entire room - but you'll be fine to loot the bodies two seconds 
 later, since they only leave a tiny amount of radioactive fallout. On a similar level, the studio 
 does a pretty good job of depicting ghouls - the poor mutant survivors of WWIII who now resemble 
 zombies - as put-upon victims, rejected by society. Again, this was a trait of the previous games 
 - so why deflate that by including "feral ghouls" who act like the zombies from 28 Days Later? 
 Don't even get me started on the character who can mysteriously turn into a ghoul in the space 
 of a few hours, if you're mean enough to nuke Megaton - the town built over an unexploded bomb.
 
  
  These instances of Bethesda dropping the ball are certainly irritating, but the truth is that they 
 will only really hurt hardcore Fallout fans. The use of the word "only" in that last sentence will 
 probably put a few noses out of joint, but it's true: most people who play this won't care a bit 
 - because they never played the original games in the first place. That will be of scant consolation 
 to those of you unhappy with the direction Bethesda has taken, but perhaps you'll take comfort 
 in the fact that the original classics are surely bound to receive new attention in the months 
 following Fallout 3's release. Personally, I'm having a ball with this game. I've been playing 
 it pretty much non-stop since our review copy arrived at the office, but I'm sure as hell not going 
 to stop any time soon. There are elements here that are significantly altered from the first games 
 - some pleasant, some not - but I ultimately find the game to be a good thing: it's a different 
 experience, yet one with many familiar ingredients.
  
  And for the rest of you... well, you have a treat on your hands. As I said up at the top, this 
 is a massive game: in a month that's seen the release of five or six of the year's best titles, 
 I reckon this is the absolute peach. It's packed with interesting places, with choices to make, 
 with that nebulous sense of adventure you only find in the best RPGs. And after a long wait, it's 
 finally here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobubba
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The only reason my attention turned to this title stemmed from my enjoyment of Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion. Bethesda made a truly beautiful game, and when I learned that they developed Fallout 
 3, I couldn't resist the urge to try it out. It did not disappoint.
  
  There are many out there, though, who say this game is merely Oblivion, but not as good. They have 
 said that is a second-rate version set in a more modern time. At first, I agreed, but after some 
 more playing and thinking, I can't bring myself to make that comparison again. This game is superior 
 in its own ways. Besides, these games, while very similar in style, have their strong points. The 
 gameplay is obviously different, allowing for different tactics and weapons. You don't get guns 
 in Oblivion, just arrows. And there's no magic in Fallout, but an awesome V. A. T. S. system. The 
 environments differ greatly, with Fallout having the more drab colors; however, I never thought 
 I could see them portrayed so elegantly. 
  
  When the main character first stepped out of the vault, it left me awe struck. Though the screen 
 was full of browns and little else, the visual was stunning. I still have not tired of seeing the 
 wasteland and the silhouettes of buildings in the background. Graphically, this game is more sound 
 than anything I expected.
  
  An adjustable difficulty makes this game perfect for anyone. Even my wife plays. As a matter of 
 fact, while I write this, she is sitting next to me strolling around. Try it out on easy, and then 
 step up the difficulty as you get more comfortable with it. The real thrill comes when a player 
 can go from tackling the foes on easy to defeating them on very hard.
  
  The quests are interesting and fun. Some prove to be quite short, but that's why there are plenty 
 to be found. Also, I am on my second play through, and I am finding it entertaining to try the 
 different options that I didn't take the first time through. There's definitely reason to continue 
 playing through over and over again.
  
  The only downfall of this game comes from the glitches. Of course, an expansive game such as this 
 can't possibly exist without problems, right? It really only bothers me when I haven't saved often 
 enough, or when the glitch gets in the way on finishing a quest.
  
  Whatever tastes or gripes people have about this game, they must admit that it is far superior 
 than many games on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elhl21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 es un juego en un millon, es un juego que tienes que tener en tu coleccion , ya sea en 
 ps3 o 360 o pc fallout 3 tiene excelentes graficas y una grandiosa jugabilidad. El juego esta desarrollado 
 en un gigantesco mapa para que fluyan tus habilidades RPG xD ,en el cualpuedes hacer infinitas 
 cosas , ya sea desde encontrar armas alienigenas hasta masacrar gente en megaton cuando uno quiere 
 mal karma xD. Puedes jugar por horas y horas y no acabar por completo el juego (no aplica hardcore 
 RPG gamers) xD . Yo recomendaria que antes de acabar las quest principales te armaras con lo mejor 
 y que encontraras todas las armas unicas (suerte con el victory rifle ;D) .
  
  Fallout 3 se merece un 9.5 por su convinacion de graficas y variedad de quests, items, armas , 
 seleccion del rumbo de la historia. La unica debilidad del juego es que se puede llegar a congelar 
 en momentos muy desagradables ( aprende a grabar cuando hagas algo importante)
  
  
  No queda mas que decir que si quieres gastar bien tu dinero ,en esta grandiosa crisis economica 
 , compra fallout 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Setting: 
  Fallout 3 takes place in the 23rd century roughly 200 years after a nuclear war between the United 
 States and China. You start the game in Vault 101, a nuclear bomb shelter, but soon make your way 
 into the capital wasteland (the ruins of Washington D. C. and the surrounding area) to begin your 
 quest.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is a one of the strong suits of the game. Freeaim gunplay is very simple but hard 
 to rely on because there is no real effective zoom mode. Instead you will have to rely on VATS. 
 When in Vats the game will pause and you can select different body parts on your selected target 
 and choose to shoot. You have a set number of points in VATS and how many shots you can get off 
 largely depends on the enemy and the weapon you are using. Once these points are depleted you have 
 wait a short amount of time for them to recharge. 
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are similar to those featured in The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion as Oblivion and Fallout 
 3 were both made by Bethesda. The main difference between the two games is the level of gore. Fallout 
 3 ups the gore level in a big way in that characters can be dismembered wheras Oblivion there was 
 only blood. 
  
  Overall:
  The only complaint I really had with the game was the short length of the main story as well as 
 the small number of quests compared to Oblivion. Other than that the game is amazing. I give it 
 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:28 am PT
Review:  You start off, You have just been born of course. Your dad is trying to think of a name, He asks 
 you, What do you think of this ___ And then you enter the name, Like all new born babies do, And 
 that is your name, Like mine is Shawn. Yay. Next, Your Mom dies, Sadly. So your dad takes care 
 of you until you are 10, When it is your Birthday. You get to enjoy your party, Get some presents 
 off Old women, Spit on a Cake and give it to someone who you do not like, Then you get to do other 
 stuff after your party is done, You get a BB Gun! So anyway, You grow to be 16, And then your dad 
 goes missing, And people are after you.. Here is where the action begins.
  
  Let me explain. This game, Is a very dark FP/RPG. Its about as colorful as my left toe. But then 
 again, That makes this game damn right well designed, As it is supposed to be more on the low beat, 
 Dark side of life, Where in the future where the game is set, The world has basically come to an 
 end. Except there is people fighting to live, Against giant Bugs, And Robots, And other lovely 
 stuff like that. It takes a while once you have left the first part of the game, And go outside 
 to see the waste land, Which believe me, Is huge. And very dark, And at times you will find yourself 
 jumping out your seat when a big cockroach comes biting, They can be intimidating and scary and 
 funny at the same time. So yes, Once you are on the wasteland, Its a little slow, You will find 
 yourself fighting bugs, Fighting people, Going in a few buildings, And meeting a little girl who 
 you can choose to help or not. 
  
  Sometimes, The game can feel unstable, And when in Combat, Fighting with a Baton or Baseball bat, 
 It can feel like you are prodding them rather than getting the full satisfaction of smashing them 
 in the face and knocking them out. I also, Find the VAT system a little... Stupid, As when you 
 shoot a person and a certain place on there body, Like their head, They don't seem to die, You 
 just have to shoot them normally, Which I do not understand for the life of me. 
  
  Graphically, The game is okay. Its not MGS4 like, Or anything special. Its just dark and grey. 
 The textures are good, And the buildings look good. Characters are ok, But the real problem graphically 
 is the stability of the physics and movement.
  
  Overall, You should buy this game and try it out for yourself. It is cheap now, And it is a bargain, 
 As there is Around 40 hours of gameplay, Well thats probably not even right, probably more. You 
 will get distracted from the story alot, So the hours could turn into weeks depending on your dedication 
 to finish. Also, the trophies are a nice edition.
  
  **Yes there are some bugs and glitches, The first main one will be found when you try and take 
 a test, Dosen't happen for everyone but it did for me. So you can google that or use the forums 
 to see a way round it, Not a problem though I got around it, Just if you dont take the test, You 
 don't get the trophy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  From the moment you wake up from being born, you are constantly deciding what kind of character 
 you are going to be for the rest of your life. It's just amazingly customizable. If you have ever 
 had the great pleasure of playing any other Bethesda games, you may have experienced Oblivion. 
 This game is a lot like Oblivion. It's different in a lot of ways, but the format is similar. And 
 it really is a wonderful experience. You won't regret playing this game.
  In this game you have the options of companions, being evil, good, nuetral, and the game conforms 
 to what you choose. The main story line doesn't take too long, about 30 hours, but if you play 
 all the side missions as well, and thoroughly enjoy this game you'll enjoy it much much more, and 
 it will last a lot longer, easily upwards of 50 hours. Of course I might be slower than others 
 at completing things. All in all it's a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rothinzil
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, the freedom to explore what you want, when you want to is unparalleled. I've 
 spend a good 80 hours playing this game and I still have not yet discovered all of the treasures 
 that the enormous Wasteland holds. 
  
  The countless of choices you are faced with create so much variation, it's insane. Both the main 
 story line and miscellaneous side-quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways and while 
 the main story can be completed in less than 12 hours with a little practice, the sidequests more 
 than double the time you'll spend playing Fallout 3.
  
  Both the Karma and VATS combat system are well designed and can influence people's reactions and 
 often save your life. The level of realism is outstanding, and it is hard at first adjusting to 
 the fact that you're wandering through the wastes of DC, yet the game perfectly captures what could 
 be left of Washington DC after a nuclear war. 
  
  From the moment you first step out of Vault 101, you'll experience a rewarding mixture of excitement 
 and atmospheric exploration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharp9153
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  The game is really fun, at first you wont like it, I didnt. But once you get into it theres no 
 stoping you for playing it literally all weekend long. Definatly Game of Year quality. Easily as 
 good as GTA4 or COD4. GET IT if u have $60. Its the best game to get for that price. Total revolutionizes 
 the FPS world. Its even got some what of a horror game in it. Loads of gore. Shoot their heads, 
 legs, arms, bodies off!!! Nice arsenal of guns.
  Cons: Glitches can be a problem every now and then. The update fixes most though. But update disables 
 alot of the glitches that give you unlimited money, items exe. Can be alittle too challenging at 
 times. If you die you restart at last save point which can suck. Happened to me once and I lost 
 3 hours of data. Not that many armor types.
  
  You wont be disappointed if you get it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  if any of you read my first review i hated the game but know i did more exploring and stuff and 
 now its probaly the funnest game ive ever played. though the only thing thats really bad about 
 fallout 3 is that you dont get a vechicle and it sometimes takes forever to kill a enemy. i dont 
 see whats so bad about third person though its really not that bad. though it will really be kick 
 @$$ in the game if it was online and everyone who has xbox live or psn can just explore with millions 
 of people evrywhere. that would be freakin awesome. anyone who hates this game is probaly just 
 retared or they somehow found a wii version of a game which would be terrible. though what were 
 the second and first one like i asked people at my school and they said it was terrible or there 
 are 2 more cause they were like for pc like 10 years ago. overall this has to be the best game 
 i ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw a video for this game, I thought, "Whoa that looks cool"
  
  Man was that an understatement.
  
  This is undoubtedly one of the best games I have ever played. 
 There are so many elements of this game that make it unique and incredible. 
  
  One, which is probably my favorite, is the V. A. T. S., which is a targeting system which really adds 
 to the RPG aspect of this game. Not only does it make fighting enemies a little more fun than just 
 pointing and shooting, it causes enemies to die in different, fun ways every time. Not only that, 
 it also shows everything in a very cinematic, slow-motion way, just to make it that much cooler. 
 This is one game that doesn't waste any of it's almost exaggerated blood and gore. A very good 
 game for lovers of hard core violence.
  
  Now to go a little deeper into this game. This is a game without limits. You can go anywhere, do 
 anything, anytime you want. It gives you a freedom that makes it so realistic, while at the same 
 time giving you quests to do so you don't get bored just running around the wasteland killing things 
 (which i actually find quite fun) . Also one thing i noticed is that there really isn't a single 
 cutscene in the entire game. You are in control the entire time. You choose what to say, what to 
 do, how to it. This aspect of the game really makes you feel like YOU are the main character, and 
 not like you are watching a movie like games such as Metal Gear Solid 4, which is an amazing game 
 in all it's own ways, don't get me wrong. I love MGS4. But back on subject now. 
  
  The weapons in this game are really something else. You start out finding typical weapons like 
 a pistol and shotgun and stuff, but some of the guns you find in later this game are just too cool. 
 One of my favorites is the Fat Man, which is a gun that shoots Mini Nukes. The name pretty much 
 sums them up. If you are within 30 feet of one of these things when it blows up, it's game over 
 for you. This gun has gotten my out of several sticky situations. These incredible weapons coupled 
 with the V. A. T. S. creates a gameplay experience unmatched by anything I have ever played.
  
  All that on a limitless map? You got yourself one heck of game there. I recommend this game 
 to everyone who thinks everything i just talked about sounds the least bit cool, because i promise 
 it is even better than i can describe. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING! I don't have any ideas why my friends hate this game. Probably because they 
 are stuck playing with their outdated shooters: COD5 and Resistance 2. Fallout 3 is a seriously 
 addictive game. And that doesn't mean you will be stuck playing this game forever of course, it 
 means that you have mentally everything since you first bought the game and you will be playing 
 this game for a LONG time. The V. A. T. S. is a great innovative game mechanic, the atmosphere is 
 top-notch, if not as good as S. T. A. L. K. E. R., and the graphics are bleeding with gritty art design 
 and sharp technical performance and showcase. It is rare to have to keep a game on your PS3 for 
 days because you have a great pass-time with it, but Fallout 3 for the PS3 is a RPG you won't soon 
 forget. Just, take your time and keep the fun (the game) for the weekend (days without school) 
 just like me. There are a few game crashes in the game, but they don't happen too often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAOSQ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game havent really played a game quite like this only really played straight 
 fps didnt no weather or not i would like it or not but the trailer looked wicked so thought i would 
 give it a go. i think this games storyline could have been alot longer, i was abit shocked and 
 quite disapointed when i finished the storyline itself lucky there is so much to explore out there 
 in the wastes. i have spent hours roaming around out there finding loot and wasting what ever i 
 run into. i have discoverd a ufo space ship in my travels along with a little alien and his weapon 
 and discoverd more hidden weapons, tunnels and realy liked all the hidden voults just make sure 
 you dont race through ths game az i seid storyline not the longest or maybe im expecting to much 
 hese days but when paying good money for these games we should be able to expect more. thanks for 
 anthor epic ps3 game keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phortheman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:14 am PT
Review:  Three letters W-O-W! What a great game. It is a perfect RPG, gun firing, head popping (literally) 
 game. Except for the ending. I'm not going to spoil it but lets just say... it could be better. 
 Don't get me wrong the ending is amazing... for a movie. Because u lose ur character, can't play 
 him/her again. Which bummed me out because i made a great file but then i save right at the end, 
 and i can't go back. And u get a strange weapon at the end to which made no sense because of course 
 you can't play it anymore. And just one little thing is that the max level is 20, which makes sense 
 because it is judged by exp so people don't get up to level 100 (which would be fun!) . Well thats 
 it for the bad here's the good. There are so many places to explore, many strange NPCs, and it's 
 so much fun. This is why a gave this AMAZING game a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timh17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Being new to the fallout series but not bethesda (ive played oblivion and morrowind) i was looking 
 forwards to the experience.
  To an extent Fallout 3 does not dissapoint, there's a large sprawling wasteland accross which you 
 can trek, mirelurk infested caverns and raider ridden facilities for you to plunder; which is all 
 very well and good, until youve done it over and over just in the hopes of finding something that 
 doesn't seem to be there, variety. Thus is the downfall of such open world games, the "dungeons" 
 dotted around dont have much variety to them, but you can see past it because, the story and characters 
 are memorable and some of them quite a laugh (3 dog comes to mind) 
  The PS3 version at least has unfortunate issues with pop-in and clipping as shown in GS' graphical 
 comparisons, my game has also crashed on a few occassions and characters sometimes get a little, 
 shall we say "confused".
  Combat would be nigh on atrocious without the addition of the slow-mo VATS system which is satisfying 
 for the most part, but also makes you feel a little cheap at the same time, aiming with the Dualshock 
 just isn't right in this game.
  Just like oblivion character movement is odd at times, with bumping into walls aplenty and 80's 
 disco running-man impressions rife.
  All in all the game is well put together, with a good deal to do and decent replayability weapons 
 are good with a nice sound and realistic (plasmas aside) feel, the voice acting is decent but the 
 lip sync can be off at times.
  
  conclusively if you enjoyed oblivion or just leveling a character and following an engaging story 
 with plenty to explore on the side. Fallout3 could be for you, but i cant help thinking if you 
 can run it on PC then youd be better off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is from the people who made the amazing Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and know they bring you 
 another massive world of Fallout 3 which setting is set in Washington D. C. In this game you get 
 to customize your character just like in Oblivion and you get to decide the fate of many people 
 in the wasteland of Washington D. C. You get to decide the fate of many slaves. Their is a town 
 in the wastelands that just holds slaves. Just like in Oblivion, you can either be a bad or good 
 guy. This is your choice on how you act upon people and quests. This game however is not near as 
 long as Oblivion. And the map is not quite as big and vivid as Oblivion but you will never see 
 some area quite look the same which the most part of Oblivion looks the same.
  
  After about the first hour of play, you then realize what your point or goal of the game is. This 
 game takes place in 2277 and you and your father live in Vault 101 and you find out earlier that 
 something happened to your mom during your birth but you are not sure, but you have an idea right? 
 This vault, Vault 101, and like many other vaults in the wasteland are made the keep all the inhabitants 
 inside safe from the dangerous things in the wasteland. You will grow up from birth being one years 
 old, then you skip to ten years old, then sixteen, etc. You then find out that your father has 
 escaped the vault, which no one is allowed to leave the vault. The rule is, born in the vault, 
 die in the vault. Your father didn't even tell you goodbye. You then have to go after him because 
 the leader of Vault 101 is furious and wants to take it out on you.
  
  You will see many replica things in the wastelands of Fallout 3 just like in Washington D. C. like 
 many monuments.
  
  The good thing about the game is you can take a quests on many different ways, unlike most games. 
 You can get the information out of people through persuading them or fighting it out of someone 
 else or through a letter you find on the ground, in chests, etc. A downfall to the game, unlike 
 in Oblivion, once the main story ends, it's over. The game stops and no more unless you want to 
 start all over. Their are no where near the amount as side quests as Oblivion has.
  
  In this game as well, you will have choices to be nice or mean to people. All of this affects on 
 how your karma is. These are Trophies. However you take the quests depends on how the ending of 
 each and ever quest will end and how the people will react to you. This game is very complex.
 
  
  Although unlike Oblivion, you don't game skill points, you gain experience points, then you get 
 to put your own skill points. You will go through lockpicking and hacking to get into things. Which 
 the hacking can get frustrating at times. You can also gain perks which I am not going to go into 
 because of spoilers. But lets just say that they help out a lot.
  
  You have the choice of playing in 3rd or 1st person but lets just say you will want to play in 
 1st person because 3rd person looks odd and is way harder. 3rd person looks like you are gliding 
 across the ground.
  
  In this game you can blow limbs off bodies through the VATs. You get to freeze time and shoot off 
 limbs and watch in slow motion. But you will not always hit the limbs. They have a percentage on 
 how likely you are going to to hit that limb. I know, that sounds awesome and it is. You can blow 
 heads, legs, arms off. It is awesome and looks good. The physics are great as well. When you blow 
 off a head from a mutated dog on top of the hill for instance, it is a race for the head and the 
 dog body to the bottom of the mountain with rocks in the way the cause an obstacle course for the 
 flying limbs. You can shoot many other guns that will just leave ashes and goo behind of their 
 body. Like in a real life situation, your guns and armor wear over time through battle. They can 
 be repaired if you have some the the same guns or armor to repair the thing with parts from the 
 other.
  
  When you choose a limb, they all have different affects. Shooting in the arm may make him drop 
 his weapon. Shooting in the leg will make him limp. Shooting in the head will make him disoriented. 
 When you get injured you will need to take stimpaks to heal yourself when you have a gunshot wound 
 or broken bones. This will make you limp and not be able to shoot near as well.
  
  Since you get the idea that the place was nuked, you can get radiation poisoning. This can be easily 
 healed though. You fight hundreds of enemies throughout this game and sometimes you will be helped 
 out by fighting huge giants who can kick your ass. The load times are very short and not a problem. 
 You will note these when you enter a building or a town.
  
  The graphics are pretty good but not quite as good as some games we see like Uncharted or Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 but they are really good though. The explosions to gunfire are great. Even the soundtracks 
 of music gives you that vibe the same way Oblivion did. They are just great.
  
  So this is a game that shouldn't be missed. If you loved Oblivion, then you would love this game 
 no doubt. But if you didn't like Oblivion, then you may like this one which is futuristic and has 
 guns that can take off heads. Yes again that is the coolest thing of the game. And yes the storyline 
 is pretty good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmclarochelle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets just put it this way, I never wrote I review for a game before but this game compelled me 
 to!!! Since the game is everything I love in a video game I feel writing this review is my way 
 of saying thanks to the developers for bringing fallout 3 into this world. The game is revolutionary 
 in almost every aspect, the graphics are amazing!!! the world is HUGE!!! and the choices you make 
 are endless!!! Lets not mention the joy you get from blowing your enemies limbs off in slow motion=) 
 So if you find yourself in your local wally world or game depot I would highly recommend picking 
 this game implace of any other game you might be contemplating, you wont regret it and if you do 
 you just plain hate games and shouldnt even be on this website. Im a big fan of the team who made 
 this and I cant wait to see more games from them. So to sum up my experience with fallout 3 heres 
 my formula (Oblivion + Guns + 50's Music - Orks and Goblins x NUCLEAR APOCALYPSE= Fallout 3!!!!) 
 10/10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The future looks bright for Bethseda, however the same can't be said for the dysfunctional humans 
 that occupy the world that is a Postapocalyptic Washington DC. They kick you, cheat you, ask you 
 to do their dirty deeds, mutate, kill themselves, pretty much covering every deadly sin. However 
 at the end of it you can't help but feel a little cheated for money. When you pick up Fallout 3, 
 you see Bethseda softworks, on the front and you assume you're going to get a game similar to oblivion 
 but with guns, and you'd be right. However what Fallout 3 really lacks is the length to make it 
 favourably comparable to Oblivion. (i'm sorry but there are a lot of comparisons to Oblivion within 
 this review, it's the best way to give most people an idea of what this game is like.)
  
  The game isnt too short that you'd feel ripped off, it's just the majority of it is spent traipsing 
 the recycled wastelands that really seem as though your exploring a wallpapered version of Oblivion. 
 Gone are the greens and creatures, and replaced with murky rubble covered grounds, and mutated 
 mole rats and mutated humans. The main story itself is unbelievably short, taking only 5 or 6 hours 
 to get from the beginning, where as a baby, you have to choose your sex, name and what you'll look 
 like when your older. Something some cite as brilliant, where i say an awful lot to ask of a newly 
 born foetus.
  
  The game also includes a number of side quests, although not as large in number, they are slightly 
 more varied than Bethseda's previous venture, in that they are not simply goto and grab missions, 
 where you travel about the land picking up items to gain some experience. Some you have to rescue 
 kidnapped humans from mutants, some you have to fix relationships between factions. 
  
  Anyway enough about the fact that for an RPG Fallout 3 is too short, onto the actual game itself.
 
  
  If there is one thing the Fallout series has always been good at doing, it was being immersive, 
 from the character interactions, to the realistic breakdown of society. Thankfully Bethseda do 
 this brilliantly, really creating a captivating game. The characters have lost that rubber faced 
 look that was to be found from Oblivion, and the voice acting actually seems like the people are 
 putting some actual work into it. However characters still retain that habit of staring at you 
 without breaking their gaze and going rigid, when talking. You also gain this "ability" where whenever 
 you talk, the people around you stop what they are doing and freeze, so they can listen in.
  
  However Bethseda have yet again made a horrible casting error, in hiring a big name actor in 
 the form of Liam Neeson, to play your dad, and while he does a great job of comforting you as you 
 enter this harsh world, he soon dissapears off the face of the earth for pretty much the rest of 
 the game. It's not even the first time Bethseda have done it, they also did it in Oblivion where 
 Patrick Stewarts character is killed off right in the beginning.
  Point is Bethseda have really wasted Voice talent there.
  
  Anyway back to the character interactions, 
 the voice acting is top notch (well at least compared to oblivion) its a little unnerving hearing 
 a kid of 8 or 9 call you one of the many profanities found within Fallout 3, however it for some 
 strange reason adds to the realism society has broken down. If society does break down, i very 
 much doubt everyone will remain in civil conversation.
  
  Fallout 3 uses the oblivion engine, so it looks adequate enough considering how large the game 
 is meant to be, thankfully some parts have been touched up, like the character models. However 
 your character looks weird in the optional third person mode, he moves ridiculously, like he is 
 ice skating. A problem that surfaced within Oblivion as well. However the game itself isn't much 
 of a looker, it's bleak views and desolate scenery all contribute towards a realistic postapocalyptic 
 game, however it doesn't explain why everything indoors is also so depressing. However one could 
 claim that it helps you appreciate the different tones of greys and browns there are...
  
  The gameplay itself can aptly be described as oblivion... BUT WITH GUNS, the game was never meant 
 to be played as a shooter, hence the introduction of the vats system. However you sort of wish 
 that Bethseda had refined the shooting parts a bit more, considering you can't use Vats constantly 
 as you need to wait for it to recharge.
  
  The vats system itself is a bit of a gimmick, albeit a useful one. It just feels slightly unrealistic 
 being able to pause time itself while you say hang on a minute, i want to be able to shoot a certain 
 body part without doing any of the work myself.
  It makes me feel as though the Vats system was intended for those who can't actually trust themselves 
 to pull off a headshot, instead they'd rather rely on percentages and numbers to fight for them.
 
  
  Some may wonder why i rated this lower than oblivion. Admittedly it was because although Oblivion 
 has a few flaws as well, they are purely graphical or minor gameplay issues, however the issues 
 Within Fallout 3 are all detrimental to the gameplay. From the shortness of the game overall, to 
 the lack of things to actually do within the game except quests. The exploration side of things 
 can be extremely repetitive, due to the recycled train stations and dull pallette of colours found, 
 compared to the richness and diversity that at least could be found within Oblivion.
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 isn't a bad game, in fact it's a great game, however it takes heavily from Bethseda's 
 previous success Oblivion, and some of what it takes isn't actually what made Oblivion as good 
 as a game as it was. It's not as expansive as other RPG's and the combat can be slightly lackluster, 
 however it is very cool watching someones head fly off in several bloody chunks with aid from the 
 vats system.
  It has lost the amount of customization that could be found within oblivion, instead replacing 
 it with less weapons and a few choices between head gear and body gear.
  
  In other words, it's a game you should get, but don't go in hoping for just a completely futuristic 
 version of oblivion, because although it indeed borrows heavily from the elder scrolls, it fails 
 to take all of what was good about Oblivion, instead taking a lot of its problems and a few of 
 it's gameplay elements.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  I read gamespot review and was nervous that these "marked anti-aliasing" would get in the way. 
 
  DO NOT WORRY ABOUT IT! There are some graphical hic-ups, sure. But nothing to distract you from 
 the big picture. When I first so the fallout environment after I left the vault the last thing 
 I noticed was any bad graphics. The detail and sheer size of the environment will take your breath 
 away. The latest update adds trophy support and fixes the messaging bugs. The combat system (VATS) 
 is straightforward and fun to watch, but one of the downside is non assisted targeting (free aim) 
 is difficult and awkward. The dialogue options are funny, and the quests will sure to take you 
 many hours. One pleasant surprise I noticed was that it requires about 4.6 GB of HD space, but 
 instead of doing a mandatory install, it slowing installs the data as you discover more area, which 
 was a welcomed treat. Do not deny yourself the pleasure of being the jaw dropping game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire4881
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  A Fantastic combo of FPS and RPG.... the story was immense, the characters were rich, and the gameplay 
 was immense... Cant wait to play it again... After seeing the trailer for the game, i half expected 
 it to be very similar to Bioshock, but i was presently surprised by the level of detail which went 
 into character interactions. The characters look and sound great, with a vast difference between 
 the individual look of each character... The use of moral choices, were a definate addition to 
 the gameplay...
  The weapons were very unique as well with the ability to create various new weapons from scavenged 
 blue prints adding a very pleasent addition to the arsenal... Definately a second feather in the 
 Bethesda's cap, didnt think they could make another game to rival 'Oblivion' but they may have 
 just succeeded... i hope for some expansions in the near future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  I didn't have any interest in Fallout 3 when it first came out. I had seen some stuff on it and 
 thought about it seeing as there were few RPGs coming out for the PS3. But upon release, I didn't 
 bother. Luckily for me, a coworker of mine had been talking up the Fallout series, intentionally 
 or not, prior to the release, so when he started Fallout 3 and was telling me about it, I was intrigued. 
 Watching some gameplay videos here on GameSpot pushed the interest over the top, and a couple days 
 later I picked up a copy. Fast forward to the end of the year, where Fallout 3 turned out to be 
 the best game I played this year.
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in a wasteland Washington, DC, in a future where China and the US get into 
 a nuclear war. The first two Fallouts took place on the west coast. Fallout 3's move east is nice, 
 and the first time I saw the Capitol off in the distance, I was hooked. Fallout 3's story pretty 
 much revolves around the main character you create while being born no less. Your first hour takes 
 place in a vault, a secured area underground so that humanity can continue on and once the "dust 
 settles", come out and begin rebuilding. The story kicks off when your father somehow leaves the 
 vault, leaving you behind. From there it takes off like most RPGs, and you meet a number of people 
 along the way along with the two big factions of Fallout, the Brotherhood of Steel and the Enclave.
 
  
  The gameplay of Fallout 3 was transitioned to 3D very well from what I hear, as I never played 
 the first two. Comparisons to Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion are apt, as they were both made by Bethesda 
 Software, although its more focused here than in Oblivion. While on a mission, there's an arrow 
 on your little compass in the lower right hand part of the screen directing you to the next step 
 in the quest. The quests you take are pretty lengthy, most involving multiple layers before finishing 
 the actual quest. Still that's not a bad thing, as the quests are good and allow you to complete 
 them however you like. You have full control over your character, so you can build him or her as 
 a gunner and play it more like an FPS, or you can build more stealthy, or diplomatic with speech 
 skills, or the jack of all trades build. Plus while talking to the various NPCs in the game, you 
 have a number of dialogue options, so you can play the good person, bad or even try to go the neutral 
 route. Its all up to you.
  
  As far as gameplay itself is concerned, at first glance Fallout 3 looks like an FPS, but there's 
 more to it than that. You can play Fallout 3 in first person or third person, although your character 
 is slightly offset on screen in third person and seems to float along the ground, but you do get 
 a better look at everything. Like I said, you can play it like an FPS, but to get the most of the 
 combat, you do have the VATS system to use. The Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System, or VATS, lets 
 you pause the game and it brings up a % indicator on the enemy you're fighting, showing you the 
 % an attack will hit a specific part of the enemy, head, body right or left arms/legs/limbs. Targeting 
 these specific body parts is beneficial, as crippling an arm means the enemy can't use that arm, 
 legs are the same and even better if you're trying to get away or keep it at a distance, as you'll 
 see a noticeable limp. Now the enemies don't have this, but they can cripple your limbs in the 
 same manner. Its a cool system that to me is reminiscent of Squaresoft's PS1 title, Vagrant Story.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is an RPG, so as you level up by completing quests and defeating enemies, you'll gain 
 lots of skill points which you can use to specialize your character, or just make him/her better 
 at certain things. Among the skills you can put points into are: Small/Energy/Big guns, Speech, 
 Barter Skills, Repair, Medicine, Science, Stealth, Lock picking, etc. Also every two levels, you 
 get a chance to put a point into more of a passive ability, like + points to certain skills, or 
 bonuses for guns, or better accuracy in VATS, or later more advanced ones like health regen while 
 in sunlight. And the place where it all starts is the GOAT. The GOAT is a test you take while in 
 the vault which determines your SPECIAL attributes (strength, endurance, stamina, intelligence, 
 etc) . These attributes determine how much weight in items you can carry, how many skill points 
 you can place per level up, how well you can see nearby enemies, etc.
  
  There's quite a bit to the gameplay, seeing as you have melee, standard bullet based guns, and 
 energy based guns all at your disposal. There's also quite a bit graphically. The DC Wasteland 
 is large. I heard that there's a junkyard in the game where you can rescue a dog that will follow 
 you, and I never found this junkyard while playing. Like I said, when you first leave the vault, 
 on higher ground you can see the Capitol building off in the distance. Now I didn't fully explore 
 the downtown DC area, so I'm not positive if you can actually visit the building, but you do visit 
 the Washington Memorial, plus the Jefferson Memorial. And it looks fantastic. In the downtown area 
 buildings are in bad shape, the wasteland itself is fairly barren, save for some areas where life 
 used to be, like an abandoned grade school home to raiders now, or subway stations inhabited by 
 ghouls, or power stations also home to raiders. The game looks great, and there's no loading, save 
 for when you enter/exit a building.
  
  I didn't notice much of a music soundtrack, aside from the radio stations you can pick up that 
 play '50s music, which is pretty cool considering the era. Otherwise the game is pretty quiet which 
 adds to the atmosphere. Honestly, while exploring the wasteland at night with no accompanying music 
 was pretty creepy at times, especially if you're exploring a subway. Everyone has a voice actor 
 too, which is a nice touch. They all seem to do a nice job giving life to their characters. Ron 
 Perlman returns to narrate the intro and ending, with Liam Neeson and Malcolm McDowell also adding 
 their star power.
  
  I can't find much to complain about with Fallout 3. Its very well made, there's tons to do (had 
 about a 35 hour save before my nephew overwrote it, grr) , and good replay value. The story was 
 very cool as well. My only complaint was I wish we could've gotten some more background info and 
 history of what happened that led to the start of the game. The loading screens do show newspaper 
 headlines occasionally that provide some more info, but more in-game info would've been nice. Still, 
 that's just a small complaint in an otherwise incredible game.
  
  Fallout 3 is great. I can't think of any better way to say it other than saying I had no interest 
 on its release, tried it after hearing lots of good things about it, and handed it my Game of the 
 Year. That should say it all, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmoe82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:06 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a awesome game that brings some of the old Fallout mechanics to the new generation 
 of gaming. The % to shoot body parts system is here; the pip boy has been upgraded and numerous 
 other well loved features have been added to this game. 
  The land marks around DC are also pretty cool to see in an post apocalypse type time and the baddies 
 from the old game make a appearance in this game. They also are just as fun to kill now as it was 
 in 96 when I first played. The SPECIAL and skills system is still here and work just as good as 
 they use to. I believe there is more perks in this game than in previous games.
  The game is quite long; it allows you do do whatever you want in the game like nuking innocents 
 to saving people from being killed by raiders. 
  If you don't like Oblivion though, you may not like this game because it seems very much like Oblivion 
 and less like old Fallout.
  
  *Could be spoilers below; depends how you interpret this info.
  The game though has a few flaws 
 because it is so different from the first games. The VAT system doesn't let you target certain 
 body parts like you use to be able to (eyes) and I miss that. The dark humor doesn't seem to be 
 in it either, at all. The entire time you play you are un-aware if there is a time limit to the 
 game. I got to the level cap way to early but still wanted to explore the rest of the world so 
 I had to do it without anymore level ups. Building your own weapons though was a very cool aspect 
 that I am happy they added.
  
  So, if you like Oblivion and the other Fallout games you will love this game; if you didn't then 
 you may want to rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears_of_halo13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  With a huge, open world to explore, a great story, tons of playtime, and amazing graphics, this 
 game will make you feel like you have been pulled into it's world, and you won't want to come out! 
 There are a ton of weapons that you can use, and you have the freedom to walk on whatever path 
 you like. For instance, if you wanted to be someone that people hate, but at the same time are 
 scared of, go ahead. If you don't feel like paying for the stuff the trader is offering, kill him 
 and steal the stuff. Wanna make money by completing quests and jobs people hire you for, who is 
 stopping you? Just be careful, make a severe wrong move, and a whole town might turn on you (trust 
 me, I know that by experience) . Another great thing about this game is that there is just so much 
 to do. You can look for your runaway dad, complete side quests, or just go and explore. But when 
 exploring, I would be careful about running into mutants or wasteland raiders, which will attack 
 you on the spot. Overall a great game that is a definite must buy.
  
  There is a lot of violence (very bloody and gory) and strong language in the game, so be careful. 
 When it says sexual themes on the box, there really aren't. It only says that because when you 
 scavenge off dead bodies, it will take off their clothes, but guys still have undershirts and boxers 
 on, and women still have skirts and undershirts on. So the only things that need be worried about 
 are the strong language and intense violence. Their really aren't that many drugs in the game, 
 only beer, vodka, wine, etc. and cigarettes, but you can't do much with these things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EoSCaboose
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  my review on fallout begins with the gameplay which aboultly awesome love how they kept the controls 
 from oblivion, tough enemies, a good AI, exalent character creation good weapons o and just plain 
 out awesome wen u shoot a guy in the head it falls off .now for the voice acting which is pretty 
 good characters sound like living breathin people good graphics make them look realistic. But Now 
 for da negatives the game is amzingly short, the ending is a wtf moment and sometimes u die out 
 of nowre also some time ull get lost atleast i did. But still a great game (Three Dog = BEST CHARACTER 
 EVER) I give it a perfect score defently worth getting and adding it to ur collection and currently 
 addicted to it o and watch out DERS A SUPER MUTANT BEHIND U. also plz dont say dis game is stupid 
 and im also typing this sentance to waste time not 4 u but 4 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WorldWideGod69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  if you liked oblivion, then you are going to love this game. its a perfect mix between oblivion 
 and some kind of first person shooter. if you're looking for an intense, high action, hardcore 
 first person shooter then you are looking at the wrong game my friend. the ability to freeze time, 
 target an enemy, target a limb of that enemy and have all the time in the world to do it makes 
 this a fairly tactical game. of course like any other game there are limitations to those powers 
 but they come in handy in times. also unlike other games, fallout 3 involves stats and equipment. 
 some weapons do more damage some have good or bad range and some just suck but whatever the weapon 
 whether it be a "rock-it launcher"or a baseball bat you get the choice. same goes with your armor 
 ETC. you are in control. i also loved the fact that throughout the game there's no one way you 
 have to follow. once again, you are in control. to every problem there could be many solutions 
 all leading to different outcomes. you are never forced to complete a quest. if you choose to you 
 may roam around freely fighting baddies. all in all it was a fairly fun game once i got into it. 
 it took me more than a quarter through the game until i was really interested and eventually hooked. 
 i would recommend that you rent it first but rent it long enough to get into the game and not just 
 the starting of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elimin8er_93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I got it for the PS3 and the graphics look AMAZING, though i think my contrast is set up too high 
 and im playing the game on a 720p HD tv and i know it can do better. i love how you can exlpore 
 anywhere and grab pretty much everything in sight. you can even move them by pressing R3 and drag 
 it anywhere you want to put it! overall its a great game and i sugest it to anyone! over 18 that 
 is haha. yes its a M game and if you're under 18 you might want to have a parent around to help 
 you get the game because the game does have a lot of curse words and not to mention the blood and 
 gore the game has. another thing is that you can create your own weopens which i thought was a 
 pretty cool feature. the game it self is very hard especially when it comes to the missions. this 
 isnt like simple missions they are hardcore missions thats involve alot of thinking and may sometimes 
 give you a headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an action role playing game by Bethesda Softworks. Along the lines of Oblivion, Mass 
 Effect and Knights of the Old Republic, Fallout 3 places a huge emphasis on making the player carry 
 out a slew of moral choices throughout the game. If you enjoyed playing some of the aforementioned 
 RPG titles, than you will find yourself playing Fallout 3 for hours on end to view as much of the 
 available content within the game.
  
  The game takes place in a post-apocalyptic Washington DC in the year 2277. The main protagonist 
 of the game is you (as the vault dweller) and the focus of the story is following your journey 
 in the wasteland in search of your father. Along the way you are confronted by many interesting 
 individuals in various living establishments and settings. Choices are made by the player in regards 
 to how you want to deal with these individuals and this aspect (in my opinion) is the true reason 
 why this game is amazing. Acting hostile towards individuals will make them act hostile towards 
 you, on the other hand, taking the diplomatic approach will usually result in peaceful solutions 
 and interactions. In addition to using "Shotgun Diplomacy" or more conventional peaceful methods, 
 Bethesda seemed to hit it right with including a plethora of in between "grey area" solutions and 
 choices. 
  
  The main story arc can be completed in about 20-25 hours (if you don't stray off the path too far) , 
 however, having such a huge world that is filled with great content at your disposal, you will 
 easily become side-tracked while exploring random dungeons and areas which will easily add an additional 
 30+ hours to your total playtime! The visuals are wonderful as the developer understood and conveyed 
 the idea of a true post-apocalyptic setting in convincing fashion. The pop-in on long distances 
 is more apparent on the PS3, however, it is not bad to the point that it warrants anybody to skip 
 playing this game. When creating and populating such a huge world, minor technical issues and bugs 
 always rear it's ugly head similar to what was prevalent in the three RPGs mentioned above.
  
  The audio is great as your Pip Boy receives radio stations that convey the 1950s era in American 
 history prior to the big nuclear blast going off. You can also receive additional stations depending 
 on your completion of specific side quests. If you don't enjoy listening to the radio stations 
 you can turn it off all together and listen to the atmospheric music that truly captures the sound 
 and feeling of being in a barren wasteland. Definitely a good job on that one Bethesda! The controls 
 and mechanics of the game allow you to switch between third person and first person view allowing 
 the player the choice to play in either view (however, it is recommended to play in first person) . 
 The game can be played as a full live action game, using the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System 
 or a combination of the two. The V. A. T. S. system is a throwback to the action-point system of previous 
 Fallout games, in that it lets you pause the action, spend action points by targeting a specific 
 limb on your enemy, and watch the bloody results unfold in slow motion. 
  
  With one playthrough completed and a second and third coming in the near future, this game will 
 keep anybody who is into RPGs, making morality choices and exploration busy for over 100 hours 
 easily!!! If you enjoy any of those three aforementioned gaming aspects, science fiction, a post-apocalyptic 
 setting or good engaging gameplay and story, than Fallout 3 on ANY platform is a must play for 
 you.
  
  Final Score: 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulvaughan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  This concerns mainly the ending:
  While I really enjoyed this game and generally applaud Bethesda's efforts again, why not show the 
 different results of your efforts? Grass and trees growing from the scorched earth or bodies flying 
 and mushroom clouds sprouting-anything but THAT crappy ending!!! It was soul crushing! They could 
 have and should shown GECK life springing forth, humans being speared and roasted by Giant Mutants, 
 or some mixture in between that tied into however the game was played! 
  I must admit that much of this reaction comes from just having finished the game (after great reluctance 
 to do so!) . I did all the missions set forth by a high Karma influence and explored every spot 
 on the map, but to be slapped in the face and let down so badly at the end makes me still smart 
 badly! Imagine if they showed a beautiful land like in their sister game, Oblivion, or just the 
 world rolling up into a ball and dying in abject misery and warfare? Instead, we are (mis) treated 
 to a lame slide show! It was like being lead to the end of a great adventure, only to have a final 
 broken door with a lockpick and repair skill of 101 being slammed in your face while knowing the 
 world beyond has changed! You know something happened, but what it is will never be seen! 
  Replay? I don't know? Maybe watching Megaton vaporize or slapping some collars on slaves might 
 add new flavor to it, but maybe not enough. I've still got Metal Gear and Resistance staring me 
 down, so perhaps if my thumbs aren't too bloody, I'll go back and try these bad Karma variants. 
 Maybe. As for everything else, sure, go out and buy it if you think you might like something that 
 at times uncomfortably straddles you between a first person shooter and an RPG. Just be sure that 
 you have either done all you can or care to do before completing the final mission of the main 
 story line. Otherwise, you're screwed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreatFunStuff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased the game on the 28th, I wasn't expecting what I received. I'm sure no one was. 
 From the screenshots, from the trailers, and from the developer interviews, every person has different 
 thoughts and hopes. Some hope the game will have awesome graphics. Some hope there will be a good 
 story. Some just want an acceptable third installment of an amazing pair of games. If these were 
 your only worries, and if these were the only factors to consider, then you would have been overwhelmingly 
 satisfied with Fallout 3. But there IS a fourth factor. That factor is part of a question: "Is 
 this game ready to be released yet?" And the answer, people... is no. Simply put, Fallout 3 is 
 glitchy.
  
  The return of the "Very Easy/Very Hard" Slider from Oblivion is great. But it is null and void, 
 due to the fact that if you ever find yourself restarting from your last save, it was most likely 
 because you got stuck in a pile of rubble next to the monster, rather than the monster actually 
 killing you. Or... if you are as lucky as I am, you'll get stuck, and then a Mirelurk will come 
 and smash you into pieces before you manage to untangle your feet from the top shelf of a post-apocalyptic 
 bookcase cluster-fck.
  (If this has happened to you on a boat then you know what I'm talking about.)
  
  But these 
 are just the rarer bugs in the game.
  Let's talk crashes. That is the flesh and blood of the game right there. This is why you will find 
 yourself walking across the entire wasteland twice, without dying once. It begins as soon as your 
 first few "fast travels" do. You may be lucky. Maybe you make it to level five or so. But, just 
 when you start thinking, "I don't know what those stubborn Fallout traditionalist a-holes are talking 
 about, my system must be less-crappy or something," you realize that your screen hasn't changed 
 for five seconds, and it still says "autosaving" in the top left. "Okay, 15 seconds, it's done 
 this before already... just don't press anything and it'll start moving again. Any second now..." 
 
  
  Well, you've made yourself a sandwich and checked how your black or old candidate is doing in the 
 presidential race, it's time to go check on Patton Oswald (my character) . Well, he's still in suspended 
 animation...*sigh* So you call up your friends and tell them you're sorry for calling all their 
 computers, 360s, and ps3s slow pieces of crap. This goes on and on, and you can't help but play 
 again and again, hoping that the glitches won't happen. You never learn to save after you just 
 completed killing seven super-mutants for the fifth time only to be stopped, not by the rocket 
 this time, but by a frozen screen.
  
  Like I just said, though, even if you do find yourself restarting after the first ten minutes (because 
 you get stuck sitting in a classroom chair, which is supposed to trigger the next part of the main 
 campaign) , you will keep playing. You can ignore the choppy frame-rates, the pop-up issues with 
 the background, the sporadic lack of mouth movement from NPCs, and you can ignore the dancing dead 
 bodies. (And on the ps3, you have to ignore the HORRIBLE anti-aliasing problems [jagged edges] all 
 throughout the game...) You can ignore them enough to enjoy the game for what it was invisioned 
 to be. The ability to be a complete dck to anyone or anything you meet, and then to be able to 
 replay the game a completely different way, that is what makes the game. Every obstacle you encounter 
 will be overcome in a different way. You can help an entire town escape their infinite torment 
 by solving an interesting puzzle, or you can throw on a mask and pick up a knife, and instead kill 
 every last one of them, all for the amusement of a bored scientist. These moments make your inner 
 gamer smile, no matter how badly the latest freeze messed up your game.
  
  You ARE going to get a really good experience when you decide to explore the post-nuclear wastelands 
 of the District of Columbia. Just don't be surprised if you find yourself asking, "Did they really 
 finish this?"
  
  
  9.0 for PC (for G. E. C. K. mods and easy patching)
  8.5 for X360 (for dlc)
  6.5 for PS3 (haha)
  
  I have a ps3, and I have never thought lower 
 of a video game developer in my life. Dispicable. No downloadable content? Just say it, Bethesda. 
 You don't want to "waist the time on a system with such few users." Well, that's the most disrespectful 
 thing a publisher can do to its consumers and we're not idiots. Not one of us will think of you 
 as a quality developer until you come up with something to truly rival this horrendous marketing 
 decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiPSmallie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
 
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  Grate Game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themando
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I was amazingly pumped to get this game, i mean i bagged my girlfriend to get it for me and she 
 did. i loved playing through the first bit (eg. growing up, getting pit boy, and taking the test) , 
 but once i was in free roam where you could choose whatever you want to do/be, good or evil, i 
 slowly lost the vibe of the game.. To be honest i loved the first entry into free roam, i thought 
 it was amazingly well done. but one i got to the radio station and began to realize how much of 
 a wild goose chase your on, this game gets old.... same setting slightly altered yet repeated everywhere 
 on the map, not alot of structure (which i personally think games need to be good eg. half life 
 2) . Another thing is that the enemys get very repeated and annoying.
  
  On a good note, I thought the basic plot of the game was fantastic, it plays with your emotion 
 (getting you involved) by having you grow acustomed to certain characters, than taking them away 
 and making them go missing (aka father) . I also think the Graphic style of this game is Awsome, 
 completley grasps the feel of a broken down futuristic world (other than the slight repetition 
 eg. entry to subways, underground ect) . Another thing i enjoyed was some of the playability of 
 whether you wanted to bad evil or good, it was an amazing addon in some cases (some cases could 
 be stupid) i like when you could blow up megaton if you chose to!..
  
  all in all i Give fallout 3 and 8.00 because no matter all the flaws i didnt like it still cracked 
 up to be a good game and it managed to keep me playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3. It's a lot of things. Ever since the game was announced to be in the hands and gentle 
 care of Bethesda, plenty of hype has surrounded it. The game is set in a post apocalyptic era, 
 where mankind is struggling to survive at every corner of the land. The United States (and likely 
 the rest of the world) has been reduced to nothing but a few thousand people trying to do whatever 
 it takes to live. In every last corner, death, disfigurement, and depression plague the area. It's 
 in this fine setting, that the game puts you in the shoes of a Vault 101 citizen. Vault 101 is 
 a place of refuge, safe from the terrifying and dangerous outside world. It's here, where one of 
 the greatest adventures of all time begins.
  
  Before the end of the earth began, Vault-Tec issued several vaults throughout the Washington DC 
 area to be opened, allowing people to go there and start a new life, waiting out the horrors of 
 the real world. For hundreds of years, the vault was the only way of life for people of Vault 101. 
 While the other vaults opened up and let their people out into the wilderness, the dictator overseer 
 kept his citizens safe. The tradition continued, up until your 19th birthday, when your father, 
 the man who devoted a large portion of his life towards you, mysteriously disappeared. Apparently, 
 you discover that he has left the vault, and so you go on a trek to track down the man who cared 
 for you all those years, and find out why he left you in the first place.
  
  The story really begins to take shape from this fantastic opening. The second you step out of that 
 vault, and get a glimpse of the wasteland and all its entirety, you realize just how devastated 
 that the area has become. It's here that the game places an objective on you: "Locate your father". 
 This really sums up the open-ended theme of Fallout 3. The story itself is extremely well done, 
 with several different tones placed on top of it, lots of tough choices, unfortunate events, and 
 quite an interesting cast of characters. It's extremely well told, interesting, and has terrific 
 pacing. The setting places the dominoes, but it's everything in between that truly knocks them 
 down into something incredible.
  
  The people populating the wasteland are all varied and interesting. There are a lot of generic 
 space fillers you'll find in every settlement and town, with the name "Megaton Settler", or "Rivet 
 City Security Guard", that you don't have the option to speak to fully, but they still have some 
 pretty helpful or friendly lines. It's the characters that you can speak to (and there are hundreds 
 of them) that truly set the bar, and create an incredibly deep and immersive RPG experience. Every 
 person you can interact with either has some sort of issue that spawns into a deeper quest, has 
 something that can benefit you, or is crucial to the story.
  
  Fallout 3 has a Mass Effect like speech system that gives you the option to choose what you say 
 to the people of the wasteland. These aren't just for show, as certain words can make a character 
 shun you, making access to a particular item or quest very difficult. On the flip side of that, 
 if you say something nice, or something polite, or just aren't a jackass, you'll have access to 
 a quest, or a special privilege. The Karma system is what weighs all of this down, and it basically 
 brands your character as good or evil.
  
  This system isn't just window dressing, it's much deeper and more important than that. Everytime 
 you do something significantly nice such as giving a dying beggar a bottle of purified water, or 
 generally speaking, choosing the good path instead of the evil path, your karma rating goes up. 
 Again, if you decide to blow that beggar's head off with a plasma rifle, your karma rating would 
 go towards the other side of the spectrum. It's mainly because of the consequences and rewards 
 of karma (not to mention the sheer immersiveness and fantastic acting) that will have you pondering 
 every decision before you make it, and will have you feeling either very good about yourself or 
 very bad afterwards.
  
  Visually, Fallout 3 is a genuinely beautiful game, despite its attempt to depress the living hell 
 out of everybody. That just adds to the believability of the game world. The draw distance is near 
 flawless, with only a tad of pop in every now and then. The detailed environments, and the incredible 
 art style really drive home the fact that despite its size, Fallout 3 manages to be a fantastic 
 looking game, that is pretty enough to make stun you.
  
  Animations are much improved from past Bethesda games, but still need a little work, and bugs do 
 exist, but the game is polished enough that nothing becomes a distraction. The title runs smooth, 
 and looks great.
  
  I can't fully describe how high of quality that the sound design is in Fallout 3. Not only does 
 it sport a rather epic soundtrack that captures the rather epic nature of the game, but it's the 
 voice acting that raises the bar way above the competition. The number of well delivered lines 
 of dialogue is unprecedented, and is simply astounding. Nearly every single line is delivered right 
 on the money.
  
  Fallout 3 has a really unique personality to it. The setting gives it a really dark tone and feel, 
 but you can't help but notice the game's blatant yet under the counter style of humour. It's clever 
 and often unexpected. When you do see it, it's never cheap, always well written, and never forced. 
 It's not just in the one liners, but it's all over the world. Billboards always have a cheesy 1950's 
 style of advertising, and several of the locales feel the same way. Fallout 3 manages to be both 
 serious, but light hearted all at once.
  
  Besides all of those previous goodies that I mentioned, I'm going to be extremely cliche here (which 
 is something Fallout 3 never does) and say that we play games, for the gameplay. Luckily, Fallout 
 3 is a greatly crafted RPG that is both a refinement of the FPSRPG, and a revolution. The core 
 gameplay seems like a shooter on the surface. You're given a load of guns, and some pretty resilient 
 enemies. You have the option to aim manually, and it seriously feels like a shooter, and you definitely 
 can play the game that way, and it's completely functional, and then some. However, it's the sincerely 
 revolutionary Vault-Tec Auto Targeting System (let's just call it VATS) that is the coolest, funnest, 
 and most awesome way to play the game.
  
  Depending on your skill while using VATS, you can pause the game and take aim at an enemy, choose 
 from one of their body parts (don't get any ideas) such as their head, left and right arms, and 
 their legs and torso. If your small guns rating is high, then your chance of actually hitting them 
 is increased. It also depends on any obstructions in the way, your luck rating, and how far away 
 from them that you are. This is controlled by your Action Points, which is a forever refilling 
 meter. If you don't have enough Action Points, you have to wait to use VATS again. It ensures that 
 you switch between aiming manually, which also has to do with your ratings.
  
  While VATS may seem boring, it certainly is anything but. This is due partially to the fact that 
 it makes leveling up worth it, and that when you shoot an enemy's head off, a shower of blood and 
 guts goes everywhere, and if you happen to be lucky enough, all of their limbs shoot off. This 
 is kind of like an awesome pinata of gore. It's awesome.
  
  Leveling up in Oblivion was a tad unpolished. The game felt like an RPG because of its blatant 
 fantasy world full of dungeons and dragons (excuse me) , but the level system was severely marred. 
 The amount of attributes was extremely overwhelming, and you could get your guy good simply by 
 sneaking into a wall. In addition to that, enemies leveled up with you, so any progress felt superficial 
 as opposed to something like Final Fantasy, where training actually paid off.
  
  Where Oblivion fell extremely short, Fallout 3 does the standard RPG system, and yet expands on 
 that. The S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system gives you seven main attribute which max at 10. (Strength, Perception, 
 Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility, Luck) . As a young child, you stumble upon a story book 
 entitled, "You are Special". The game lets you edit your stats here. The seven attributes really 
 impact the way you play the game, ranging from your encounters with enemies, and citizens alike. 
 Among that, the sub attributes are all up to you to edit as you play the game. Players earn experience 
 for successfully sneaking past enemies, defeating enemies, completing quests, changing their karma 
 rating ,etc. As such, Fallout 3 is an extremely deep and rewarding game experience.
  
  Experienced shooter/RPG fans could find a minimum of 15 hours from the main quest of Fallout 3, 
 however, there are several endings. On top of that, due to the RPG elements, the karma system, 
 and other aspects that change the way each game is played, this is a title that demands replays. 
 Bethesda never makes games without side quests, and Fallout 3 does not disappoint here. Hundreds 
 of people out in the wasteland require your help, and many of these quests are all different from 
 each other, they all have a different context, new opponents, and new corners of the land for you 
 to explore. If you're an appreciative player, you could easily find up to 60 or 70 hours on your 
 first playthrough. I won't spoil any details of what's out in the wasteland, but I guarantee you 
 you'll want to witness it all, and take it in.
  
  Fallout 3 is a lot of things. It's beautiful, it's dark, it's depressing, it's engrossing. Great 
 games aren't all too rare, but when something finally breaks beyond the point of greatness, taking 
 gamers to new levels, that's what a true gem is. Fallout 3 is full of intelligent humour, complex 
 and rewarding gameplay, and all in one breathtaking world. It borrows plenty of elements from other 
 superb role playing games, but it's just as true that it gives back much more than it takes. The 
 speech and character interaction feels like Mass Effect, but the benefit and consequences are much 
 deeper than Bioware's masterpiece. The open world and leveling system has that patented Bethesda 
 feel, much like Oblivion, but it's more refined and easier to deal with. The overall creepy factor 
 and sense of loneliness could be compared to Bioshock, but there's more of it to be found here. 
 Fallout 3 is something that needs to be experienced. Not everybody will enjoy it thoroughly, mainly 
 due to it's depth and seriousness, but gamers who are appreciative, will find their time in the 
 darkest corners of the wasteland to be far greater than they'd ever imagined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlobo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I never played any of the past Fallout games and I wish I had to compare but 
 I get the basic story of the game. The game is one of a kind. It's a true RPG with FPS elements. 
 I did play and highly enjoyed Oblivion. This game does remind me of that game in the fact that 
 there's so many Quest and great stories you run into. I spent 60 hours and beat the game doing 
 everything the way I would do if I was in the same situation ( which is a good guy) and the ending 
 was satisfying . I never found the famous dog MEAT, so I went back to the last saved point looked 
 around and found him. He is sooo cool, in the fact that his your side kick and you can have him 
 go fetch ammo, weapons, supplies and of course he will attack enemies and you can tell him to sit 
 ( Stay) or go hide cause it's too dangerous. Now I'm going to start all over again and do everything 
 bad ( EVILMU HAHAHAHA) , they say there is 200 endings, which change depending on what you do in 
 the game (very high replay value) . There are so many weapons and some are very imaginative . You 
 can create weapons from things you find in the wasteland a la MacGyver. I love the VATS system, 
 you can freeze time, pin point a certain body part and fire away. Most of the time you'll blow 
 a arm, leg or my favorite head off in SLOW-MO. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Now, I am a huge fan of computer/console RPGs. I've been playing them since Wizardry was released 
 back in 1981 for my Apple II (and yes, I realize that ages me somewhat) . I loved Oblivion and its 
 predecessors. But the one thing that consistently irked me was the fact that all the RPGs were 
 in the fantasy genre. For YEARS (decades?) I've been pining for a good, solid sci-fi RPG. I was 
 a big fan of the original Fallouts, but it's been far too long since their release. Yes, I realize 
 Mass Effect came out, but I only recently got an XBox 360, so that was not an option. Well, my 
 decades-long wait is finally over. Fallout 3 is everything I could have asked for in a sci-fi RPG.
 
  
  The gameplay of Fallout 3 is very similar to that of Oblivion, which to me is a good thing. The 
 controls are simple, and the menu interface is really interesting, in the form of the Pip-Boy 3000. 
 All of your needs can be taken care of with the simple menu selection options. The ability to construct 
 and repair items is cool, though I wish there was a little more variety to the items you could 
 build. There is a fun level of verisimilitude to how the consumption of food and water increases 
 your exposure to radiation. The introduction of V. A. T. S. added an interesting touch to the combat 
 system, though it does kind of make combat slightly less challenging. All in all, Bethesda really 
 took a look into account when making the game, and introduced a slick, streamlined interface that 
 really enhances the game experience.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Fluid motion, sharp colors, and fine details make the look of this 
 game excellent. There have been several complaints about the PS3 version of this game, but I must 
 say, other than a blip here and there, I have not experienced any visual or performance issues 
 at all. The animations look great, and there is a great variety in the people that inhabit the 
 world around you. I would have liked to have seen a bit more variety in the creatures that live 
 in the world (some mutated flesh-eating plants would have been fun) , but overall the beasts are 
 interesting and challenging (especially the Deathclaws!) .
  
  This game is consuming. Beautiful to look at and engaging to play, I've already spent 100 hours 
 playing the thing, and still haven't finished. Chock-full of content, and full of engaging gameplay, 
 Fallout 3 has given me the game I've always wanted to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, there are a few bad things to say about the game, some of them are facts, like the 
 very very few bugs I've come across so far (screen freeze, bugs and lags) , and some of them are 
 just me ranting about the level cap, long walks and other purely subjective stuff. But none of 
 this made Fallout 3 a bad game. In fact, Fallout 3 is anything but a bad game.
  It's easily one of the best video games I've played this decade. It's highly addictive, the world 
 sucks you in and won't let you out. The atmosphere is perfect, you can feel the world is depressed 
 and how sad and cruel the Capital Wasteland really is.
  The Karma stuff is one of the coolest thing I've seen in a video game. It makes everything different, 
 forces you to think and make intelligent or tactical choices. It adds a human side to the game 
 I really appreciate. I really love the fact the guns wear off and can break from over use. You 
 can even "create" some weapons from schematics and some of them are really cool.
  The Wasteland is HUGE and fun to walk through most of the time even though it may get a wee bit 
 long if you never use the Fast Travel (I usually try not to) . There are tons of locations to discover 
 (I'm over 40 hours and I think I may have found just half of them) . The sad side of the HUGE world 
 is the level cap. Why? Because you can reach level 20 too fast, without having discovered half 
 the map. It's not that bad though, the level cap stuff. I just love leveling up! Anyways, the huge 
 world gives you plenty of different people to talk to, kind people or vilains. There's a lot to 
 learn about quests and other various stuff from talking to people.
  And talking to different people is what makes the game what it is. Why? Because the main quest 
 is nice, but it can be done in a few hours, under 10 I imagine if you really don't care about side 
 quests.
  So overall. The game is superb, addictive and really fun! I'd say approximately 93%, 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullgangs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing. It is one of the best games I have played in a long time. They may say that 
 it is Oblivion with guns (and in a since it is) but, it has its own look and feel to it. The VATS 
 system was a great idea and well appreciated. One of the belt weapons in the game is the Fatman 
 MIRV. This weapon throws eight mini nukes all at once and BOOM fire, death, and radiation everywhere. 
 Please do your self a big favor and buy this game. It is the only game you will need for a long 
 time. The game is so big, that without the collectors edition guide book you will never find everything 
 in the game. If you don't have enough money than either work overtime, get a job, sell the games 
 you don't play anymore, or beg your family to buy you it for Christmas. If you don't like this 
 game, then you probably don't like video games, and if you don't like video games then what are 
 you doing on Gamespot. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaaarmar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  My review for this game is plain and simple: I can't stop playing this game. I have even avoided 
 winning the game so I can play the virtually endless mini-adventures within the game. The graphics, 
 story and character development are first-rate. Why Game Spot didn't give this game a 10 is beyond 
 me. This game's combination of the role-playing, first-person shooter and sandbox formats is revolutionary 
 and will surely produce a string of copycats (which is a good thing!) . Fallout 3 deserves to win 
 game of the year for 2008 (and I loved GTA4 and MSG4) and it is certainly its most pleasant surprise. 
 It has been a long time since a game exceeded my expectations. My only criticism, if I had to name 
 something, is that you cannot gain expirence beyond level 20, which is a bit of a drag for a game 
 that one can play for so long without getting bored. Fallout 4 can't come soon enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twotailednaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing. It is one of the best games I have played in a long time. They may say that 
 it is Oblivion with guns (and in a since it is) but, it has its own look and feel to it. The VATS 
 system was a great idea and well appreciated. One of the belt weapons in the game is the Fatman 
 MIRV. This weapon throws eight mini nukes all at once and BOOM fire, death, and radiation everywhere. 
 Please do your self a big favor and buy this game. It is the only game you will need for a long 
 time. The game is so big, that without the collectors edition guide book you will never find everything 
 in the game. If you don't have enough money than either work overtime, get a job, sell the games 
 you don't play anymore, or beg your family to buy you it for Christmas. If you don't like this 
 game, then you probably don't like video games, and if you don't like video games then what are 
 you doing on Gamespot. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malfarf15869
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was sceptical. I had never heard of Fallout (Gasp) ! I thought 
 it was going to be very RGP heavy and not very much FPS. Fortunately, I was mistaken...
  
  Fallout 3 has a nice mix of RPG and FPS. 
  
  I've heard some criticism about the combat, but 
 I feel it is undeserved. The combat does seem different: not every bullet hits the target, even 
 if the cross hairs are right in the center of your enemy's chest. It's more realistic, and it will 
 make you appreciate the rounds that hit. Rounds that hit also wound you're enemy appropriately. 
 If shot in the leg, he'll limp. If hit in the arm, he might drop his weapon. But beware: these 
 effects can happen to you too.
  
  If you're struggling with some enemies, the V. A. T. S system works miracles. Granted the bullets 
 won't be anymore accurate than normal combat, you will be able to target specific parts of the 
 enemy, such as their head, left leg, or even their weapon. The V. A. T. S system also stops time, 
 giving you time to focus on which enemy to take out first.
  
  The story is simple, yet engaging. Your father leaves the safety of Vault 101, and, at the encouragement 
 of your friend Anata, you leave to find him. Along the way you meet some interesting people, whom 
 you may help or harm, if you so choose to. The karma system affects you based on how you affect 
 people. You help someone, your karma goes up. Likewise, if you kill someone and empty their house, 
 your karma goes down. 
  
  The graphics are great. They aren't the best ever, but they are beautiful. The wasteland looks 
 nice and gloomy. The characters look nice, although they could be better. The towns are post-apocalyptic 
 looking, with building fashioned out of any material at hand.
  
  I did notice some minor graphical errors. Sometimes bodies would float in midair, or things would 
 suddenly pop in. The worst was a large squiggly line that was rapidly flailing across the whole 
 screen.
  
  Overall, I would strongly recommend this game. The story, the graphics, the combat. Everything 
 about this game is superbly presented and executed. Even with the minor graphic flaws, this is 
 definitely a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game offers something new that most games have not done yet. That is creating a world where 
 not only can you interact with every object and person around you, but it is a total harsh wasteland 
 where the unexpect is expected in a world that is plaqued with radiation. The game is the GTA IV 
 of sci-fii action games, but this time not cars, just your wits and your acquired skills, and maybe 
 a dog and a 'ghoul' for safe keeping. The game does a good job at making you feel vulnerable to 
 mutant ants, scorpians, zombies, human wolf dogs, etc. The games variety in monsters is quite overwhelming 
 and welcome because each thing has it own characteristic which makes it seem so much crazier than 
 next type of monster until you finally meet that 'other' monster. Image trying to kill a million 
 ants the size of your sister to end up fighting a queen ant the size of Europe in real life. If 
 you rather not, but want to see what it feel likes, this game offers it. Unlike Dead Space and 
 Resistance 2, the in game soundtrack is not that strong, but it is enought to an atmosphere that 
 is full of confusion and disparity. The best thing this game does is offer you limitless ways at 
 completing the main agenda, which is finding you father. Just like in real life, if you are dropped 
 some where new and vast, getting lost is easy until you get help from local people. This games 
 does a good job at creating that "I'm lost, but I will continue my journey" feel. I love being 
 able to have a conversation with any one about anything. You can be good or bad and it will affect 
 your story and people around. Fighting monster in abadoned train stations were the hightlights 
 of this game because they are just creepy and actually feel scary in a world that is supposed to 
 be scary. I think the thing this game did outstanding was create a world that feels real. You can 
 interact with everything and everyone. There are just a million towns to explore. Some are caves, 
 train stations, abadoned cities, lively cities, etc. The game has so much going on inside of this 
 game that it will blow you away. You can interact with every thing and everyone. Finally in a game 
 if some character gets on my nerves I can just kill him, but of course it will mess up the game 
 progress, but at least I have the choice. The graphics are top notch especially for a game of this 
 type. Definiately on the level of Dead Space considering this game is as big a GTA with the addition 
 of load times, but that is not a big deal. The story is quiet interesting and learning the in-depth 
 truth about the wasteland is a nice experience. The way you play the game is up to you. 
  
  Now a game like this can not be perfect. First the shooting system is just boring and long. Without 
 using the aiming system, hitting an enemy accurately is far from perfect. It does not make since 
 that a shot gun blow to the face does blow someone heads off immediately. Another thing is the 
 characters move so unreal and slow on this game that it begins to feel like a game, but it is not 
 that bad, but then again you do not need that on a game like this. Another thing is ammo is always 
 low until the middle and end and it can be very hard to find your father when people have you performing 
 a lot of missions, that send you clear cross the world and back fighting every monster from your 
 nightmare, so you can find out information about where he "might" be. An the game can be quiet 
 dry at times because running to one location to the next is quite lonely until you have to fight 
 mutant dogs, etc which do not die from one hit, but one hundred fifty. This is a joke, but at the 
 same time it is a inconvience and strategy becomes key, but it takes so long that you just do not 
 really care anymore. Another thing is this game does not feel scary, but more or less just a game 
 with mutants running around that want you dead and you either have to stay out their way or kill 
 them. No Dead Space feel at all, but like I said, the game does a great job at creating a abadoned 
 and lonely and sometimes creepy atmosphere. 
  
  The game overall is worth a buy, instead of rent, due to the fact that their is just so much to 
 do from disarming bombs to saving kids from slave owners to killing giant ants. The game is all 
 over the place which is it best quality, but sometimes the expansive landscape and game world road 
 blocks make free roaming long, boring and annoying at times. But nonetheless, if the game had better 
 voice acting at some part and a more emotional appeal, the game would be a classic. Spoiler Ahead 
 if you have not played the game: When I saw my father die in the game, I can say I did not feel 
 a thing because my charater did not react to it and there was no real dramatic music to show something 
 sad had happened. It just felt like something happened and now it was time to move along in the 
 story and complete the mission. Fallout 3 can learn a finger or two from games such as MGS 4, Dead 
 Space, etc, but these games can also learn something from it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aglongo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this thoroughly. Like Oblivion it is open for exploration. Quests can be finished when 
 you want, for the most part. I like the openness. I liked the main story and the mini stories. 
 I like the fact I can pick what I want to do and then finish the story. I can explore a location 
 multiple times, so clearing out a location early allows you to complete a quest later easier. 
 
  
  
  Issues/Tips:
  Characters in your party need to watched out for as you cannot really control their attack. You 
 can ask them to wait, but if they see an enemy they will attack. So, sneaking up on an enemy becomes 
 difficult. 
  
  Lock ups do occur so save often.
  
  Remember to save before doing something significant, like stealing from someone or killing someone, 
 as the story line could change. Also, this allows you to see the plot line with your new choice.
 
  
  Repair ability is a good thing to have as it saves you time and money. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xolivierx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  1st of all i want to say i disagree with gamespot giving this game a lower score on the ps3 version. 
 The graphics are just great with hdmi and i have encountered no glitches so far. The map is simply 
 huge. There are so many things you can do. You can collect various items, which you need to repair, 
 trade, sell with other non playing characters. There are many quests. Various enemies. Various 
 weapons. You need to lockpick chests and doors. Each time you level up, you can add perks and select 
 which stats you want to upgrade on your character. Did I say you could actually create your character 
 to your liking? The various enemies you encounter are a thrill to fight. The VATS system allows 
 you to slow down time when using a weapons (yeah! this feature once again you are going to say, 
 but you are wrong) . But doing so allows you to actually target different body parts of your enemies, 
 with a percentage of chance your hit will actually land. It doesn't make the game easier, it just 
 make it prettier. The animation is great and the enemies are pretty agressive. I find it fun to 
 look around for items wherever you go, and as you carry more objects, you become heavy and your 
 movements are slower. Which means you have to be picky about what items you want to keep, and whats 
 valuable to you. The wasteland is well designed. This is a mix of an rpg AND 1st person shooter. 
 It's a bit of Zelda, Final Fantasy, Silent Hill. It had been YEARS since I have played a game like 
 this. Really refreshing. This game is for people who like to savour a game before finishing it. 
 You could spend countless hours in this game. Worth buying. This game succeeds where other games 
 in this genre have failed. A must for your gaming experience.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  The game has a good lifespand, ive completed it 2 times now - but i do feel like most things have 
 been said and done now. But it is definitely a game that you can re-play a small handful of times, 
 since the karma system and character traits open up different story conclusions and side-missions.
 
  
  The graphics are decent, the dialogue and storyline is decent, (a post-apocalyptic world is hardly 
 a new concept these days) and whenever it pauses to load something during your fast-travels, the 
 waiting time never gets annoying.
  
  I experienced a ton of bugs, sudden freezes, framerate dropping, corpses falling thru surfaces, 
 the sound falling out, V. A. T. S mode never exiting and such, but it may very well be because my 
 PS3 system waesent up to date during the duration of the entire gameplay (so keep it updated!) 
 - but its not a deal breaker, nor should it be. It feels like fallout, and if you were a fan of 
 the previous fallout games, im sure youll fall in love with this one aswell :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorkface
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I will point out that the current release of this game has your character stop levelling 
 at level 20. Keep this in mind on your first playthrough to help you focus your skill and perk 
 choices. Fallout3 continues to be enjoyable and rewarding after your character stops levelling 
 due to the joy of exploring a variety of radiation scorched environments, enemies, and characters. 
 I'm about to begin the game again before having finished it so i can access all the safes and computer 
 terminals that are currently unaccessable due to my skill choices being capped at level 20. (this 
 fact is crucial for players who want to maximize their first playthrough)
  
  Now on to the general review-
  
  Graphics- 10 
  
  PC and X-box360 have minor graphical 
 superiority with this game but It's still beautiful and atmospheric on PS3.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  
  lag time when pulling out your weapon as in game engine sibling Oblivion breaks 
 the flow of battle. otherwise great.
  
  Sound-10
  
  Good voice acting, sound design and score set a gritty mood.
  
  Value-10
  
  High replay 
 value due to a huge map and variety of gameplay choices
  
  Fallout3 is a great game well worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  Intro - Game Information
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, the stronger the restriction)
 
  
  Violence: **** (Strong)
  Bad Language: ***** (Very Strong)
  Fear: **** (Strong)
  Sex: *** (Mild)
  Drugs: *** (Mild)
  Discrimination: * (None)
  Gambling: ** (Very Mild)
 
  
  Age Rating: 18 years and over (Contains very strong bloody violence and gore)
  Number of player: 1
  Multiplayer: None
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: No 
  
  
  I - Quick 
 Review
  
  The Good: 
  
   Visuals 
  Outstanding visual effects 
  
   Sound Effects
  Superb sound effects 
  
   Game-Play
  Outstanding game-play with limitless 
 freedom
  
   Brutal
  Blast your enemies head off or throw a grenade and watch their body come apart with V. A. T. S. (Slow 
 Motion)
  
   Weapons
  Whole load of weapons to play around with.
  
   Just Right
  Not to easy and not to hard.
  
   Lifespan
  Massive
  
  From the creators of the award-winning 
 Oblivion, comes Fallout 3, featuring one of the most realized game worlds ever created. Create 
 any kind of character you want and explore the open wastes of post-apocalyptic Washington, D. C. 
 Every minute is a fight for survival as you encounter Super Mutants, Ghouls, Raiders, and other 
 dangers of the Wasteland. 
  
  If you've played Oblivion than you'll pretty much know what to expect from this game. If not, you're 
 in for a big surprise. 
  
  Read on to find out what I fully thought. 
  
  II Plot Review  9/10
  
  The plot is very simple and yet simply amazing. Playing the game you'll 
 discover that you live in an underground vault called "Vault 101" along with your father and among 
 other people all called "Vault Dwellers". The outside world is no longer the way we thought it 
 was. Two hundred years ago the world shook and went to hell in a globe shattering nuclear war caused 
 by humanity, and their nature to wage war and destroy finally paid off with a nuclear blast that 
 change the world. The outside world now called "The Wasteland" is filled with toxic radiation, 
 dangers wastelanders, disturbing mutants and an unpleasant sight of what the world looks like after 
 the nuclear blast. 
  
  So the story starts of with you being born inside a vault. You were born in this vault and you 
 believed that you would also die in this vault. You really don't have an interest in going to the 
 outside world as far as you knew the vault was your world. Your father would tell you stories about 
 the outside world being very dangers and that no one could survive out in the wastelands. 
  At the age of 19, the day you step out into the wastelands is now. You step out into the wasteland 
 in search of your father who apparently left Vault 101 with reasons unknown. Leaving the vault 
 is an act of treason and if you leave Vault 101, it's like you were never born. 
  
  The vault door open, the sunlight blinds your eyes. As you focus in you see it, you finally see 
 it. Take your first step, on the surface of the wasteland and start your massive journey.
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  9/10
  
  The graphics in Fallout 3 are a real 
 treat. It may not be anything to begin with because you start in a gloomy dull underground vault, 
 but see when you take your first step into the wastelands, you'll be blow away. I was anyway. The 
 details in Fallout 3 are excellent from the disgrace wasteland to the details on the characters. 
 Some surfaces may look slightly off with loading times but still the game is amazing to look at. 
 The effects of sunrise and sunset are beautiful.
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  10/10
  
  Ok where to begin, the game starts with you being born. Yes, YOU being born inside a vault, 
 and from the moment your born, you will get the opportunity to name your character, and also customize 
 you character's appearance however way you wish. You start of by playing as a baby and gradually 
 your life will pass to the age of 19 where you will fully get to control your character, and it's 
 the age where you have to take your first step out on to the wasteland in search of you beloved 
 father. 
  The game-play is massive, and what you would expect from an RPG and from the creators of Oblivion. 
 Everything you do in the game determines on how your character evolves. Whether you bad mouth someone, 
 commit a crime, commit murder or steal. Fallout really has the power of choice. You can be good 
 or bad, but in so many different ways. There are so many different ways you can customize your 
 characters abilities, again much like Oblivion. You must level up your character to make your character 
 stronger but here's the smart thing, you don't just have to run around killing enemies to get experience 
 points. You also get experience point for doing jobs such as delivering letters, helping people, 
 stealing and even talking to people a cretin way. When you get experience points you upgrade your 
 characters ability in seven different ways called S. P. E. C. I. A. L. Strength, Perception, Endurance, 
 Charisma, Intelligence, Agility and Luck. Each state can be upgrade manually when you up a level. 
 There are so many things that can decrease and improve your skill on how you play. As you level 
 up you also gain perks, different perks gain you different skills whether its getting items and 
 weapons cheaper, repairing weapons, making your own weapons, selling weapons to gain more caps, 
 (Bottle caps = your money in Fallout 3) improving you sneaking skills, improving your speech skills, 
 there is so many different perks.
  The combat in Fallout 3 is amazing. You can play the game in 1st person view (Which I prefer) or 
 3rd person view. First you need protection out in the wasteland, cloths and armor, what weapon 
 you want to use whether it's a shotgun, a pistol or melee attack. The V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System) is really cool indeed. In V. A. T. S. mode you pick what limb you want to attack, 
 head, arms, body, legs or you could hit their weapon and disarm them. You can him multiple limbs 
 in the one scene but will require action point in order to make multiple attacks. Gaining more 
 AP (Action Points) will require you to do normal combat attacks. Once you have made your choice 
 you get to watch you action in slow motion, which is really cool. Shoot an enemy in the leg and 
 watch him hop, shoot them in the arm and they may drop their weapon or you could throw a grenade 
 and which your enemy's body parts come apart. 
  You have a massive wasteland to explore and to look for items that you think is worth the trouble 
 getting to sell. Discover towns and locations out in the waste. Through out you travels you will 
 encounter many enemies, some weaker than others and some bigger and scarier than others. The bigger 
 they are, the harder you much fight to survive. 
  In addition to everything to can do in Fallout 3 and everything that can happen to you in Fallout 
 3, there is one thing that you really must look after, and that is yourself. Your character can 
 get radiation poisoning whether it from radiation waste areas, or by drinking and eating food. 
 Foods that are not covered with radiation are hard to find in the wasteland but you still had to 
 eat and drink. Radiation poisoning will make your character feel under the weather and will make 
 his health go down faster when hit by enemy's. You have four body parts to look out for. (Just 
 like in real life. If you hold a grenade for to long you will loose you're hard or even your arm. 
 You want loose your arm in Fallout 3 but It can get seriously damaged) You head, body, arms and 
 legs. If your legs get crippled than you may find your character stumble as he/she runs. If your 
 arms get crippled then you may find it hard to aim. In order to fix yourself you can do it manually 
 or go to the doctors. In Fallout 3 you can also get addicted to alcohol and drugs. Becoming addicted 
 will hurt some of your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. attributes. 
  As I said the game-play is massive and there is a lot of ways you can do things in Fallout 3 if 
 you have the time to play it.
  
  V - Sound Review  8/10
  
  The sound effects are great. Nice slow motion sound effects. Some voice acting can feel a wee bit 
 lost in terms of what's happening in a scene. Example if you talk to someone that's getting chased 
 by mutants, you may find his or hers voices tones normal as if they don't really care they're getting 
 chased. But other than that the sound effect are great. 
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  10/10
  
  This game will take you a very long time to finish completely. 
 In addition to the mean story there is a lot of side quest that you may find it hard to concentrate 
 on just the main quest. The wasteland is a massive place with a lot of locations to discover that 
 if you did not have a map you could easily get lost in. If you're the type of person that goes 
 everywhere on foot and doesn't like using the teleport feature than the game will take you even 
 longer.
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  9/10
  
  I'm not a big fan with the Elder Scrolls series and Oblivion and I'm not a big fan when if come 
 to big massive RPG game as I used to when I was younger. Nowadays I like playing game that you 
 just pick up the controls and just shoot at what ever come on the screen without having to worry 
 about learning the controls too much. Fallout 3 to me was a very big choice to make whether to 
 get it, or not. And I'm glad I did, Fallout 3 is amazing and really nothing like I thought I would 
 be. With Oblivion, I found it rather boring but with Fallout 3, I found it rather exciting to play. 
 Definitely a game I would recommend to RPG fan and people who want a game that worth the money.
 
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  9/10
  
  
  Fallout 3 - Amazing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronsf
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The one thing that really made Fallout 3 for me was the environment. I really felt like I was in 
 Washington DC after it had been destroyed by Nuke-you-ler war. There are tons of locations to discover, 
 and many side quests that offer interesting and useful rewards. You will have much more fun with 
 the game if you explore the entire map and do all the side quests. Galaxy News Radio really helps 
 you feel like you are having an impact on the world. Three Dog constantly tells the tale of your 
 exploits over the airwaves.
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to Oblivion, which I don't find to be a bad thing at all. VATS 
 makes for some great tactical gunplay. Slow motion exploding heads does not get old at all.
  
  Lastly, there were some performance issues on the PS3. Texture pop ins were frequent, and sometimes 
 VATS would temporarily freeze up. I only had 2 total system crashes from this game. 
  
  I would say this is my game of the year vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If this is what I can expect my life to be like after the nuclear war destroys all of civilization, 
 then bring on the nukes baby. This ambitious game from the developers of the Elder Scrolls series 
 takes you through the life of an average citizen in the Washington DC wasteland. From start to 
 finish you will need to survive in the wasteland, making choices that effect the world you live 
 in and the outcome of the game... and let me tell you, it's freaking awesome.
  
  The story begins in Vault 101, which is an underground community, where no one goes in, and no 
 one comes out. The idea is that the Overseer (basically the lord and master of the Vault) controls 
 everything, and it is his world you live in. Needless to say, that about 10 minutes after starting 
 the game, the **** hits the fan and you are running for your life into the wasteland... probably 
 not the best idea.
  
  As you go, you are searching for your father, who is vehemently trying to throw you off his trail, 
 for your own safety. You will meet a whole group of interesting characters, who will direct and 
 guide you through the main quest chain. However, as with Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, the main quest 
 is only a fraction of all the things to do in the game. There are tons of sidequests, dungeons, 
 and open wasteland to explore throughout the incredibly large DC area wasteland. 
  
  This time around, Bethesda has approached the RPG leveling system a bit more traditionally than 
 in their last game. You gain experience by doing quests and killing enemies, and when you level 
 up, you get to distribute points to attributes. This allows you to shape your character as you 
 see fit. However, Bethesda pushed the customization even further by offering a special Perk system. 
 Ever level, you assign Perk Points which give you an extra bonus to something or other on your 
 character. It could be anything from repair skill to damage dealth. Picking perks that compliment 
 one another is vital.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite impressive, considering how much land there is in the game. 
 As you are running for mile after mile of computer generated terrain, you will probably notice 
 some pop-ins, but it really doesnt matter that much. What this game does is make you feel like 
 you are personally taking place in the world you are playing in. If you have any sort of conscience 
 at all, you will have trouble doing the "wrong" thing, because it will hurt the characters you 
 have come to like. The game does a great job of immersing you in it's many branching storylines.
 
  
  So, should you buy Fallout 3? Well that depends. Do you like open world RPG gameplay, with the 
 ability to play either turn-based style or shooter style, with loads of customization, easily 100 
 hours of gameplay, tons of replayability, all in a gorgeously designed world? If so, then yes, 
 you should get this game. If you answered no to that question, then I have to ask just what the 
 hell is wrong with your brain? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpman_Z
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  A chief complaint I always hear about Oblivion and games of its type is, "I can't kill stuff!"
 
  
  If this is you, then Fallout 3 is the game for you. Simply put, this is Oblivion with guns. The 
 automatic targeting system (called VATS) is innovative and harkens back to Vagrant Story-like combat. 
 Head shots become ordinary and mundane by the game's third or fourth hour.
  
  The game is grand in scale, and there's plenty of stuff to do. You can act like a hero or even 
 a cannibalistic sinner. The voice acting is wow bad at some points and almost unintentionally funny. 
 But the game does make the most with the poor execution in that regard. At least they're trying.
 
  
  The only knocks against the actual gameplay is the local maps are garbage in their detail. Many 
 of the locales are underground and hence very dark. Too dark, I'd say. Aside from those minor flaws, 
 the game is pure gold for FPS buffs and RPG lovers alike. Must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyflynn08
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best games this year. Its a stunning game that keeps you coming back for 
 more. It has been awarded 10 out of 10 from numerous gaming sites and for good reason. The gameplay 
 and combat in this game is very good and very well implemented. There are a variety of different 
 weapons you can acquire during the course of your adventure, these vary from handguns to Tommy guns 
 to big nuke launching guns. The enemies in this don't have the perfect level of intelligence but 
 are still good. There is loads of open space for you to explore just like oblivion. The main story 
 is too very good and exciting. You start off as a child living in vault 101, then one day when you 
 are 19 years of age, your father goes missing and has escaped from the vault. The people in the vault 
 blame you and start to hunt you down for your fathers mistakes. You eventually escape from the vault 
 and go on your adventure through Washington DC. Overall this is a brilliant game and I recommend 
 it to all gamers out there.
  10/10
  
  Review by Danny Flynn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmrfud
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Wow I was unsure of this game, did not hear that it had problems but it does. Some days are better 
 than others, it works better on PC that console that's all I know. This game is huge and I already 
 finished it once, playing again and just wondering. Finding places that seem so amazing like talking 
 to a tree if those who have played know what I mean. There is amazing stories within stories, friend, 
 allies, enemies and more than 1.
  
  The only thing that bugs me a little is when a weapon is at 100% it still gets damaged. As for 
 as I know 100% mean perfect does it not? I mean if it got damaged if I was below 100 then fine. 
 I am always collecting and collecting and I have so much stuff I can spend an hour just repairing 
 it all.
  
  I love my Mutant and keep him safe, he has grown on me what can I say. He keeps me safe and yells 
 at things when I'm not looking. He carries things when I get overburden and he says things over 
 and over and sometimes occasionally he takes the odd shot from my gun when there are many enemies. 
 He never sleeps, never asks for food and he seems to have ammo in his butt but I love the guy call 
 me strange.
  
  The others have died and that was sad, I did not want then to go since walking a 16 mile square 
 waste land can get quite lonely. All in all this is an amazing game and will play it many times 
 over and over again. I hope they come out with some patches someday so I can continue to play on 
 and on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkytexan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game was an absolute blast (pardon the pun) and a total joy to play.
  
  I HATE RPGs, but absolutely fell in love with this game. 
  
  The characters are interesting, 
 the story line is predictable but still workable, not to mention a couple of nice twists.
  
  The only complaint I have is a couple of times the game "froze". Sometimes for only a few seconds, 
 sometimes a couple of minutes, and sometimes I had to "hard boot" the console by switching it off 
 and back on again. I have read that this is a problem for both consoles and maybe even the PC version, 
 so it is the game, not my console or copy of the game.
  
  I say the difficulty is just right because you can change it anytime you wish throughout the game, 
 so if it is too difficult, you can change it right away without restarting or saving.
  
  Do not shy away from this game just because it is classified as RPG, it is so much for then that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  Well... If you hear someone compare the Fallout 3 to Oblivion - they're right. It does have the 
 feel that it's just an Oblivion game with a new skin put on. Well, for what it's worth, it's a 
 significantly improved version of the Oblivion, if we forget how buggy it is for a minute or two...
 
  
  I'll get to the gameplay in a moment. First I'd like to express my frustration by HOW BUGGY THE 
 GAME IS!!! All of the versions, in fact: PC, XBOX-360, PS3...
  
  Graphically, the PS3 version has the worst graphics of all, with heavy aliasing, dropping framerates, 
 corrupted savegames, graphical glitches, hangs, freeze-ups et cetera - if you could think of a 
 bug, it's most likely in this game.
  
  Now, to the gameplay. WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!
  
  I've played through this game, trying 
 to max out my character, before proceeding with the main quest. I managed to gain a very good carma, 
 max out my speech, science, lock pick and other skills, so pretty much the whole world was open 
 to me. There is A LOT to explore. There are audio and written notes scattered throughout the place, 
 and if you actually pay attention, some of the things you might find out might make you depressed. 
 That, of course, depends on how sensitive you are and how closely you follow what's going on in 
 the Fallout 3 world.
  
  Normally, I don't get too emotional with these kinds of things - movies, books, let alone games. 
 So what I began to feel after a few weeks of playing the game is both unusual and interesting at 
 the same time: I became VERY attached to my guy. First of all, he turned out to be just a very 
 cool guy. Second, once you play this long with your character, you're just bound to grow attached. 
 So everything that happens to him in the game, you might start taking it close to heart.
  
  So, there were two shocks for me in this game. One somewhere mid game, when someone close died. 
 Second - well... I guess it's rather embarassing, but I'll confess: when I reached the end of the 
 game, suddenly I broke up in tears. I never thought a game story could overflow me with so much 
 emotion...
  
  Overall, the story is rather depressing. But then again, it all depends on a personn, so it might 
 be different for others, of course. But I found the whole thing immensely enjoyable, and yet - 
 depressing. As you wander the Wasteland, find notes left by its inhabitants, who have long since 
 died, you start to realise the magnitude of the events that led to what's going on _now_. And once 
 the game is over - if you've made the choice I've made, you really feel like you've lost something, 
 someone close.
  
  So there you have it. I hope that you'll enjoy the game as much as I enjoyed it, despite all its 
 bugs.
  
  On a technical side of things, of the 3 versions, PS3 is the worst looking one: no antialiasing 
 at all, and apparently rendered at a lower resolution than 360 versions, there's A LOT of jaggies. 
 Also, no downloadable content, which is a shame. That's not to say that PS3 version looks horrible 
 - not at all, it just looks worse than the other two versions (of which PC, of course, looks the 
 best) , so if you have a choice and prefer playing on a console (like I do) - go with the 360 version 
 (I now have all three versions, and I find that 360 version works the best, and I play the PC version 
 when on the road - in a hotel or on a plane) . And besides the looks, the PS3 version is really 
 unstable - it hangs all the time, sometimes fatally, sometimes it will unfreeze after about a minute 
 or so. I've played all three versions, the PS3 version froze on me probably over a hundred times, 
 so you have to save frequently not to loose your progress. The PC version is also quite unstable. 
 The 360 version had never froze on me, strangely enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfomega023
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  (No, I didn't rip off the writing on my review deck from anywhere, I thought of it myself) .
  Fallout 3 is probably the greatest game that I have ever played in my entire life. It is truely 
 the most amazing game in life. Although, it is better on X-box 360 ( I have both ) . The 360 has 
 better graphics, DLC, and less glitches, while the *gosh darn* PS3 version has non of that, and 
 sucks by comparasin. Now, I know what you are thinking, that I don't know what I'm talking about, 
 but I have been a Sony gamer scince I was little, and I love the company, truley I do, but our 
 version sucks compared to the 360. Honestly, Microsoft bought the rights to DLC, so I don't blame 
 them, but Sony didn't, so under all the under completed graphics, we have no DLC!
  Although, standing on it's own, Fallout 3, all-in-all, is a great game that is just the most, cruel, 
 disturbing, beautiful game that I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Cadbury_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a game that I never seem to get sick of. New to this series, I started out fairly 
 rough. This was mainly due to not being familiar with what meant what - how powerful guns were, 
 my health, what items do what etc. due to this I found it very hard to survive in the wasteland. 
 However once paired with Jericho who will follow you any where, I was good to go. The main quest 
 line is actually quite short, however there are HEAPS of side quests and locations that you wont 
 find if just playing the main quest line, so I suggest not rushing the game. You also cannot keep 
 playing the game after you finish the last quest, however this is no problem because you can go 
 back to a save file before the last quest and play from there. I finished the game with many patches 
 of blank area on my map, so thats what ive done. characters you come across and the decisions you 
 have to make are quite interesting, and many times ive turned to online guides to figure out the 
 best thing to do. However this probably takes some of the surprise and interest out of the game. There 
 is so much content it will seriously take quite a while to complete every single quest, so there 
 will never be nothing to do.
  
  The game isnt without its flaws, although much to my surpirse they arent as annoying as I would 
 have thought. Freezing is an issue on the Playstation version. If you are signed into PSN, notifications 
 (such as friends signing in/out, receiving messages etc) will cause the screen to blur and freeze 
 for a couple of seconds. You can easily get around this by signing out though. There is also some 
 unexplained freezing, I found when running through the Wasteland or when a lots going on at one 
 time (many enemies, explosions..) 
  There are also a fair few total freezes where the ps3 must be restarted. This can be annoying if 
 youve come a long way and havent saved, thus having to replay a lot to get back to where you were. 
 Save lots and this shouldnt be such an issue. However all in all, these freezes didnt seem to anger 
 me as much as I would have thought.
  I also thought the ending was a bit of a let down. It wasnt that interesting, and endings only 
 differ slightly in speech (youll see what I mean when you finish the game) depending on what choices 
 youve made.
  
  Despite these minor flaws, Fallout 3 is one of the best games out right now and is definitely a 
 must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkarver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of this series since before the franchise even existed - back in the early days 
 of the Apple II in the 1980s, I spent countless hours playing Wasteland, a story-driven post-apocalyptic 
 RPG upon which a lot of the current Fallout canon was originally based. Since then, I've played 
 through the first two games literally dozens of times, so it's fair to say that I was pretty stoked 
 about the release of Fallout 3.
  
  The long story short is - as a next-generation RPG or a successor to the Oblivion games, this title 
 is a knockout winner. It's immersive, exciting, and fun to play, with very high production values. 
 In other words, it's worth the money. On the plus side, the game has beautiful visual and audio 
 rendering (with the exception of a very short redraw distance on the PS3 version) , good dialogue 
 and voice acting, a fairly good selection of weapons, armor, locations and quests, and the overall 
 impression of a solid, quality product. 
  
  Messing around with character creation and the SPECIAL stats system is still a lot of a fun, and 
 the VATS combat mode is a pretty good interpretation of turn-based combat using a modern game engine. 
 Fighting long pitched battles was never a high point of this series for me, so it was nice to see 
 that the old strategy of specializing in sniper skills and speed, equipping a powerful, accurate 
 weapon like a laser or plasma rifle, and taking lots of headshots resulted in fast, satisfying 
 battles with lots of critical hits and heads blown off quickly - allowing you get back to the storyline.
 
  
  In other words, for fans of role playing games, Fallout 3 is an absolute must-have; it's been a 
 long time since something this good came out in the genre.
  
  On the other hand, this installment of the series does leave a few things to be desired. In all 
 honesty, they wouldn't be noticed by someone new to the series, but for old-timers and hardcore 
 fans, Bethesda missed out on a few really critical things that would have bumped the game from 
 just really good to legendary. (Warning: minor spoilers ahead) .
  
  Probably the biggest disappointment is in the uneven design and writing of the overall story arc. 
 It almost seemed as if the writers tried too hard to force it into being a soaring, heroic quest 
 - whereas the Fallout universe has always been more about the less majestic stories of survival, 
 ekeing out an existence, and getting by. Sure, previous Vault Dwellers may have ended up saving 
 the world, but only because they somehow got sidetracked into doing so while trying to save their 
 particular vault, or a little village. In Fallout 3, it just feels a little contrived how quickly 
 the main character goes from being naive to a legendary wanderer with hundreds of Pip-Boy map points 
 and a huge reputation - something that you never got in the earlier games.
  
  Also, the story design focuses on a very linear, very short main quest that can be completed quickly, 
 and that never really invites the character to keep exploring or discovering new places as it unravels. 
 I had only been to about half the locations on the map, and had missed out on quite a few large 
 side quests, by the time the main story started accelerating and sweeping my character up towards 
 the (very abrupt) conclusion.
  
  On that note, the ending was also a massive disappointment, as other reviewers have noted. Part 
 of the satisfaction of wandering the wastes and saving (or destroying) locations in Fallout and 
 Fallout 2 were the phenomenal ending sequences that pretty much chronicled the epilogue of every 
 place you visited during the game, with thousands of variations possible. Fallout 3 cheaped out 
 on this experience by marrying a handful of different narrations with a quickie slideshow of places 
 you visited, without really wrapping up any of their great stories. 
  
  What happened to the small village I saved? Or putting the free radio station back on the air? 
 What was the impact of eradicating the slaver camp? I was totally expecting Ron Perlman to boom 
 "... with the destruction of the slavers' headquarters, FREEDOM bloomed across the Capital Wasteland... 
 thanks to the Vault Dweller, the legend of Abraham Lincoln and his message of emancipation echoed 
 far and wide..." during the end sequence, and was totally crushed when it did not. A couple of 
 slides instead? Disappointing!
  
  To wrap up, Fallout 3 is a terrific game in its own right, and well worth every penny, but as a 
 successor to a couple of the greatest titles in gaming history, it does fall short in a few key 
 areas. Maybe those areas don't matter much to the majority of today's players, but I'm sure they'll 
 definitely be felt by quite a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first games that i have actually played all the way threw two times in a row, 
 and am now on a third run. Each play through i am still finding new little things and hidden areas. 
 The game does a great job of just sucking you into this destroyed aftermath and keeps you wanting 
 to adventure. Controls are great and graphics are very nice even the music is cool, i didnt even 
 realize i could play music off the pip till my second try haha. If you like first person shooters 
 mixed with roleplaying slash action adventure this is a must have for you game colllection . the 
 only reason i didnt give this a full 10/10 is the cap at level 20, i would of loved to of gone 
 to atleast 30 and get all perked out!!!!
  
  Go buy this game now!! and support bethesda so they can drop all the cash into making an extension 
 or part 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ozbastard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a must game for all lovers of the elder scrolls series and sci-fi enthusiast. Made by the 
 same company , but with lasers and nukes! In post apocalyptic territory being raised in a shelter 
 for the majority of your life, you get to experience the same as what I would imagine the equivalent 
 of a mormon kid who's parents one day go missing and is outcasted into society. In the game you 
 go into the world with what you know, (thanks to the short playable introduction of your life) 
 and the rest is up to you. Like in oblivion you tackle tasks as you see fit, make friends and enemies 
 of your liking, and make the world a better place, or a more horrific one as you see fit. If you 
 want a game that has a playability value of months, go for fallout 3, its graphics, mechanics, 
 style of game play, are all set perfectly up to today's standards. Personally I nuked a city, then 
 killed a bunch of rich snobs, and ran into insanely tough enemies, which I grew tired of, but if 
 you are the kind of person who can adapt to that obstacle and not suck, give this game a run. Tell 
 me I am wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtoda7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  This was the first Fallout game that I have played, and all in all I've found the experience immersive, fun 
 and addicting.
  There are many good points, some little things that'll I'd like changed, but on the whole this game 
 is excellent.
  Fallout has many similarities with Oblivion (awesome game;) -many say it's Oblivion but with guns 
 which is true to an extent, but the two feel very different due to their settings. Oblivion is a 
 pretty game set in Michael Jackson's 'neverneverland' with lush grass, butterflies and flowers. Fallout 
 on the other hand is harsh, and unforgiving, with shoddy architecture, ugly animals and skanky women. A 
 true wasteland through and through. The developers have done a great job here. It really feels like 
 you've stepped out into a massive warzone, with traces of next to nothing but Radiation and deformity. The 
 land actually feels dangerous, and its this look and feel which sets the two far apart in my mind.
 
  The graphics in Fallout are very good, up to par with most next-gen games. Lots of blood, and lots 
 of gore. NPC's have their own look and voices.
  Combat can be like any other FPS if you don't use VATS. Personally I don't use VATS, but the choice 
 is up to the individual.
  
  The only thing I don't like about Fallout is that you never get a descent look at your own character. Meaning 
 if I add armor, a hockey mask and a Laser rifle I wanna see how sick my guy looks, from the front, side 
 whatever. Its a shame that the only time you see your character is from behind in 3rd person view. It 
 makes me wonder why all the face creation options at the start?
  
  Theres so much I've left out, but my recommendation is to at least hire it and give it a go. Fallout 
 is a must play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: escobizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  *WARNING* This game is highly addictive. It is also brilliantly designed and highly detailed in 
 every possible aspect. It is mind blowing that they could cram all of this into a game. The story 
 is more driven than Oblivion and honestly I think it makes for a much better experience. If you 
 like RPG's, the Fallout franchise, or Bethesda games then this game should be at the top of your 
 list.
  
  I don't know what else to say. I've seen some reviews give it less than perfect for game bugs, 
 but I've played the game quite a bit and the only bugs I experienced were near the beginning of 
 the game. I haven't had any problems since I started venturing out into the Capital Wasteland.
 
  
  The story is enthralling, the character development is great, the combat system is innovative and 
 enjoyable (especially on a HD television) , and the replay-ability is unquestionable.
  
  My only hope is that eventually they release an expansion pack of some sort.
  
  I hope you 
 enjoy it as much as I have.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HawkGamer2008
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  OK, let say off the bat that Fallout 3 isn't "flashy" and it doesn't have the best graphics but 
 doesn't need them. Fallout 3 goes back to basics... this game has decent graphics, a great story, 
 terrific charectors, and a wonderful gameplay engine.
  
  GRAPHICS -  Lets start with the graphics of Fallout 3. First off the only cutscene in the whole 
 game is the ending (and possibly exploding Megaton*not a spoiler*) but honestly it doesn't need 
 any. The game flows just fine without any and the gritty graphics fit the enviorment extremely 
 well.
  
  STORY -  Well like i said, no cutscenes. But F3 uses a great system of dialogue and conversation 
 with main charector (you) . This works very well, any visualely attractive cutscenes are not missed. 
 You start out as a baby where you create yourself, then it fast forwards a few different times 
 to walk you through the games mechanics and to set up skills and such and you eventually leave 
 the vault 101 to look for your dad. The sidequests can be addictive, intriging, and fun.
  
  GAMEPLAY -  The gameplay is pretty creative (at least for newcomers to the series like myself) and 
 unique. Get familar with "Pip-Boy" your menu in the game. It is where you decide which equipement 
 of yours to where, where you choose your weapons, and where you heal yourself with Stimpacks (what 
 is used to heal yourself in F3 )
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is a fantasic game with little or no faults (some people have had freezing issues 
 but i have not) . Fallout 3 is a game every gamer should play. And one of the best parts is that 
 from the get-go, you can choose to be either good, bad, or neutral. Buy this game, its worth alot 
 more than the $60 you'll pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SenatorFlagg
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  In what can only be described as a decision to leave any early-adopters out in the cold, Bethesda 
 has decided to release NO downloadable content for its PS3 version of Fallout 3. No extra maps, 
 no world editor, not even something lame like power armor for your dog. Nothing. Zero. 
  
  Does the box indicate this anywhere? No, unless written in small print next to the copyright (in 
 which case, it might as well not be on the box) . Is the game discounted to account for this? Nope. 
 You pay just as much for the Xbox 360 version and $10 more than for the PC version. So, for a premium 
 price, particularly if you purchased the special edition of the game, those lucky PS3 owners get 
 to enjoy a game that is immediately inferior straight out of the box. 
  
  So, does it matter at all what the game has to offer on its own merits? No. That might sound odd, 
 but it makes sense when you think about it -- the better the game is, the more likely it is that 
 you will love the game, and thus the more reason you have to want more when the game finally comes 
 to an end. Thus, the people who will suffer the most are those who waited in anticipation for this 
 game to finally come out after all the years of waiting. Well, at least unless they are willing 
 to shell out another $50 or $60 to play a game they already have. Fitting, that the people most 
 passionate about a product will suffer the most. 
  
  But it must be ok, since Bethesda says that they aren't short-changing PS3 owners by denying them 
 even the choice as to whether they want new content.
  
  Don't buy this game. It's an inferior product from the minute you take it out of the box. Even 
 worse, it was intentionally designed that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralQuackers
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an action RPG developed by Bethesda studios, best known for the elder scrolls series. 
 If you came into this game expecting the same thing as past fallout games, then prepare for disappointment. 
 Also I will ask you leave the browser and go back to gears of war you hopeless fool. Of course 
 it will be different! If it ain't broke don't fix it you may say, but you should at least start 
 fixing the pipes before your septic tank overflows! If you are a fan of oblivion, the come on and 
 buy this game! It mirrors oblivion in every way, for better or worse. The big difference is THIS 
 HAS GUNS. Imagine Oblivion, goblins rushing toward you, and you slashing them with your sword. 
 Now replace GOBLINS with mutated BEARS, slashing with shooting/nuking/lighting on fire, and sword 
 with shotgun, rifle, pistol, laser, minigun, or SMG/Nuke launcher/Flamethrower, fire pistol, of 
 flaming cutlass, and you get the Fallout 3 experience. This is where VATS comes into play. VATS 
 freezes time and allows you to chose where to shoot. Not an instant headshot though, as you get 
 a percentage of how likely you are to hit. Real time gunplay works fine, but is a bit klunky. When 
 you have a clear shot, sometimes it misses. The AI is alright, better than hitman at least, but 
 you may find stupid things, like people jumping off of buildings. AND YOU GET CUTE WIDDLE DOGGIE 
 AND NAME HIM chips. Prepare for...
  SPOILER TIME
  now I am going to explain the main story. You are a 19 year old child who lives a perfect/semi-happy 
 life in a fallout vault titled Vault 101. Your perfect lifestyle is ended however, when your father 
 leaves the vault and all hell breaks loose. Operation GTFO commences as you leave the vault and 
 unless you are a moron, stumble upon Megaton, the nuked town. In the center there is an atomic 
 bomb. Now you may wonder,"Why not get rid of it?" Well there is a cult centered around the bomb. 
 I will get back to that. So you find a jerk named moriarty who will tell you that your father went 
 to GNR station. After meeting the brotherhood of steel, three dog, head of GNR makes you fix his 
 radios and tells you that dad went to work on project purity, a project designed to clean all the 
 worlds water. Dad dies, the good old USA government takes over (must be republican) and you die 
 taking it back and cleaning the water. THE END. WHAT THE HELL - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamable
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing game. One of the best I've played. I suggest anyone that likes RPGs or 
 FPSs buy this game. One of the strongest points the game makes to get my recognition is how immersing 
 it is. It literally draws you in, and doesn't let you go. Don't play this game thinking you can 
 sit down in 1 hour bursts though, this game will make you play it a good 2+ hours before you realize 
 how much time you've spent. Part of why this is so is because of gorgeous graphics. The whole wasteland 
 is so beautifully composed. Who knew rocks, crumbling buildings, shacks, and war could be so beautiful? 
 Another reason this game is really immersing is the fact that the wasteland is so well made it 
 seems living. Ok, some NPCs walk in certain patterns, and all the men over 50 have the same voice, 
 but there is just some much to explore. Every place you visit has its own story. This attention 
 to detail makes the whole experience better and, for as much as a science-fiction video game can 
 be, real. Even little places that most people won't ever visit at the far corner of the map have 
 the same high level of detail seen throughout the most important places in the game. 
  
  So Fallout 3 has a story, and a very well put together one at that (Who wouldn't want Liam Neeson 
 as their dad?) . But what is really amazing about Fallout 3 is the side quests which stories are 
 as good if not in some cases better, albeit shorter, than the main story. They range from simple 
 tasks with little to no effect on the world, to blowing one of the primary hubs in the game off 
 the face of the earth. And although it is sometimes a little too obvious for its own good, every 
 quest has at least a good, and a bad way to complete it. Then some of the quests can literally 
 be talked out of, which in some circumstances can be very cool. The only problem with the story 
 is that the literal end is very mellow dramatic compared to a VERY cool lead-up, also once the 
 game ends, well, it ends. That's it, and you can't go back. You have to start a new game, or load 
 an old save which is a pretty big smack in the face when your game has tons, upon tons of side 
 quests and places to explore.
  
  The game play in Fallout 3 is great. I originally said if you like FPSs or RPGs you'd like this 
 game. This is because the game is basically a fusion of a FPS and a turn-based RPG. It does a good 
 job of this, by having the main game play be in a first person perspective, the twist is that if 
 you hit the right trigger you go into V. A. T. S. which allows you to shoot specific parts of the 
 enemies body. V. A. T. S. works great, and watching a super mutant's head explode in slow motion never 
 gets old. It's the core FPS game play which suffers somewhat. In Fallout 3 the FPS controls feels 
 sloppy and too slow when compared to a game like Call of Duty 4 which plays, in my opinion, perfectly. 
 This is could be viewed in two ways. One way is that the the development team (Bethesda) has never 
 made an FPS and just did a bad job. It could also be interpreted as the developers trying to nudge 
 you to use the V. A. T. S. and not play through the game like it was Call of Duty. Either way the 
 first person combat isn't broken, it just feels slow and a bit off (I'm not sure how exactly to 
 describe it) , while usable and in NO way broken.
  
  In conclusion, Bethesda has done a outstanding job with Fallout 3. And while the game is not perfect, 
 the things it does extraordinarily well outshine any of the minor issues. I know in a time of economic 
 recession we all have to be more careful with our money, but Fallout 3 is truly worth its $60 price.
 
  
  P. S. Gamespot lowered the PS3 version of Fallout 3's score by .5 compared to the Xbox 360 and PC 
 versions. They said that the draw distance was not as far, and that it had more bugs. I found the 
 draw distance was fine, and stretched for a very far distance. Also I had one bug were my character's 
 gun would keep firing over and over without my pressing of any buttons, a simple restarting of 
 my PS3 fixed this issue. My game also froze once, but since it was literally a step after I saved 
 it wasn't an issue. So no game ending bugs just a couple annoyances.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to review Fallout 3 without comparing it to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Both 
 games use the same Gamebryo engine, and both were designed by Bethesda Softworks, a studio that 
 has made a name for itself making good open-ended RPG's with an acquired taste. The game follows 
 in Oblivion's footsteps, which might sound strange, considering it's the third installment to a 
 completely different franchise (the Fallout series, of course) . Fallout 3 is similar to its two 
 predecessors in name and theme only, having done away with many of the old turn-base elements. 
 But like its precursors, Bethesda managed to create an engrossing post-apocalyptic world, full 
 of bleakness and despair with pockets of hope.
  
  Fallout 3 shows us that humanity can survive any obstacles or attempts by higher powers to ensnare 
 our freedom through propaganda and mindless patriotism. If anything, the game is a decent social 
 commentary of today's realities. The message is conveyed rather nicely and gameplay holds its ground 
 to this ambitious undertaking. It's not without flaws -- the biggest one being that it resembles 
 Oblivion too much -- but it is well worth checking out. Though not the perfect title many have 
 been proclaiming, fans of gore, horror, action, gun-totting patriotism or libertarianism are nonetheless 
 in for a treat.
  
  
  THE AMERICAN DREAM: COMIC BOOKS AND FANCY CARS  DON'T MIND THE DEVASTATION
  
  Fallout 3 takes 
 place 30 years after the events of the second game, and 200 years after the nuclear war that ravaged 
 the country. The setting moved from the West-Coast to Washington DC, but things are just as bleak. 
 On the surface, survivors of the holocaust formed small towns, constantly attacked by raiders and 
 mutants. Life for the unlucky few revolves around scavenging for junk. Large cities are a thing 
 of the past. People live in settlements carved out of scrap. The common currency is bottle caps, 
 water is scarce and purified water is a luxury. Forget gold or diamonds; clean water is the day's 
 rarity and at the forefront of Fallout 3's story.
  
  Whatever was left of the country's government hid inside "Vaults" spread across the land, where 
 it maintained much of the pre-war way of life. Like 2007's Bioshock, we are presented with a 50's 
 retro world. The artificial innocence of that era lends itself perfectly to the theme, where comfort 
 and obedience is vanguard, at least in the vaults.
  
  The story begins quite literally at your birth. You see your father, James (voiced by Liam Neeson) , 
 delivering you into the world and your mother succumbing to childbirth. Flash-forward to your first 
 year in Vault 101. Your father -- a prominent scientist -- sees you take your first steps. Once 
 alone, you are allowed to explore your crib's surroundings. It is here you assign your first attribute 
 points (Strength, Agility, etc.) . The game flashes forward again to your tenth birthday where you 
 ceremoniously receive a PIP-Boy-3000 -- a GPS with many extras. The vault part is short but sets 
 the tone: you are a young man loved by his father living in a rationed society that thinks it can 
 control every aspect of a person's life -- a form of socialist jail controlled by an overseer. 
 Everything is peachy, until one day you are awakened by a friend that tells you your father broken 
 vault law by leaving the compound. Your life in danger, you decide to escape in search of him.
 
  
  Like in Oblivion, you are allowed to modify your character's face, gender, and skills before heading 
 off into the world. Once outside, players get a glimpse of the horror that is the surface. The 
 effect is somewhat shocking, even for a video game. Bethesda did a great job recreating the devastation. 
 Vegetation is nonexistent; the lush greeneries of Oblivion have been replaced with rocks and dirt; 
 towns and cities have been razed, with the occasional house still standing; overpasses and bridges 
 look like broken giants; road signs and cars are scattered about, reminding us that this world 
 once indeed had life.
  
  After a few minutes of exploration, and after having encountered your first mutant (a dog or a 
 molerat) , players find Megaton, a town built around an unexploded nuclear bomb.
  
  
  IT'S WATERWORLD WITHOUT THE WATER
  
  Megaton looks like Waterworld's main atoll, where Kevin 
 Costner sold dirt. The town is fortified with pieces of jetliner fuselages. Inside we have metallic 
 ramps, makeshift houses, trailers and whatever else could serve as shelter. Bethesda efficiently 
 made the town look like something survivors would build out of scrap. Most of the makeshift settlements 
 are believable in their improvised nature. It is here players can decide to either continue looking 
 for their father or explore the "Capital Wasteland".
  
  Fallout 3 has an enormous amount of side missions, from helping a local write a survival guide 
 by gathering objects scattered in the wasteland, to acting as a mediator for a wannabe super-hero 
 (The Mechanist) feuding with a demented super-villain (The AntAgonizer) . Good deeds can give your 
 character Karma points, which in theory serve to improve your standing with other NPC characters 
 and can slightly alter gameplay. Stealing and murdering takes them away, but in practice having 
 Karma doesn't open up any real opportunities. The only noticeable advantage is a woman occasionally 
 giving you gifts in Megaton and your father eventually praising you for being a Good Samaritan.
 
  
  The RPG element of the game is centered on the various abilities. After leveling up, players can 
 allot a certain number of points to various professions (skills) , upgrade Perks (another form of 
 skill) and increase attributes (Strength, Agility) . Skills are exactly what the name states. A 
 higher lock picking skill, for instance, makes opening locked objects easier. Perks add special 
 abilities that can't be characterized as a profession, like receiving bonuses while fighting at 
 night or increasing your experience gaining rate.
  
  Fallout 3 lets players play in a variety of ways, depending on what you decide to focus on. Electronic 
 skills allow players to hack into rather realistic-looking computers (it seems Microsoft finally 
 came to its senses and reverted back to DOS in 2027) . Thieving skills let players steal and pickpocket. 
 Action skills give various fighting advantages. Speech -- one of the more important skills -- lets 
 players talk their way out of situations and so on.
  
  Bethesda added a turn-based real-time combat element to the game with the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System, or V. A. T. S. for short. Simply put, VATS freezes time and lets player aim at specific enemy 
 body parts. At first this feature seems like a gimmick, but once skills and Perks are high enough, 
 VATS becomes very useful. Targeting a limb can disarm or cripple an enemy. Various parts or opponents 
 can be targeted in a single session, provided there are enough action points. Once parts have been 
 selected, action unfolds in bullet-time with some rather nice slow-motion effects.
  
  Gore abounds, as well as gratuitous swearing, even amongst child characters. The game is noticeably 
 designed for adults. One can even hire the services of a prostitute. The game is mainly a shooter 
 but it has enough RPG elements to keep both Action and RPG fans occupied. The choices players are 
 allowed to make are what make the game fun. Simply talking to characters can avoid a lot of combat. 
 Conversely, players can kill everybody they come across, even the good guys.
  
  Killing opponents with various weapons produces varied results. For example, slashing someone's 
 arm with a sword will sometimes cut the limb off. Though takedown effects are nice, especially 
 while using VATS, and graphics have nice effects, Fallout 3 still suffers from Oblivion's graphical 
 limitations. Bethesda reused Oblivion's Gamebryo engine but it unfortunately didn't improve the 
 physics. Characters still walk like plastic toy figurines and topple over like dummies when killed. 
 Note to Bethesda: the Gamebryo engine sucks; stop using it.
  
  Everything in the Fallout world looks nice, but animation is crap. Oblivion suffered from blocky 
 object collision and that's still true here. As a result, gunfights can be a bit sluggish. Another 
 graphical downer is the limited amount of character designs, both among friendly and enemy characters. 
 All human characters have the same basic model design, save for a few facial and clothing differences. 
 There are no fat people (understandable since times are hard) but there are also no skinny or short 
 adults either. Variety amongst mutants is lacking too. There is but a dozen or so characters in 
 the entire game. Considering Fallout 3 is a long game, players will get to see the same faces too 
 often.
  
  AI can be pretty stupid at times. There are moments where enemies and friendly characters will 
 get stuck around walls or not find their way around a staircase. NPC characters will also go out 
 of their way to antagonize nearby enemies, forcing players to get into needless fights. Members 
 can be added to your team (up to three characters) , but there too few teammates in the game to 
 even mention. Many players will go through the entire story without ever finding someone to help 
 them out. I personally missed the much-advertised dog character. Having said that, Fallout 3 is 
 a huge game feature-wise. Many elements will be missed through the first playthrough, which can 
 take many sleepless nights.
  
  
  OK, BETHESDA, WE GET IT: YOU LOVE OBLIVION
  
  Gameplay is very addictive once you get settled into the flow of exploring the wasteland. Time 
 flies almost as quickly as the game's night and day effects. Running around doing missions and 
 gathering garbage for barter, again, resembles Oblivion, sometimes painfully. Hundreds of objects 
 can found and sold, or used to create custom items. Again, the feature sounds good on paper but 
 in practice it leaves much to be desired. There's a limited amount of items that can be created 
 and most players won't ever bother with the feature. You can get a house in Megaton, which acts 
 as a dumping ground for all the extra junk found while looting. The house can be fitted with a 
 workbench (used to create custom items) and few more extras, though none of them really have a 
 practical purpose. Still, it's there, which is a plus. Wadsworth, your robotic butler, is a treat 
 to listen to.
  
  Undiscovered areas have to be reached on foot, but once a location has been found, fast-travel 
 can get you from one place to another instantaneously. Unfortunately, the world only seems vast. 
 Megaton has maybe a dozen inhabitants. The game's largest settlement, Rivet City (that's Rivet 
 not River) , has even fewer citizens, and it's supposed to be a converted aircraft carrier. Missions 
 will often be a spit away from their source. The AntAgonizer (demented super-villain) is only a 
 few feet north of Canterbury Commons, the town that issues the mission.
  
  Another downer is Bethesda rehashing of old concepts, like vampires and religious cults from the 
 "other game" I have mentioned too often already. Note to Bethesda #2: let go of Oblivion -- it 
 seems entrenched in your psyche. Speaking of the "other game", a large part of the action will 
 take place in caves, caverns, grottos, metros or other similar-looking hollowed-out underground 
 chambers. Needless to say, those parts all look alike. Buildings are no better. Many have repetitive 
 rooms. Players will often get lost while exploring offices, mainly because the game's indoor map 
 doesn't have vertical layers.
  
  Sound and music is great but it has its downers. The positive is Bethesda's decision to focus on 
 50's music. Listening to 50's classics is a treat, especially when blasting a super-mutant's head 
 off while some "dame" sings about love -- priceless. The cheery music can get annoying, though. 
 It's gimmicky. A few radio stations can be picked up by your Pip-Boy 3000 but only Galaxy Radio 
 acts as the game's source of "music". Fortunately, Fallout 3 has its own ambient tunes, and they 
 are very good, though a bit too few and far between.
  
  Sound effects are great. Caves (and Bethesda knows its caves) have perfect ambient drips and crumbling 
 sounds, and hearing ghouls panting out of view will send chills down your spine. Wind sound effects 
 in caves are often used to clue the player in on how close they are to an exit. Sadly, NPC character 
 lines are very repetitive. This is noticeable even during the first raider encounter. For the most 
 part voice acting is decent while interacting with characters. There are instances where actors 
 simply recite lines, and sometimes midway into a sentence it sounds like the dialog was recorded 
 in another studio using different equipment, but in general voices are decent. With so much voice 
 acting one expects a few blemishes here and there.
  
  
  
  The story itself is rather short. Had it not been for the side-missions, Fallout 3 would have been 
 a 10-hour game, at the most. But with all the extra quests (200 last I heard) , the game gives players 
 loads of play time, that is if one decides to fully enjoy everything. Some players will undoubtedly 
 have problems will Bethesda's latest creation. It's one of those games where you create your legacy. 
 Play evil and you might get some things done faster; play good and you will be everyone's errand 
 boy or girl, but at least you'll see the best possible plot outcomes.
  
  One flaw about most of the plots is the inert narration. The game seriously lacks cutscenes. Everything 
 is told through dialog, with characters standing around like dummies, occasionally moving their 
 arms for effect. It would have been nice to see some actual action during scenes. This is especially 
 true at the very end, where you are asked to make some rather important choices. Even there, everybody 
 stands around like props. The ending is also rather disappointing, especially Bethesda's decision 
 not to allow players to continue playing past the ending.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  In all, Fallout 3 delivers more in style than in gameplay. The Capital Wasteland conveys a bleak 
 reality. Graphics, though limited by the theme, are depressive and barren -- as they should be. 
 The retro theme adds an eerie reality to it all. This is especially true when your character gets 
 stuck in a simulation program with a scientist hell-bent on preserving his perfect middle-class 
 suburb. Everything is so perfect and artificial you end up wanting to get back out into the filth 
 on the surface. Having said that, the Fallout 3 is more than just a post-apocalyptic Action-RPG; 
 it's an effective social commentary that freedom is not about creating a perfectly sterile world 
 with no choices, but about allowing citizens to do whatever they want, no matter how dirty and 
 ugly their actions may be.
  
  GRAPHICS 87
  Realistic devastation and settlements and nice overall graphics, but character designs and animation 
 are too repetitive. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 84
  Open-endedness is a blast, though action can be sluggish. Slight AI problems and some features 
 are useless. Too much like Oblivion.
  
  PRODUCTION 82
  Authentic 50's style and settings convey well. Lack of animated cutscenes makes for stiff storytelling. 
 Rehashed concepts. Game with an important message.
  
  SOUND 85
  Retro music adds a nice twist but gets old. Great sound effects. NPCs repeat themselves. Some voices 
 are sub-par, both in delivery and quality. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 90
  Too many missions to accomplish on the first run. Not being allowed to continue playing after the 
 end forces players to replay the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonny-ringo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  "War, war never changes." That is definitely true about Fallout 3's massive world. The world has 
 suffered from a nuclear war in 2077. The date is now 2277 when you are born in vault 101. Vaults 
 are radiation-proof shelters that people lived in during the nuclear war. All the other vaults 
 let their citizens out after the war, but vault 101's citizens remained in the vault, and no one 
 has ever gotten out, until you start the game. 
  You pick your name, gender, race, and appearance at birth, and then live through a fast-forwarded 
 life in the Vault. During the different stages of your life, your pick things like S. P. E. C. I. A. L 
 stats, and your 13 other stats. Then you turn 19 and learn your dad has exited the vault. How? 
 No one knows. Why? You have no idea. So then you are tasked with exiting the vault to look for 
 him.
  The world of Fallout 3 is enourmous. There are limitless choices. Do you want a good, kind character, 
 or a stealing, murdering character? The choice is up to you and it's effect determines the ending 
 of the game.
  One of the biggest choices you come across is when you come to the town of Megaton, a big town 
 built around an undetonated atomic bomb. Your choice? Disarm the bomb, or destroy the entire town 
 with its residents? There are so many other choices with endless results, it is sure to keep you 
 entertained for countless hours.
  Fallout 3 is a masterpiece of a game and I reccommend it to anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: van4546
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Overall I liked the game. Gameplay is nice like Oblivion, The story makes sense but I am afraid 
 that the lvls come to quickly or the main quest is not long enough. This game has great action 
 sequences and the v. a. t. s system is fun to use when you feel like blowing monsters into tiny pieces. 
 I would reccomend this game is you like RPG but if you like games that keep going and keep you 
 guessing this game might not be there for you. Thats why I rate this game at a 9 for its graphics 
 and gameplay but its content is lacking farther in. The other cool things about this game is you 
 can hire Robots, Mercs, and Monsters to become your partner in crime and they can assist you in 
 fighting. There are Two basic sides of this world The brotherhood of steel and the enclave. Depending 
 on how you play you can actually change the way the game ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-BossSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  1st of all Fallout 3 is not Oblivion but i will be comparing them.
  It is also much shorter then Oblivion.
  
  PRESENTATION: Fallout 3 doesent look bad, not bad 
 at all but a really annoying thing is that its really glitchy, not glitchy like True Crime New 
 York City but it's still glitchy (i would like to say before this review continues that i'm just 
 reviewing the PS3 version) i mean you should save often because the game can freeze, i once found 
 myself stuck between a rock and a fallen tree and i coulden't get out.
  The game also could run well and better then Oblivion SOMETIMES such as when i press select to 
 the time menu in Oblivion it sometimes freezes but in Fallout 3 it never froze in that level.
 
  How characters walk on the ground looks terrible if you played Oblivion you will know what i mean, 
 but that isn't a realy big deal.
  Overall the presentation isn't to bad.
  PRESENTATION=7.5
  
  STORY: Fallout 3 has a solid and actully good story, it's much more interactive 
 and better then Oblivions (but then again Oblivions main quest is just there to keep the game moving) .
 
  The story goes like this, you live in a post-apocoliptic future where you live in a underground 
 vault (a bomb shelter with heaps of other people) with your dad, but when your dad leaves you go 
 out to follow him and from there you really decide how it goes, thats one of the great things about 
 Fallout 3 you decide how the main mission and side missions turn out, speaking of side missions 
 there arn't even close as much of them as in Oblivion, but the side missions can get complex and 
 take an unexpected turn.
  also you might think that a dog is really importent (you can see the dog in pics and the back of 
 the Fallout 3 box) but i finished the game and started a new game and i never saw the dog, i mean 
 i'm sure that its in the game but i never found it, though this really isn't a big deal.
  STORY=9.9
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is really similer to Oblivion, it's more of a PC game then 
 console.
  Theres a really uniqe system called V. A. T. S. which lets you freeze time and chose a part of a targets 
 body and shoot at it in a cinamatic slo-mo gory bloody effect which looks great.
  Fallout 3 is a Role Playing Game not a First Person Shoter, keep that in mind and you won't have 
 a problem with the gameplay.
  GAMEPLAY=9.4
  
  SOUND: Fallout 3 sounds great, it has great music, wonderful sound effects and some of the best 
 voice acting, did you know the guy who does the voice for dad is the guy who plays as Qui Gon from 
 Star Wars the Phantom Menace?
  Yes like Oblivion Fallout 3 does re use voices for more then one character but this shoulden't 
 bother you so much because you will be to busy admiring the supburb voice action.
  SOUND=9.5
  
  OVERALL: Fallout 3 is a game you should definetly not miss out on and a must get 
 for any RPG fan.
  OVERALL=9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok i bought this game on release day. At first i was pretty disapointed. the graphics are not nearly 
 as good looking as i was expecting. probly do to pretty much all the screen shots on the web being 
 from the PC version. I supose i was also bringing with me alot of left over anger about what a 
 let down farcry 2 was for me.
  
  Well i sucked it up and toughed it out, after about 5 hours of realy sitting down and getting into 
 the game i was hooked. I loved oblivion and this game is great for any one else who enjoyed Oblivion. 
 Its defenitly not a clone with guns as some feared. it shares alot of the same gameplay styles 
 and machanics but the over all feel of the games is very deffernt. Alot more humor and at the same 
 time alot more intense and ... well gory. If your a fan of movies like the old madmax/road warrior/madmax 
 beyound thunder dome, the postman, water world even I am legend then this game is for you. its even 
 takes some direct things from those movies, dogmeat as your compainion "i am legend" and makes 
 a number of references to mad max such as the blaster master armor lol. 
  
  As i stated above the graphics are a let down, for me at least. There is a lot of jaggies and some 
 pretty bad textures in places. the charicters are not all that impressive looking and move very 
 stiff or fake like. definitely not as well done as games like MGS4, resistence 2 or the trailers 
 of killzone 2. The graphics over all are not bad by wich i mean makes the game unplayble or even 
 ugly, thay are just in most cases not something to wright home about. And yes all the pro reviews 
 are correct the 360 version does look noticeably better. Crisper sharper all the way around with 
 less jaggies. i cant realy tell about the draw in distence but mainly the jaggies are alot worse 
 on the ps3.2 of my friends have it one 360 and one has it on PC so i know. the pc is way way better 
 than both console versions but its running on a 1500$ rig that he built just 6 months ago so its 
 to be expected.
  
  Also the pro reviews are correct about bugs and glitchs. i have had the game freeze twice. both 
 during VATS combat. Also there is alot of graphical glitchs such as NPC's with missing body parts 
 ect. this mainly happens at longer range combat when useing VATS.
  
  Now on to the good points. wich do in fact out weigh the bad. the story is great. like oblivion 
 the meat ofthe game is in the side quest and just exploring the world in fallout 3 wich is huge. 
 i think its been said that as far as actual space its not as large as Oblivion, How ever so far 
 i feel that there is more in that space. It does not feel as populated but then again thats kind 
 of what the game was going for. post apocaliptic setting so naturaly it wont be slap full of survives. 
 wich is not to say its empty. far from it. the game is huge with lots of things to do and see. 
 
  
  I love the new VATS system. makes it feel more like a true RPG and less like a FPS. though you 
 can very much play it just like a FPS. the skill's and skill perks, the way you level up ect IMHO 
 is batter than in Oblivion. The skill perks are realy well thought out and alot of fun. The weapons 
 are also very imaginative. the shishcabob is very well thought up. The down side is some of the 
 main weapons you use the most ... well look pretty bland to be honest. manely the assualt rifles 
 and most of the pistoles. the laser or energy weapons are very cool. they have an almost 1940s 
 TV show look to them. some even look like thay were pulled right out of the old buck rodgers show 
 lol. not just like them butthay deffenitly remind be of them.
  
  The NPC's and enemies are great. lots of personalty to the NPC's alot less bland and cookie cutter 
 clones like in Oblivion. all though the game does sufferfrom one of Oblivions more anoying fualts. 
 not enough voice actors. the voice acting is genarly well done just there is far to many charicters 
 who share the same actor. Speaking of voice acting the game features Malcom Mcdowle as the pres. 
 he does a great great job. 
  
  The games defficulty is fully adjustable and can be adjusted at any time in the game. even during 
 fights. rangeing from very easy to very hard. only thing that gets me is when playing in very easy 
 you get far less exp points when killing enemies. it would seem that misses the point of the player 
 wanting the game to be easy lol.
  
  Also the game has one of my very favorite features that i think should be mandatory in all ps3 
 games. a save any wear any time feature. I mean the system has a HD so its not rocket science. 
 when i brought this up about MGS4 i got flamed and told it just would not be posable ect. of wich 
 i knew was BS and this game yet again proves the point. every single game should have this save 
 feature period.
  
  The game Also brings back the fast travel feature from Oblivion wich is GREAT considering the size 
 and amount of ground the player must cover. 
  
  If you like open world games or RPG's in fact even if your just a FPS fan you must play this game. 
 to be truth full and i hate to say this as im a ps3 owner if you have a 360 or a good powerfull 
 pc then get this game for one of those. its better on those platforms plain and simple. Wich is 
 NOT to say its bad on ps3. Im haveing a LOT of fun and realy getting immersed into it. it has a 
 TON of gameplay value both in quality as well as in quantity. This game will offer you massive 
 bang for your buck. its graphicly unpolished and has a few bugs but its far from a game stoping 
 problem.
  
  As im reviewing the ps3 version i have taken ponts off for the lack graphical polish as well as 
 the few glitches iv seen. had it been closer to the 360 version in graphics and if the devs would 
 have at least not gave us ps3 users a buggy game that has some very real bugs i would easly rated 
 this game a 9.5 maby even a 10. now if the graphics in no way are important to you then at least 
 add 5 points to my score ;) . but haveing the game freeze twice in the 30+ hourse iv played as well 
 as a few other glitchs is just not cool with me and i have to take away for that. I realy think 
 this version ofthe game should have been delayed for as long as it took to polish it up right. 
 i would rather wait for great than settle for less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xado
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Ill start off by saying tomorrow I will be 30 yrs old : /. Feelin Great though so no big deal, 
 but I have been playing video games frequently since I was about 6 yrs old. I got an Atari 2600 
 and a Commodore 64c around the same time rockin some Rambo First Blood :) and having followed nearly 
 every system possible enough to play a huge variety of games. I am a fan of all types of game mainly 
 rpg's and fps and if im lucky both together as 1 :) . As the Years go by games started to look amazing, 
 first big jump i can recall was Sega Genesis, well mainly because it came out a few months b4 the 
 Super Nes came out. Time keeps on Slippin games like Fallout, Fallout 2, Deus Ex (PC) broke huge 
 ground for people like myself (Sci-Fi) FPS RPG style which is exactly what I like :) Lets keep 
 going Halflife and HL2 TF, TF2 enormous steps as well in gaming. Its a good thing Physics is finally 
 jumping into most of our games now. A game without a physics system nowadays just sucks. Which 
 i think untill somwhat recently Deus Ex invisible War had some of the best Physics ever imo. Moving 
 forward finally to the newer generation where games like Bioshock and Dead Space are incredible 
 games that were enthralling and very fun and are very high on my list of newer favorites. I have 
 been following Fallout 3 for at least a year if not more. I enjoyed the first 2 games and Tactics 
 but I'm sorry to all of the closed minded people out there that want to compare the new game to 
 the first 2. I could care less how true to form this game is to it's predecessor because I have 
 been more enthralled in Fallout than any game that is not an online game (And more fun than most 
 mmos unfortunately) . Many games ran over the 100 hr mark for me but usually at that point its just 
 done. Once every little piece of the game could be recited on spot its over. At least for a year 
 or so.. At the moment I am right at 100 hours into the game, would be more if I didnt have to work 
 because I am planning on Playing at least 2 more times in the long run. I am one of those people 
 who explore every crevase. I have been nearly finished with the game for a while, but I keep unlocking 
 more and more places on the map and keep getting some real good laughs and fun, and am in no hurry 
 to finish so just exploring the game to its fullest. I just wanted to let you know that this game 
 stands as my favorite game to date overiding all others untill Deus Ex 3 comes out :) Cheers to 
 Video Games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeronemo101Wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  To me this is my type of game where you can do whatever you want and not caring about the consecuenses 
 and come on the whole V. A. T. S thing is dangerously fun, I have blown up a lot of ghoul heads thanks 
 to it and the blood and gore in this game is cool to but no the thing you would enjoy all the time. Seeing 
 all the places, the people and solving or causing problems can definetly be an advantage for example 
 I helped the Temple Of The Union and now I got a new safespot and Blowing up a city made by airplanes 
 with an atomic bomb was kinda satisfying, I loved the mushroom cloud. The weapons are also a good 
 thing in the game like the plasma rifle, missle launcher, minigun, etc. But who could forget the 
 devastating Fat Man, a type of grenade launcher the doesn't really shoots grenades it shoots small 
 nukes that start of with a small mushroom cloud followed by a road of destruction. I would say 
 the only thing that sucks about the game is the ending, not able to return to vault 101 and certain 
 hired guns or followers or whatever you want to call them can't be recruited if you have too low 
 or to high karma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a must buy... period. 
  
  it's a huge world with so much to see and do it's mind boggling. if you played Oblivion you'll 
 notice some similarities in the game (especially in the opening 30 minutes or so of the game) ... but 
 because Oblivion was an amazing experience this is not a bad thing at all. 
  
  you build your character in a similar way (minus the option of being an orc or tiger or lizard) 
 and even have a chance to make final edits before escaping into the world out there. i won't go 
 into the story too much because you should see that for yourself. but the game is basically in 
 a post-nuclear washington, dc complete with monuments torn to shreds and the capitol building blown 
 and withered to kingdom come. over the coarse of the game you'll come across various cities, creatures, 
 people, friends enemies (depending on who you are and how you play) and choices galore.
  
  the cool part about Fallout over Oblivion is that in this game there's an actual ending, and the 
 choices you make not only affect the game but do so in a major way. unlike Oblivion where you can 
 basically join and master every guild in the game or visit every city on good or bad terms. in 
 Fallout one decision you'll make is to either spare or destroy and entire city that's built around 
 a nuclear warhead that's been disarmed. a man in a suit and glasses will offer you money (and eventually 
 a home) to arm the bomb and destroy the city. if you do so this city and any storylines from it 
 are gone forever. but another city with new people and new story options will be built there later. 
 (visa versa if you don't destroy the city that second city and it's story lines and characters 
 will never be available) . 
  
  Fallout 3 is a game that is more than worth it's weight in price because it offers not only hours 
 of gameplay but also replayability since you can play multiple times and have a completely different 
 experience based on decisions you make (and if you have good or bad karma as well based on what 
 you do) . 
  
  it's a must buy for anyone looking for an adventure game or looking to try something different 
 that is both huge in scope and beautiful in execution and developing a living world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheClown24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Ill do this review in gamespot style to make it simpler for you all
  The good:
  Huge world, amazing graphics, brilliant monsters, brilliant voice acting, so much freedom, so much 
 to scavange, awsome weapons, camera controls are a dream with both first and third person, loads 
 of different skills, good, not great charector customization, a huge list of beards, great charectors, 
 superb story, sooooo many locations to explore and sooooo many side quests, its funny, galaxy news 
 radio is awsome, moral choices have an influence on the game.
  Ive probably forgotton loads but you get the idea
  Now for the bad:
  Your charector dosent 
 move right in third person, jumping mechanics arent good, few graphical glitches, some invisible 
 walls, closed ending to the story meaning you cant go do some more side quests after the main story 
 is done and the main story is quite short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  After hearing about this game about a year ago, I've been excited for the release. A post-apoctalyptic 
 Oblivion-like RPG, with guns instead of swords, and mutants instead of knights. This game is better 
 than Oblivion in many ways, but also falls short of a few things Oblivion had. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- Take Oblivion's formula, add guns instead of bows, raiders and mutants instead of 
 mystical creatures, and a post-apoctolyptic Washington D. C. instead of a 13th century Rome-like 
 world. Lets start out with the story. This game, as mentioned, take place in the late 23rd century 
 post-apoctalyptic city of Washington D. C., although things haven't changed much since the 40s' 
 and 50s'. Greasy bikers with slicked back hair, 50s' Fords, and a lot of clothing styles you would 
 see in the 40s' and 50s' is used. It is pretty much an advanced 1950s' society suffering from a 
 huge nuclear strike from Russia. You are a member of a vault, an underground safe home basically, 
 and escape to find Washington D. C. completely destroyed with mutants and raiders tearing the post-nuclear 
 wastelands, buildings in ruins, dead trees everywhere, irradiated water, and nowhere to hide. Menus 
 and controls are pretty much the same if not similar to Oblivion so I will not go over those since 
 I had no problem. There is a great variety of different weapons and armors you can use to kill 
 a variety of mutanted creatures. Probably more weapons and armors than Oblivion even featured with 
 dozens of different weapons and armors. The level up system is a little different and instead of 
 being able to increase you main skills, you add a given number of points to different minor skills, 
 maxing them takes 100 points. After that you choose one perk which grants you different abilities. 
 The bad news is, level max is 20, which is a little too low for my likes. I would have preferred 
 more around 30-40, I believe Oblivion's was 50 or so. 
  
  At the start you can create your character, with more options and now you can make your character 
 actually have facial hair, which is a great option. Although I still think they should have added 
 the ability to change your height and body type. The different variety of guns are fun to use ranging 
 from a small pistol, to a mini nuke launcher. To repair items you simply use parts from another 
 of the same weapon to add to the weapon you wish to repair. This game is more survival based and 
 you also contact radiation from things such as eating or drinking from irradiated sources or enter 
 irradiated areas. Too much radiation causes stats to drop and even death. The main story is much 
 more interesting than Oblivion's but is very short, lasting around 5 hours only and maybe 10 quests 
 in total to complete. The map is big and there are many places to explore, but is slightly smaller 
 than Oblivion's. AI is pretty smart and is good at aiming. This game is pretty hard, and if you 
 are at a low level, enemies will most likely tear you apart. A new aiming system called V. A. T. S. 
 allows you to stop time and choose a body part to aim, and after you choose, you will fire a bullet 
 more accurately at the target and cause more damage, and I think this is a great element for this 
 game. Characters in this game also respond better and have better dialogue options. There are more 
 variety of characters now and not one in every four characters look the same like Oblivion. Also, 
 this game is more interesting than Oblivion's which tended to get dull. Overall, gameplay is far 
 improved from Oblivion's and adds better combat, better stealth system, and a more interesting 
 story, although there are less enemy types, a significant amount of less quests, and the main story 
 is much shorter. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- Graphics are better than Oblivion's and character models are more diverse. The environments 
 are simply amazing and actually looks like a post-apoctolyptic D. C. Although, many locations look 
 very similar on the inside. Still, they did use a lot of the famous sites in D. C. such as the Washington 
 Memorial, Capitol Building, and the Lincoln Memorial. Framerate is still poor, but the Oblivion 
 company never was too good at that. There are a few minor glitches here and there but not as bad 
 as Oblivion's. This game did freeze on me once, so hopefully a patch will be released to fix that. 
 Hopefully it won't be like Oblivion and freeze a lot. 
  
  Sound 9/10- This game has some of the best music I have ever heard. There are two main radio stations 
 which play music from roughly the 30s' through 50s'. The licensed music is great and really makes 
 you feel as if you were in that time period with songs like "Anything Goes" and "Butcher Pete" 
 as well as some old time jazz and boogie. On the other station there are some good old American 
 songs such as "Yankee Doodle" and "Star Spangled Banner" which put you in sort of a patriotic mood. 
 The soundtrack without the radios is pretty good as well but can get repetitive like Oblivion's 
 so I mostly listen to the radio. The only complaint I have is that they should have used more licensed 
 music with only around 7-10 actual songs used. 
  
  Value 9/10- Like I said, a modern day Oblivion with guns, a more interesting story, and better 
 graphics makes this game a must own for all Oblivion and post-apoctalyptic lovers. This game has 
 much to explore and although is short on the quests and level max side, still has much replay with 
 different endings to quests you can choose due to your dialogue choices and status. you can either 
 be good, neutral, or evil, you choose. Characters respond by how your karma is during the game 
 and you can change it by completing quests differently. This is better than Oblivion, which usually 
 only had one way to complete quests. Also there is no jail and characters will attack you for a 
 crime. There are many weapons and appeal to test out, different ways to complete quests, and dozens 
 and dozens of perks to explore, making this game have the same amount of replay as Oblivion, this 
 game should last months. 
  
  Tilt 9/10- This game is just as good as Oblivion I think and is most likely a must by for RPG and 
 Oblivion lovers. This game is a step towards the future for the Oblivion company and offers more 
 advanced options and perks than Oblivion as well as a more detailed and interesting environment 
 and story. This game makes you feel as if you are actually fighting for American freedom in a post-apoctalyptic 
 1950s America. I played the game for a month and still haven't beaten half the quests or explored 
 have the areas yet. This game is all about environment and choices and it does very well with both. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EugenioK
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  First the good, The world is amazing typical Bethesda focus on graphic details. the world offers 
 many surprises and 
  the missions are great fun and there are some interesting npc's to say the least for all that the 
 game deserve a straight 10. Espacially for those who are new to the fall out world it's an amazing 
 journey.
  
  
  The Bad (and dangerous)
  
  The main story much to short and a smart player can finish the main quest in under 12 hour after 
 which the game does no not allow you to continue playing.
  Then there are the numerous bugs and freezes that infest the game. 
  But the worst is that you 
 run the risk of seriously damaging your ps3 system when the game crashes (for more info check the 
 bethesda customer service blogs) .
  
  overall I would call this torture as fall out offers you an amazing world but the bugs and system 
 destroying crashes are unacceptable and anyone playing fall out 3 should be aware of the risk having 
 to repair your system afterwards
  I sincerely hope Bethesda will bring out some patches for this (and apology) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - The atmosphere and style are everything you could ask for and more. A few bugs and camera issues 
 keep things from perfection. 
  - Freedom to explore what you want, when you want.
  - Rewarding mixture of excitement and atmospheric exploration. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  - The landscapes 
 are wonderful. The character models and animations could be a lot better.
  - Outstanding art design makes for a desolate DC.
  
  Sound:
  
  - Excellent voice acting 
 and a soundtrack that completely fits the game's mood. The sound effects aren't bad either.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - A rare combination of excellent combat and deep role-playing.
  - Fantastic, 
 intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways.
  - VATS combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
 
  
  - A more focused experience than much of what Bethesda has created in the past that begs to be 
 played for hours and hours. This is one game you won't soon forget.
  
  ----------
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This is A very good game and I highly suggest to those who love oblivion and every one else in 
 there. This game will literally suck you in from start to finish. With so many customizable options 
 for your characters and your stats this is not a game that you want to miss. Heres the story in 
 the game. The story goes that the US government has setup these tunnels in order to save people 
 from getting killed from the bombs. You are born in vault 101 your mom had died giving birth to 
 you and your dad is a scientist. But one day your dad leaves the vault for a mysterious reason 
 and you are being chased after and are told to leave the vault 101 ( you are actually more on the 
 line of leave or die) . Then you leave the vault and your adventure begins on the search for your 
 dad. That is the basic story. It's a very solid story line and since you choose everything it just 
 never gets old. So onto game play now. The controls are very solid and for the most part everything 
 runs smoothly. However there are some problems. There are a lot of glitches but before you say 
 anything the PS3 version isn't worst from the x box 360 it's just a game that is gonna have a lot 
 of glitches. So for far warning save often and always save before you jump on table or anything 
 that is under a ceiling. As you know this is game with life changing choices meaning you kill someone 
 and there never gonna come back again so choose your choices wisely. Now for replay ability. Yes 
 this game can be replayed and still be fun I mean in one save file you may have a bad person and 
 on the other a good. So all in all this is a highly recommend game and is a highly recommend game 
 for the holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a hard game to review... on the one hand, I spent most of the last three days playing it... on 
 the other, I doubt I'll remember much about it by next week...
  
  As always, I shall vent first...
  
  Karma is both weird and not particularly important...
 
  
  Take one of the missions... a bunch of vampires are keeping a kid, who murdered his parents, in 
 order to try and bring him into the clan... you negotiate his release... then decide to attack them... now, 
 I guess it depends on your point of view... I think that killing a bunch of vampires who are harrasing 
 a village and murdering people AND killing a kid who murdered two people isn't something that would 
 keep me awake at night... in the game... you lose karma... I guess that's my personal worldview...
 
  
  In general karma really does very little of consequence...
  
  Missions
  
  I always have the same issue in these types of games.... if I do something and nobody is either 
 around or left to see it, why can't game makers make everyone else unaware that I've done it? 
 
  
  I kill the vampires and go back to the village (of the kids parents) and they all attack me on 
 sight... hunh?... they all "know" that I killed everyone in a cavern thirty miles away? Come on! 
 It may seem unimportant, but it's a question of immersion.
  
  I didn't find the graphical issues Gamespot seemed to find... only a couple glitches... and only 
 one action that ever crashed the game (collaring Cherry and then removing it)
  
  The world
  
  I dunno... maybe a bit too gloomy... I am not sure how to put it... there were no 
 "wow" moments in terms of the environment.... I am not sure what I would have done differently, 
 but I wanted a "Planet of the Apes, statue of liberty" kind of moment...
  
  The story
  
  Meh... it was ok, I guess... lots of angles that don't make a whole lot of sense, frankly... using 
 SPEECH, I was able to convince people (or things) to make decisions that are absurd...
  
  I digress...
  
  In general, quibbles aside.... it's a solid game that was worth playing. 
 
  
  
  SPOILER
  
  This is the 2nd game in a row where I have been asked to heroically sacrifice myself (the other 
 being Far Cry 2) ... I hope this isn't a trend... I don't play games to toss myself onto grenades... I 
 play games to toss the grenades!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing101
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first review ever on Gamespot, so ill be submitting many more for the PS3. 
  
  Fallout 3.
  
  For all you people who have played the original two, you were probably thinking 
 how amazing this game will be. And for players who are immersed with growing levels, shooting, 
 exploring, and talking, this game is perfect for you.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  With the graphically enhanced version of the newest Fallout game, Bethesda simply portrayed it 
 beautifully. The only issue I had with this section, is that they simple didn't make the PS3 version 
 higher then 720p.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound was amazing. Dialogue for the most part was acted out decently, and the sound of that 
 hunting rifle just made me shiver to my spine.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  As cool as running through the Wasteland in Capital DC, it got very repetitive and boring quickly. 
 This is where my biggest concern was. In the original two, the gameplay was fun, exciting, and 
 for the most part, humorous. Everything was perfect about the game, you could simply do anything 
 you've ever wanted too. It was even vulgar with the sexual content and drug references, which made 
 it sound much like a real wasteland. For Fallout 3 however, they seemed to cut back on that quite 
 a bit. It just never felt the same for me, it didn't feel right, it wasn't the same wasteland as 
 I was used too before. Previous gamers of the original two, will understand what I'am talking about. 
 Also, the shooting mechanics were way off, the trigger wasn't really brought out properly, so it 
 was hard to shoot at times. The thing the brought back which gave me shivers, was the system called 
 V. A. T. S. Simply just target, aim, fire, and presto! You got a helluva gunfight going. Just doing 
 that made gameplay more exciting and original, although, some problems arose. Shotguns were meant 
 for blowing the cr@! out of people. Using V. A. T. S. made it extremely mind-blowing when enemies 
 didn't die after a point blank shot to any part of there body, making things frustrating if there's 
 more then one enemy your fighting.
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  For new-time players to the Fallout series, you will enjoy this, as for the old time players, well, 
 at least a third one was finally released. Overall though, this game is a must have if you like 
 FPS (first person shooters) , exploring the countryside, or simply just wrecking havoc on people 
 for fun. Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link66
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing this game I admittedly, was thinking that it was another RPG, this time 
 set in a post apocalyptic world. I assumed that there would a lot questing and walking around a 
 more or less empty world, to not much end. Luckily i was dead wrong, this game is a far reaching 
 multi-verse of options. Its got the basic good or evil set up, but being being or evil actually 
 effects the game play. You can be the hero or the villain with the squeeze of a trigger. the map 
 is massive, and there's always something to keep you interested in what's around the next rock, 
 if your the exploring type. If thats not the case there's the story line quests that are very well 
 written and can keep you running through the game just to see what happens next. Graphically the 
 game is stunning, movement in the first person view is clean, and all an all handles quite well, 
 but like Oblivion 3rd person is all but useless. The menus on your P. I. P boy take a bit to get 
 used to using but work fine over all. The V. A. T. S aiming system seems a bit like cheating to me 
 at first but it is a very effective way to kill your enemies at any distance. 
  There are a few things that like any game don't really work out that well like the lock-picking 
 skill its a bit different to master but shouldn't be that tough with enough practice. movement 
 into the downtown D. C area is a headache all of its own, the city is a after all a ruin thereby 
 as to be navigated via subways which don't always lead where you want and can sometimes take up 
 many hours, to move through. My biggest and perhaps my only real complaint is that hacking is the 
 game is all guess work, I've read few other reviews and beyond being a very lucky person you should 
 save before to try to hack and just reload because you only get one shot to successfully hack a 
 terminal before its locks for good. So over all I absolutely loved this game and would highly recommend 
 this one to anyone that enjoys a RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan50265
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have played any of the "Elder Scrolls" series you know that Betheda's RPG 
 formula works. Now to be honest I wasn't sure off the bat how this formula would translate into 
 the post apocolyptic world of fallout, but I can say in all honesty they did it again. I'll brek 
 it down real quick for you below. 
  
  Graphics- The graphical detial in this game is top notch. The character models are nice, but not 
 without subtle flaws, but it doesn't effect the game really. The enviroments are flawless and look 
 spot on to a post apocalyptic world whic really adds to the immersion in the game. 
  
  Story- The story is fantastic although you can't do the side quests after you complete the main 
 quest which is a little bit of a downer. This can be easily avoided though if you pay attention 
 to your quest log. 
  
  Content- A wide variety of weapons to accomodate any play style as well as a fun assortment of 
 armor and hats really make you feel like a wasteland warrior. 
  
  Sound- The sound is near perfect whether it's the Galaxy radio or the eerie and lonely breeze you 
 hear while wlaking the wasteland you feel like you're there especially if you run this game through 
 your 5.1 surround. 
  
  All in all this is one of the best RPG's made for any platform, and is a must own in the opinion 
 of this writer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bimbley
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Look through the other reviews of Fallout 3 on PS3, including the Gamespot one. The only flaw in 
 this game? It's graphics aren't absolutely fantastic. That's it.
  
  Now, for me, that's not good enough. If you're going to review a game you need to do so on it's 
 own terms. There's no point in whinging about a poor story line in a racing game, that's not what 
 it's there for. Equally, picking up on a couple of graphical glitches in a game of such scope, 
 playability and narrative ambition as this one is just silly.
  
  Let's qualify this: if it freezes that's a problem. If you can't see an enemy until they're shooting 
 you in the arse, that's a problem. If you fall off a cliff that isn't even there, that's a problem. 
 But, for me at least, this hasn't happened. All that's up with the game's graphics is some distance 
 fogging and some contact issues. Nothing you can't get over by simply ignoring it, and certianly 
 nothing that's going to profoundly affect gameplay.
  
  Aside from the so-called glitches, you have an involving RPG that ticks many of the right boxes. 
 This game, like Oblivion before it, is about being able to create your own character, (not just 
 physically but emotionally and mentally) and place them in an interesting environment. It achieves 
 that aim to a very large extent, certainly more so than Oblivion which was very difficult to make 
 it through with a charcter who didn't have certain skills. It does what it says on the tin, what 
 more do you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I never liked the Fallout games, but when I saw footage of Fallout 3, and knew it was made by Bethesda 
 I could not be happier. While Fallout 3 could have been refined and tweaked in a few ways, its 
 still an awesome game.
  
  Gameplay- Its not just Oblivion with guns. To make that distinction would be folly. VATS is awesome, 
 allowing you to freeze time and target specific body parts and take an enemy apart piece by piece 
 if you want. You can also play the game as a fps, but using both VATS and first person shooting 
 works better in my opinion. There arent nearly as many sidequests as in Oblivion, which kinda bums 
 me out, and it takes a little bit away from the game, althought the sidequests you do get a very 
 well done and deep. I wish there was some sort of Arena or guilds to join in Fallout 3 like in 
 Oblivion because that was half the fun in Oblivion. But alas, this is not Oblivion with guns.
 
  
  Sound/Visuals- Both done well. All the sound effects are done great. The voice cast is very good 
 too. The graphics arent top notch, but that's to be expected for a game as huge as Fallout 3. It 
 still looks good though. 
  
  I haven't come upon nearly as many glitches as people are complaining about. I think half the people 
 reporting these glitches are 360 fanboys anyway, who have a tendency to troll big time. Oh well. 
 
  
  In summary, if you want a deep, well made rpg with tons of thrills, get Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Why not? That sums up most everything about Fallout 3. Why not have more ammo than a third world 
 nation lying 200 years after the war. Why not have things still not scavenged 200 years after the 
 war. Why not have an atypical post apocalyptic society that seems able to rebuild itself but just 
 doesn't. While it is a technically proficient game (with more bugs than I've seen in a big ticket 
 game in a long time) , the game lacks any real power and depth. The most poignant moments come almost 
 in passing when you discover the remains of people or journals from the start of the war. Beyond 
 that, I'm not moved to care about anything or anyone here. I find it funny that I can repair things 
 while getting shot at. I find the combat system sorely lacking. I find gameplay boring. I find 
 the gameplay boring. I find the gameplay boring. It's also repetitive in case you didn't catch 
 that. A lack of unique enemies makes trudging around the map or doing many quests so tedious they 
 let you "discover" all the map locations as a perk to prevent you from having to trek all around 
 the boring and repetitive lands fighting the same freaking enemies over and over again. Seriously. 
 There's like 8 enemies. (Raiders, Ghouls, Mutants, Dogs, Yao Gui, Bloatfly, Scorpions, rampaging 
 robots) That's it. Over and Over again. With a bad combat system. And why the heck do the robots 
 look like lost in space rejects? Seriously? Maybe we nuked our planet because society was doing 
 retro 50s style sci fi retro look as a worldwide design idea. Maybe we just couldn't take it anymore. 
 
  
  When it's dark it's too dark. When it's bright it's too bright. I find it hard to see if it isn't 
 certain hours of the day. It's the blandest color scheme since GoW. The repetitive radio broadcasts 
 get way too repetitive. And why are they using radio? 2277 and we didn't figure out how to rebroadcast 
 TV? WTF? No one can figure out the wheel? There's no vehicle I've seen. Not even a a drawn wagon. 
 Not even a freaking rickshaw. No one, in the waning days of society, could figure out a cart with 
 handles that you pay a ghoul to pull? Really?
  
  Taking into consideration the technological improvements that must get discovered between 2008 
 and 2077 (think about 1938 til now) , they seem completely non-existent in the game. The whole point 
 of sci-fi is to fantasize about that stuff. But Fallout 3 might as well have happened tomorrow, 
 save the robots and the energy weapons. And the horrible retro 50s sci fi retro design. 
  
  All in all, Someone made Oblivion very brown and sent it to a bad 50s sci fi movie that should 
 be on MST3K.
  
  To be fair, at least they got rid of the horrid wanted system from Oblivion where the whole world 
 somehow knows your a thief if you get caught picking some guy's pocket in the middle of the woods. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werruraz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Just gonna be a quick review.
  
  Overall the game feels simular to Oblivion, cleary the same game engine, and i gotta agree with 
 people when they say it is Oblivion but with guns, if you can't see that then you are blind.
  
  The hype surrounding this game absorbed me into because i loved oblivion, yet the bugs/glitches 
 and various gameplay issues are starting to disapoint me.
  
  The best thing Bethesda can do right now is get out a patch, if it's anything like they did with 
 Oblivion then this will be the last title i purchase from them.
  
  Gotta be said that the VATs system is pritty cool and the overall atmosphere of the game is nice, 
 but alas not good enough for the die hard fans who are alittle disappointed.
  
  Graphics: 7 
  
  Would be a 6 but the draw distance makes it a bit better and apart from dodgy 
 texture aliagment and low res textures there ok, woudn't say ground breaking but ok =D
  
  Gameplay: 10 
  
  Theres so many ways you could play this game, apart from the Good, Neutral 
 or Evil ways you could make your own charecters like a Assasin or Diplomat and it definitley has 
 alot of replay value
  
  Storyline: 7
  
  Not acutaly completed the main storyline yet but so far it's ok, getting slightly tidious, the 
 side quests are quite interesting and can keep you going through breaks in the main story.
  
  Atmosphre: 10
  
  Excellent, when im wandering around i feel alone, which i should be in 
 a game like this!, and i don't know about you but i actualy stop myself from slaughtering everyone 
 like i do in Oblivion because it dosen't seem right, i get a sence of empaphy, it's strange.
  
  Well i think that's it really, i'm not the best at writing/reviewing and i'v probaly missed 
 key factors AND it turned out not to be a "short" review, but i give this game a 8/10 Definitly 
 worth a try, even if you rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3, what a terrific idea and concept. Ever since I saw it at E3 '08, I wanted it..... really 
 bad. So, the day it was released I picked it up, and began playing it. I then noticed, it looked 
 better at E3 than it does now.... weird huh?
  
  Graphically its a COMPLETE failure. Tons of little bugs and glitches that make you wonder if the 
 game is for the PS3 or the PS1. And often when your walking through the land, it often wants to 
 lag, and sadly freeze up.
  
  Gameplay wise, bland. Nothing special besides the V. A. T. S, which is really cool, for the first 
 few times you try it. The combat feels clunky and not very good.
  
  Story, it really has a terrific story. It is also a very lengthy game! The start of the game is 
 really good, but after that, its just plain boring.
  
  People should at least rent it, but it was really disappointing for me. By the way, there are NO 
 VEHICLES!! Its kinda of a pain to walk every where.
  
  Overall, 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostb173
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of tube - videos of the game out there on the net, so i wont bother describing 
 the profound quality and attention to detail of fallout 3's graphics and sound
  What i will add to gamspots review of fallout 3 is that throughout the 20 odd hours i've spent 
 playing the game, i've encountered none of the supposed ps3 glitches the reviewer emphasises in 
 his review. I'll add that the only case of dissapearing graphics ive heard of in the game came 
 from a friend who owns the PC version of the game
  My only criticism was also mentioned in the review., the game ends with the main quest, which is 
 a little frustrating for us whom enjoyed prouncing around in oblivion for awhile mopping up side 
 quests as the grand champion king of the universe
  Anyway ps3 owners, dont fret, ive conquered the game on my end and its no glitchier then oblivion 
 was, the playstation version is up to scratch and worth a 9 for pushing the standard of rpg adventure 
 games further then ever
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Fallout fan since the first one came out. I was unsure after the announcement 
 of the first person perspective, making it sound more like another shooter than being true to the 
 feel of Fallout. I was very pleasantly surprised that not only did it not turn out to be another 
 shooter as expected, but it far surpassed anything I had hoped for. Control is very easy to use 
 even in the heat of battle and the VATS combat system works very well, the videos don't even do 
 it justice. The feel of the game is immersive and gives a real feel of being there. While the main 
 quest is rather short, there are so many optional side quests that if you choose to actually play 
 in the Fallout universe rather than just finish the game you can have many hours of enjoyment in 
 a single game. There are a few bugs, some rather substantial but mostly annoying rather then something 
 that would destroy the experience. Visual effects are amazing and really give the post apocalyptic 
 atmosphere. The ending of the game is rather poor and doesn't fit with the rest of the game, details 
 I won't include as to not create spoilers. In short the ending just doesn't make sense when taken 
 the rest of the game into account and gives the impression that they ran out of time and just wrapped 
 it up quickly rather than making a real ending. Apart from a patch to fix the bugs, the only thing 
 to make it better would be an SDK for it so we can get some serious mods and maybe get to play 
 Fallout 1 and 2 with this engine :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, I loved Fallout 2 in the 90s. If you have played, and liked (if you played them, chances 
 are you loved them) the first few Fallout games, this game is more of the same with a great graphical 
 boost. A lot of people are saying that this is like Oblivion. Not so, Oblivion is like Fallout 
 2. This is 1st person like Oblivion, but if you have played the old Fallout games, you will see 
 that this is more classic Fallout than Oblivion, with the exception of the 1st person perspective. 
 The only thing I did not like about this game is the inablility to target limbs in VATS while using 
 melee attacks, like in the old Fallouts. It also seems tailored to console games in that it is 
 kind of simplified. There really are a lot of quests, and probably you will be satisfied with what 
 is offered. Fast travel does not ever lead to random encounters like the old PC games, and caravans 
 appear not at random but in front of towns in certain spots. I guess I miss the random encounters 
 while fast traveling, but I see how the developers wanted to make it a bit different this time 
 to bank on the console generation. Buy it, read the gamespot review if you need more info, I just 
 told you what they did not. Too bad no co-op though, the consoles scream for this kind of gaming 
 nowadays, its way more fun. Maybe an online co op mode would extend the play life of it. Oh well, 
 probably on Fallout 4, right? At least a Fallout console sequel could have more variety than the 
 coming Bioshock 2. (How could they do a sequel to that? Repetitive....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb_Holcombe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh... the Fallout adventure... in 3-D!
  
  Fallout 3 begins with an amazing intro that walks you through the character creation process in 
 funny and interesting ways. Story choices take effect almost instantly with a variety of paths 
 to explore. This process takes about an hour and brings you to the light of the outside world. 
 Before you make the jump into the unknown you are allowed to tweak any character attributes to 
 fit your needs.
  
  Once the sun hits your face you're open to do almost anything. This is one of the most non-linear 
 games in history (next to, what else, Oblivion) . It's been a long and amazing adventure for me 
 so far at 40+ hours but I do have some complaints.
  
  In my travels thus far I have had my game freeze, shut down, and pause. I've had my character get 
 stuck in the environment and even have my control cease function!
  
  At random moments of play the game will pause for about 2 seconds and then continue as if just 
 hiccuping but this is usually an early warning sign of a complete freeze. Entering VATS has frozen 
 the game completely as well as just firing my weapon forcing me to restart my system and reload 
 my last save (not very convenient for those who forget to save often...*cough*) I've had NPC's 
 glitch at story sequences which has rendered the game unable to continue. I have had my right analog 
 stick cease to work and my VATS button useless!
  
  After all the frustration from glitches such as this I still cant stop reloading and restarting 
 my system to continue on. I go on and on enjoying every second of this amazing game. If a patch 
 is issued in the near future the game would be closer to a perfect 10 score... but for now dealing 
 with glitches so severe I have to knock the score. Anybody who loves RPG's, Fallout, and Oblivion 
 will LOVE this game. Pick it up and enjoy an amazing adventure how you want to experience it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrorang3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Too much to tell, and too much to explain. This game has it all, and I feel it a shame to not post 
 something about the awesome-ness that is Fallout 3. Having never been a fan of the previous installments, 
 I jumped on board based purely on having played Bethesda's Oblivion (also a blind jump for me) , 
 and seeing the initial trailer in all it's 50's esq feel. Personally, not a big fan of RPG's, and 
 frankly I find the whole "sit and wait as you attack each other one whimsical strike after another"....... well 
 gay. I prefer a more hack and slash FPS type of game, but this one has it all. If you haven't already 
 taken the time to research this, read up on other reviews, and for some reason find yourself only 
 reading this....... well then simply put, you're retarded. Desipte your latent retardedness, here's 
 the quick "skinny": the handful of RPG elements are evenly spaced out, so you don't feel like you're 
 playing some cheesey anime style Final Fantasy crap-fest, and the FPS aspects are so evident (most 
 of the game is played in this format) that if you so choose, you need not even pop out of this 
 mode (slight of changing weapons or adding health) . There's far too much depth, amazing graphics, 
 and story here to explain it all, so do this: watch the official trailer, and the GameStop review 
 trailer through the links above, and then buy the game. Once said game has been purchased, go through 
 all the BS of getting out of the vault (into the actual game where killing is "money", and everyone 
 is "loaded") , and do these two steps. Step one: general advice..... be good (karma wise, that is) . 
 I'm not saying always be good, or don't kill the annoying people that annoy you.... but angle toward 
 "good" 99.9% of the time. It will pay off in the end. I say this, because out of frustration and 
 greed/need, I ended up "wacking" every living thing in one location, then another, then another.... till 
 I'm sure some sick twisted inner child (inside of me of course) gleefully laughed everytime I exploded 
 a head, or stomped a baby into the ground (not that you can actually do that last one) . Long story 
 short, I regreted a lot fo the senseless killing, and unfortunately the laws that are Fallout 3, 
 do not see the generic plea of "self defense". If you steal one random thing, someone catches you, 
 that NPC has the nerve to start, well...... killing you. Somehow they manage to notify every random 
 nobody and potentially important character in the immediate area.... and they start trying to kill 
 you. Best bet in these situations.... assuming you may need someone in that area....... run Forest 
 run!! Find a safe place outside city limits, wait three days, then go back. Ok, I'm rambling...... here's 
 the other bif ticket winner, and I repeat.... this is BIG, you will need this CHEAT / TRICK, it 
 is F'n vital!!! This will give you an insane supply of food / medicine / ammo. Once you are out 
 and about, and more then likely heading toward Megaton, find yourself a "Secure" location (more 
 then likely inside someones home) , and with no witnesses..... start stealing!! I know this goes 
 against a lot of what I just said, but trust me..... I'm going somewhere with this. If you haven't 
 already reach an insanely low (evil) level of karma coming out of the vault, this is what you are 
 trying to accomplish. You get negative karma taken from you whenever you do something bad. Trust 
 me, it's only temporary, you can do some goof stuff and repair the damage. Ok, once are as evil 
 as one can get, head to Paradise Falls. Paradise Falls is located north west of where you start, 
 but honestly who has time to guess. Just click on the text style map in the guide section here, 
 pinpoint it, place a marker on the map, and start a walkin. You basically need to be evil to get 
 in, if not, they will shoot the poo out of you. Once the Slave Tradering at Paradise Falls start 
 a shooting.... it's on..... potentially forever, and you will loose this trick I'm about to tell 
 you. Once you get there (and it's a slave camp, full of A holes who slave trade) greet the guard, 
 he gives you a weapon (ignore it all for now) , say all the cool tough guy bad-ace things, get in 
 there!! Once you walk a few feel turn into the blue bus double doors that make up an entry point, 
 and your in. You will walk around looking for this semi long haired "Slave Trader" (he has no name) 
 tanned skinned white lookin guy with a chinese assault rifle on this back. He may in fact find 
 you, but regardless he's ultimate goal is to give you a random piece of BS for being so tough/cool/good 
 looking (who know's, he might be into you) . The trick is... and Bethesda F'ed up..... he keeps givning 
 you something everytime you talk to him!! That random piece of BS could be a hanful of caps, a 
 stimpak or two, 5-30 rounds of some various ammo, RadAway, fruit, junk food, etc. The trick is 
 this........ once you find him (and having stretched your clickin thumb first) , start tapping that 
 "X" button like it's nobody's business!! After awhile.... say 30 minutes or so, go into you're inventory, 
 dump the things that weigh anything (fruit, nuka cola, junk food) , and keep all the caps, medical, 
 and ammo stuff..... save your game, and then go back to doing this. Long story short...... and having 
 some hardcore "gamer thumbs"...... I started tapping that "X" button, switch over the video option 
 on my TV and watched some Sarah Conner Chronicles and then Prison Break, checking in from time 
 to time to make sure he hadn't managed to clsip away, and to randomly save of course. When I got 
 done........ I had over 7000K caps, about 600 stim paks, and enough ammo to supply a small 3rd world 
 country (5000 5.56mm rounds, 1000 .308 rounds, 2000 shotgun shells, etc) ..... I think you got the 
 idea. This should be more then enough to get you started. Granted the makers could patch this bug 
 real fast, so I'd get "on it" now..... and or keep you internet connection disabled on your PS3 
 so when the update comes in..... you won't get it! You can also be hardcore like me, and dump your 
 personal gear in a trash can (don't worry, it won't go anywhere) and load up on nuka cola bottles 
 to sell (the usually net about 6 caps a pop) . Considering I had about 450 of them lying on the 
 ground (not kidding) .... it makes some bank too. Only problem with this is.... when a store owner 
 runs out of caps for the day..... they usually don't get any more for a few days. So if you don't 
 mind loading up on bottles and snacks....... using the pip boy map to insta zap you somewhere where 
 there is a trader/store...... then selling if your stuff, and then waiting a few days to sell him 
 more...... then go nuts. I did this the first run of this scheme.... and I did make an extra 2000k, 
 but it was time consuming. I probably would have made more just blinding tapping "X" while talking 
 to that one slave trader. But as of now, and after some serious "blind" tapping..... I have about 
 14,000K in caps, 980 stimpaks, and still.... way too much ammo. WIth all of these bells and whistles 
 in my pocket, I was able to buy and or steal / kill me up some decent weapons / armor. Once all 
 of the naughtiness was out of the way....... I went on with the game, doing GODs work or what have 
 you, and boosted my karma back up. If you're new, and managed to read through all of this BS, well.... I 
 hope it helps. Feel free to email me at mrorang3@yahoo. com if you need some more advice or help. 
 I know it's all out there on the net anyway.... but I have a lot fo trial and error under my belt. 
 I check my email 20 times a day, so expect a quick response. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmiillee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll be honest, I only rented the game from Video Ezy and played it non-stp for about 2 days. 
 So I'm not a total expert but after about 12 hours of playing I could tell that this was a great 
 game.
  
  Fallout 3 is from the same developers as 'The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion'. If you liked Oblivion, 
 you'll like Fallout 3. The only large difference is the setting. The Fallout 3 is set in America 
 (Washington, D. C. or something) . This is nearly 300 years into the future. But humanity hasn't 
 done all too well in those few centuries. 200 years prior to where this game is set there was a 
 massive Neuclear War, nearly everything was destroyed. All that remains are several scattered buildings 
 and vaults, not to mention the countless mutated creatures due to the radiation of the bombs. 
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are phenomenal (somewhere between CoD4 and Assassins Creed) . 
 
  
  Gameplay - When involved in fights you can basically pause time (you are paused to) and choose 
 which enemy and which part of the enemy you would like to shoot. Next to each body part there is 
 a percentage of how likely you are to shoot that body part on target. With a full AP bar (honestly 
 I forget what AP stands for, but basicaly it limits how many shots you can fire in this mode. Over 
 time the bar regenerates.) you can shoot approximately 3 times depending on your level/stats.
 
  
  At first it can be diffiicult to survive so I would recommend lowering the difficulty a bit until 
 you get all geared up.
  
  GORE! - When you get a good powerful headshot, you blow their heads right off. It's almost poetic 
 the way the blood from the neck squirts out.
  
  All in all, this is a great game worthy of adding to your collection.
  
  SIMILAR GAMES
  Oblivion 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uRan_Ehr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  have to admit that I never had the chance to play the first two games. I might go back to play 
 them since Fallout 3 is fantastic. And even though I've got it for my Playstation 3 I didn't have 
 any problems or bugs yet and I played the game like 20 hours I guess. My character is more of a 
 good guy so there is definetly replay value 'cause of all the decisions you can make. Many people 
 claim that it isn't an Oblivion in the future with guns etc. but for me it feels like Oblivion. 
 But the "dungeons" in Fallout 3 aren't that generic as they were in Oblivion and every building 
 is a new adventure and it's a whole lot of fun to hunt down those Super Mutants or to explore some 
 old Vaults. The graphics aren't that great but the game still looks beautiful. Dunno about other 
 people but for me some of the music in the game (not radio) sounds a bit like music from Oblivion 
 with some changes. That's a bit annoying. In the last few days I didn't went on with this game. 
 Got LBP on Friday . All in all I agree with the score the game got here on GS - "general" version 
 - 9/10. Definetly NOT a GOTY contender for me because it is a great RPG and experience but it's 
 not that mindblowing as other games were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEDI-COMMANDER
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  I love this game, miles better than Far Cry 2 or GTA4. Its awesome and will keep me occupied until 
 COD5 comes out. The graphics are brill, so are the gameplay and the sound. i really enjoy the story 
 and the choice given to you, to be good or evil. It gives it replayability factor. The weapons 
 are also really cool. The only downside is that there is no online options, which for me would 
 be really amazing !!! I strongly urge all PS3 owners to go and buy this game. You will not be disappointed. 
 This game really deserves all the success and honours that it should get. I must also praise the 
 voice acting, which makes the game world come alive. The perks and the upgrading system works really 
 well too. I also love the V. A. T. S targeting system. It uses a lot of A. P but its just so cool. 
 There are some really nasty looking enemies in this game too, and the A. I is really good. They 
 put up a really tough fight. It's really rewardig when you blow their heads off and then steal 
 all their clothes and weapons, which can be used or sold. I will leave you know, to go and buy 
 this awesome game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael48742
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I have over 40 hours of gameplay into Fallout 3 and can't beleive how good this game really is. 
 Its like oblivion on steriods. Its a must play for just about any gamer. The graphics are great 
 and didn't notice very many glitches for the size of the game. I did not have any effects on gameplay 
 from a glitche in the game. It works amazingly well. I would have to say this is the best game 
 i have played to date due to how fun it is and the size of the game. There have been some great 
 games made but this game is HUGE. I have 45 hours in now and have reached a level of 15. There 
 is a lot of country to see before i am done. The combat scheme in fallout 3 is a huge change for 
 bethesda. It works very well and just makes the RPG even better. You can pick what part of the 
 enemy to shoot at including his weapon. I just can't say enough about the game. In a nut shell 
 this game is a must play for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seritonin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  (So I rented Fallout 3. And I was disappointed. It was just too slow. The Character creation was 
 highly flawed and slow. The parts between action sequences were too drawn out and boring. Everything 
 about the game seemed to just crawl along. I liked the premise of the game. And I liked the idea 
 of how customizable the character actually is when leveling up. And I like the fact that you can 
 handle loads of weapons and specialize and customize with items. But the combat was difficult, 
 and unsatisfying after the long waits between action sequences. Some people took 6 head shots to 
 die with no helmet on at point blank. Perhaps if I was more in the mood for the game at another 
 time I could get more immersed in it. But after the initial play I am turned off and uninspired. 
 Another thing is that the graphics didn't seem to be all that sweet for a PS3 game on an HDTV.)
 
  
  This is an edit from an old review I did after not fully diving into the game. After giving it 
 another chance I rated it an 8.5 up from a 6.0. I really like the customization options with your 
 player and all the different styles of person you can make your char. Good, evil, neutral, melee, 
 single handed guns (gunslinger) , 2 handed guns (commando) , real guns vs. laser guns, explosives, 
 big guns (mini gun/ rock it launcher) . The possibilities are many. I played the game up to lvl 
 15 and realized that I spec'd my guy all wrong and started over. Way faster the next few times 
 around cuz you are more familiar with the game and know what to do. And being able to skip the 
 dialouge makes it go a lot faster as well. The story also gets a lot better as you go on, and I 
 found myself striving to be able to learn how to wear the awesome looking power armor. I have since 
 started another alt. char. with some differences such as evil over good and laser over real guns. 
 It's worth buying since you will spend many many hours on this game. I rented it to start with 
 and ended up buying it. See for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrsnowy
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I will give the game credit for its interesting story and the fact that you can do basically anything 
 you want. That part is great. What brings the game down so much is the fact that you spend more 
 of the game walking around forever finding stuff than you do actually getting into the story. It's 
 a major disappointment. Another hold-back keeping you from having fun is you have to check you 
 health every 5 seconds. It gets annoying and frustrating. You will always need to go see a doctor 
 and find stuff to trade and that just gets on my nerves. And even the VATS thingy when you get 
 to blow people's heads off, that's great, but when I shoot a human being in the face with a combat 
 shotgun it should come off IMMEDIATELY. I should not have to fire 2 to 3 times at a person's head 
 to get it to come off. I can understand it with mutants. All and all the game has great potential 
 but it fails to allow the player to realize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotgamer454
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  this game is by far, the best game to come out for ps3. If you do not play this game it is a mistake. 
 I could not stop playing this game, it will be ranked up there with diablo in the future. Id play 
 it again just because its so good, so should you. Good luck becuase its not a mindless shooting 
 game bring stratigy or get lost. fallout 3 is liek putting bioshock and oblivion together into 
 one amazing package. If you like first person shooter they got it if you liek third person shooter 
 they have it also. it has all your needs and wants and it has a plot. You have anywhere from 50 
 to 100 hours of gameplay depending on if you fool around and do more sidequests or you go stright 
 to the point. If you injoyed oblivions countless posibilitys then you will love fallout 3's posibilitys. 
 I hope they make another game like this because i will be the first to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  To describe Bethesda's Fallout 3 for the Playstation 3, Xbox 360 and PC is simply a daunting task. 
 To use one word for it would be impossible but if you had a Wasteland Raider pointing a gun at 
 your noggin in the V. A. T. S system the word would be BRUTAL!!! Yes, brutal, from the second you 
 find out your precious daddy has left the vault this game kicks you in the teeth and curbstomps 
 you repeatedly. Fable 2's supposedly, "become anything, anyone" campaign doesn't hold any kind 
 of PIP-Boy 3000 light to it. The second you first take a glimpse of the Capital Wasteland your 
 choices begin. Good Karma or Bad, kill mercilessly or become the savior, choices are too many and 
 too difficult sometimes, but always rewarding. Easy to pick up and learn but still staying true 
 to its Fallout brand satirical and humbling nature. The creatures, weapons, character creation, 
 armor and items as well as the enivornments are simply massive and expansive too say the least. 
 This game from the moment I put it into my Playstation 3 it has kicked me in the lemonheads and 
 thrown me down 13 flights of radiated stairs but I cant stop playing. If you don't own or haven't 
 played this game you are not a gamer and deserve to have your gamer's card revoked, ripped up, 
 defecated on and then lit on fire. This is a MUST own, no questions about it, definitely one of, 
 if not, the best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Heyz, I was hoping Fallout 3 would be alot like Oblivion. It is but also have nice unique features 
 about it. It was different but still really good.
  
  Story.
  The story is good but the length of it was far to short.
  
  Gameplay.
  Gameplay is good. 
 The combat in first person was really good and alot better then in third person. Third person is 
 ok but not really good for combat. The VATS system is awesome at close range but can be a let down 
 of constent miss's at long range, so long range fights are mainly made for real time combat.
  
  Exploring.
  Exploring is brillent. Loads of places to explore and its really dangerous and 
 you have to keep on your toes or before you know it your dead.
  
  Character Creation.
  Character creation is nice. You can change the structure of your characters face and you have a 
 nice sized collection of hair and beard styles to choose from.
  
  Weapons.
  Weapons are awesome! There are loads to choose from that you can make and find. Your weapon gets 
 worse over time and you need to find the same weapon repair it. When you making a weapon you need 
 to get the schamtics for it then your ganna go and have to find the parts to make it. Sadly the 
 weapon range isnt as large as some people may want it to be.
  
  Sound.
  The sound is good but the radio stations seem a bit rubbish. When you start off you get Enclave 
 which is just President Henry Eden who just wont shut up but when he does you get to listen to 
 some ok music for a bit, and Galaxy News Radio is pretty good as it tells you whats going on around 
 the wasteland and the music is good but limited.
  
  Quest.
  There are alot of quests as you would expect but not as many as Oblivion. The quests make up for 
 it though by being really long but after doing one quest for ages it can get pretty boring. 
  
  Karma.
  Being good and evil plays a bit role in the game as it can help you or work against 
 you. For example blowing up Megaton may be funny and good if you wanna be evil but its one less 
 place to trade and get quests from.
  
  Visual.
  The graphics are good and stuff but you will experience alot of seeing the walls go white in corners.
 
  
  Overall.
  This game is really good but the length of the story was highly dissapointing and can probley be 
 completed in a couple of hours. Also the little visual glithes can get annoying after a while. 
 Not enough weapon choice and the setting and monsters feel very same after a while. Also not as 
 much depth as you would of thought it would have seeing as it was made by the makers of Oblivion./ 
 This game has a nice amount of side quests that last ages though and will keep you enterained for 
 hours, but the true fun of this game is the exploring side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is friggin awesome! I know lots of people are freaking out over rumors of the PS3 version 
 being buggy, it's not that bad. In near 20 hours of gameplay I have had only one freeze (which 
 is a whole lot better than Oblivion, I have the Xbox360 version) . Just make sure you play as controller1 
 or your L2 and R2 buttons won't work (tip: unplug guitar hero USB dongle) .
  
  Graphics are gorgeous. I'm playing on a 50 inch Samsung and wow, it looks fantastic. You can tell 
 it is based on the Oblivion graphics engine but it is upgraded quite a bit. Animations are kinda 
 crappy tho. In 3rd person you skate everywhere, so don't play in 3rd person. NPC's also look kinda 
 stiff.
  
  Sound is just as awesome. Guns sound powerful. Big scary monsters make big scary sounds. I hear 
 the 10mm submachine gun in my sleep, I swear...
  
  Now the good stuff... Gameplay. It is so addicting. The VATS targeting system is so fun to use 
 and the shots are brutal, crit a Super Mutant in the face with a sawed off shotgun and you will 
 see what im talkin bout. The game world is massive. It seems bigger than oblivion to me. You will 
 only see about 1/3 to 1/2 of the wastelands through the main quest. Which leads to my only complaint, 
 the main quest isn't very long clocking in at 15-20 hours. I'm sure there is easily 100 hours worth 
 of other gameplay in there but it would have been cool to have a lengthier main quest. Also when 
 you beat the game, it's done. Ain't no coming back for you unless you start over or play from an 
 old save.
  
  So go Play Fallout3!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnbabes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I think most everyone who owns a xbox a pc or the ps3 will have rushed out and got this title fans 
 of fallout 2 might be a bit peeved off the way this game interacts
  to fallour 3 and i will say that Bethasda have pulled no punches in this verison for sure this 
 might be bigger game and have lots of side quests to keep the hours on a high which it does do 
 very nicly
  
  dont know about the rest of the peeps out there but i went for the collectors edition which comes 
 in a lovely
  tin with a few added extras (hmv) giving you a mini guide book to get you started on pre orders 
 and of course there is the BIG guide book the special edition which is even more indepth than the 
 game :) and some what complex to make haeds or tails off at first
  
  With no guide you start the game as a new born in vault 101 and in some ways a nice touch to get 
 you used to the controls bit stupid in some ways and funny in others it's only once you have escaped 
 from the vault tat you begin to see just how vast this game will be and with no set route your 
 free to do what you want and in some ways nice to explore yuor nuked up world
  
  theres been some reports that the graphics on the ps3 dont really stand out from the pc/xbox and 
 while that is true the graphics do a nice job in displaying the fallout world from morning to night 
 the controls are very easy to get used to and using the VATS is nice trying to kill with out vats 
 can be done but it's not so easy when you play this game first time the lanscape does seem empty 
 but the more you explore the more you get to see
  
  The down side is no trpohy support for ps3 does seem strange makes you wonder why sony added that 
 feature in the first place the graphics do spoil the game in some parts and the voice acting can 
 go from crap to mmmm's
  and since you only hear there voice and not your voice does seem strange at first you get used 
 to that
  
  from what i have written you might be thinking that this
  gam, e is not really all that good far from it the story does bring you in and the way you can do 
 the quests/missions is a nice touch and again does add reply value to the game overall 8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigjd3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Of course this is one of the most anticipated games to come out this season and I have to agree 
 with most of what's been said. In this review I will discuss the feel of the game both knowing 
 this was produced by Bethesda and having played the previous games.
  
  When looking at details between the two games, hardcore Fallout fans are sure to be upset making 
 arguments for the next decade equivalent about "who shot first, Hans or Guido." If you're that 
 kind of person, you've already bought the game and played through it twice and you are already 
 blogging about how horrible the game is for not perfectly matching every detail you heard in the 
 previous incarnations. You can stop reading, you won't care about what else there is to say. The 
 feel of Fallout 3 is an odd mix. I had fears about this game being another Elder Scrolls. In fact 
 it uses the Oblivion engine and you can tell. The wait and rest mechanisms are equivalent though 
 it appears you regain full health by sleeping only one hour. Characters move about and do things 
 like eat and sleep in that not quite purposeful manner that they did in Oblivion. It pays off to 
 spend long amounts of time agonizingly searching through every bin in a building to find spare 
 money (bottlecaps) and who knows what equipment. There is still a compass that tells you where 
 to go and you can still fast travel.
  
  However, having played most all the Elder Scrolls games and the entire Fallout series I can say 
 that this game does not feel like Oblivion. The game is gory. Shots with the VATS play out often 
 in fantastically gory detail as you shoot the arm off a supermutant. Everywhere you look in the 
 game, the people, the creatures, the environment, everything looks desperate. News reels of Somalia 
 look more pleasant than this setting. You are trapped in a continuing struggle to not only keep 
 yourself healthy but to also keep your rad count down. In practice, this means constantly acquiring 
 drugs and difficult attempts at balance as you find yourself constantly eating radiated food just 
 to survive. What's more, while you can repair your equipment, the only way to do so is to spend 
 exorbitant amounts of bottlecaps or to sacrifice a copy of the item you are repairing. I have a 
 Chinese assault rifle that's really going to be a blow when it goes.
  
  I have one key complaint and that is the reason I don't rate this game higher. I found it just 
 a little too easy to be a good guy. Sure there are more profitable ways to be a bad guy presented 
 early on in the game however, there are a few early perks that means as a player, you don't have 
 difficulty following your conscience. First, it is very easy to obtain a house early on. This may 
 not sound like much but there are a lot of advantages to it, especially when combined with fast 
 travel. First sleeping heals you without any radiation. This means that if you set out on a quest, 
 once you accomplish the quest, you can simply fast travel back to Megaton and heal up entirely 
 - no rads. Second, this house comes with a robot that provides you with a seemingly endless supply 
 of free clean water which heals you a significant amount with no rads. Put these together and the 
 game becomes a little too manageable. The other early perk is a quest line that you can acquire 
 early helping Moira finish her Wastelands Survival Guide. This early set of quests makes it just 
 a little too easy to get your character built up and going at the start. 
  
  All in all it's a great game and well worth your time to play it. I look forward to playing through 
 the game many different ways to see what results can come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  In Fallout 3, there is so much to do, and so much that can be seen in the wasteland. You will encounter 
 way too many different things for them to all be described in a review. Basically, Fallout 3 is 
 a game that just needs to be played and enjoyed for what it truly is. There is really no right 
 or wrong way to play Fallout 3. You can be good, or you can be evil, or even a bit of both. It's 
 entirely up to you. The level of customization and the incredibly vast size of the wasteland is 
 what separates this game from the rest. You can spend hours on end exploring and doing quests (missions) 
 and still not see a fraction of what's out there. I won't say much more about the game other than 
 it's amazing and unlike anything you've probably ever played. There are a few minor glitches to 
 deal with, but it's nothing to fret about. This game is great and the best way for it to be enjoyed, 
 is to just explore  meet new contacts; do quests; and explore some more. You can do whatever you 
 want, whenever you want, and that's what makes Fallout 3 such a great game.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10  Combat can feel pretty clunky and awkward at times, but VATS makes up for any 
 shortcomings in this department.
  
  Graphics 7/10  Not impressive, but not bad either.
  
  Sound 9.5/10  There's nothing like hearing the head of a post apocalyptic mutant exploding 
 after you blast it! :D
  
  Replayability 11/10  You could spend hours upon hours playing this game, and you will find yourself 
 still wanting to play. Fallout 3 has probably the most replay value of any game I've played. With 
 so many things to do and places just waiting to be explored, you can be occupied with this game 
 for a long time.
  
  AI 8/10  The AI can be a little dumb at times and the conversations you have with people can be 
 extrememely monotonous. However, the AI isn't just totally braindead either.
  
  Overall  9.5/10  A truly amazing game with tons of stuff to do. Fallout 3 is a game that will 
 most likely be played and still enjoyed by many gamers for several years to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsgreat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  First off, I want to say that I don't have any previous experience with the Fallout series, (don't 
 hate me) but after playing the third in the series I'm definitely going to pick up 1 and 2. While 
 I can't say for sure, Fallout 3 seems to be a best of both worlds for Elder Scrolls and Fallout 
 fans. 
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in in the distant future where, due to some unforeseen event, American society 
 regressed back to it's conservative 1950s roots in music, dress and just about everything else 
 before starting a resource war with the Chinese and blowing itself up. The idealistic 50s sci-fi 
 future gone to hell then becomes your personal playground for the next 100 hours, which I must 
 say is quite satisfying. Most of your time is consumed by exploring the wasteland a la Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion, but unlike Oblivion not every place you find will be a generic carbon-copy of one 
 another. Every location you explore will be fresh and new and even have a little story to tell 
 behind it.
  
  The top-notch graphics and sound design really help to capture the feeling of wandering around 
 in the post-apocalypse. Bethesda went with a slightly upgraded version of the engine used in Oblivion, 
 and it shows. Fast (er) load times, more animations and crisper (in a good way) textures make the 
 whole experience more immersive. The animations still aren't as good or as plentiful by today's 
 standards, but nobody's perfect. Very minor graphical glitches are abundant as well, but they are 
 usually very small and don't take much away from the game. Hopefully a patch will be released over 
 PlayStation Network.
  
  There isn't as many quests in Fallout 3 as Oblivion, but most of the quests in Oblivion were boring, 
 frustrating or just plain lame. Fallout's quests are a lot longer and have you exploring all over 
 the game and doing lots of fun stuff (usually) . I love the inclusion of multiple outcomes for just 
 about every quest, too. Depending on decisions you make in a quest it can turn out good or bad 
 and you'll be awarded with karma (which is like your reputation) points to match.
  
  Overall, this game is very well done. On the technical end, the sound, music (score and licensed) 
 and graphics are well done, despite slight glitches and the occasional voice being too quiet. Artistically, 
 the story is very compelling and peppered with dark humor, and yes I waited until I beat the main 
 quest to write this review. The only problem with the story for me is that you can't keep playing 
 after you beat the main quest to tie up loose ends. When you beat it the credits roll and you're 
 done unless you reload from a previous save.
  
  A lot of the problems from Oblivion were fixed, but not all. None of the slight problems with this 
 game should stop anyone from buying it, though. It's a great experience with lots of stuff to do 
 (pointless or otherwise) and, it's Bethesda, so I would expect add-on content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagitsune
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I have never played this style of game/RPG before. WHen I heard RPG I think Final Fantasy, Breath 
 of Fire, or the more traditional pen and paper style, AD&D. So when I got to walk around and interact 
 with people in just about any way I could imagine and see the consequences real-time, you can bet 
 I was amazed. Seriously, Fallout 3 is THE game many of us have been waiting for. You can take it 
 at your own pace, so random little side-quests or take on the hard parts of the game all while 
 being severely under-leveled. This is a masterpiece of gamingdom. Anybody every played those text 
 based RPGs, like Zork? Think of something fun like that, but with graphics!-which are AMAZING! 
 
  
  Not gonna lie, I do see some of the *occasional* hiccups that Gamespot mentioned, but all in all 
 this is a solid 9.0 game, and IMO a 10. Create a character and explore the post-apocalyptic world 
 in any way you choose. This game should be at least considered for you gaming holiday coming up 
 in December. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  i shall start with the flaws... for the PS3 version of the game it is annoying that the game lags 
 or freezes for a little when you get a message, someone logs on.. etc., and they are a few times 
 it has froze on me or had technical errors.... now on to the good parts... it has an amazing story 
 line in which you can take in two directions most times... as a good guy or a bad guy, which adds 
 variety to the game.... the graphics are amazing to me, but the lighting can become annoying at 
 certain points in the game.... weapons break far to easily and ammo is a pain to come across, which 
 adds to the difficulty of the game... the V. A. T. S system is godly to me, i love watching actions 
 that i can plot be played out in slow-mo and loads of gore =) . some of the mutants are creepy as 
 hell like the Ghouls...
  
  none-the-less... this game is worth the money, and i recommend it to all those RPG people out there 
 to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  While waiting for the release of LBP here in the US I figured I would rent a game to keep me occupied. 
 That game turned out to be Fallout 3, brought it home, threw it in and made my way out of the vault. 
 Its now a week (or so) since I rented it and it got old. My room mate finished the game before 
 I did and we were splitting the TV most of the time. The ending was... wait, I'll get into that 
 later. Just one thing. Bethesda was VERY lazy on the post for PS3. It just didn't feel optimized 
 (like it should have been) . The framerate was jerky, the AI while quite intelligent got stuck often, 
 there were quest bugs, NPC bugs, clipping errors; THEY SHOULD HAVE WORKED HARDER! Ok, enough rant. 
 On to what you want to hear.
  
  Graphics 7/10: While pretty you may want to refer to the above paragraph. The lack of coding polish 
 made the game feel very clunky and, while surreal, just not as amazing as it should have. Lighting 
 was good, dark drab indoors gave it a very eerie undertone. There were bits of white which meant 
 that there were some skinning issues as well. The seams between the models were oft times visible 
 as well as the same pixels of white along the walls.
  
  Sound 9/10: (Easily my favorite aspect) This is what you would be listening to if you were actually 
 in a post-apocalyptic wasteland. A few straggling radio signals with propaganda from both sides 
 or NOTHING at all. And thats what you get. If the radio wasn't on the wind whipped around you as 
 you walked, once again, adding to the errie undertone of the whole game.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 Nothign really to say here. Its Oblivion with guns. Same engine and everything. The 
 only new aspect was the VATS system which was fun for killing people with a few well placed head 
 shots. Sadly it seemed to take some of the action away from the game. Strolling through a cave 
 full of mutated monsters killing each with a well placed head shot may sound fun now but, believe 
 me, it got old. So... yeah, Oblivion with guns.
  
  Conclusion: Truth be told you might want to RENT this one first. There are a few chances for multiple 
 playthroughs creating some replayability. But if Bethesda doesn't get off its rear and get a patch 
 out to fix the problems or some DLC to expand the gameplay I just dont think it would be worth 
 it.
  
  Edit: oh, and the ending was anticlimactic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bravesboy32
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Fall out three is a wonderful game, filled with lots of surprises and a great story line to go 
 along with it. I found myself a bit sceptical about the action in fall out 3, with the whole VATS 
 system, but as I played I realized that the system is very well made. It is balanced and fair, 
 making it a really enjoyable addition to an already great game.
  Also, the gameplay is truely amazing. You have a multitude of options when talking to someone to 
 find out various information that could help you on your main quest or maybe set you off on a small 
 side quest. Also in fall out 3, you get a huge world to that will take you countless hours to fully 
 appreciate the masterful job bethesda did. Wheter it's when you pick up an item and watch it slowly 
 dribble down a hill, or when you look up at the night sky and watch the stars and moon change. 
 Every detail in fall out 3 comes together to form a world full of life. 
  Fall out 3 does a good job with their music too. The music puts you in the game, making you think 
 twice before venturing into a building or subway. None the less, the music does tend to make you 
 feel lonely, and whenever that happens I found it quite pleseant to be able to go into my pipboy 
 and tune in to a radio station that if you listen to you could learn valuable information. 
  Though no game is perfect, fall out 3 does a pretty good job of limiting the errors. There are 
 a few glitchy performace issues, such as Meatdog who tends to have a lot of them. At one point 
 I found Meatdog trying to kill a foe in the water, only he was doing absolutely no damage. He just 
 sat in the water paddling, so I found myself having to take a good ten minutes trying to get meatdog 
 to come along, and ended up having to waste precious ammo and blast these creatures. Also I was 
 in megaton, in the waterside supply, and I found meatdog caught in the air when I turned away for 
 a split second. I had to shoot someone so he would attack the person, and stop floating around. 
 There are a few visual quirks, such as sketchy characters, but overall I found that the visuals 
 were masterfully done, and that these minor glitches could be overlooked. Also, if they would have 
 worked a bit harder on the real time shooting, it would have been a lot more pleasent.
  Overall I give this game a perfect score, not because it is perfect, but because it is the best 
 game I've played in a long time, aside from call of duty. I reccomend this game to anyone who plays 
 games, and even those who don't because this is a must play and is worth every penny. 
  
  BY THE WAY: sorry if any words are mispelled. I have a sticky keyboard, that will hopefully be 
 replaced soon. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangolibasha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, most reviews are good but this caters to the ones that whine. 
  When I first started this game I was in awe. Great graphics, good control, landscapes were nice 
 and the VATS... oh the sweet VATS. This is true to the open ended aspect of the Fallouts. Yes its 
 an FPS and I love it! All the role playing, the NPCs, the random chit chat, the planting of a live 
 grenade on your victim... wow! I love the monsters the towns and so much more.
  This is a well done game. People please stop with the Oblivion/Fallout... Yes it uses the same engine... 
 yes its on FPS but what did you expect! FPSs are so popular and good solid RPGS in 1st person really 
 place you in the world. I agree there are some bugs, (especially for the PS3) , but this is really 
 a serious achievement to bring Fallout to the millennium. Remember this was made in the 90's by 
 Interplay... this is the 2000s and its Bethesda.
  This has all the Fallout feel with most of the options with way more bells and whistles. I like 
 the refreshing revamp... nuff said.
  
  P. S. Bethseda please release a patch for that was the only reason this got an 8.5... otherwise 
 it would have been closer to a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  As this game is made by Bethesda, the same company that made Oblivion, you know it has to be good. 
 There is only one really outstanding problem that bugs me and had me give this an 8.5 instead of 
 a 9 or 9.5. This problem is that, if you loved and played Oblivion and got used to every single 
 control and aspect of that game then you will automatically and immediately recognize this game 
 as no more than the Oblivion interface which has been modded into a Fallout style and a brand new 
 world of post-nuclear warfare to explore. The fact that it is so blatantly obvious that they basically 
 made a really, and I mean REALLY, good mod of Oblivion just gave this game a little bit less points 
 in originality. On the other hand, this game is still amazing.
  
  As you enter the world of Fallout 3 you are an enfant coming out of your Mom who ends up dying 
 after giving birth to you. I'm not sure how you develop memory at the age of 32 seconds old, but 
 who cares, it's a really cool way to start off the game. The only other thing that confused me 
 was that your mom dies while giving birth to you, but this game is based almost 70 years in the 
 future. Shouldn't medicine have evolved enough for that to not even be a possibility? I mean, it's 
 less than rare to see that in this day and age let alone 7 decades from now. But yet again, who 
 cares about technicalities that really don't relate to the game that much. After this beginning 
 cutscene you blank out and progress 2 or 3 years into the future where you are a little guy (or 
 girl) running around and jumping on furniture to learn the controls. Yet again, a really cool way 
 to tie the story in with also teaching the controls. You are then progressed to the age of 10 when 
 you get your Pip-Boy 3000, and this is yet another learning experience that includes something 
 I found excessively annoying. In this room where you are having your birthday party, the coders 
 for some reason didn't add any speech limiting code so every single person in the room will talk 
 and it is as audible as every other person talking in the room, the problem is that it drains out 
 the person that you will be talking to and almost provided me with a migraine. Luckily this part 
 moves out quickly and this problem never occurs again in the game (to my awareness) . 
  
  As you become a teenager you are required to take the G. O. A. T. Some aptitude test to figure out 
 what "class" you should be, although I had no idea what the point in this was other than to follow 
 the Oblivion style of leveling traits. You are able to edit this selection right after taking the 
 test, which I did. Unfortunately I thought being a theif would be as fun in this as it was in Oblivion, 
 and I'm sorry to say, but in this game to me, using guns and annihilating people with Combat Shotguns 
 is much more fun and satisfying. Come on, who doesn't want to walk up to an 8 foot tall "Super 
 Mutant" and blow it's head and brains into small pieces that fragment and splatter against the 
 nearest wall? 
  
  Now as you get out on your own after your dad escapes the vault for an unknown reason (at the time) 
 you have the opportunity to explore. For me that meant finding this place called Megaton, named 
 specifically for the fact that were was a gigantic Nuclear bomb planted in the middle of the town 
 and it was ready to explode at any given time. I decided it would be fun to blow it up so I followed 
 the instructions of a government ("Enclave") executive and proceeded to cause a nice amount of 
 damage to my very first discovery in this game. I'm not sure what other people did first, but this 
 seemed to be what drew my attention.
  
  Here comes the sort-of downfall to this game at the beginning. It starts out pretty slow. It takes 
 awhile to accumulate some weapons and "bottle caps" (currency) to be able to really do anything. 
 Hell, I've played this game for about 32 hours and I have hardly done anything other than explore 
 random buildings and kill people. I have also found that this game is more "real" than Oblivion 
 in that, if you go up to an out-of-city merchant and buy a bunch of repairs/items/etc. you can 
 kill her/him and steal your money back and everything you sold, along with everything they were 
 selling too. I was so ecstatic when I pulled that off that I almost had to dance around the corpse 
 lying on the ground in front of me. 
  
  Another great thing about this game is the violence. The dismemberment of body parts in this game 
 kind of reminds me of the first Solder of Fortune (since I never played another game in the series) 
 because it has the same style of strategic aim to ensure for "best bang for your buck". That's 
 right, I just used a pun referring to blowing someone away with some buckshot with your trusty 
 shotgun, aren't I clever? So as this comes as a very interesting and distinguishing feature it 
 leaves me to ask the question, why was Manhunt 2 censored so heavily when this game which literally 
 features DOING drugs and getting ADDICTED to them, whereas the actual REFERENCE of drugs in any 
 Rockstar game is found as promoting crack habits and meth labs. I did support the ECA when I went 
 to E for All to try and ensure that the censorship community stays out of my games and spends it's 
 money more wisely on the regulation of new food products and medical advancements etc. So I am 
 definitely not trying to say censor this game, what I am trying to say is, lay off of Rockstar 
 because they don't deserve to have their company discredited for the simple fact that they made 
 a joke game embeded in the coding for San Andreas back in the day. I am really hoping to see a 
 Manhunt 3 with a good story line, bring back the scoring for gruesome kills, and bring more gore 
 with some next-gen graphics.
  
  Sorry for the rant but this game really does have some controversy that I don't really get why 
 it hasn't caught more media attention. I guess the fact that the economy in America is failing 
 provides a good excuse to ignore a video game for once. You can literally do anything in this game 
 though, you can kill people, you can do "Jet" and "Psycho", you can drink a wide variety of alcohol, 
 you can become addicted to any of these substances, and you can also fuel other people's drug habits 
 and kill them from it. Another great thing is the way this game teaches us how to steal, pickpocket 
 and break into locked doors. Not that any of this would actually give you any viable strategy for 
 committing these crimes in reality, and that's why it's a game. 
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 ROCKS and deserves all of the good press, I still cannot personally get over 
 how easy this game probably was to steal a lot of code from Oblivion though which really means 
 that this game doesn't deserve as much respect as Dead Space which is a brand new game from what 
 I assume is their own engine (or maybe Unreal?) with new gameplay styles that make for more original 
 gameplay. The fact that you can pickpocket someone and stick a live grenade in their pocket in 
 this game though, makes this game very worth while to at least rent. 
  
  Seriously, go rent this right now.
  
  
  
  
  Do you think I'm joking?
  
  
  
  Go... 
 Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronicman7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  graphics- 8.0
  
  the good- textures and character detail look pretty good at a glance. Animations in VATS are amazing 
 to watch and never get old. Relay a great sense of what it feels like to be in a nuclear wasteland.
 
  
  the bad- technical issues really hamper gameplay. Exploring the wasteland i have had many small 
 freezes and one major when where i had to turn of my ps3. Cracks of white nothingness make constant 
 appearances. 
  
  setting- 10
  
  this is the big selling point of the game. When first leaving the vault you really get a sense 
 of fighting for survival. 50's style makes it even more erie. immerses you into the gameplay and 
 gives you a sense of urgency when doing quests. 
  
  gameplay- 9.5
  
  combat is extremely rewarding when using VATS. seeing a raiders body exploding when punching them 
 int he face with bloody mess perk is great every time. Real time fps action is lacking because 
 you feel as though your wasting ammo and getting drilled by bullets constantly. Many different 
 ways to complete quests and doing stuff like killing townsfolk stealing, using speech in various 
 ways gives you tons of freedom of how you want to play. 
  
  story- 8.5
  
  solid main quest with multiple endings is engaging but over to fast, and after you've done it you 
 can't explore anymore. Side quests are creative and give soem sweet rewards. Seems like there could 
 be more quests and more major cities people to interact with
  
  value- 9.0
  leveling is what makes or brakes an RPG game. It is awesome to be able to pick a perk every level 
 and plan out your character by buffing up certain stats. The problem is there's not enough of this. 
 The level cap is only 20 so you'll be done in no time. This is supposed to add replay value by 
 not letting you be a master of everything in one playthrough but it makes playing with one character 
 to explore and do everything meaningless. You'll be stuck at the max level for more than half your 
 play time if you want to do all you can. There feels like there could be more weapon and armor 
 types to. Not being able to customize standard weapons and have specialized ammo/armor seems like 
 something that should be a must for this type of game. With these faults however you'll find yourself 
 still dying to find the next fort, enemy and weapon. 
  
  overall- 9.0
  the game is overall really fun and worth 60 bucks. Leveling system is fun while it lasts. It Seems 
 like they held back a little bit which would of made this an easy 10. More quests, towns and items 
 would have been a great idea but maybe that's just impractical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This is my first fallout game so i really don't know if this one is faithful to the other fallout 
 games.. but it has to be by far better. This game is so addicting to play especially with V. A. T. S! 
 I'm not really sure why gamestop keeps giving these great games these scores but it is probably 
 because of gta 4 and mgs4. Just because these games were close to perfect doesn't mean you have 
 to downgrade on all the other ratings for other games! I mean lbp got a 9.0 which deserves a 10. 
 Enough about gamestops questionable rating system.. now to the review. 
  
  Gameplay: This is the part that really stands out to me in this game. Like obliviion the fps view 
 is awesome and the 3rd person view sucks so bad! The V. A. T. S targeting system is extremely cool 
 to use and once you start using it to blow off your enemies heads in cinematic fashion you won't 
 want to go back to standard fps play which is a little clanky anyways.. that is one of the very 
 few flaws of the game but that doesn't stop this game from being legendary!
  
  Sound: Sounds are great. Guns sound cool and the 40's and 50's music really adds a little something 
 extra to the game! There's just something about it that adds a little pep in your step when you 
 play! 
  
  Replay Value: Very High! At first it will be hard to decide what to do because there is so much 
 that can be done and is very time consuming! Im not done with the game yet but i have already put 
 in about 20 hours and i haven't even put a dent in it yet! The main quest seems to be very long 
 and the side quest can keep you playing for hours to come. 
  
  Overall i give the game a 10 and i don't think it deserves anything less than that! If you think 
 this game is oblivion with guns your are completely ignorant because its not! It does have simular 
 trates but this is a completly different experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone! This is 
 a most definitely a buy for any console owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so after the dust has settled, and Fallout 3 has been accepted into the hearts of many, 
 I'm here to clean things up. First of all, if you were planning on getting this game for the PS3, 
 but are unsure because of the overall lower scores, fear not! I've got about 15 hours into the 
 game, and have yet to experience any bugs at all really. I'm not exactly sure what bugs the game 
 is supposed to contain, but I have yet to come across any of them. There may be some texture pop-in 
 from time to time, but this is with almost any game. Nothing detrimental to the actual gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics: Bethesda at its best. The game is not THE best looking game out there, but it's up there.
 
  
  Gameplay: A fun mix of action and RPG elements. You can switch between third and first person, 
 and can also move between free-aim and a mode which allows you to target specific body parts while 
 freezing the game momentarily. Each limb has a hit percentage, based on your own stats, the weapon 
 you're wielding, and distance. Overall gameplay is really just fun, with some occasionally very 
 gory outcomes.
  
  Story: Just a basic storyline. I won't ruin it for you, but it's not the heaviest storyline, which 
 is good because you can be involved and enjoy the story without getting confused and bogged down 
 with too many details.
  
  Summary: A pretty, yet dark game, with some awesome gameplay. Any fans of Oblivion will feel right 
 at home, even with the introduction of guns. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I am opinion the best game i ever played and very addicting. The story is very good and keeps interested. 
 At first the world can be a little intimating with it's size but once you get out there and explore 
 you will soon find out that there is a lot to do. The gameplay is a lot of fun and it is easy to 
 get used to. There is a ton to do in DC, from doing quests for people, to explore new areas, or 
 just to find something to kill it always welcome new people to the wastelands.
  
  The game can get a little hard when you are weaker. Also it's very easy to run out of ammo and 
 to break you weapons, but brings the realism. Lots of people are complaining on the bugs in this 
 game and there not that bad. A lot of the time it; s just a 2-3 second freeze that is not that bad, 
 but you might encounter a big bug but nothing that makes the game unplayable. 
  
  So i think it's the best game and the GOTY! You should try it and give it a try. Don't always listen 
 to the reviewers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLL_SuiTed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  First let me get this out of the way, yes this game is VERY much like oblivion (sigh) with guns, 
 yes that is true. from the second you start the game this is very apparent. the character disigns, 
 dialogue, and character advancment is all almost identicle to that game. BUT it also differs very 
 far from oblivion in some aspects.
  
  Dont get me wrong this is a great game. Very addictive, fun, and has many parts throughout that 
 can only be described as amazing. but there are some downfalls to it... at least to me. i came in 
 thinking oblivion clone with guns instead of swords. Very wrong this is in turn its own game. it 
 has some basics of oblivion, the back bone so to say, but the rest is different.
  
  ok first we'll go through the good this game has. Highly immersive quests, Great graphics, Sheer 
 fun, Good story, and pretty good combat. now the quests in this game are highly immersive and when 
 i say that i mean it. some have many parts and can take as long as an hour to just complete one. 
 but the downside to this is that it feels as though there are'nt as many. i'll get more into that 
 later. The combat is fun and good as any shooter but VATS is what really makes this game fun. Basically 
 VATS freezes time and breaks down where you can hit on the enemy and the chance of hitting. add 
 a few perks and do this, then you'll be blowing heads off in gory satification. VATS does well 
 in making this game feel more like a RPG with all the chances and such.
  The Quests in this game are awsome too, i sometimes find myself loading and reloading to experiance 
 all the different out comes to them.
  
  Now the mistakes. first there is the sheer lonliness about the game. i felt this alot, there are 
 very few cities spersed throughout the wasteland and when you do find one the people are usually 
 unfriendly and untrusting. this make you feel alone in the big world and it is quite unsettling. 
 The quests i felt were another problem... in multiple catorgories. well first off it seems they 
 cut tons of quests out and just added length to the others. So remember in Oblivion where you couldnt 
 walk from the inn to the mages guild without some crazy running up to you about his paranoia or 
 a lost husband? that barley happens here. Honestly there are tons of oppertunities for quests and 
 some that should be quests but instead the info will go into your notes. you can do the "quest" 
 if you want but you will gain no reward and no acknowlagment for it. Another problem is that there 
 are tons of ways to complete quests dont get me wrong but there arent enough ways to cover all 
 ways of playing, For example there is a quest called "Reillys Rangers" (or somthing along those 
 lines) the Leader of the rangers is in a Coma in a hospital and when you talk to the doctor you 
 can either convince him to wake her up using your persuasion skill (the dialogue choice is shown 
 with a percentage of success) or you can go up to her yourself and use your own medical skill to 
 awaken her. My character is built in the form of a strong guy with all my points put into gun usage 
 or strength or explosives and i had like 30 medical and about 35 speech so the first time i tried 
 i actually persuaded the doctor to awaken her, but unfortunently my PS3 froze up and i had to reload. 
 I had a 26% chance of persuasion and failed on my reload, then i went over to the leader and examined 
 her. i needed a skill of 60 in medicine to awaken her. so as it seems i am stuck until i level 
 about 2-3 times and spend all of my points into medicine. this gets very frustrating. My one last 
 complaint with quests is that the choices you make are pretty permanent, now people may say "hey 
 i want a game that has permanent choices, thats real!" i get that but some choices are just kind 
 of too much. In example there is a bartender who has anamzing and strong merc body guard. he'll 
 give you the contract to the merc if you'll kill his competition. but when you do and return to 
 him his merc throws a fit of rage at his former employer and kills him. now you cannot buy liqour 
 or food in that city. so either get a great sidekick and never eat again in that city or missout 
 on a great companion. some may like this tyoe of game but its not my cup of tea, honestly i liked 
 leanway that oblivion had more, like doing a quest for good getting his reward, then killing him 
 and taking the object to the bad quest and getting a double reward. in Fallout 3 there is no gray 
 area just black and white.
  
  One last point i'll make is this game is difficult, at least i find it that way, the food you do 
 find is always irradiated but you need food to sustain health, Stim packs are varied too much and 
 when you do find them you'll need them to repair a limb rather than to use for normal health regaining. 
 also there usually is a shortage on ammo for yourself unless that is what you primarily spend your 
 money on. But enough ranting
  
  Alothough i picked this game apart for the bad in it, this game is still one of the best games 
 of this year and you'll find it hard to pull yourself away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeylukey10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I don't have too much to say, just get this game, it is a massive game with heaps of bonuses, side 
 quests, diverse areas and soooo much to do. Although the main story is quite short for such a massive 
 game you barely spend any time doing the main story because of all the distractions you will meet 
 along the way, from exploring a random hospital you saw, to battling your way through a giant Wal-Mart. 
 You will never be able to see everything in one play-through giving the game lots of replay value. 
 Although the game is quite tricky and enemies like the Super-Mutants never seem to be easy to kill 
 even when your at very high levels, it is never too frustrating when you get killed due to short 
 loading times and the fact that there are lots of checkpoints. The huge number of weapons, items 
 (mostly junk) armor, food and all manner of other items add a great deal of complexity. I have 
 to admit that the FPS part of the game does feel a bit clunky, but that doesn't matter to much 
 when you will spend most of your time in the hugely satisfying VATS combat system. All I can say 
 is, Get Fallout. Play Fallout. Love Fallout! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliteraser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  truely, this game is worth the wait
  
  the storyline of this game is great, but not flawless ofcourse. but the main storyline isnt the 
 greatest part of game ohno not at all. what this game does so great is the freedom, pretty much 
 like farcry 2 and of course oblivion, which this game assemble a bit too much.
  you can do whatever you want (well what you can in the game of course, you cant just go hump an 
 elefant right n the middle of nowhere) , whenever you want, whereever you want thats thats a plus, 
 since this RPG is so big and wide.
  also the gameplay "works" and that means its pretty much not innovative. only innovative part in 
 the gameplay is V. A. T. S. (Vault-tec Assisting Targeting System) which allows you to add some tactical 
 fun to the game. but there is a lot of blood in that (Combat shotgun + point blank + critical hit 
 + supermutant head= no supermutant head or lasergun + ghoul + critcal hit = pile of ashes)
  so be prepared for it.
  
  but the game still earn a special place in my heart even though it 
 has a few shortcommings (i mean very few)
  its still a must-own for every RPG no matter what console.
  
  so get out there, get to lvl 
 4 and get yourself the "bloody mess" perk and WHACK THEM SON A BIARCHES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to state I have not played the original fallout or 2 but know a few things about 
 them.
  
  Fallout is not a conventional first person shooter, instead it combines roll playing elements with 
 guns, sounds like a good idea? The answer to that is yes, it has a wide selection of skills and 
 a decent sized world. If this is the case your probably asking, why the 8.5? the reasoning is a 
 few small issues, I will get to that later, first I will talk about the story, basically when nukes 
 were set off in DC a fraction of the population were put into vaults to shield them from the radiation, 
 you were born in the vault, or so you think as people start telling you on the outside world that 
 you were not, you start at the birth where you make your character, then after the character is 
 created you go to one to select your physical and mental stats, next is a birthday at 10 where 
 you are given a PIP BOY 2000 that works as an inventory and mapping guide among other things, next 
 you sit an exam to pick your skills at 16, finally in the vault your dad leaves you and the president 
 of the vault wants you hunted down, at this point you leave the safety of the vault to find your 
 dad, doing odd jobs for people for information.
  
  The combat is good and the V. A. T. S. system sweetens the deal, basically you select a part of the 
 body in frozen time that will allow you to do a little more damage, but often since you get more 
 experience for the time you spend in combat with them so you might want to shoot at em a bit then 
 end them with a blow to the head for a gory display
  
  The thing with a lot of Role playing games is that they more often than not give you a line to 
 follow, this is the exact opposite, you can be a normal citizen, a good guy or a real prick, for 
 example you can set off a bomb in your first city to kill em all or you can disarm it and get 100 
 bottle caps (the currency) and a house with a butler.
  
  Now the cons of the game i mentioned earlier, first of all, the map is a large size and there is 
 no way to get to point A to point B via vehicle, this makes a trek to a quest pretty long, however 
 when you have visited a place you can go back to it by selecting it from the map. The second reason 
 is that the skill system isn't that forgiving, for example in one quest you have to defuse a bomb, 
 when you approach it you need 25 explosive skill leveling to do with it what you wish. My final 
 minor problem is that the sop system is slightly annoying in the fact that you have a limit of 
 what you can sell a store and a amount of things are VERY expensive.
  
  I personally like this game but some minor things mentioned are what stop it from being an perfect 
 game, if the idea of mutant slaying, road warrior bashing and a decent story start your engine, 
 drive to the shop and pick up a copy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  *UPDATED PART FIRST* I put the most time into leveling up and I was stumped when I reached lvl 
 20 and no more lvls so I said funk it lets beat this game. So I beat the game and got the great 
 ending and sacrificed myself for the better of the world and I did not poison the purifier. Even 
 though I put almost 75 hours into it the main game was over before it started but I also did most 
 of the main quest with 100-70 skill points on major needed skills and my SPECIAL's 3 of them at 
 10- Intelligence, luck and I think the other was perception. DO NOT GET ME WRONG IT WAS A REALLY 
 GREAT GAME I WISH IT WAS LONGER LOL! I would rank it up there with BIOSHOCK another great game! 
 Finding almost all of the bobble heads was fun and when I reached lvl 20 and I could not go any 
 further I wanted to beat this game so I could go and play Valkyria Chronicles.
  
  Well I have been waiting for Fallout 3 since it was announced. I find post-apocalyptic stories 
 to be interesting via Mad Max. Plus being a action-rpg which I enjoy playing, I was ready.
  Well as soon as the game was delivered to my home I popped it in my ps3 and I was hooked for 3 
 hours straight, leveling up and trying out what skills I wanted to work on. I recommend add skill 
 points to your intelligence and you will be a happy player.
  Well not ever playing any of the other Fallout games, I feel I am not missing out on anything. 
 This game is like Oblivion on steroids and is a much better setting IMO. I like the story and I 
 find the side quests to be fun and helps you earn extra XP. Plus more items to pick up and sell. 
 Great weapons to use and I always like having skills you can upgrade them and get better at your 
 skills. I am a repair whore so I like to fix everything I pick up and then sell it off. Also the 
 explosive skill is something nice to have, increases your damage % on enemies. Also being able 
 to disarm explosives too. Also the science skill is important for hacking terminals. Once you lock 
 a terminal u r screwed unless you are at 100% science skill. These are my 3 main skills You will 
 also be able to choice different bonuses some are like FAST LEARNER so you would get like an extra 
 point for your intelligence, also the SMALL ARMS SKILL which raises you skill points for small 
 arms and repair points x5. I find that Bethesda Softworks used the same engine and character models 
 and maybe textures for Oblivion on Fallout 3 because the NPC in FO3 act and look just like the 
 NPO in Oblivion. Just in Fallout they are wearing different cloths. And the 3rd person view from 
 Oblivion is the same as it is in Fallout 3 walking on air.. Who cares I feel the game as a whole 
 it is great and I like it better than Oblivion, shot I have been killing skeletons and hunting 
 for treasure for 20 years so its about time we had a change.
  I expect if Fallout 3 does well Bethesda Softworks will build a whole new engine and textures just 
 for Fallout 4. 
  So here is my final word for Fallout 3: I like it, a lot I want to say love but I have only been 
 playing it for about 15 hours. If you played Oblivion before you will recognise some of its feeling 
 in Fallout 3 but thats not a bad thing! The VATS system is a very cool addition its like taking 
 a action rpg and adding turn-base elements to it. The times you get a sick head shot and watch 
 the guys head explode or blown off are AWESOME!!! I say go now and BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  What if it was 1950 and you and your friends and family had to live underground during the war? 
 Well thats exactly what you get to experience in Fallout 3. The problem is that the year is 2077 
 before you leave your new home which is called Vault 101. I do not want to give out any details 
 on why you leave the vault or what happens outside but lets just say its quite a big adventure. 
 On to the review.....
  
  
  GRAPHICS = 8/10
  
  When you first start the game the graphics are quite nice but when you make your way to the open 
 world the graphics tend to loose that wow-ness. The draw distance is nice but suffers from faint 
 pop-ups. The scenery is not as polished as I would like but its certainly not the worst. Some nice 
 graphical features are the mini dust tornadoes that appear and the mists of dirt flying through 
 the air. Unfortunately there is nothing beautiful to look at. At no point will find an area and 
 just stare at the beautiful colors and palette. But this is the aftermath of a ware after all.
 
  
  SOUND = 9.5/10
  
  I love sound in this game mainly because I love the music of the 1950's. Find hidden radio towers 
 to enable new radio stations on your Pip Boy. Because of the radiation most of the animals are 
 dead or mutated in some way. You can hear a molerat running behind you or a weird big bee flying 
 around you as your searching for new areas. The wind gusts help create that lonely empty feeling. 
 Battle sounds are pretty good too. Throw a grenade and you can hear the little pieces of dirt and 
 rock hit the ground. The voice acting overall was done really well. You come across a person or 
 two that sounds like a complete moron though. "Ok bye now, try not to die!"
  
  GAMEPLAY = 8.5/10
  
  There is so much to do its insane. You can have several quests qued up 
 and you can pick which ones to do first. Everything is nicely organized in your Pip Boy. Notes 
 or tapes collected, ammo, armor, weapons, etc. Everything you will ever need to know is on your 
 wrist. The controls work pretty well but for some reason trying to kill people or animals is a 
 pain if you do not use the VATS system. The VATS system is nice feature that pauses the game and 
 you get to select where to shoot your enemy. Doing this allows you to pick the weakest part of 
 the body or the area that is open for a bullet to come punching through. You will likely find yourself 
 using the VATS 95% of the time.
  
  OVERALL = 8.5/10
  
  At first I was not enjoying this game as I hoped I would but after I spent a day playing the game 
 completely opens up and gives you the chance to do so much more. Once you get your own home and 
 you find Dog Meat the game starts to really pull together and you feel like you have control of 
 whats going on. Decorate your home with themes and equipment to help you when your hurt or low 
 on ammo. The ability to be nice or to evil brings a nice twist to the action as your actions determine 
 how the game continues. Nobody will play the game the same as someone else.
  
  The only really difference between the Xbox 360 and the PS3 versions of the game is that the PS3 
 version freezes up everytime a friend logs on, off, or sends you a message. This is extremely annoying 
 and needs to be addressed immidiately.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumchilled
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I was reticent about getting this game until I realised it was by Bethesda. I loved Oblivion, and 
 after watching a couple of reviews of Fallout 3, decided it wasn't the FPS blast through which 
 the trailers had made it out to be.
  
  I've got the PS3 version, which unfortunately suffers from one or two graphic problems. As to whether 
 this is a PS3 thing, or something Bethesda can give us an update to rectify is still to be seen.
 
  
  The story is really involving, and has you chasing after your father in post apocalyptic Washington, 
 or not as the case may be. It is up to you where and how you play, whether a good guy, a bad guy, 
 or maybe something in between.
  
  The landscapes and cities you come across are bleak, stark, dirty, and full of nooks and crannies 
 full of radiation that a worthy of exploring, and all with being breathtakingly beautiful at the 
 same time. It's a shame the PS3 version is let down with some dodgy textures, jagged edges, and 
 terribly cell shaded night and day cycle. But we can hope that Bethesda will post an update to 
 correct these little niggles, along with giving PS3 Trophy support.
  
  Despite it's niggles, it is still worth getting this game, and you should. If you enjoyed playing 
 Oblivion, then you will enjoy Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Graphics (9.5/10) : The graphics are awsome in this game. The only problem is that for the PS3 there 
 are alot of polygons if you know what im saying. Better than the Xbox version of the game is the 
 sky and the environment.
  
  World (10/10) : The map is massive with over 100 hours of gameplay to discover D. C and the wasteland. 
 Many small towns and cities and many outposts with super mutants in them. Amazing world.
  
  Customization (10/10) : Because most people call it "Oblivion with guns" obviously there is alot 
 of customization in the game. And the way you customize your character is quite cool too. Didn't 
 know that doctors will know how you look like when your fully grown up in the future. It is 2077... 
 Isn't it?
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : The way you kill people and the guns are awsome. With the V. A. T. S system it's 
 perfect. There are loads of guns. You can also kill people Oblivion style with a sword or a stick.
 
  
  Thats all I know so far... I didn't play alot in this game and want to head back to playing it 
 now so bye. Hope my review helped you ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtodd258
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Bethesda should have worked a little harder on the anti-aliasing in the PS3 version of this game. 
 Often, edges look extremely jagged and generally unattractive. There's also a glitch that causes 
 the game to pause whenever you get one of those PSN notifications in the top corner when a friend 
 logs on or off. Other than that, this game is amazing. Those who have played Oblivion can expect 
 a similar control scheme and similar game overall, but there's enough new features to make it feel 
 like a different game. I often find myself amazed when I get a headshot in the V. A. T. S. targeting 
 system, as heads/other limbs will go flying off. The story, although I have not yet completed it, 
 is engaging and satisfying. At times, I find myself wandering around in post-apocalyptic D. C. looking 
 at things that I have actually seen in my visits there. Overall, this game is great. I would highly 
 recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Bethesda nailed another rpg. Fallout 3, which was originally cancelled, was picked up by Bethesda 
 and given the Oblivion touch. And that, my friends, is a very very good thing.
  Now what does that touch mean? Great graphics, great animations, complete interactivity with your 
 environment, dramatic struggles to survive in every fight, one-touch button betweem third person 
 and first person, great weapons, realistic environments, great music (LOL) , customizeable weapons 
 (for example, last night i made a rocket laucher that shoots anything from pool balls to mutilated 
 arms to chess tables out of a vacuum cleaner, a leaf blower, a firehose nozzle, and a conductor.) , 
 addicting and rewarding quests, the choice to be good guy or a bad guy, or both, specifics such 
 as raditation posioning, one damn HUGE world that will suck you in like a vacuum cleaner, great 
 armor, clothes, and facial customization from 3 races, abuot 20 hairstyles, millions of colors, 
 and probably 50 facial hair features, actual real-life monuments that everyone studies in the 4th 
 grade like the washington monument and capitol building and jefferson memorial, all of which are 
 explorable, a great sense of "WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED HERE?!", plenty of chances to be the bully 
 or kick the f****** crap out of bullies, fun to watch someone else play, capable of buying and 
 customizing a house, as well as storing whatever you want whereever you want, your own personal 
 robot (where you can even change your hairstyle if you hate it) , a bed where you can choose to 
 sleep as long as you want, the ablitiy to wait for hours if you wanna play in the day, great drugs 
 and medical stuff to raise your stats, but you can get addicted if you eat too much, beer, scotch, 
 wine, whiskey, great melee weapons, the most blood and gore ive ever seen in a game, powerful enemies, 
 strategic gameplay...... i would list more, but i have to be somewhere.... BUY THIS GAME YOU WOULD 
 NOT BELIEVE THE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has so many things going right for it, but unfortunately it has so many things going 
 wrong for it to be great game.
  
  First, let me get this out of the way. Fallout 3 is GOOD game, but most certainly not a GREAT game. 
 Yes I think the game is being severely overrated, which is unfortunate for this game as it will 
 surely be target of criticism in the future due to this. 
  
  Well, I can't really blame reviewers for this though. Fallout 3 does fool you into think it is 
 great game, through excellent first impression. 
  
  Fallout 3 starts out with a bang. It captures the mood, and with great presentation it sucks you 
 into this world quickly. It does such a great job giving you great first impression, it lasts until 
 the game is over. However, once you finish the game and that first impression high wears off, the 
 game starts to look flawed as you look at it in more objective perspective. 
  
  Let me explain to you little by little.
  
  First, graphically the game is impressive. I'm not 
 going to bother going over all the difference between PS3 and other versions.... because I only 
 played PS3 version. Draw distance does seem noticeably shorter (from the trailers I've seen) , but 
 it doesn't seem to hurt enough to be a problem.
  
  Anyway, the game certainly looks great.... As long as it's not in motion. Like Oblivion, Fallout 
 3 suffers from stiff animation. It does have significant improvement over Oblivion in terms of 
 graphic and animation, but it still is not good enough to really sell it to the players. 
  
  However, landscape is just incredibly awesome. It really captures the feel of post-apocalyptic 
 world. Each places you look at might capture similar look and feel, but no places look alike on 
 the surface, and it really can make you feel like you are exploring this huge wasteland. Unfortunately 
 the dungeons are less impressive because it looks like same location as you goes on, but at least 
 it is within reasonable premise of having man-made subway stations, and they tend to look similar 
 from one and another... although not this carbon copy looking. 
  
  Well, Bethesda managed to create believable world. What's unfortunate is they failed to make believable 
 society in that believable world.
  
  We'll get to that bit later. Before that, let's go over game-play.
  
  I tend to separate game-play 
 and story. I'll consider all the combat related stuff as game-play and all social interactions 
 as story. 
  
  Game-play of this game seems bit on and off. FPS controls works fairly well, and V. A. T. S system 
 works well. Game-play is mostly standard FPS with unique twist with stats and V. A. T. S. Unfortunately, 
 FPS game-play doesn't really mesh well with stats. A. I is not really up to par with other FPS games, 
 but to expect it to be up to par with other FPS would be unreasonable since this game is FPS at 
 it's core. 
  
  The problem lies that the world is too large to be FPS. There really isn't a place for you to hide, 
 and enemies don't go down well enough. Not only that, the aim doesn't seem to be tight enough to 
 shoot accurately. Your crosshair doesn't seem to match well with what you are pointing. If the 
 distance isn't far, it is fairly accurate, but this game allows you to see something from very 
 far. If there is distance between you and the enemy, even if you can see it, you won't hit it. 
 Even if the enemy is within the range you can hit, the aim won't be accurate if there is some distance 
 between you and the enemy.
  
  If you use 3rd person view, forget about it. Your crosshair is WAAAAAAY off if you are using 3rd 
 person view, which is very very odd. It is off about half an inch to the left. Which is very odd 
 and frustrating because if that crosshair was accurate, then game could've been fairly playable 
 as 3rd person perspective (which I tend to prefer) , but thanks to it being way off, 3rd person 
 perspective ends up becoming nearly useless. It does have some uses if you use melee weapons, but 
 even then it doesn't really show distance between you and the enemy well enough to be useful.
 
  
  Now the problem with stats. There are too many things in this game you need to worry about to enjoy 
 it as a shooter. Due to stats, you can't always kill you enemies efficiently. You have to brace 
 yourself for taking some damage due to this.
  
  What's unfortunate is that the game is RPG. The dungeons and places you visit is ridiculously long 
 and large. Oblivion worked well because of magic. You can just take damage and rest up using magic. 
 Problem in Fallout 3 is that you don't have that option. You have to use item to restore yourself, 
 but problem is that supplies are rather limited. Even the stores are limited with supplies. You 
 can't really help yourself not taking damage, but your can't restore yourself efficiently either.
 
  
  Also your enemies shoots at you, meaning it's not easy to move out of the way of harm, especially 
 when you are in open areas (which is plenty in this game) 
  
  Thankfully, at least ammos are fairly plenty. You can always pick it up when enemies die (if they 
 were using guns) and as long as you match the guns with what enemies are currently using, ammos 
 are almost never problem. 
  
  There is solution to all this, which is to fast travel often. Enemies don't respawn in dungeons 
 and there are enough markers on surface ground, so this becomes viable option and efficient option. 
 The HUGE problem of this comes from RPG aspect of the game. You are trying to play a role, but 
 keep going back and forth to your home just breaks that continuity. The sense of stepping into 
 dangerous areas, and exploring deeper into it gets broken as you are jumping all over the world. 
 
  
  Another thing is V. A. T. S system. It solves as another fix to the problem by allowing you to give 
 some significant damage by auto aiming playing through stats instead of skills.
  
  One other problem is that all guns shoot identical to each other. The effects are different and 
 each gun has different firing ratio, etc, but since your crosshair is always static, all of it 
 feels the same with different timing. In a way it is good thing because it is RPG and it would've 
 made the game difficult to go through with not being accurate with your shooting, but most fun 
 in FPS is having the feel of shooting different guns. 
  
  Now another problem as RPG is that the world might be big, but the balance between towns and dungeons 
 are poor. I have seen about 4 town like towns so far. Rest of them are too small to be towns, and 
 some are too hostile to feel like typical RPG town. Too often you might end up going too far without 
 a resting stop. Oblivion did good job with towns, making it plenty and in good locations to have 
 good balance throughout the land, but Fallout 3 unfortunately lacks that. 
  
  Overall, FPS game-play ultimately works well enough to get by, but it lacks all the thrills and 
 excitement of real FPS game, and it lacks RPG-ish stat craziness. Ultimately, it fails to satisfy 
 well enough for fans of both genres.
  
  Now the sound. The sound is good. The voice acting is slightly cheesy, but good. Music... is something 
 that is missing unfortunately. Haven't heard much of good music and it's never been used to really 
 heighten the mood. However, thanks to the theme of wasteland of post-apocalyptic world, the lack 
 of music doesn't really hurt the game. 
  
  The story....
  
  Now here is my biggest problem comes. 
  
  Most problem lies within the main quest. Let me try 
 to explain this spoiler-free as much as possible. 
  
  The main quest starts immediately in a way. With the great first impression i mentioned. the story 
 if quite cliched, which is bit unfortunate, but it is interesting enough to work. The problem is 
 the lack of presentation and meat to the story. 
  
  The story is very predictable, but what's worse is that it doesn't have any meat on it. It's not 
 well fleshed out and minimal information is given to each aspect of story elements. Most of them 
 are given to you so you can have errand quest to do. It is unfortunate as it could've been easily 
 more detailed with more choices for you to pick. Instead, the main quest ends up being fairly straightforward. 
 Granted there are few choices to lead you to different endings, but there were chances for this 
 game to make you take completely different paths instead of few choices that gets clearly is more 
 about results than journey. 
  
  I won't ruin the story for you, so that's the best I can do to explain things. Also the problem 
 with main quest is that it doesn't give you enough reason for your fights. At times, it feels like 
 you don't have much reason to fight, but kind of get stuck with it anyway. More fleshed out story 
 would've helped with motivation.
  
  Another problem is that your main quest only covers about 30% of the land. So much lands are left 
 un-used for main quest, which SHOULD be the main dish for the game. Instead of focusing so much 
 on side stuff, having more grand and epic adventure would've left better impression as overall 
 game. The game will end up making you feel bit incomplete when you follow the main quest. 
  
  Also this is role playing game. If you want to play a role, you need to follow the story. The 
 unfortunate part comes that the story doesn't really give you good point where you can get some 
 freedom to do whatever you want. The game might allow you to have your freedom, but if you do follow 
 the story, it is difficult to break away from it and do your thing due to the nature of the story. 
 Oblivion had better break away point. Allowing you to play the role of whatever you want, and still 
 move away from the main quest to have your own journey, without being completely out of the nature 
 of the story. Meaning it made sense even if you went away from the main quest you were given. Fallout 
 3 doesn't have really good points where you can do that. 2 situations in main quest does allow 
 you to break away, but it is not smooth enough to really allow you to play your role and still 
 have your freedom. Worst part is that the game actually ends once main quest is over, so you can't 
 just wait until the end to gain your freedom either. 
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 is entertaining game with plenty of things to do. The game does so many things 
 right that makes you want to fall in love with it, but ultimately, the game has too many flaws, 
 too many weak interactions with NPCs, to really capture you in this world completely. It just breaks 
 away time to time that reminds you that this is game world. It's a good game, but not a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llahlahkje
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  My biggest fear upon hearing that Fallout was coming out for consoles instead of the PC was that 
 it would be grotesquely dumbed down. Fortunately it was only slightly dumbed down, and the visuals 
 are fab.
  
  The plotlines are veteran post-apocalyptica and very consistent with the Fallout series. It's fulfilling 
 and the amount of impact you have (one of the truly great things about the Fallout series) through 
 the quests you do (and how you do them) remains intact.
  
  What is missing are city reputations and other "reputations". While this does not cripple the game, 
 it is a quirk that makes me miss the previous two games. The game is also much more serious than 
 the others, though it is certainly not without its tongue in cheek moments... the pop culture references 
 are much fewer.
  
  Is it Fallout? You bet your sweet bippy it is. It is just a new iteration, and hopefully the crying 
 out for these old features will find them reintegrated if a 4th in the series is considered.
  
  EDIT: Addition upon completion of the game...
  [No spoilers on plot, so no worries]
  The 
 Wasteland is, indeed, small. 
  The main plot line, while good, feels too short.
  
  The wasteland, while fully walkable (which is a great change since Fallout 1/2) ... by being fully 
 walkable cannot ever seem as HUGE as Fallout 1 or 2. This is unfortunate (but I understand WHY 
 it had to be this way, a bigger wasteland would've meant a lot more development time) ...
  
  What I was most saddened by was the lack of "here's what happens to this town, and this group, 
 and these guys" in the ending. Part of the great part of Fallout 1 and 2 was playing, making those 
 choices, and seeing how they turned out because of them. It made you WANT to play two or three 
 times through to see what could've been... and this is, sadly, a disappointment.
  
  It's enough for me to take 0.5 from the score, but it still is a really well done game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 86nesKID
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Too much going on for anyone but a hard core RPG fan.
  Combat and shooting is a bit choppy and first person or third person choice of view is neat but 
 feels like a last gen FPS. Dialouge is a bit cheesy to say the least.
  landscapes are cool but choice of colors could have spiced up the graphics. The framerate is a 
 bit choppy at times.
  I will admit Zelda is about as much RPG as i want to dive into so is you are not an RPG guy/girl 
 this game is not for you, font be fooled by FPS screens. cccccccccc cccccccccc ccccccccc ccccccccccc 
 ccccccccc cccccccccc
  ---------- ------------ ------------ ----------- --------------
  cccccccccc cccccccccccccc cccccccc cccccccccc cccccc ccccccccccc
  ---------- ----------- ---------- 
 --------- ---------- ---------
  cccccccc ccccccccc ccccccccc cccccccccccc ccccccccc cccccccccccc
  --------- ------------ ---------- 
 --------- ---------- --------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Well there you have it, after all this time we finally have a new Fallout title to play... Being 
 a die-hard Fallout fanboy, and also having learned that Bethesda had saved the license from the 
 limbo Interplay was letting it stew into, I was initially expecting greatness from Beth's team 
 I will admit. As details from the game were released from the devs though, the fear started to 
 creep inside me...
  
  How does it turned out? Well it's obvious time spent writing great quests and stories were instead 
 spent on making the game "pretty", which for PS3 isn't even that successful at achieving.
  
  Very few quests (probably more quests in Fallout 2's "The Den" town than in this entire game) 
 that feel very unrewarding, a level 20 cap, access to technology even greater than in earlier Fallouts 
 (ridiculous since this game takes place even later than F1&2) , no witty comments (or even description) 
 on any item, and most of all, the smart storytelling and mature feel Fallout had is gone.
  
  I had a feeling I was talking to 12-16 year old characters every time a conversation was struck. 
 Everything is straight-forward, you get a quest, it is marked on your map 95% of the time, which 
 takes away the feeling you are some Vault kid just fresh out of a supposedly "forever sealed off" 
 Vault (of course even that premise is thrown out the window as soon as you exit the Vault when 
 you get told your father **was** an outsider all along, no spoiler here since this tidbit is thrown 
 at you as soon as you start looking for your dad) . 
  
  In earlier Fallout games you had a feeling of being lost and you felt very vulnerable exploring 
 because of the many random encounters ; in F3 it feels like everything is in sight and there are 
 very, very, veeeeery few enemies on the world map hampering your exploration. There was a ton of 
 things to do and you felt the Wasteland was not going to make it if you didn't help out. Now there 
 is so few quests you kinda feel like it's not that bad living in something that should be a nightmare. 
 You had to be glad you had a trusty 9mm pistol & spear for the most part of the early game, in 
 F3 as soon as I hit the first town there was a couple of laser pistols waiting for me to buy for 
 under 10 bottle caps!!! Lu-di-crous... The great way Bethesda thought of dealing with the ton of 
 weaponry to be found is that you have to repair your gear seemingly every time you actually make 
 some use of it by cannibalising similar gear or paying someone to repair them. Drugs are also hella 
 cheap and always available, like there is a ton of post-apocalyptic labs everywhere, though I never 
 found one.
  
  Yes the realism former Fallout games brought, the anxiety you felt venturing out of a safe haven 
 is all but gone... Put on a lab coat, you get bonus in science, put on a suit, get a bonus in speech 
 etc... You also get perks every level now, which is kinda silly too but since the level is capped 
 at 20 I guess they felt you had to. 
  There is one way to advance in this game, and 98% of the time it's shoot/maim/kill the opposition. 
 Previous Fallouts made a great use of speech to resolve some conflicts, you didn't have to kill 
 most of the wasteland to beat the game. Most characters weren't "good" or "evil" they were just 
 there and you had a choice to do as you pleased. Now they are clearly portrayed either way. 
  There is no "Doctor" skill anymore, you EAT! Getting crippled in F1&2 was really bad (isn't it 
 supposed to be???) , in F3 you find a bed and sleep it off (one hour and it's gone!) or apply a 
 stimpak on the limb!!! LOL... Ammo is everywhere now too, I presently have over 600 energy cells 
 and over 800 9mm bullets... Some factory must have opened up somewhere, because in earlier games 
 you really had to make every shot count.
  
  I've been reviewing this game as a Fallout hardcore fan, let me now try to review it from a neutral 
 gamer's perspective :
  
  There is really, really bad draw-in when you get to any big landmark building. There is awful pixelation 
 in the graphics. The voice acting is really irritating and childish. You feel like you are not 
 talking to gruff survivors of a post-apocalyptic war but to some kids in San Fran with rainbows 
 in their eyes. There is no "outline" around items you can interact with, and yes maybe it is to 
 force you to look carefully, but after visiting the fiftieth building where everything looks like 
 Courtney Love's house (a ******* mess) , you kinda wish they put it in as an option in the least. 
 You really get bored after hours of looking at junk everywhere and the immense quantity of useless 
 items laying around the goodies just add to the frustration. 
  
  The combat stats you put points into are pretty much a waste since you can get over 90% chance 
 for headshots in the V. A. T. S. if you just run up close enough. The way you seem to float over ground 
 while running in 3rd person view looks really bad. The enemy AI is really bad too : 2 modes = run 
 straight at you or run away. 
  
  There are only 6 NPCs that would join you in the entire Wasteland (not counting Dogmeat) and depending 
 on your alignment you have a choice between 2 really since they are alignment-exclusive (2 choices 
 for neutral, 2 choices for evil and 2 choices for good karma) . You ever get caught stealing, you 
 magically loose all you stole from that particular floor. 
  
  There is some really bad clipping/collision problems ; some enemies seem to be born into walls 
 and were fed there, kept alive until you find them and put them out of their misery... 
  
  I also ran into a bug where my Pip-Boy screen was so blasted and bright I couldn't tell what I 
 was reading on it... I thought : hey this might be interesting, maybe I'll need someone to fix 
 it (since this was after I hacked a computer, I thought maybe it had gotten a virus or something 
 ;) ) I played like that for an hour without ever getting a notice my Pip-Boy was broken, so I saved/reloaded 
 and voila, everything back to normal!!! : it's just a stupid game glitch ROFL!!!
  
  You can teleport back to any place you already went to without ever risking a random encounter; 
 the Wasteland hardly feels like a threatening place to live in. 
  
  There are some good point to F3 : the action sequences in the VATS look great, and the Wasteland 
 would look great if it wasn't so darn pixelated. There just isn't a lot of Role-Playing to do in 
 this game, you either do it goody-two-shoes or evil-bastard style, no other viable option like 
 doctor, scientist or sweet-talker since you will always end-up feeling like these anyway depending 
 on the situation. You're feeling like you are good at everything and rarely feel like playing a 
 new game with the same alignment for that reason, which was something the first two games always 
 teased at. I guess being good at everything is a plus for some gamers...
  
  Fallout 3 is more of a FPS with just a hint of RPG. I can't say I was surprised at that. The way 
 it is praised says a lot about the state of RPGs in these times : it is a dying breed that most 
 gamers are not interested by unless you have a reticule to aim with... By trying to please the 
 most gamers they could, Bethesda robbed Fallout of what made it great : it never was a game for 
 every one and that is why it was as unique as it was excellent, it didn't try to do everything 
 great, it compromised on some aspects to concentrate on delivering excellent storytelling and role-playing 
 elements. 
  
  The PS3 version doesn't even have trophies and is a shame to look at compared to the PC & XBox 
 version which is inexcusable. 
  
  Maybe most gamers love it, and I'm not saying I 100% hated it, but this Fallout really didn't deserve 
 its name and place in the series. After not even 10 hours into the game, I'm already past halfway 
 into the main questline, and that's after I've been doing as much side-quest before going back 
 to the main quests as much as I could. 
  
  While this game may sell a lot more than both first Fallouts, unfortunately it is a gaming experience 
 a lot thinner than its parents that will not still be talked about in a decade like its predecessors 
 were.
  
  Maybe it could have gotten an 8 from me if this game didn't pretend to be a Fallout game, but it's 
 barely a 7 for a Fallout game... Really, all these tens people give to F3 must be because it makes 
 FPS fans feel smarter because they think they are playing a RPG LOL... just kidding ;) It's a fun 
 game but isn't near a ten. It feels more like "Phallout" to me :P
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivanisgreat
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are amazing, gunplay is satisfying but weird at times, the story is interesting, 
 and the quests are fun. This game surpasses its ancestors and makes for a great third installment. 
 If you have a ps3, just forgive the very minor glitches and you will love this game. Also the third 
 person is very corny because the motion that your character walks is kind of bizarre, for example, 
 if you are strafing or moving backwards, your person might freeze his/her legs for a second, but 
 still, im not saying third person mode is BAD, but id suggest you stick to first person mode. VATS 
 is wonderful without a doubt though it takes a lot of ammo to kill an enemy ( human enemies the 
 most ) . But all things considered, fallout three makes up to a very good game and obviously one 
 of the best of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  fallout does alot right i think more so than oblivion. the fact that oblivion came first hurts 
 fallout. the game pulls you in from the start. and if you pay attention from the beginning there 
 are things that can be learned. but i think to many gamers will either like or dislike this game 
 based not on fallout but due to other facts. first we have hardcore rpg who may not get into the 
 game, its you lost if dont at least give this game a try at least rent it. next will be the gamers 
 who loved oblivion and dont want to try any thing different, or the flip side the ones who hated 
 oblivion and think that this will be a waste of thier hard earned cash. again i would say rent 
 the game or find a friend who has it and give it a try. whats the worst that could happen. all 
 that i would of any is to try this game with a open mind. if you still think that it sucks then 
 that is on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  First off on Fallout 3, it has been a long time since Fallout 2 came along to the computers, so 
 as natural, this game takes a big leap, around 10 years of technology just washed away, naturally 
 this does not feel like a sequel to Fallout 2.
  
  Aside from that, Bethesda has done great work. This is not a simple scoop up of the old franchise 
 in a futile attempt to make some quick money, it was worth the wait, it was worth the money and 
 it is a great game all in all. Voice acting, a bit cheesy but not half assed, same ol foul mouthed, 
 black humor and the "it don't really care anymore" attitude as shown in earlier Fallout games.
 
  
  The open "sandbox" style, much like Oblivion but more of the feel that the story makes itself up 
 along as you go, depending on your choices, you do what you do and you move along. No police, no 
 bounty, if you don't bother anyone else, fine do as you please, or decalare war on everything you 
 see. Who is going to stop you? The world has ended, do or die, it is all up to you, those choices 
 and the fact that what I do makes an impact on the "world" I wander through, makes it a game you 
 want to sit by for hours on end.
  
  The story, great, it fits well within Fallout 3, but, yet again, you do as you please, your are 
 not "playing" anyone, everything you do is your thoughts and you feelings, the "player" is just 
 a puppet for you to control in this post-apocalyptic world.
  
  It's dark, it's scary, it's funny, it's gory, it warms the heart too see mankind still at her best 
 even though the world has ended. War never changes, "the end of the world" was yet another chapter 
 in mankinds horrible story.
  
  Get it, enjoy it, fight the Super Mutants or kill the helpless, evildoer or living saint. It's 
 all you, and there is no wrong answers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElmorePOW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  I was a bit scared to hear that Bethesda bought the rights to the absolutely fantastic Fallout 
 series. I wasn't sure if the development team was able to capture the atmosphere of nihilistic 
 wasteland world, since Elder Scrolls games had never featured the aspects that was mandatory for 
 developing Fallout-game. Pitch black humor, blood and gore and some really outstanding RPG mechanics.
 
  
  I had waited this game for a long time, so I had no chance but to hope for the best and it turned 
 out that all my concerns were unnecessary. There is a trace of Oblivion here, but there is nothing 
 that bit of a radiation could not fix!
  
  Game play is very balanced and it makes the game very enjoyable. Bullets, medication and pure water 
 are scarce, so you live in an constant need for something. It actually sets you in this wasteland 
 world pretty well, since you need to interact, steal, kill and barter to get by. It also make finding 
 abandoned Vault with all it's treasures a really exciting moment! Sell the stuff to a wandering 
 trader, sleep a night at saloon and enjoy your "Well-rested" status for awhile.
  
  Quests are worth traveling for and you can easily gather a number of them just by hanging out in 
 the world. You can activate a certain quest from your Pip-boy and after that it is pretty straight 
 forward following objectives and map markers. But characters, places and enemies you run in these 
 quests are something to experience, and all those stories fleshes the Fallout 3 world very efficiently. 
 Also, finishing quests rewards you with good amount of exp. so it is also right way to level up. 
 It's far more nicer than just grinding across the Capital Wasteland.
  
  I have played the PS3 version. I decided to buy it regardless of -0.5 from Gamespot and it turned 
 out to be the right decision. Game looks, sounds and plays great! I haven't encountered bugs so 
 far and I feel it is unthoughtful for GS to take points out of one version, not that it matters. 
 
  
  Fallout 3 remains a masterpiece and I could almost say it is the best in the series, if they just 
 tuned those character animations a bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undisturbed06
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  With as long a wait as fans had, Fallout 3 could have been, and should have been, a lot better. 
 Basically a cookie-cutter copy of Oblivion with Fallout themes. Fun combat, but a lack of innovation 
 (or really a recycling of innovation already seen in Bethesda's last) makes you occasionally forget 
 which game you're playing.
  Great scenery, highly immersive/addictive, but rather cold. Fun quests, but they can be avoided 
 completely by shortsighted massacres (Megaton) . I like the graphics, and the lock-picking minigame 
 makes for a lot less repetition (Oblivion -- ugh) . Combat (V. A. T. S.) is good, but ammo is so scarce 
 you dread not using melee. A wide variety of enemies and choices makes the game full of surprises, 
 but some are rather unwanted (running out of ammo/having a fun break because you're out of caps 
 in the middle of the subway, then you come out and are attacked by a Yao Guai) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuzzbutt111
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Well. I waited and waited for Fallout 3. When I found out Bethesda had gained the rights to Fallout 
 3, I was worried that it would be an Oblivion clone. 
  
  So I didn't read any previews articles, and gamer boards, or player hype on the game. Just put 
 it out of my mind until I recieved the pre-order form from EB in my mail.
  
  Well. Sad to say, it is an Oblivion clone. With guns.
  
  Oblivion is a great game, don't get 
 me wrong. But it doesn't fit the style Fallout is meant to be.
  
  I'd probably just ramble on here, so I'll list some of the issues i had with the game
  
  -... It's 
 Oblivion. Gameplay, style, combat. But in a MUCH smaller area. The Wasteland felt VERY cramped.
 
  
  -Lacking much of the wit, humor, and epic story telling Fallout 1 & 2 demonstrated. (I would trade 
 all the pretty graphics in the world for a well told story)
  
  -NPC conversations "dumbed down". Many characters were annoyingly stupid. Also missing is the humorous, 
 but explicate sexual content of Fallout 1 & 2. (While several "important" people cried out about 
 the content, I felt it helped bring the Wasteland alive. Showing all aspects of humankind in a 
 world with no rules.)
  
  
  -Stupid combat AI. Very easy to take advantage of.
  
  -Buggy game. I found many bugs in the game. From bad guys in walls, monsters "teleporting" in front 
 of you as you run away, Glitched quest text activation, even game hang ups. etc. While they didn't 
 happen often, they still happened. PC verison can get patched. on a Console like the PS3, its highly 
 unacceptable.
  
  -"Magic" items. Clothing/Armor that "raises" stats. In previous Fallout games, weapons and armor 
 were believable. In Fallout 3, you put on a lab coat and you are turned into a heart surgeon from 
 the "boost" a long white coat gives to your Medical skill. 
  
  -Just does not fit the Fallout style. Unfortunate. Maybe for Fallout 4.
  
  There are several 
 more items i could point out but it's 3:30am.
  
  If you loved Oblivion, you'll like it. 
  
  If your a hard core Fallout fan you are going to be disappointed.
  
  If you just want a 
 good game to play, give it a try.
  
  Bethesda made a decent game, but not a great one.
  
  
  
  P. S
  The CE lunch box is friggin cool. I just wish the bobble head Pipboy had a 13 
 on his back, instead of 101. Oh well.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ckelly_Tor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying I played this game a lot in two days. No I don't do this often and 
 my initial Addictive hypness has worn off, so I'm back to real life now, but I have played this 
 game for 10+ hours. In this 10+ hours I have learned that this game has NO Glitches (for me... 
 well i couldn't loot one corpse but no biggy', Ive seen much worse) , it has the best Graphics I 
 have seen to date next to MGS4 of course (Wasn't impressed with character model at first, but it 
 takes your eyes a while to adjust to such a degree of impressiveness) , and the game play was outstanding 
 [V. A. T. S. Quests, Traveling, and it feels as free as Oblivion on crack (or jet) ]
  The swearing and intense violence is what caught my eye. Don't get me wrong, It's not a selling 
 point for me (in some cases it's a deterrence) but It is used so well in this game, and hey, if 
 it's rated M, might as well go all out right? (I'm looking at you Oblivion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jq6sic6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda is known to me for making the best break-up games... being those more than worthy titles 
 that have you so deeply immersed that you find yourself making excuses to flake on your girlfriend 
 or come up with a story to get you off the phone so you can keep on playing. Well... Fallout 3 has 
 really set the bar this time. I cannot stop playing it. I have to disagree with gamespot's ps3 
 review giving it a lesser score though. I have played it on both consoles out of curiosity to see 
 where these critiques pointed out the flaws but I've still failed to see any distinction between 
 both versions. Regardless, the previous gameplay elements from the older fallout games have been 
 incorporated well into this next-gen title. Diversity with the way you play out quests and develop 
 your character leave endless possiblities which give this game so much replay value. The only complaints 
 I've heard from friends are in relation to a few graphical quirks which I can easily overlook with 
 V. A. T. S. to save the day. Well done, Bethesda. Please make expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedmk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  in the world of fallout 3 , you have control of your actions within the story , evil or hero or 
 neutral ... its your choice , killing those enemies with a mixed system of fps and rpg element give 
 somehow a really new way of enjoying the fights ... although sometimes it gets repetitive .
  
  i was disappointed with the game , ok don't get me wrong ... its not that the game IS disappointing 
 ,but the engine is somehow hmmm ... well lets say it this way , wasn't good enough for a good game 
 like this . if you are familiar with the game oblivion than imagine it with guns and darker atmosphere 
 and little bit better character facials or whatever it has . although that oblivion was one of 
 the best rpg games that came out ... but here in my opinion it just didn't achieve it . by 'it' 
 is what this game could have been . 
  drawbacks in this game ... bad , of well NO facial expressions . bad movements 'of the characters' 
 ,well many glitches around the world . (or maybe jsut the ps3 version ... no idea ) .
  
  ok , but than should u still get the game ? .
  of course without thinking even . even with all 
 those problems , fallout 3 is just good enough to suck you inside this dark world , with its great 
 story and mini story's , and impressing world ,this is without a doubt one of the best action rpgs 
 around . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirgiggidy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  both fallouts and they have the general idea right.. thats all that matters, its not like its a 
 freakin different game.. if you want the top down view and gameplay just play the old fallouts, 
 this game is for die hard fallout fans and half the people who say that its different gameplay 
 havent even played the first 2. So just play the game to have fun not to scrutinize it. VATS is 
 exactly like the old turn based play, its just modernized, and most of the old weapons are still 
 in it like the hunting rifle and the mini-gun and the laser rifles, so tell me, whats so different 
 about it other than the fact that it is in 3d. The only thing i can say bad about this game is 
 that after you beat the game you end it (just like the old ones) but that doesnt effect my score 
 at all seeing as you can just delay the main story line as long as you like just like in oblivion 
 (AND THE OLD FALLOUT) . Also i would like to have seen a little body customization rather than all 
 looking the same. Overall great game and should stay great even in a year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dctrstrnge
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect mixture of the best RPG style elements and first/third person shooters. 
 Bethesda has really outdone itself and the game was well worth the wait. I was a little disappointed 
 when I heard they were done making expansions for Oblivion, but quickly recuperated after the announcement 
 of a new Fallout game. Even if you have never played previous installments of Fallout, this game 
 will impress you. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys shooters or RPGs and their union 
 here is both blessed and welcome. Do not wait until everyone's talking about it persuades you to 
 play, DO IT NOW! Do it not for me, but for every joke or slight innuendo you might miss on G4 or 
 your favorite gaming magazine. I mean, it's not everyday that you get to investigate a nuclear 
 decimated Washington D. C.*
  
  *This author does not condone the enjoyment or contemplation of initiating a nuclear decimated 
 Washington D. C. or anywhere in America for that matter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for F3 for quite a while just like alot of people have, and now that it is out, boy 
 it is fun.
  Bethesda has made fallout into a great and immersive game just like the elder scrolls. You start 
 off as a baby, this is where you make your character that you will use in the wastelands. Then you 
 progress to escape the vault. From the moment that you step out of the vault you are immersed in 
 a barren and desolate land that reminds me of stalker. From there your first hop will prob be to 
 megaton, the city with the a bomb in the middle. All of the characters have pretty good voice overs, just 
 like TES, and the graphics whether it be in the citys or the wastelands is terrific.
  While not as big as oblivion, f3 is still pretty big. It will take you some time to move from city 
 to city, espically in DC. Mainly because of the rubble and destroyed buildings which force you to 
 walk around them.
  All of the sounds are done up well too. Hearing the super mutants talk and the approach of a wild 
 dog can catch you off guard if your preception is low. Speaking of the enemies they are a mix or 
 animals, mutants, raiders, and a few other oddities that have changed from the half-life fallout 
 that has occured.
  Fallout 3 is an immersive game with great visuals and makes for a great sandbox type game. Too bad 
 it has to end when you beat the main quest. Just like gamespot says, on any platform you wont be 
 dissapointed, even on the PS3. This is a game worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseangelhe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  OK. Being a long time Fallout fan I though I would be biased towards this game, and to some extent 
 I was. I pre-ordered the game since April and I've been patiently waiting since then.
  
  The morning of the day I got the game I started reading the reviews and comments about the bugs 
 on the PS3, being a PS3 owner I was worried about the quality of gameplay and whether or not It 
 would hinder my experience enough for me not to enjoy the game.
  
  I started the game, my wife and I playing around with the character creation part... everything 
 went smoothly.
  
  The game began and the whole growing up - birthday party - GOAT test - escape the vault part went 
 by smoothly. I was relieved because a lot of people had complained about this first part being 
 riddled with bugs. My copy played perfectly. 
  
  So after approximately 10-20 hours of playing I've come to really enjoy the game. 
  
  The VATS 
 system is extremely fun, specially in the beginning when you can't get enough of blowing someone's 
 head off. I still don't understand what "crippling someone's head" will do to them, but I've done 
 it several times. Truth is though, it gets a bit old and it loses it's charm after a bit.
  
  Movement in the wasteland seems a little slow, I wish there was an actual "run" button or dash 
 at least because the speed the character moves is just a bit slow for me. 
  
  Controlling the character in first person looks great, a bit sensitive but that can be adjusted. 
 The third person view just doesn't feel comfortable which is disappointing because I prefer third 
 person. And it's true that in third person the characters looks like it's skating on the ground 
 more than walking or running. 
  
  I haven't played much on the main quest, I've been doing side quests and exploring, which is why 
 I loved Fallout games and Oblivion so much. I have not had any problems with the game like so many 
 described in the forums. 
  
  The game is engrossing and will suck you in, you want to explore all the shabby buildings and other 
 Vaults you find, in hopes of finding better weapons and armor so that those damn fire ants won't 
 give you so much of a hassle. 
  
  The menu system is alright, that's all I can say about that. I wish there was a way to filter through 
 your inventory so you could access your items quicker. 
  
  Other than that I think the game is very close to perfect. A 9.5 overall sounds fair to me and 
 I recommend it to anyone interested in either the Fallout or Oblivion style of game play.
  
  Have fun
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  As my description says I bought this game with low hopes; thinking it'd be a waste of my monies; 
 however after playing it.... wow just wow.
  
  Firstly the most controversial and complained about part of the game. The visuals. Yes it's been 
 said that the ps3 has the worst of the visuals out of any port of this game. But seriously; if 
 no one had said that, I doubt you'd really notice it. The game is beautiful the landscapes; the 
 colors, the little particles of brain and blood splattering across your screen. It's awesome.
 
  
  The story seems a little iffy though, as you're chasing your father around, but you fix a radio 
 tower, and everyone's pip boy has a radio tuner, meaning if you sat at the station and broad casted 
 for your dad, he'd eventually hear it... so.... uh? Other than that, the massive amounts of quests 
 and ground to cover makes the game really nice.
  
  Physics aren't tip top, but they're pretty good for an RPG. Rag doll corpses is always a plus in 
 my book; even if the game is terrible, rag dolls make me drool! And rag dolls in the VATS system, 
 lord you can't go wrong. Though you can make some lethal and cheap combinations with the VATs system. (try 
 frag grenades) .
  
  
  I've played the game for over 8 hours already, and there's still so much to do; so I'm only looking 
 forward to more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  You know what this game is like? The Bond films.
  
  There are some people who are die-hard Sean Connery fans. They thought Sean was the best Bond, 
 the ONLY Bond. They never watched another Bond film after him, and you couldn't convince them otherwise.
 
  
  Similarly, there are hardcore old-school Fallout fans. You could never convince them to get Fallout 
 3 because they're convinced that all Bethesda made was Oblivion ... with guns. And they're not 
 100% wrong, either. Nor are they 100% right...
  
  Then there are the people who never watched the older James Bond films. They never read the books 
 either ("OMG! There were Bond books?! Really?!!") . Pretty much the ONLY Bond film they ever saw 
 in their LIFE was Casino Royale. So they judge ALL Bond by that yardstick.
  
  Similarly, there are people whose only introduction to Fallout 3 is Oblivion. They never played 
 the original Fallout games, and don't intend to. Whether it's because they think the graphics are 
 sub-par (which by modern standards they are) , or they feel that playing old games is a waste of 
 time (by definition though, ALL gaming is technically a waste of time) , they just won't do it. 
 They, of course, think Fallout 3 is brilliant and awesome in every way and you can't convince them 
 otherwise either.
  
  As with many things in life the real truth lies somewhere in the middle. No, Fallout 3 is not Oblivion-with-guns 
 thank God but it's also not really Fallout either. It's some kind of hybrid, stuck in-between worlds 
 and never really pleasing either camp. I guess in the end that was the safest route that Bethesda 
 could've taken.
  
  Final verdict: the game might've actually made me a happier gamer if it wasn't titled "Fallout". 
 As a generic, post-apocalyptic game it wasn't too bad. If it didn't have the Fallout legacy to 
 live up to it would've scored higher for me.
  
  One last comment: the critics were 100% right. The PS3 version is WAY worse-looking than the 360 
 or PC versions. If you're going to get this game, under NO circumstances get it for PS3, if you 
 have any alternatives at all. Screen tearing, heavy pixellation and anti-aliasing at certain points, 
 and terrible bloom effects are just the tip of the iceberg. Like drugs, just don't do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a first person shooter/RPG game that offers a whole lot of exploration, chills, and 
 thrills. You will be able to fully customize your character, mold him/her into the character you 
 want to play as, and do incredibly twisted things during the game.
  
  The game takes place in the post-Apocalyptic area of Washington, D. C. in the year 2277. Upon beginning 
 the game, your character is a member of Vault 101, a fallout shelter in Washington, D. C. You live 
 with your father, who is voiced brilliantly by actor Liam Neeson, up until your 19th birthday when 
 he mysteriously leaves the Vault and ventures into the "Capital Wasteland" as it is now called. 
 All hell breaks loose as you are forced to leave the Vault yourself in search of your father, and 
 ultimately find out why he left.
  
  From there, the game really takes off. You will be able to explore the whole area of the wasteland 
 of Washington, D. C. There are settlements in the area in which you can explore, indigenous "creatures" 
 that you will encounter, and just plain fun to be had. The level of freedom/exploration is the 
 game's strongest point, as you literally can go and do whatever the heck you want. 
  
  Aside from all that, I have to assert that Fallout 3 IS NOT a game to be played by a kid. Plenty 
 of foul language, twisted themes, gore, and you will have the opportunity to do pretty twisted 
 things. Keep the game far away from kids as possible, it's an adult game.
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is really an incredibly fun and thrilling game. You would be a FOOL if not 
 to play it... I give it a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philisdong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and worth your time.... if your on game fly you best just buy the game and rent 
 the rest. This will end up costing you more if this is all you play for a several months. I was 
 thinking I should have picked it up for the 360 or PC but I have an HD TV and it looks great. I 
 have not seen any of the glitches yet. I've only put 5 or so hours on it so far but that will change 
 real quick. From the beginning it is very intriguing and heart pounding. I keeps your attention 
 and it's hard to turn off. I have to work at seven every morning so that means I have to go to 
 bed somewhat early. Well lets say I had a hard time getting up this morning 8/29/08. Once I leave 
 work my life will revolve around So Grab your Stem Paks and choose your path. Pop's is lost and 
 your gonna find him! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Let me say after sitting all day at work reading reviews and people complaining about the unfair 
 port, I was almost convinced to save my money for Resistance 2. 
  
  I decided to pick up the game anyway because of how much I loved Oblivion. If you played Oblivion, 
 by the way, the game will feel very natural to you with similar save screens and controls.
  
  I was pretty blown away by the depth of character creation you get. After playing through the 
 game with normal weapons being a goody-to-shoes, I can definitely see myself playing through again 
 with a arrogant sledgehammer wielding thief and having a completely different experience. 
  
  The Graphics:
  
  This is the reason I gave the game a 9.5 instead of a perfect 10 like 
 oblivion.
  
  The draw distance is really strange, as you walk toward a bombed out looking building, all of a 
 sudden its outer shell graphics appear, doesn't fit at all and probably the biggest negative.
 
  
  The lightening is perfect, not sure what the complaints are about, outside is perfectly bright 
 and inside are perfectly dark. I don't know why you would complain that a broken down house at 
 night is supposed to be well lit, that sounds silly (bad reviewers) .
  
  The scenery from a distance looks awesome, it is a little hazy the further objects are. But it 
 is blazing hot outside, due to nuclear fallout, and there is radioactive dust blowing in your face, 
 I think its understandable that things aren't crystal clear under these conditions and makes it 
 more realistic.
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  The RPG aspect of the game is done really well and NPCs really connect well with your interactions. 
 Unfortunately, the biggest drawback about NPCs is the lack of facial expressions on their faces. 
 The dialogue and speech is perfectly done, but when a player giggles, sounds happy, mad or speaks 
 loudly, there is no change in their face.
  
  The action is pretty intense! I am walking through the wasteland to my objective and out of nowhere 
 I see mutated massive animals charging me at a fast rate. The V. A. T. S. system is also great! If 
 it was straight fps without any V. A. T. S. I think it would be way to frustrating as the difficulty 
 is not set to easy like every other game, and that is a good thing.
  
  The radio system is also a very interesting addition, I love finding out what different parties 
 are saying and the 50's music is the perfect background music for the game.
  
  I have played the game for 15 hours and have barely skimmed the surface. Besides the main storyline 
 all the side quest chains are intriguing and I love wandering the wasteland to do them (you can 
 also jump from one location to another) , but where is the fun in that.
  
  In conclusion, besides the two graphical defects, the game is absolutely everything I expected 
 it to be. There are so many perks and skills giving you many different ways to play the game.
 
  
  As I wander the wasteland I can't help but to feel like Mel Gibson in Mad Max or Will Smith in 
 I am Legend, especially when you eventually get your dog.
  
  Expect to lose friends over this game it sucks you in!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatheadman1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 for me was one of my most favorite games of this year, fallout 3 is a highly addictive 
 game with some great qualities, however it has some major problems. Like the graphics for one, 
 how can i put this... there horrid, laking detail in some textures like the ground and most of the 
 enimes. Another this is that you can do some pretty messed up things, like nuking a city, witch 
 messes up gameplay and your mind... well for me it did.
  PROS-Great Length, addictive, great side quests (like the nuke one) , gory... plus some more
  
  
 CONS-LAck-Luster visuals, over use of the "F" word, unrealistic gore, story gets uninteresting at 
 times, plus a ton more
  
  I say this game is a total buy for anyone who like RPGs, FPS, long games, childish violence, and anyone 
 who owns a PS3,360, or a computer... thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycobbler
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Fantastic effort. After living large in Obliv along comes another winner. Strap on peeps cause 
 once you leave that vault everything opens up. Character Interaction 10 (the people of the wasteland 
 actually look and make you feel as if they belong) , Visuals 10 (The depth, the dank darkness, the 
 day/night cycles, the smoke; watching creatures battling from afar is so cool. Game play 10 (the 
 decisions are yours to make.. will you survive?) being able to sleep with an animated hooka... priceless 
 :) 
  
  Very immersive, side quests are rewarding as usual; many choices of dialog with NPC's. The creatures 
 are abundant so bring your A-game peeps or you'll become just another skeleton in the vast wasteland. 
 The scene is set so nicely you can't help but be sucked in. I'm not gonna spoil anything that i 
 have seen or done so pop it in the PS3 if you dare! Now i just need some time to myself; perhaps 
 a solid undesturbed month in a disturbing world. I should be nuts by the time this one's complete.
 
  
  If you loved Oblivion welcome to the next rendition of classic RPG play!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
