-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantastic 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/fantastic4riseofsilversurfer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent story until the end.
 Upgrade system is a good idea in theory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unbalanced characters ruin the upgrade system.
 Lame mission objectives, such as opening doors and turning on elevators.
 Button-mashing gameplay grows old quickly.
 Not much to look at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.9, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 177 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's nothing fantastic about this movie tie-in. 

  It's no secret that games based on movies often get a bad rap. It's also no secret that games based 
 on movies that are based on comic book characters tend to be among the worst offenders when it 
 comes to portraying their source material. Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer for the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 does little to buck that trend. There's nothing inherently broken with the game, 
 and until it fizzles out at the end the story's not bad, but the gameplay is so contrived and repetitive 
 that it's unlikely anyone will garner much enjoyment from the game.  

          Shockingly, Invisible Woman is both invisible and a woman. Talk amongst yourselves.    

  Fantastic Four loosely follows the plot of the movie, but it takes several liberties with the story. 
 As in the movie, Reed (Mr. Fantastic) and Sue (Invisible Woman) are all set to get married when 
 the Silver Surfer and Dr. Doom show up and complicate matters. Galactus, unlike in the movie, where 
 he plays an integral role, is mentioned in the game but never makes an appearance. This omission 
 means the whole plot falls apart at the end of the game, which is a shame because, until that point, 
 the story is pretty good.  

  FF: Rise of the Silver Surfer is a standard beat-'em-up. You can play alone and switch between 
 characters by pressing the D pad, or you and up to three friends can play together on a single 
 system. You'll play as Mr. Fantastic, Invisible Woman, The Thing, and Human Torch as they brawl 
 their way through the game's six levels, which will see you do battle in locations such as the 
 Skrull lair, outer space, New York City, and Shanghai. The locations may be exotic, but the mission 
 objectives certainly aren't. You'll spend most of your time activating doors so you can deactivate 
 lasers so you can activate an elevator so you can activate a door, which lets you do it all over 
 again. There are a few levels where you'll fly through barren caves and a repetitive subway system 
 with Human Torch. Simply put, these levels are awful -- though they're a tiny bit better when playing 
 with the Sixaxis' motion-sensing controls.  

  All the characters have basic strong and weak attacks, and if you mix up your attacks you can string 
 together combos. Of course, each person has special powers that you'll need to use from time to 
 time. Invisible Woman can turn invisible and use telekinesis; Mr. Fantastic can stretch and bend 
 to hit hard-to-reach switches; The Thing can lift heavy objects and damage bad guys by pounding 
 the ground; and Human Torch can toss fireballs and even fly. Unfortunately, the game does little 
 to take advantage of these superpowers. Human Torch can fly like a bird during cutscenes, but he's 
 limited to an altitude of about 15 feet when you're actually playing. The Thing can smash his way 
 through a few walls here and there, but most items in the game are impervious to his strength. 
 Mr. Fantastic is generally useful only for hitting switches that are high up, and Invisible Woman 
 is pretty worthless as well, able to go through only some lasers and not others.  

  Unbalanced characters negatively affect the game's upgrade system. By smashing certain objects 
 you can earn tokens, which can be used to upgrade the abilities of each character. However, you'll 
 quickly learn that The Thing's shockwave attack, where he pounds the ground and takes out all enemies 
 in the immediate vicinity, is the best way to make it through the game. Human Torch's ability to 
 throw fireballs also comes in handy, so you'll most likely power up those two characters and those 
 two specific abilities and do little with Mr. Fantastic and Invisible Woman. The game tries to 
 encourage you to balance out your characters by sending each person on a brief solo mission, but 
 as long as you've got their attack and defense leveled up a bit, each character should do fine 
 on its own.  

  Fantastic Four's visuals are just as bland as its gameplay. Most rooms and areas are barren and 
 look nearly identical to one another. This makes it hard to figure out where you're going and where 
 you've been -- a problem, given all the backtracking you'll be doing. The enemies you'll be fighting 
 look decent enough, but there's little variety to their looks, so you'll be fighting the same few 
 guys over and over again. The Fantastic Four don't look too hot themselves. It's not easy to make 
 Jessica Alba look unattractive, but Visual Concepts has done it. The camera frequently has problems 
 following the action and often ends up at the worst possible angle. When you're just running around 
 a room or fighting one or two foes the frame rate is fine, but as soon as you throw a bunch of 
 bad guys and a few lighting effects into the mix, it falls apart. All the characters are voiced 
 by sound-alikes who do a respectable job in spite of the amateurish script. The sound effects and 
 music aren't much to get excited about, either.  

          Want to lose three friends? Have them come over and play co-op.     

  While it may 
 often feel endless, Fantastic Four is a short game that can be beaten in around six hours. The 
 typical assortment of extra costumes, artwork, movie trailers, and the like can be unlocked by 
 finding tokens hidden in each level, but once you've finished there's little incentive to play 
 through again, though you can earn more achievements by doing so since it lets you finish powering 
 up all of your characters.  

  In the end, it's difficult to recommend Fantastic Four to anyone. Fans of the comic book and movie 
 will likely be frustrated by the limited abilities of the main characters, and everyone will be 
 let down by the generally unexciting, repetitive gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Supigu
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  Very regular a game about a movie , need have a 70% scenes from the movie, or this will be another 
 game from the franchise, first the characters have a good system of exp evolution and good combos 
 and power, i like the linking moves combining the powers of the 2 o 4 members of the team, the 
 real problem is not the graphic concept, not the play system either, those are good, the real problem 
 is the storyline that not have anything about else about the movie, only for the title and few 
 scenario like the building, the tunnel and the base, the rest they used others scenarios giving 
 a waste of time , scenario really boring like the cave, the space station and terrax, this 3 scenario 
 have the game very bad and unconsenting the attention of the game, that is relay a conversion of 
 the movie in ps3, very regular i bought it because i like the FF and i have spider man 3 from the 
 same company, but i think they mess up with this one, good luck with the next one, in X men 4 i 
 hope more enforce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a waste just like the movie. If you're a true Fantastic Four fan and Silver Surfer fan 
 you'll be disappointed. I only brought it because I'm a fan. But the play is slow enough for a 
 four year old. I decided to give it a try hoping they would've done more than in the movie but 
 they didn't. I'm not going to waste my time dogging this game. It was done all by themselves. I 
 don't know what else to say to take up eight hundred characters or one hundred words. If I ever 
 pick up this game again to play I'd have to have nothing else to replay. I would quicker plug up 
 an older game system (Sega Saturn) . This is what happens when a company fails with great characters 
 to make a decent game. And don't let me start with the sorry people that made the movie. I believe 
 I've completed my task and now I'm out of here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I mildly enjoyed the second Fantastic Four movie, but I still don't know why I bought this game. 
 Is worth buying at all, even for fans of the FF? Absolutely not. Is is worth renting? No way! I'll 
 give you the reasons why this is probably the worst PS3 game I've played.
  The good: Harmless if not played. You can sell it to Gamestop for a decent price.
  The bad: Just 
 about everything else
  Story -- there's not much of a story throughout the game, but it is the best part about it. It loosely 
 ties in with the film, but it's still pretty bad. If you want the real story, see the movie. For 
 those who actually finish the game, the storyline is bad. The story is bad, and won't draw you 
 in, just like the rest of the game. The voice acting is also terrible.
  Graphics -- everything about the game looks bad -- the fantastic four, enemies, environments, objects. 
 Somehow the managed to make Jessica Alba look unattractive. There's nothing even remotely good 
 about the graphics.
  Gameplay -- this is the worst part about the game. You play as the fantastic four, and you can easily 
 switch between characters. There are light and heavy attacks, or a special attack with another 
 comrade. The enivronments look the same so you'll be doing lots of backtracking, making the game 
 frustrating and quite annoying. The camera does more bad than good, and the combat becomes repetitive 
 after the first 5 minutes. In fact, you'll see everything this game has to offer within the first 
 5 minutes. There's nothing satisfying about any of the character's, and you might actually want 
 to chuck your controller at your xbox.
  Story: 3.7/10 -- really bad, but it's sad since that's the best part about this game.
  Graphics: 
 2.2/10 -- it's hard to say if the graphics are even worse than the gameplay, since they're both so 
 horrible.
  Gameplay: 1.9/10 -- absolutely abysmal. This is the most repetitive, frustrating and boring game 
 I've ever played.
  Final Thoughts: Don't get this game period, for any console. It's just absolutely horrible and 
 shouldn't even be on store shelves in its condition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koochx
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I had actually bought the game before any of the reviews came out thinking that it would be like 
 the Marvel Ultimate Alliance game. From all the trailers it looked like it but boy was i wrong. 
 
  
  First of all, the characters look nothing like the movie. The graphics are just awful. The sound 
 is even worse. The game play is like the Marvel Ultimate Alliance. You do have a choice to control 
 all four characters and can be switched between using the directional keys. Now the same people 
 actually had more powers in the Ultimate Alliance game then they have in this game which is funny 
 because Ultimate Alliance has all these other characters and this game just focuses on these four 
 heroes and yet the powers are fewer. 
  
  The game itself is not just fun. It's not button mashing. There is no thinking involved. It is 
 just mind bogglingly stupid. This game could have had so much potential if they had put a little 
 effort in it. Even if they had just simply taken the four characters from the Ultimate Alliance 
 game and just put them in this game. That would have made a much better game. 
  
  I would just like to tell people that don't buy this game. DON'T BUY IT. Want a fun game that has 
 the Fantastic Four. Get Ultimate Alliance. Just get Ultimate Alliance, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Spidey3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Silver Surfer makes his appearance on the movie: Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer. The 
 movie was great! Then they came out with the game and it was pretty good also. I have to admit 
 though The Thing's face looked horrible and so did everyone else. I enjoyed throwing the enemies 
 off the bridge and all of the exploring through out the levels. Unfortunately, the game did not 
 relate to the actual movie and would not have made sense if you saw the movie and beat the game. 
 I can say that the people who made the game could have done a better job but all in all it was 
 a good experience! 8)
  
  
  ';,,;' SPIDEY ';,,;' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringTheBlood
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt even worth going out and renting, the upgrade system is terrible, the missions are 
 retarded and boring and unbelievably easy, theres no depth to them and you find yourself wondering 
 if they were actually serious when they made up half of the missions. All you ever do is run around 
 and when you actually get to a fight its so terribly easy that you could it with your eyes closed. 
 No real use of the graphical quality of the system, and its not even a fun button masher. Over 
 all the game is worse then you could imagine. Its nothing that its cracked up to be on the commercials. 
 The only people that would find this game fun is 5yr olds, and even then its questionable. I finished 
 the game in about the same about of time it takes you to brush your teeth. Please avoid renting, 
 buying or even borrowing this game, take my word for it and dont bother, its a waste of time and 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer for the PS3 is a somewhat entertaining super-hero game. 
 Unfortunately, it demonstrates many flaws that gamers hoped would have been forgotten in the next 
 generation. I have actually enjoyed many comic based games, and felt that they have gotten a bad 
 rap with reviewers in the past. That being said, I can assure you that any negative things you 
 may have heard about this game are completely true. In high school my friends and I must have dropped 
 $100 each on the classic four player X-Men beatemup at the arcades. The memory of that experience 
 cause me to rent this game in order to try and relive those moments by playing co-op with friends. 
 After several hours of gameplay, I determined that this title is not nearly as good as an arcade 
 game released in 1993. First, the graphics would be decent on the PS2, but are far from next-gen 
 quality. Developers wasted the opportunity to include high definition clips from the movie, and 
 opted instead for bland cut scenes that look exactly like the usual gameplay. This may have been 
 the only option because the plot of the game has little to do with the film it is based on. The 
 game does not even feature an introduction clip, which will leave any gamer who hasnt read the 
 comics or seen the films completely lost. Level design is incredibly bland, and players will spend 
 much of their time running around repetitive backgrounds looking for doors and elevators. There 
 are many times where players wont even encounter any enemies while moving from one room to the 
 next. The first few levels are some of the most boring that I have played in any game, and will 
 not give anyone other than hardcore fans a reason to continue playing. The controls are solid, 
 and easy to learn. However, the lack of a targeting system makes distance attacks very difficult. 
 The game does feature some levels involving the Human Torch that use the motion-sensing capabilities 
 of the six axis controller, but these levels do little more than show gamers that these controls 
 are available. The beatemup action can be fun in co-op mode, but the camera angels are horrible. 
 It becomes very difficult to tell some characters apart and locate objectives if any of the players 
 get too far away from each other. Many levels require one character to fly across a large area, 
 which leads to all characters appearing small and in descript and makes it very difficult to fight 
 or locate objectives. Fantastic Four is currently the third best comic based game available for 
 the PS3 (because there are only three) . Even gamers like myself who enjoy super-hero games will 
 be disappointed. I was somewhat satisfied with renting this title, but wouldve felt completely 
 ripped-off if I had purchased it. Gamers can rent this game for some quick fun, but only the most 
 hardcore Marvel fans should actually buy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob3nelson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  An excellent example of what the PS3 is capable of. I have been looking forward to a game like 
 this for the PS3 since it came out. All of my dreams for this wonderful system have been fulfilled. 
 Buy this wonderful game. You won't be disappointed. This is the PS3 game that all others will be 
 measured against. Trust me. I can't get over how good this game is. You have to play it to believe 
 it. Trust me. The graphics are just amazing. The gameplay is stellar. I have no other words to 
 descirbe this experience other tham just: it's simply amazing!!! But this with the PS3 and you 
 too wil be amazed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Now we've come to expect movie to game cash in's on games consoles and just like there movie counterparts 
 some work and some, well dont. For every Spideman and X-men there's a Hulk and DareDevil, or should 
 that be DullDevil. The same is applicable to the games. Now to say that this game is dull, horrible 
 to play, has poor graphics and super yawnsome gameplay would be a screaming understatement. Do 
 you like running around corridors all the time? Do you like going up and down in lifts a lot? Do 
 you like rubbish bad guys who can't fight and are easy to kill? Do you like boring and easy boss 
 fights? YOU DO! Wow then this is for you! How 2k have the cheek to release this and expect people 
 to pay good money for it is an insult. This game has no redeeming features.
  
  Avoid this game at all costs. It would be a sub-standard Ps2 game, next to the brilliant GoW2 or 
 Tomb Raider, so on the next Gen machine its a waste of &pound;30 and good plastic! Go buy GoW2 
 for a really decent 3rd person beat-em up.
  
  Fanstastic 4, Fabulous Bore more like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The story line is pretty much about the fantastic 4 team trying to uncover the mystery of the silver 
 surfer and trying to learn if maybe there is a greater threat coming and how or if they can deal 
 with it. So the story pretty much follows the movie. But lets not spoil too much, lets get into 
 the good things about the game. The game is really simple and fun and anyone can pick it up and 
 play it and enjoy it. It has some great 2 player action and the fighting is really fine , and you 
 have to learn to use the different powers of the different team members to accomplish what ever 
 task is at hand. the controls are simple, nothing complicated about them . the sound is pretty 
 good with some nice voice acting. the graphics are pretty good. Out of all the graphics, the enviroment 
 looks the best. Now on to the bad things.
  It feels like the characters look a little cartooney in some of the cut scenes. and sometimes the 
 camera gets behind things and blocks the action. The action is very repetative. the game is simple 
 and fun, but it does get a little old doing the same thing over and over. A little more time and 
 imagination could have been spent on the game play . There are a few puzzles, but in my opinion 
 they are a waste of time. The game is extremely short. Overall: this game is a rent it or borrow 
 it, it is definetly not worth the price. You can rent it and have it beaten and enjoy basicly all 
 there is to do and still have it back to the store in plent of time. And you still have plenty 
 of money left for a better choice to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the last-gen game based on the original 'Fantastic Four' film, then you'll 
 equally enjoy 'Silver Surfer'. The game follows parts of the movie, and, of course, throws in new 
 scenarios. It's a button-masher no doubt, but it's still pretty fun. I actually prefer this to 
 'Marvel: Ultimate Alliance', as the camera angles are much better, and the controls are a bit easier 
 to get used to (though it still takes a while to get used to all of the combos and cosmic attacks) . 
 My only major problems with it are how repetitive it is, how every enemy is the exact same person 
 over and over again, and it consists of far too much beat up enemies, unlock door, go on elevator, 
 beat up more enemies. If you're in a for a quick shallow button-mashing ride, then this is the 
 game for you. If you're expecting anymore, go somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlift700
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm, Like I said in the title, as soon as I booted the game, I noticed the striking similarity 
 to another game that I play very often, if only due to my comic fanboy ubringing. The controls 
 are exactly the same as Ultimate Alliance, save for a few minor differences like the fusion attacks 
 (overrated) and the ability to make you gang stay here. 
  
  The graphics have been improved over both Spiderman 3 and Ultimate alliance, and I actually like 
 the camera angles and veiwpoints much better than UA. The game is channeled, as in, not immersive 
 or explorable like SP3, you go only where they want you to go. Gets a bit boring... they could 
 have done more with this, but I'm sure they were cornered into a release date along with the movie 
 just like all the mediocre movie games that come out. (Here's hoping Transformers doesn't follow 
 in that legacy)
  
  The gameplay was ok , but got a bit tedious halfway into the first level. Same button mashing as 
 UA and SP3.. yawn. The flying Human Torch parts are new and exciting, you use the SixAxis to do 
 it, which takes a bit of getting used to, but is fairly intuitive once you crash a time or two 
 and get the hang. Still though I wish they had an option of using the cotrol sticks for flight.
 
  
  All said, I really felt like I was playing Ultimate Alliance, except I had no real cool characters 
 (who cares about Mr Fantastic anyway?) . Oh yes, and just as in UA, Human Torch is highly overpowered.
 
  
  All for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Ghost1
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Personally like superhero rgp's like x-men legends, but this game was disappointing. So far today 
 i've beaten it twice, first time it took me 6hr's 2nd it took me 3hrs. It's way to short. .... i'd 
 say rent it from Blockbuster, it shouldn't take you more then a couple of days to beat it on normal. 
 I was hoping that this game would at least take longer then a day. Try out x-men legends, great 
 game :) . the rest is just copied so i can post it) Personally like superhero rgp's like x-men legends, 
 but this game was disappointing. So far today i've beaten it twice, first time it took me 6hr's 
 2nd it took me 3hrs. It's way to short. .... i'd say rent it from Blockbuster, it shouldn't take 
 you more then a couple of days to beat it on normal. I was hoping that this game would at least 
 take longer then a day. Try out x-men legends, great game :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKeyMan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  X-Men Legends and Ultimate Alliance were fun, so I'm sure this is too, right? Wrong. Not only are 
 you (obviously) limited to the same four characters, but they each only have four powers, which 
 you have BARELY any control over upgrading. You see, at the beginning of the game you are limited 
 to one rank in each power... by the time you are far enough in the game to be allowed to purchase 
 a second rank, every power is maxed out for each character. Also no items to equip, no health/power 
 icons... not much of anything.
  
  Unfortunately multiplayer is horrible beyond belief. It is VERY possible for the second player 
 to be off the screen, or for the computer AI to slow down both players by refusing to hop on an 
 elevator.
  
  Thankfully the graphics are great. Like the level my wife is currently playing (single-player) , 
 it really DOES look like she's fighting in the dark with limited visibility. If you're not using 
 the Human Torch on this level, you don't stand a hope in hell of knowing where you (or the enemies) 
 are. Again... multiplayer is a real peach with features like this (there's only one Human Torch) .
 
  
  Yep, this ranks right up there with Spider-Man 3 as the biggest videogame letdown I've had this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker7733
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I saw the movie at 12, and thought it was better than the last one, so i went out and got the game. 
 And like the movie, this game is obviously much better than its prequel. The controls are solid 
 and the graphics are pretty good, also the flying missions as the Human Torch are quite fun. It 
 also has some great classic comic book characters (such as Super-Skrull, Dr. Doom and The Red Ghost) 
 But the story mode, which is great takes about 50% of the story. So if your not a fan of the comics 
 or the movie I might recomend renting it, but If you are a fan this is a must buy, (but you might 
 trade it in after a while) So in conclusion, it's pretty fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
